22-07-2021||Calcutta||Homemaker resists robbery in north Calcutta, attacked with knife||A homemaker was attacked with a knife when she tried to resist an armed robbery at her home in Burtolla in north Calcutta on Tuesday afternoon, police said. Diamond-encrusted jewellery and Rs 80,000 were robbed when Nivedita Adak, the homemaker, was home with her mother-in-law and three-year-old child. The police said Nivedita had left her son sleeping on the bed of her first-floor bedroom and gone to the washroom for a few minutes when the robbers were suspected to have entered the two-storey house in Chidam Mudi Lane around 4pm. “When the woman came out of the washroom, she saw her child sleeping as she had left him but the door of the cupboard was ajar and the locker was empty,” said an officer. She heard some unusual sound from an adjoining room and saw at least two men ransacking the cupboards. A lot of stolen articles was heaped on the bed, the woman has purportedly told the police. “As she started shouting ‘chor chor’, the robbers tried to gag her. One of them was holding a knife. When she tried to resist, she was attacked with the knife that hit one of her arms,” an officer said. No one else in the house was injured. The robbers fled the house with cash and valuables. The family then alerted their neighbours. The woman’s husband, Prodosh Karmakar, a doctor, refused to share any details about the robbery citing the police investigation. “I will not comment on the matter till the investigation is over,” Karmakar said. A senior officer at Lalbazar said they were in the process of analysing footage of CCTV cameras installed in the neighbourhood to identify the accused. “We are banking on electronic as well as human intelligence to identify and track down the accused,” said an officer No one was arrested till Wednesday night. “The incident shows how desperate criminals have become. Lockdown had left many jobless. I will not be shocked if someone in financial distress had carried out the daring robbery,” said a resident of the neighbourhood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||Woman found dead at Bangur Avenue home, cops suspect murder||An elderly woman living alone in her home at Bangur Avenue was found dead when her relatives, alarmed that she had not been answering calls for two days, went to check on her on Wednesday afternoon, police said. Dipa Mukherjee, 62, a widow, was found with a towel wrapped around her neck. Police said after a preliminary investigation that Mukherjee’s domestic help was missing. “The cupboards were all ransacked. Relatives said Mukherjee used to wear ornaments. But no jewellery was found on her. Her mobile phone is missing, too,” said an officer of Lake Town police station. “Since the help is missing, it seems to be a murder for gain.” Some of the relatives of the deceased said they were unable to contact her over the phone for the past two days, an officer said. “Alarmed, they went over to check on her. On reaching the house, they found the door open and the woman lying dead inside,” the officer said. The decomposed body — the police said it was a few days’ old — was sent to the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem. A forensic team visited Mukherjee’s house. “We have got in touch with the next of kin and are waiting for the post-mortem report to confirm whether the death was homicidal,” the officer said. “We are gathering information from neighbours about the help. We are also trying to find out whether anyone heard any unnatural sound from the house.” A source said the elderly woman had not submitted any details of her help to the local police station. Police stations across the state have forms that people are expected to fill in with details of their domestic workers or tenants. The forms are to be submitted with photographs of the workers and tenants. “Such information helps the police track down a help or a tenant if he or she is suspected to have been involved in some criminal activity…. Despite awareness campaigns, the majority of the people do not submit the details,” an officer in the Bidhannagar commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||Teachers in several schools notice online fatigue among students||Teachers in several schools have noticed a certain level of “online fatigue” setting in among students in the second year of online classes. That is manifested in selective attendance, and in the practice of keeping videos switched off or not wanting to respond in class. Instances of such behaviour had reduced after students got used to online classes last year, only to rise again, a trend that many teachers feel is caused by online fatigue. With no end in sight of online classes, at least in near future, students are feeling “worn out” and some of them are in need of counselling, a principal said. Schools are trying to engage students in activities and organise non-academic sessions to keep children interested in class. The question is for “how long”, because the syllabus has to be completed, too. What was new last year has become routine this year, a school head said. “Last year, everything was in a nascent stage and children were in awe of the development. There was a novelty in studying on mobile phones and laptops, but that novelty has worn out,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. Calcutta Girls’ High School has received requests from parents to conduct counselling sessions for students. “Parents of students of Class IV upwards have asked us to conduct counselling because students are showing signs of emotional disturbance. They are mentally fatigued and teachers can understand that because children are lethargic. The spark in them is missing. But as schools we have to take classes and complete the syllabus,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’. “School from home” has taken away the everyday pleasure of walking through corridors or on the field from a student’s life. Worse still, there is no sign of pre-pandemic life being restored. “There is an online fatigue and children are demotivated. The usual motivators like prizes for outstanding performance are not there. They know there is automatic promotion and so they show less interest and pick and choose classes they want to join,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. The practice of switching off the video or skipping classes is prevalent across schools. “One day we suddenly announced that we would have an aerobics session for Class VIII. We noticed that all videos were switched on during the aerobics session and no one complained about the network,” said Madhumita Seal, the vice-principal of BDM International. Seal said cultural exchange programmes organised in association with schools in other countries boost the socio-emotional wellbeing of students and keep them interested in class in the absence of physical interaction. Sri Sri Academy is trying to be more “liberal” with seniors to keep them engaged. “We have initiated more collaborative work among students so they get to interact amongst themselves. But there is no denying the mental tiredness of being in front of the screen. Also, even for collaborative projects and group work, the communication is via social media and there is no face-to-face interaction,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||Virus hits corporate health check-ups at private hospitals||One casualty of Covid across private hospitals in Calcutta is the corporate annual health check-up. Most big hospitals did not have any person coming for the routine health check-up for the past one-and-a-half years, since the Covid outbreak. Others said they did not have any till last month but it has started picking up slowly since. Hospitals said many companies had kept tie-ups pending as they were negotiating with the healthcare units over rates. Officials of some of the companies cited two reasons for keeping tie-ups and health check-ups on hold. Most employees are not ready to go to hospitals or diagnostic centres amid the pandemic and wait for hours to get blood and other tests done. Companies are also reluctant to send their staff for the check-up and many are waiting for their employees to get both doses of a Covid vaccine. Financial difficulties caused by the pandemic have forced some of the employers to keep the annual check-up on hold to cut costs. The annual check-up packages usually range between Rs 3,000 and Rs 10,000 per person. The check-ups at almost all private hospitals have stopped since the outbreak. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, around 40 people would turn up every day for the annual check-up before the pandemic. They would include beneficiaries of corporate health check-up packages as well as those who would pay from their pockets. “However, for the last one-and-a-half years, the health check-up programme has completely stopped. No one is coming for the tests,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. The authorities of the Mukundapur hospital are running a Covid vaccination clinic in the space that was once reserved for annual check-ups. Forty-two of the 105 corporate clients of the RN Tagore hospital have not renewed their contracts, Venkatesh said. Tie-ups allow corporate bodies to enjoy special rates for beds and treatment at the hospitals. Rates usually increase by 10 per cent after every revision. Many of the companies are asking the hospitals to continue with the old rates or agree on a lower rate of increase. Peerless Hospital would have 30 people turning up daily on an average for the check-up before the pandemic. Now the number is zero. “We have kept the facility closed because there are no takers. Now that Covid restrictions have been eased, we are expecting some to turn up,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. He said about 10 companies had not got the rates revised for treatments of their employees. Mitra said that apart from employees of various companies, many Bangladeshis would queue up for the health check-up. “Relatives accompanying a patient would undergo check-ups. Bangladeshi nationals are not coming now because of the travel ban,” said Mitra. An official of a technology company said employees used to be sent for check-ups before they flew abroad on assignments. “Now there is no foreign travel. So those check-ups are not required,” said the official. “Pre-joining health check-ups, too, are not taking place as there is a freeze on recruitment.” A senior HR official at a private company said: “None of our employees are ready to go to a healthcare unit and wait for three to four hours to get tested amid the Covid pandemic. We cannot force them to go for the tests in this situation. Our primary target is to get all our employees fully vaccinated. Also, we are waiting for the threat of Covid to finally go away.” The official said for the handful of people the company has recruited, the system of collecting samples from home has been introduced. “We have omitted X-ray, USG and ECG, because for those diagnostic procedures one has to go to the healthcare unit,” said the official. Some of the hospitals are trying to adapt to the changing pattern. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals’ corporate health check-up programme was affected during the pandemic. “The number has dipped sharply. But now it is slowly picking up,” said Rana Dasgupta, the CEO of Apollo Gleneagles. The hospital has a Pro Health check up programme that is based on artificial intelligence. The programme for minimum one year includes wellness activities like Yoga and a health mentor who would provide as consultant and provide support through the year to the individual. The hospital has now introduced post Covid check up as part of this AI based health check up programme. “We are having good response from corporates,” said an official of the hospital. The hospital has also started collecting blood samples from home for those who want to conduct health check-up. “They are asked to come to the hospital for tests like X-Ray, USG, CT-scan and ECG. So, the waiting time is minimised,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur calls back students facing issues with online classes||Five-hundred students of IIT Kharagpur who are not able to attend online classes because of resource constraints will be called back to the campus in batches from August, an official of the institute said. Earlier this month, the students’ senate of the IIT had demanded that such students be called back to the campus at the earliest so they could use the institute’s internet facility and other infrastructure to attend online classes. An official of the IIT said the 500 students who would return to the campus either lacked smart devices or could not afford data packs as the financial condition of their families had worsened because of Covid-induced curbs on economic activities. “Some of these students are not in a position to buy a laptop, which is a must to study engineering drawing and lab classes. The screen of a smartphone may not be enough to figure out details of drawing or lab classes,” the official said. “These students, of both BTech and MTech programmes, were identified based on inputs from the students’ senate, which represents all students on the campus,” the official said. The dean of students’ affairs at the IIT, Dhrubajyoti Sen, in an email to the students on Wednesday wrote: “We understand that you are facing certain difficulties while being at home and would like to come to the campus of IIT Kharagpur to continue your studies.” “We would like you to reach IIT Kharagpur within the following time period: 02 August — 06 August,” the email says. The first 150 of the 500 students will have to reach the campus between August 2 and 6. Classes have been held on digital platforms since March last year as a precaution against Covid. “Financial constraints are coming in their way of attending online classes. They will be lodged at hostels after following the quarantine norms and other health protocols. We will bring them in batches of 150 so they can be accommodated in hostels without too much of an assembly.” The parents of the students will have to give their consent in writing to their wards’ return to the campus. Along with the undertaking, the students have to produce an RT-PCR negative report. The test has to be conducted within 96 hours before the start of the train journey or 72 hours before the flight departure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||NGO mentors women to make quality products amid pandemic||A profit of Rs 3.5 lakh, that too amid the pandemic. A group of women from a Calcutta slum has done it. Mentored by an NGO, 20 women — most of whose income or family’s earnings dried up during the pandemic  —  were making apparels and tote bags. But the pandemic forced them to improvise and come up with quality products. And within a year they sold items worth Rs 9 lakh and even posted a profit of about Rs 3.5 lakh. Some of these women are now the sole earning members of their family. Thirty-nine-year-old Krishna Routh’s two daughters would have starved had it not been for her resilience. Routh’s husband worked in a travel agency and earned Rs 8,000 per month before the pandemic. But business has suffered since last year. “They would still pay him Rs 2,000. But the office finally closed down in February and he has had no income since then,” said Routh. The tailoring training, which she had taken before the pandemic, became the fall-back option to sustain her family. The crafts centre at Calcutta Social Project, the NGO that was already making these products, changed the strategy and shifted the focus on quality. “There was a change in our stand from only doing social service to attaining professional efficiency in our work. What we make has to be the best,” said Arjun Dutta, the president of Calcutta Social Project. The products should have marketability — something that people would want to buy. “The pandemic has triggered a fear of being decimated and from that stems the desire to improve,” said Nupur Ghosh, a governing body member. Ghosh said she would recommend products that have some quality to her friends or acquaintances. “Or else people will not come back and the project will not sustain.” The women, mostly in the age group of 18 to 40, have been making dohars, totes, pouches, cushion covers, table mats and runners — things that are still in demand. “People are now very careful about spending. We had to make things that they would buy,” said Barsha Mukherjee, the head of the crafts centre at Calcutta Social Project. The absence of fairs during the pandemic has also impacted the business prospects of the self-help groups that deal in these items. But Nirmala Devi is satisfied with what she is able to bring home. “...at least I am able to earn a living.” The NGO has noticed that more women are interested in learning. This has led it to open two craft centres  — one in Keoratala and another in Garia. “They want to acquire a new skill because during the pandemic many of them have lost their jobs,” said Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||Stories for a better world||“Two individuals look for a piece of land to live in. They finally find a patch, after much searching. But the search weakens their legs and they can walk no more…” Thus goes a short story by Class III student Megh Ganguly. The story, written in Bengali, is part of a creative project initiated by ThinkArts to keep young minds engaged during the pandemic. Children aged between six and 10 years from all over India took part in the storytelling event – Let Me Tell You A Story – where they used different media to narrate an original idea. Some prompts (lines from children’s books) have been given to help children recreate their own world of fantasy, utopia and friendships since February. Illustrators from Switzerland worked on 15 best stories and 45 of them have been picked by various storytellers for audio narrations. Megh’s story has been illustrated by Swiss artist Mirjana Farkas.  “My story is entirely a figment of my imagination,” said Megh, a student of Calcutta Public School, Bidhan Park who loves math and computers, besides writing stories. A fan of Ruskin Bond and Leela Majumdar, Megh likes to unwind by writing and reading. Let Me Tell You A Story has unleashed the imaginative side of many students who are otherwise getting restless at home, following over a year of virtual schooling. “I miss school and my friends,” said Prapti Mandal of Patha Bhavan. Her story is her way of reaching out to an ideal world.  “It has parts of my life. I used to love visiting my grandmother’s house that is surrounded by trees and greenery. I would personally love gaping at a tall palm tree. My story is about a girl finally managing to climb that tree and catching a glimpse of a perfect world,” said Prapti who loves writing in Bengali just like her favourite author Sukmar Ray. Nine-year-old Aarohan Dasgupta of Hindustan Park is home schooled. So virtual education is not a new experience for this student of Grade Four. What is new is losing out on playtime with his para friends. “I miss the fun and interaction that I had when friends would come to call,” said the boy who writes poetry and plays the piano to vent out. His story (in English) is about animals – a badger, a squirrel, a rabbit and a rat - and friendship, things that he holds dear. “I love feeding strays and am an animal lover. The story brings out a part of me,” said the boy who is very excited at the prospect of Swiss artist Paloma Canonica illustrating his tale. ThinkArts has uploaded 100 such short stories in English, Bengali and Hindi on their website, as part of the project. “In these difficult times, the stories by the children have given us a reason to smile, to hope and to imagine and strive for a new and better world. It is great to see that the stories are now being read and heard by hundreds of children from across India and abroad. We are grateful to Pro Helvetia New Delhi-Swiss Arts Council for supporting this project,” added Ruchira Das, the founder of ThinkArts. Pratt Memorial School A plate full of colours - the nursery kids of Pratt Memorial School created magic with a variety of fruits, sugar, cream and chaat masala at a fruit salad party that was conducted on July 16 morning. The event was a fun way of educating children about the different varieties  of fruits and their seeds. "We have around 50 children in each section. So nearly 200 of them were ready with their fruits and ingredients on the day of the party, eager to whip up a tasty dish and share recipes," said Ruth Anita Malik, the head of the pre-primary department. Some children were also dressed in a chef's gear as also were the class teachers who conducted the sessions. The four sections of Nursery had their separate party. Aiza Hussain of Section C made her concoction with bananas, mangoes, pomegranates and apples. "Banana is my favourite and I loved the party," gushed Aiza, whose mother Ruhi Shiraz and twin brother Aadil joined in the fun. "I cut the fruits for her but it was Aiza who mixed it and prepared the chaat. She kept some for her father who devoured it with relish despite not being a fruit lover," added Ruhi. Every child was given a chance to prepare her own salad or chaat and share the recipe. They also sang fruit-themed songs and had a merry time. "As we step into the second year of online teaching, it is especially important now to make virtual teaching fun for our little ones so that they are able to enjoy learning even from the comfort of their home. They also need to learn how to interact with their teachers and peers confidently and comfortably. So we keep doing fun events online. Even though we have been divided by the pandemic, we have been united by technology," said principal Carolyn Lionel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||More people in the 18-44 age group in Calcutta are vaccinated||More people in the 18-44 age group in Calcutta are vaccinated against Covid than those who are older, data in the CoWIN portal has revealed. This despite the fact that the vaccination of the 18-44 age group started a month later than those who are 45 or older. Till 7.45pm on Wednesday in Calcutta, 16,08,828 doses were administered to those in the 18-44 age group; 14,50,617 to people in the 45-60 category and 10,55,038 to those who have crossed 60. The 18-44 group has been eligible for the Covid shot since May 1. Covid vaccination started in India in mid-January with healthcare workers. Those above 60 have been eligible since March 1 and those in the 45-60 group since April 1. A doctor who is an expert in public health said people between 18 and 44 formed the majority of the working population. “Since people in the 18-44 group step out of their home regularly, they are keen to get vaccinated. As soon as vaccination started for this section in May, people from the group queued up at many centres for the shot,” the doctor said. Several private hospitals have said that 70 per cent or more of those arriving for the shot belong to the 18-44 group. “About 70 per cent of those getting vaccinated at our hospital as well as in our outreach camps are between 18 and 44. This has been the trend since May, when Covid vaccination was opened for people in the 18-44 group,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. The hospital has been vaccinating about 1,600 people at its on-site and off-site camps together. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 75 per cent of those who are being vaccinated are in the 18-44 group, said an official of the hospital. Around 1,000 people are being given the shot at the hospital daily. “As restaurants and companies are reopening, their employees are being vaccinated. The majority of the employees are in the 18-44 group. Naturally, more doses have been administered to this group than other age groups,” said an official of a private hospital. The number of doses administered to the 18-44 group has risen despite the fact that the 190 Covid vaccination centres of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation are still administering doses to only those in the group who belong to priority groups such as traders, transport workers and hawkers. “We are not administering Covid vaccines to people from the 18-44 section who do not belong to any priority group. However, if there are surplus doses at the end of the day’s vaccination and people from the 18-44 category not belonging to any priority group turn up, we give them the shots,” said a CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||UK woman ‘stuck’ in New Town flat rescued||A 30-year-old British woman, who was allegedly “stuck” in an apartment in New Town along with her pet dog, was rescued by the residents’ welfare association of the housing complex and police on Tuesday. The woman from Bromley went to the residents’ welfare association (RWA) office of the Rail Vihar Housing Complex in Action Area I, behind Nazrul Tirtha, seeking help, a member of the association said. According to the member, the woman told the association that she had been staying as a paying guest in a third-floor apartment of K Block for the past year. She said she had learnt about the place from the Internet. “The woman told us that her visa had expired in December 2020 and she had run out of money and somehow lost her cell phone. She also alleged that the couple she was sharing the flat with were not giving her enough food. After hearing her plight, we called the cops for help,” said Subrata Saha, the joint secretary of the Rail Vihar Housing Complex’s RWA. After receiving the call from the RWA, a team from New Town police station went to the housing complex. According to an officer who went there, they first spoke to the woman who told them that she had become malnourished and sought their help. “We then called the couple with whom she was staying. They told us that she was not able to share the rent and that they were helping her on humanitarian grounds. They also told us that since she had approached the RWA and us (police) for help, they did not want to let her stay in the flat,” the officer said. The cops and RWA members contacted the owner of the flat, who lives in Ahmedabad. “The owner told us that he was only aware of the couple staying in the flat,” said the officer. Sanat Das, the inspector-in-charge of New Town police station, checked the woman’s passport and visa. “Although her passport is valid, her visa expired in December 2020. She told us that she was backpacking across India. She also said she could not get the visa renewed because of the ongoing Covid-19 restrictions. She asked us to help her get back home. We then contacted the British high commission,” said Das. According to another senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate, the woman did not lodge a complaint of mistreatment against the couple or anybody else in the housing complex. “We are probing how she managed to overstay her visa tenure,” said the officer. Das, along with members of the New Town News and Forum (NTFN), an NGO, started looking for a safe home that was pet-friendly where the woman could be put up. The woman was sent to a home on Park Street. A spokesperson for the British deputy high commission in Calcutta said they had received an alert regarding the woman. “We are aware of a British national in Calcutta and are providing consular assistance,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-07-2021||Calcutta||Over 70 km of defunct cables removed from Salt Lake roads||More than 70km of defunct cables that had been lying across several roads in Salt Lake have been removed till Wednesday. The Telegraph had reported on July 3 how the bundles of television and Internet cables strewn along several roads of Salt Lake posed a risk to motorists and pedestrians alike. A senior official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said that nearly 70km of defunct wires had been removed. A team from the corporation started removing the wires lying on streets and footpaths as well as low-hanging ones on July 7. These wires had turned several roads in Salt Lake dangerous for two-wheeler-riders, pedestrians as well as those driving cars. A two-wheeler-rider headed home from his workplace had met with an accident after his bike’s front wheel got entangled with a dangling cable on an unlit stretch of the road along the Eastern Drainage Canal, in front of the Mahavir Vikas Housing Complex. In the first phase, nearly 15km of dead wires were removed from a section of Broadway, which connects Salt Lake with EM Bypass; the road that runs parallel to the Eastern Drainage Canal connecting the Chingrighata crossing with the township; and a stretch of the Second Avenue, near the CGO Complex in DF Block. The corporation team conducted the drive equipped with a truck and an earthmover. “We needed the earthmover's hydraulic arms to remove the mess of cables from the road. Once the earthmover moved the wires aside, they were snipped and loaded on the truck,” said an official of the civic body. Ranjan Poddar, a ward coordinator whose area covers Mahavir Vikas Housing Complex and the stretch of Broadway and who coordinated the operation, said the team had removed more than 15km of wires in the first phase. Old cables that have long outlived their utility have been dangling from posts, all jumbled up, for years in Salt Lake. Mesh of cables can be spotted in several places, including the Karunamoyee intersection, in front of City Centre and on First Avenue near the Punjab National Bank island. Some of the wires criss-cross the road and are difficult to spot at night because several of these stretches are unlit. Another corporation official said they had planned to undertake more such drives across all three sectors of the township.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-07-2021||Calcutta||IIHM International College of Distinguished Fellows confers Fellow of IIHM to 150 global hospitality leaders||The IIHM (International Institute of Hotel Management) International College of Distinguished Fellows conferred the Fellow of IIHM to 150 global hospitality leaders for their exemplary contribution to their industry at a glitzy event. Streamed over Zoom and YouTube on July 10 from noon, the convocation ceremony had Suborno Bose, CEO, International Institute of Hotel Management & CEO, International Hospitality Council, and Prof David Foskett, MBE, chairman - International Hospitality Council, London, coming together to confer the fellowship. IIHM believes that hospitality is not merely a job. It’s a passion and wholehearted dedication towards serving mankind. Across the world, this passion has met profession in many ways, creating magic that has, in turn, inspired thousands of youngsters and students of hospitality. The IIHM International College of Distinguished Fellows had elected 150 dedicated professionals to become Fellows of IIHM. All of them have greatly contributed to the international hospitality industry in one way or another. The motto of The IIHM International College of Distinguished Fellows is ‘Fiat Lux’ (Let there be Light). The distinguished fellows are the shining light of the industry, guiding future generations and students of hospitality. The vision is to create The IIHM International College of Distinguished Fellows membership, which will solely comprise individuals who have been conferred the Fellow of IIHM. The key objective of this college is to proactively create and provide support in a range of ways to the students and academic community in general. This will further enhance the educational and career aspirations of all students and graduates of the hospitality industry through inspirational leadership. Here are the highlights of the nine-hour-long event: The 8EX Hospitality E-Conclave was live-streamed on July 9 on Zoom, marking the debut year of IIHM International College of Distinguished Fellows, bringing together over 200 global hospitality leaders. The global conclave was a platform to exchange ideas and strategies through various panel discussions and talks for the entire hospitality fraternity. A few of the Fellowship awardees||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
