23-07-2021||Calcutta||Revival deal for the French Registry Building in Chandernagore||The mission to save a slice of Indo-French history is finally gathering steam with the state tourism department and the French consulate general pledging renewed commitment towards Registry Building in Chandernagore, the first French courthouse in India built in 1875 which is currently in a dilapidated state. A 12-month extension was signed on Thursday on the agreement drawn up in February 2019 on restoration and adaptive reuse of the building standing at the head of the Strand in Chandernagore in Hooghly district, around 47km from Calcutta. The original MoU, set to lapse this year, was of 30 months. “We have to extend the project because of the delay caused by the pandemic,” said principal secretary, tourism, Nandini Chakraborty, who signed the extension of the agreement with French consul general Virginie Corteval. The government, she said, wanted to turn the structure into a boutique hotel and cultural centre with a library. While the funds — pegged at Rs 3 crore — are being provided by the state government, France is bringing technical expertise. A detailed project report (DPR) has been drawn up by Aishwarya Tipnis, a conservation architect engaged by the French government who is part of the French Technical Expert Team that will collaborate on the project. The DPR has been submitted to the steering committee, comprising representatives of the tourism department, the district administration, the Chandernagore Municipal Corporation and the French government, and will now be vetted by the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority. The municipal corporation will be the implementing agency. The Registry Building could become a catalyst for the revival of the town’s colonial legacy. “We plan to develop colonial heritage tourism around Chandernagore. There can be a light and sound show, guided walks along the Strand... A total of 99 Indo-French heritage structures have been identified (by the French) in Chandernagore. Subsequently, our project ought to envelop everything. Many of the buildings are in private hands. They need to be sensitised. I have seen in France how they train private owners about the heritage value of properties which are often opened up for home stays,” Chakraborty said. Corteval, who had visited the town as a tourist 20 years ago, also pointed to the “huge tourism potential” of the former French colony. “Chandernagore is an important name in history that everyone in France has heard about,” she said, adding how invested she found residents to be in the town’s French identity. The tourism department, officials said, had plans to put infrastructure in place to start day-long cruises from Calcutta in future. A floating restaurant, called Jalashree: The Rivière Habitat, was launched in Chandernagore this February. The focus will now be on the Registry Building, which both signatories admitted was a difficult structure to repair. “We have been in discussion for several years. Finally we are entering the implementing stage of the partnership,” summed up Corteval, whose tenure ends this month. The tourism department is looking at a timeline of 18 months for its completion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Pool car owners shift gears to survive amid the pandemic||The owners of many pool cars that would once ferry children to school and back have now enrolled as drivers at travel agencies, started stitching garments or switched to delivering groceries in search of alternative means of livelihood amid the pandemic. Pool car drivers, too, have had to find alternative work. Some drivers have started selling fish in retail markets and a few others have started home delivery of cooked meals with their wives. Around 3,000 pool car operators in and around Calcutta would ferry around 60,000 schoolchildren every day. Pool car owners and drivers have been struggling since April last year, when schools were shut as a precaution against Covid and their services became redundant. For the first few months, some schools paid the pool car owners half of what they used to but gradually that stopped. For many of the operators and drivers, it took some time to realise that schools were not reopening anytime soon and that it would be disastrous to wait for their businesses to resume. The only way to survive the Covid pandemic was to find alternative sources of income. “I have started delivering groceries to the parents of children who used to go to school in my cars,” said Chiranjit Roy, a pool car owner from Jadavpur. Roy’s cars used to ferry around 300 students to South Point, DPS Ruby Park and a few schools in New Town in six cars, three of which he owned and the rest he hired. “I deliver rice, eggs, pulses and potatoes,” Roy, who has a wife and a one-year-old son, said. “The guardians have extended a helping hand.” Last month, the Pool Car Owners’ Welfare Association had appealed to transport minister Firhad Hakim urging the government to utilise their vehicles as ambulances so that drivers and other workers could find a means to survive. “Out of the five cars I owned, I sold three and got Rs 1.5 lakh. There are hardly any takers for old cars. After waiting for a few more months, I joined an agency that arranges for drivers,” said Rabi Roy, a pool car owner from Paikpara in north Calcutta. “I had to find a way to meet my family’s expenses.” He has a wife, son and elderly mother to look after. A couple of years ago, Timir Nath used to own a fleet of three mini-vans (two Wingers and one Ace) that ferried students to two schools in Behala. The mounting losses because of the Covid curbs forced him to sell two of his vehicles — one last year and one this year. “The vehicles were nine and 10 years old. I had to sell them as scrap. The vehicle I have kept is four years old,” said Nath, in his 50s. He was forced to let go of two of his drivers and two helpers. For the past two months, Nath has been running a tea stall from an 8ftX10ft room off Biren Roy Road West, a kilometre from Behala Chowrasta. The room used to house the office of Nath Travels. The signboard was removed recently. Nath used to rent out his vehicles during school vacations. He bought a tea vending machine for Rs 15,000. It serves regular tea, lemon tea and some other varieties. Nath has also started selling fish and bird food from the stall. One of his drivers helps him run it. “I am somehow getting by. But I feel sorry for the drivers and helpers I had to let go of. They had been with me for many years. I feel I have let them down,” said Nath. Pool car drivers, too, have taken up other jobs. “I learnt stitching from my friends who are in the trade. Now I stitch pieces for readymade garments. The pay is not good. It varies between Rs 4 and Rs 5 apiece,” said Gobindo Halder, from Baruipur. “I have managed to survive but a few of my friends are still struggling.” On July 7, the Bengal government had announced a waiver of road tax for transport vehicles till December, an incentive that was aimed at boosting the transport sector. “We have found out that the waiver applies to pool car operators, too. But the transport department has not issued a notification yet. So, we don’t know whether we will benefit or not,” said Sudip Dutta, the secretary of the Pool Car Owners' Welfare Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Higher Secondary pass percentage up, drop in O graders||Altogether 97.69 per cent of the candidates cleared higher secondary this year. In a year when the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education could not conduct the school-leaving exam because of the pandemic, the pass percentage rose by 7.56 per cent compared to last year’s 90.13, which was till then the highest ever. While the pass percentage of the results declared on Thursday witnessed a jump, the number of top graders declined drastically compared to last year. According to statistics released by council president Mahua Das, the number of candidates who got the ‘O’ grade — between 90 and 100 marks — came down to 9,013 this year from 30,220 in 2020. The council prepared the results by giving 40 per cent weightage to a student’s performance in the Class X board exams and 60 per cent to the performance in the Class XI annual exams. The combined score was added to the marks obtained in the 30-mark practical or 20-mark project paper to arrive at the final score. “The number of A+ grade (between 80 and 89) recipients has dropped to 49,370 from 84,746 last year. The number of A grade (70-79) recipients stands at 95,758. Last year, the figure was 96,825,” said Das. The number B+ grade (60-69) recipients, however, increased from 1,10,265 in 2020 to 1,65,186. This year a girl from a minority community emerged the topper, scoring 499 out of 500. Last year, four students had emerged toppers scoring 499. Sunita Sen, the principal of the BSS school, said: “In Class XI, students are not as serious as they would be in Class XII. The schools also mark the students conservatively so that they know their weaknesses and work on them to do better in Class XII. Taking into account the Class XI performance while arriving at HS marks might have led to a fall in the number of the top-grade achievers,” said Sen. Debabrata Mukheerjee, the headmaster of Sanskrit Collegiate School, said a section of students remained more focused on the preparations for the JEE and the medical entrance exam in Class XI. “They turn their focus on the board curriculum as the Class XII board exam approaches.” Saugata Basu, the secretary of the government school teachers’ association, said: “If the Delhi boards evaluate their results in a way that their top-grade achievers outnumber those from the Bengal board, students of the state board will lose out on securing admission in colleges.” The results of the CBSE Class XII and ISC exams are expected to be published by the end of July. The concern over the fate of the Bengal board students has heightened because of the state higher education department’s instruction to colleges and universities to screen students for admission to undergraduate courses solely on the basis of their plus-II marks this year. “Our students will fail to get admission in premiere institutions (if the Delhi boards produce more high achievers). An admission test could have provided a level playing field to all,” said Basu. The teachers of Jadavpur University has said in an email to education minister Bratya Basu on Tuesday that in a year when plus-II students could not write their school-leaving exams, assessment through an admission test “is vital for determining whether or not a candidate ought to take up a particular field of study at the higher levels”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||IISER ranks fourth on Nature Index annual table 2021||The Nature Index annual table 2021 has rated the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Kolkata as 4th among the top-most academic institutions in the country. Last year, the institute at Nadia’s Mohanpur had ranked 5th in the category. Among all categories of institutions across the country, the IISER has ranked 7th for its high-quality scientific research. In 2019-20, the institute had ranked 8th in the overall category. The Nature Index is a database of author information collated from research articles published in an independently selected group of 82 science journals, including the British journal Nature. The database is compiled by a research team of Nature. The overall categories include teaching and non-teaching institutes in the public and private sectors, as well as NGOs involved in research and other academic activities. The Indian Institute of Science, in Bangalore, has ranked first in both categories and 62nd in the Asia-Pacific region. IISER Kolkata has ranked 100th in the Asia-Pacific region, joining three other institutions from India to make the cut among top 100. Last year, the IISER had ranked 111th in the region. The Mohanpur institution has retained its top-most position among all IISERs, in overall performance as well as subject-wise rankings. The Nature Index is considered the most competitive and prestigious metric observed closely across the globe to assess the performance of institutions and countries in scientific research. Ranking high in the index is considered a signature of high performance in research globally. The new ranking has been announced based on Nature Index data from January 1 to December 31, 2020. “This improved ranking reflects the consistent performance of researchers of the institute,” IISER director Sourav Pal said. “It was a difficult year because of the Covid pandemic. Research was constantly hampered. Nevertheless, we continued our work and this ranking is a recognition of our collective efforts.” The dean of international relations and outreach at the IISER, Anindita Bhadra, said: “This is quite an impressive ranking. It comes as a recognition of the high-quality research being done by our researchers.” “The annual table highlights the institutions and countries which dominated high-quality research in natural sciences in 2020, as tracked by the Nature Index,” an IISER official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Trader's murder triggers outrage in Birati||A 39-year-old building materials supplier was shot dead in Birati, around 18km north of Calcutta, when he was walking home from a club near Banik More on Wednesday night. Witnesses have told the police that the attackers came riding two motorcycles from behind and pumped five bullets into Subhrajit Dutta around 10.30pm. Alarmed at the sound of firing, some residents alerted police. He was taken to hospital, where he was declared dead. Hundreds of residents took to the streets in Birati on Wednesday night demanding the arrest of the assassins. A large police contingent led by officers of the Barrackpore police commissionerate and Nimta police station persuaded the residents to withdraw their protest. On Thursday, a police picket was set up in the locality, which has witnessed a spurt in construction of housing complexes in recent years. The police have started scanning CCTV footage and a case of murder against unknown persons has been drawn up at Nimta police station. Subhrajit’s murder came within hours of an attack on Babulal Singh, alleged to be a strongman and a member of the syndicate that controls supply of building materials in Birati, by a group of youths. Investigators said Babulal was once Subhrajit’s associate in the business of supplying construction materials and had borrowed around Rs 4 lakh from the latter several years back. Babulal had reportedly told Subhrajit that the amount would be invested in expanding their business and constructing an office for the duo in Birati. For some time Subhrajit allegedly started demanding the money back from Babulal. On Wednesday afternoon, a group of youths attacked Babulal with marble tiles. He was hit on his head with a tile and left to bleed till some associates rescued him. He was later admitted to a private hospital on EM Bypass. “It is still too early to conclude that Subhrajit’s murder was the fallout of the attack on Babulal but we are not ruling out the possibility,” said a senior officer of the Barrackpore police commissionerate. “We are tracing Babulal’s antecedence. The assassins will be arrested shortly,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: People in Sunderbans turning to forests for livelihood||More and more people in the Sunderbans are turning to the forests for livelihood because the Covid pandemic has robbed them of their income. The people are illegally entering forest creeks to catch crabs and fish, risking their lives. This has led to a spurt in human-wildlife conflict. There have been four deaths because of tiger attacks in the past two months, most of them in the Jhila forest, said an official of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. Over 25 people have died in tiger attacks since March 2020, according to the forest department. The prolonged bar on tourists in the Sunderbans because of the Covid curbs has destroyed the livelihood of many residents. The owners and employees of hotels, tour guides, boatmen and the others have lost their income. Tens of thousands of migrant labourers had returned to the mangrove delta during the lockdown last year. Many of them took to an alternate livelihood. Some started farming and fishing in local ponds on a small scale. But the Covid curbs following a fresh spike in cases this year has again robbed many people of their income. Saline water flooded acres of land during the landfall of Cyclone Yaas in May this year, turning many farmlands infertile. “The mangrove delta is as much about its people as it is about its forests. The forests thrive because of the people living on the fringes. But the pandemic has posed unprecedented challenges to the local population,” said Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. Tapas Manna, a boatman, is living on free ration and relief materials from NGOs. Manna was in charge of a boat owned by the owner of a hotel named Apanjan, near Pakhiralay, a village in the Gosaba block of the Sunderbans, around 92km from Calcutta. He used to earn Rs 7,000-8,000, including tips from tourists. “A party that spotted a tiger would give more than a party spotting a crocodile,” said Manna, who lives with his mother, wife, a son and a daughter. Manna owns a small plot of land but it has been rendered infertile by the incursion of saline water during Yaas. “For at least another year, it is impossible to till the land,” he said. Around two lakh tourists would visit the Sunderbans every year before the pandemic. A section of the earnings from them would go to the joint forest management committees for community development. There are over 100 hotels and homestays on the fringes of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve itself, according to the members of the Sundarban Hotel Owners’ Association. The number would be double if the hotels in the South 24 Parganas forest division are included. The hotels, according to its size, employ local youths as cooks and service staff and security guards. The number of licensed motor boats and launches would be close to 500, said an official of the local administration. Each launch would at least have a couple of people other than the helmsman. “The lives of close to 50,000 people depend on tourism. The owners of hotels are defaulting on payment of the loan instalments. Boatmen are working as daily labourers when they can,” said Prabir Sinha Ray, the general secretary of the hotel owners’ association. The mangrove delta was shut for tourists from March 2020, following the imposition of the country-wide lockdown as a precaution against Covid. After reopening for a few days in June last year, a suspension in July followed a spurt in cases. The National Park was reopened in September before shutting down again with the spike in cases this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Cataract removed from two-month-old girl in Calcutta||A two-month-old girl underwent surgery to remove cataract from both eyes at a clinic of a city hospital last week. The baby, who was born with the cataract, is able to see now, said doctors who treated her. If a congenital cataract is not treated early, it may lead to sub-normal or reduced vision. The period between eight and 12 weeks after birth is crucial for the development of a baby’s eyesight, they said. The two-month-old from Contai underwent the surgery at Apollo Hospitals’ Gariahat clinic on July 14. Her father, Muktar Ali Shah, told Metro that the baby never kept her eyes fixed on anything even for a few seconds. “I suspected something was wrong.” In case of cataract, the natural lens of the eyes becomes opaque and light cannot enter the retina. In people with normal eyesight, the image formed on the retina is transmitted to the brain, said Siddhartha Ghosh, an ophthalmologist. “But for people with cataracts, the transmission cannot happen. If this is not addressed at a proper time in kids, the brain will consider the reduced vision as normal,” said Ghosh, who was in the team that treated the girl. Debabrata Haldar, a paediatric ophthalmologist, said that delaying surgery to remove congenital cataract might lead to reduced vision development. “The fixation of vision, which means that a baby keeps looking at people known to it or at objects of interest for quite some time, develops between second and third months after birth. All developments of vision will depend on whether fixation develops properly,” said Haldar, who conducted the surgery. Congenital cataracts can develop because of an infection while the baby was in the womb or genetic factors, among other reasons. Parents, they said, should consult an ophthalmologist if they notice that the black part and the pupil of the eye of their children are greyish or white. The absence of vision fixation is also a warning sign. “After the surgery I feel she is able to see as she is looking at me or her mother,” said Muktar. The surgery and the necessary diagnostic tests cost more than Rs 1 lakh, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Online viva for RKM Vidyamandira admissions||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will screen students for admission to undergraduate courses in 12 out of 15 subjects through online viva voce this year. “The viva voce will be held from August 24 to 28,” principal Swami Ekachittananda said. The English department will screen students based on their marks in the plus-II and secondary board exams and the economics and political science departments on the basis of the plus-II board marks. The rest of the departments will bank on online viva voce, marks at the plus-II and/or secondary levels as well as performance in competitions such as International Math Olympiad and International Physics Olympiad, wherever applicable. The state government has barred colleges and universities from conducting admission tests for undergraduate programmes. RKM institutions are outside the purview of the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp in Covid times||Craft I spent my summer holidays in a joyful way. Even though I had loads of homework and assignments lined up, I didn’t let that dent my enthusiasm. At the beginning of the holidays, I mostly spent time finishing my work so I could have fun the rest of the time. I drew a painting of Lord Ganesha, wrote a short story, played games with my friends and did some programming. My father had bought me an Electronic Workshop from the Crossword store at City Centre 2 on Christmas and I have been busy with that. It has many components like resistors, capacitors, inductor and connecting wires. It also comes with a guide with an overview of some basic instructions on how to use a breadboard, the colour codes of resistors… The guide also has instructions for some projects that we can make, like a rain alarm and ghost detector. The part that I enjoy the most is putting together the components to build a project and then seeing it work as intended. For instance, the rain alarm goes off when there is water around or the bulb lights up on touch. Aashna Goyal, 10 years, Space Town, VIP Road Corona’s Labyrinth China gave birth to coronavirus. Soon it spread like a wildfire. Masks, sanitisers, handwash became a household name Everyone tried to keep the virus tamed. Lockdowns were imposed, Frontline workers were working in full force. Lots of rules were amended, And successfully the first wave ended. Scientists came with a ray of hope, As they found a vaccine to cope. Although jabs were given in phases, Coronavirus started showing once again its traces. Second wave was even deadlier. Lots of families lost their near and dear. The society learnt its lesson: Front line workers alone cannot fight this mayhem, People will have to equally make effort at their end. Covid has taught us a lot of things. We should always count our blessings. Doctors are demigods; We must always appreciate them against all odds. Let us pray and avoid the third wave and follow the rules set in, Till we make the world once again a better place to live in. Roshani Kasera, Age 37, EE Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||95 oxygen concentrators gifted to fight third wave||In yet another non-government organisational response to counter the possible ravages of the third wave of Covid-19, a total of 95 concentrators were handed over to people’s representatives as well as office-bearers of local housing complexes on July 7. The donor was Pradip and Kumkum Ghosh Family Foundation, which runs the Action Area IID-based International Institute of Innovation and Technology (I3T). The institute, founded in 2018, is involved in research on dengue and malaria and is starting work on Covid-19 too. The machines are a part of a total of 350 oxygen concentrators, worth Rs 2 crore, that the founder of the organisation, Pradip Kumar Ghosh, has pledged for the people of Bengal. An economist, based in Maryland, US, Ghosh hails from Khardah. “He took the decision to send the concentrators after seeing people die for lack of oxygen in the second wave earlier this year. Even if there were oxygen cylinders, lives were lost in the time needed to take the cylinders for refill,” said Moonmoon Chakraborty, the coordinator of I3T Mental Health Centre, which also runs under the institute’s umbrella. “Our team of psychologists has started counselling people who have lost jobs or suffered losses in the pandemic as well as students who are getting increasingly frustrated at home,” she said. On the day, 25 concentrators were handed over to Bidhannagar MLA and minister Sujit Bose, 15 to Rajarhat New Town MLA Tapash Chatterjee and 10 to Rajarhat Gopalpur MLA Aditi Munshi. Ghosh spoke to them over live video call, sharing his vision for the institute. Also receiving the gifts were representatives of housing complexes Uniworld City, Rosedale Garden, Highland Willows and Jal Vayu Towers in New Town and Purbasha, Bidhan Nivas and Aelite in the Ultadanga Hudco crossing area, which have built in-house oxygen-supported isolation centres for their residents. saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Tribute to Nazrul by Nazrul||Not just song and dance, for their Nazruljayanti celebration, a member of DB Block’s Gulabi Gang had herself dressed up as the bard. Sudhanya Dasgupta Mukherjee had dressed like Nazrul Islam, replete with a paper cap resembling one the bard would wear. “I am happy to see you all celebrate my birthday,” she said, personifying the poet. Viewers loved the appearance and Sonali Basak, the director of the programme, was delighted. “The idea had struck one of our members and I instantly knew it would have a great impact,” she said. Sudhanya was amused too. “Since I can’t sing Nazrulgeeti I was wondering how I could contribute to this show. Then my husband said that since I have curly hair, like the poet, I might as well play him. It was a unique role and all the more special for me as my bedridden mother and my octogenarian father could watch my performance sitting at home,” she said. The show had other participants too. Mala Banerjee sang Antare tumi achho, Karabi Chowdhury sang the Shyamasangeet Bolre jaba bol and the youngest participant Sharanya Mitra danced to Kar manjir rinijhini baje. Lakshmimoni Sen narrated an anecdote on Nazrul, Ananya Dasgupta spoke on his compositions on love and romance. Indrani Basak spoke on the poem Bidrohi, published in his first book Agnibina and Anjana Banerjee then recited Bidrohi for the virtual audience. Upon request, Chandrani Mukherjee sang Dur dweepobashini. “I am a Rabindrasangeet singer and this was the first time I sang Nazrulgeeti. The event was a refreshing change from our daily online classes,” said the lecturer. Mou Dubey narrated Nazrul’s life, philosophy and awards, Mahua De Sarkar spoke on his love for nature and sang a related composition Projapati kothay pele bhai. While Rama Mitra and Mou recited Lichuchor, Sonali and Kamalika Banerjee danced to Ami jar nupurer chhando. Mother-daughter Mousumi and Amisha Saha danced to Jago nari jago bonnhisikha too. Somdutta Basak sang Paradeshi megh jaore phire and the last piece was Rakhi Mazumder’s Sure o bani mala hoey. Nature & rebel poet Newtown Citizens Welfare Fraternity celebrated two occasions on a single day — a morning tableau for Environment Day and an online event in the evening clubbing the same with Nazruljayanti. “We wanted to celebrate Nazruljayanti in May itself but the Covid situation was alarming then so we held it together with Environment Day later,” said president of the forum Lutful Alam, who spoke on incidents in Nazrul’s life that indicated that he was not just a revolutionary poet but was also against all sorts of inequality and communalism. Alam had placed a Nazrul portrait beside him which was taking up more screen space than him. Secretary Samir Gupta garlanded the portrait of the bard and paid tribute. Cultural convenor Dipak Biswas reminded residents to abide by all they preached in the morning — about planting trees, avoiding plastic, conserving water… Public health expert Kajal Krishna Banik had been invited to speak on the two topics. “Protecting the environment isn’t simply planting trees. It means balancing the entire ecosystem. As for Nazrul, the poet opined that for peace we must eliminate inequality and corruption. He had even compared women with Mother Nature,” he said. “Even today, people are suffering due to lack of equal distribution of resources. Covid-19 has proved our total failure — this is evident in the vaccination figures in different countries of the world,” Banik said. The second phase of the programme was cultural performances by the residents of New Town. Chaiti Roy of DLF Newtown Heights, presented Nazrul’s Shyamasangeet Aar lukabi kothay ma and by 10-year-old Arnish Mitra of AB Block sang Karar oi louho kopat. Little Samriddhi Majumder was very expressive in her recitation of Nazrul’s Rajbhikari. Indrani Lahiri of CC Block recited Pichhudak from Nazrul’s Dolonchapa, Sukla Dasgupta of CD Block sang Hey Gobindo rakho charane and CD Block resident Rita Basu recited a poem on Nazrul. Oishik Ghosh of CE Block played Rum jhum jhum on the keyboard and Kakoli Majumder and Sabina Syed shared anecdotes from the poet’s life. Sabina even read out a passionate letter written by Nazrul to Nargis, his first wife, on the occasion of her second marriage. If you want to get a programme featured in this column, even a virtual one, write in to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta - 700001 or e-mail to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||‘Google’ goes to office even during pandemic||You may be working from home these days but a Siberian Husky from EC Block continues to go to office. Even on Sundays. “Every day after breakfast Google lets out a bark, as if to announce that he’ll be leaving now. I call our driver, who escorts him to the car and takes him for a drive around Central Park,” says Mousumi Das. “The dog loves feeling the wind in his face. In fact, he’ll bark to object if the driver ever switches the AC on. Onlookers wave at Google and tell one another that he’s off to office!” Google had come into the family three years ago, when Mousumi’s son finally managed to convince his parents to get a dog. “I was skeptical as it would be difficult looking after a dog and my son was anyway planning to go abroad for his Masters at the time. Finally they convinced me saying the dog would be like a younger son to us when our own son went away,” says the lady who has never once regretted her decision thereafter. Google was named so by Mousumi’s son Poorbayan, who wanted a unique name for him. Google’s birthdays are celebrated with cake, guests, music and decorations. But Mousumi and her son missed his first birthday. “We had to leave town for my son’s college the day before his birthday and it broke our heart. We attended his party over video call,” she says. If there’s one thing Google hates, it’s suitcases. “Whenever my husband takes one out Google knows he’s going on tour and gets morose. It’s the same if I pack my bags. But in my case, even if I go to City Centre he leaves all else and sits in the balcony waiting for me to return.” The Husky has a soft coat, piercing blue eyes and a fluffy tail that Mousumi likens to the chamor used during pujas. He is certainly a high maintenance breed, needing the AC round the clock. Why, even the water he drinks must be chilled, with ice cubes. “If by chance his water isn’t cool enough he’ll look at the fridge and bark,” Mousumi smiles. So popular is Google that on his walks, he spends less time walking and more time obliging his fans. No wonder at a pet show last winter someone came over to Mousumi and asked if she was the lady who lived in Google’s house! If you have a pet you have brought up at home as a family member and which has its eyes only for you, write to us with your contact number at The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Show stoppers all||Jurassic Park, the dinosaur-themed playground in Kankurgachhi was a haven of canine folk earlier this year. Kankurgachhi Dog Lovers had organised a dog show that drew nearly 100 dogs and even more dog lovers. While some pet parents had brought their dogs in for a lark, others were serious about the competition. “Are pets born only to please the families they live with? I know my dogs are meant for greater things and I want them to join shows and prove how competent they are,” said Moumita Majumdar. She had come with her Beagle Alex, who she said was her shejo chhele (third son). Back home she had a Labrador boro chhele, German Shepherd Dog mejo chele and Pug chhoto chhele. “My older dogs are already champions in the show circuit so I didn’t get them today. They are all so handsome they would have attracted a huge crowd, something we’re trying to avoid during the pandemic.” Suparna Bose was equally proud of her Chihuahua Jerry. “Regardless of the outcome, I feel dogs should be encouraged to participate in shows. Let them challenge themselves and have something to look forward to,” she said. It’s another matter that little Jerry has won many trophies, each of which is bigger than her! Mischief managed Another Jerry at the show was an extremely friendly “Indie”. “He wants to go meet every dog he sees, big or small. It can be dangerous if the other dog is aggressive,” said Sathi Chakraborty. “Good thing my nephew Soumik has come with me today. He’s having to physically restrain Jerry from running off.” Right then, an announcement was made about a pair of keys that was found in the ground. Turns out they had fallen out of Soumik’s pocket in the hullabaloo! A tent that drew a steady stream of selfie-hunters had three huge dogs — Belgian Shepherd Julie, St. Bernard Sandy and German Shepherd Dog Vaspa. Sukanta Mondal, who had got his Caravan Hound Sree, was delighted to see Indian breeds becoming popular at shows. “A couple of years ago there were just two or three of them in the city but now there must be 20 — Mudhols, Pashmis, Caravans... Shows are the best platform to showcase them to dog lovers so they consider adopting them,” he said. This was the seventh edition of the show and drew curious and excited children as well as adults like Amit Mitra, who said he loved dogs but got vetoed by his family whenever he broached the subject of bringing home one. “So I come over whenever I hear about a dog show and spend the whole day. The most adorable dog today, I thought, was a Chihuahua. I wish I could take her home!” he laughed. “It wasn’t easy pulling off a dog show in the midst of a pandemic. We had to take several permissions and maintain safety protocol,” said Snehashis Saha, secretary of Kankurgachi Dog Lovers. “But the show drew even more participants than last year, possibly as all registered shows have been called off this year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Southern snack stall shifted||An outlet under the Cafe Ekante brand of Hidco, serving south Indian snacks, opened after being relocated on a New Town bus stand island. The earlier stall was dismantled to make way for an escalator for the upcoming Metro station. Named Karipatta On The Go, the stall sells south Indian munches. “We have largely retained the old menu but added a few special items from Kerala like Paniayaram, which is fried mini idli, and Appam with Vegetable Stew,” said Snehasis Sinha. additional general manager (tourism), Hidco. Other than traditional dishes from Andhra Pradesh, there are Ragi Dosa from Karnataka and Kanjeevaram Idli from Tamil Nadu. “A couple of fusion items — Special Butter Paneer Makhni Dosa and Pav Bhaji Dosa — are new additions, too, being inspired from cuisines of Punjab and Mumbai respectively,” he said. Though the outlet is mainly for take-away orders, there is seating arrangement for about 20 customers in the open.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||New Town: Land allotted for research facility named after Jyoti Basu||Land has finally been allotted for a research facility named after Jyoti Basu in New Town. A signboard was unveiled on July 8, the former chief minister’s 108th birth anniversary, in Action Area IIA in presence of top CPM leaders like Biman Bose, Surjyakanta Mishra, Mohd. Salim. Sujan Chakraborty and Gautam Deb. “The institute will undertake research on social issues. Party members who are involved in various movements or have a research background will come forward from across the country. Basu contributed so much to take society forward right from the time he got involved in trade union movement on his return from England. Also he always tried to keep himself updated,” said Rabin Deb, secretary of Jyoti Basu Centre for Social Studies and Research, as the centre has been named. The centre will house an exhibition, a museum, rooms to board researchers and a seminar hall. It is a five-acre plot. “We completed registration in November and the mutation was done in February. The building plan is being prepared for submission,” he added. Both Deb and Left Front chairman Biman Bose, who is also the centre president, pointed out that the land had been sought more than a decade ago. “We had applied for the plot in 2010 and cleared payment while Gautam Deb was still the housing minister. But the new government kept dillydallying, even claiming that the plot was under litigation. We did not force the matter and preferred to wait. Finally things moved in 2019 after the chief minister intervened. We are glad that good sense has prevailed,” said Rabin Deb. Till the building plan is ready for submission and approved, the organisers are unable to specify how many floors the facility will be. “We do not need a tall building as the plot is sufficiently large,” the secretary said. An appeal has been made to the public to donate things linked to Basu’s life. “We had collected his personal memorabilia from Indira Bhavan (his official residence in Salt Lake) after Basu expired. They are stored in Alimuddin Street (the party headquarter). There are things he received as gifts during his tours. He did not have much personal belongings other than things of day-to-day use,” he added. The organisers do not accept that a museum on his life would run contrary to the communist abhorrence of worship of the individual. “We are not worshipping the individual but his contribution in history. We are trying to preserve what the individual did for society — how he undertook land reforms, multiplied food production, made primary education free…” The leaders also planted mahogany saplings on the plot. Write in to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||New Town puja turns a decade old||When they performed their first Duga puja, they did not even have a field to host it. They performed it in the open space under a co-operative building. But now that New Town’s CC Block performed the khuti puja for its 10th edition, they consider it a landmark achievement. “Of course, the celebration would have been grander if it wasn’t for the pandemic but we are in a better position to hold it than last year,” said Lalit Kumar Ray, president of Newtown CC Block Puja Samity. “In 2020, we even contemplated a ghot puja but residents wanted all the rituals.” The khuti puja this year was held on Green Verge 12 that has now been allotted for their puja. Residents joined the priest for the rituals, maintaining distance. The idol, it was announced, would be a traditional one this year with shola pith decorations. “Our biggest success last year was that even a month after the Pujas not a single case of Covid-19 was reported in the block,” said secretary Biman Samaddar. “And this time, we have more experience on how to conduct the puja amidst the pandemic. For instance, we shall now install a projector at the pandal and play pre-recorded cultural performances by residents.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Market watch: Poppy seed price on the rise||Alu Posto, Posto Bora, Posto Bata, Deem Posto… People are thinking twice about cooking their favourite dishes now that the price of poppy seeds has touched Rs 2,000 a kilogram. Grocers across the township say the price of the posto has been rising steeply for the past couple of months and that many buyers were being forced to reduce consumption. “Those who would buy 100g previously are buying 50g now, those buying 50g are buying 25,” says Gopal Chakraborty of Dashabhuja Bhandar in CK Market. He sells packaged poppy seeds from brands like JK (selling 100g at about Rs 200) as well as a loose variety, that had touched Rs 210 for 100g a while back. It has returned to Rs 200 now. “We are selling between one and two kilos of poppy seeds a month now. This is way below what we used to a few months ago and it’s clearly due to the price rise,” says N. Nayak of Ma Sabita Bhandar in FD Market. Arun Ghosh of Baisakhi’s New Lokenath Bhandar has never seen such inflated prices of poppy seeds. “For many ghotis, posto is as important as fish, and come to think of it, the prices are almost as high as fish these days. No wonder many unscrupulous traders are resorting to adulteration now. They are mixing two kilos of sooji (that costs about Rs 80 a kilo) to a sack of posto.” He asks customers to bite a few grains of loose posto before buying as a test. “If they burst, it’s real posto. If it pastes out and sticks to your teeth, it’s adulterated,” Ghosh teaches. Time was when residents would buy loose posto from this Baisakhi grocery store and send relatives in the US. “And now sales are down to half. With job losses and salary cuts how much can people spend on fancy food? And it’s not like we vendors are here to do charity either. We need a profit mark up of five or six per cent to make our business viable,” says Ghosh. AE Market’s New Variety Stores calls itself a grocery store for chefs and restaurants. “We keep rare and expensive items you won’t get anywhere else in Salt Lake,” says Prasenjit Pramanik, citing a variety called Afghani Posto that seems to be of the highest quality. “Even in Burrabazar, very few shops stock this. Last year, we used to buy this for Rs 1,000 a kilo, six months back it was Rs 1,200. Now we are buying it for Rs 2,000 and are forced to sell it at Rs 2,100 or 2,200.” Customers who taste this posto once, he claims, are not satisfied eating anything else so they are continuing to buying it. The quantity, however, is much less. The most frustrating part for traders is not having clear answers as to why prices are skyrocketing. Nor do they have an indication of which way prices will go in the near future. “We are small players. Neither do we have the authority to ask suppliers about price rise nor do they offer an explanation. They simply quote the price and ask us to take it or leave it. In the bargain, it is we who have to put up with grumbling customers,” says Asim Kumar Das of Bapi Stores, CE Market. Then again, grocery stores in EC Market say customers have not reacted sharply to the price rise. “It’s true that posto prices are rising but it has been gradual. People are not feeling the pinch as they usually buy posto together with other household items and inflation is the general trend,” says Dulal Pal of New Joyguru Bhandar. Pal is more worried about online grocery sites eating into their business. Online, price of posto is about Rs 195 for 100g — just five rupees less than the rate at block markets — but the convenience of having items home delivered makes a big difference to customers, he says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||New Town gets brand ambassador||New Town now has a brand ambassador. Filmmaker Haranath Chakraborty has been named for the role. According to Hidco sources, the paper work will soon be done. “I have always felt there should be more than one cultural hub that the Rabindra Sadan-Nandan-Sisir Mancha complex represents in a big city like Calcutta. We want to make Nazrul Tirtha-Rabindra Tirtha a second hub. The chief minister has that vision too. To make that happen, we need someone who will speak for us, help us organise documentary film screenings and bring stars and directors over to New Town during the film festival. I have also heard he is into designing studios. He will help us in all these ways,” Hidco chief Debashis Sen told The Telegraph Salt Lake at a plantation programme in CC Block on Sunday. Just as Bengal’s brand ambassador Shah Rukh Khan is not a resident of Bengal, so it is with Chakraborty, a Tollygunge resident. “I will come over whenever Debashis babu needs me to be present here and help out in whatever capacity,” he said. Chakraborty has made several hit Bengali films like Sasurbari Zindabad, Pratibad, Sathi and Nater Guru, starring the likes of Prosenjit Chatterjee and Jeet. He is also a core committee member of Kolkata International Film Festival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Eco Park’s Ekante cottage to get a facelift||The Ekante cottages in Eco Park island are set to become more attractive as a venue for hosting banquets. Utsari, the glass house that served as a banquet hall, had got damaged in Cyclone Amphan and is being rebuilt almost four times bigger in size. In its earlier avatar, the glass house was spread over 2,650sq ft. “That meant we could accommodate barely 70-80 people. While that was a problem for wedding organisers, during the Bengal Global Business Summit gala dinner, hosted by the chief minister, most guests had to remain outside the hall. Now it will have an area of 10,000 sq ft. That can easily take in over 12,000 guests,” said a Hidco official. Four rooms have been added on an upper level to provide space for bridal make-up and such related functions. Storage space has been added as well. “It is an island in the middle of the waterbody so each brick that you see here has had to be brought in by boat. No load is permitted across the wooden bridge. So it makes sense to store things in case of emergencies,” the official said. While Utsari enjoys high demand as a wedding venue, officials pointed out that there are only around 58 days considered auspicious for marriages in a year. “We need to generate revenue on other days too. So we will encourage organisers of national level meets to use the facility for their banquets as well,” the official said. The hall is expected to be ready by October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Big cat hope for New Town mini zoo||With work underway at full tilt on the first phase of the mini zoo that will come up at Harinalaya, the deer park opposite gate 6 of Eco Park, the forest department has started preparing for a second phase. “We have proposed a carnivore block. It will have tiger, hyena, wolf, leopard and wild dog,” Rabindranath Saha, conservator of forests, parks and gardens, and ex-officio general manager, green projects wing, West bengal Forest Development Corporation, told The Telegraph Salt Lake. “We have prepared the master plan and are sending it to the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) with approval from the state zoo authority. Funds permitting, we will start work this year,” he added. There are also plans for an aquarium and a snake house, said Vinod Kumar Yadav, principal chief conservator of forests, wildlife and chief wildlife warden, West Bengal. In the open The mini zoo, the authorities promise, will be nothing like what the city has seen. “The ambience will be completely natural. As much as 70 per cent of the area will be open air, in accordance with the latest CZA guidelines,” said Yadav. Only for feeding and breeding will the tigers and leopards go indoors. “If we get the approval, we want to create a cave structure for the tiger. It will roam free behind iron fencing while people will be behind a glass partition. There will be a gap of about a foot and half between the toughened glass wall and the fencing. The top of the fencing will be energised, so that neither can anyone climb in nor can the big cat jump out,” Saha added. The current Harinalaya is spread over 15 acres. Recently, the Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has promised to hand over another 1.239 acres. “We will build a veterinary hospital, a food storage facility and a kitchen for the animals there,” said Yadav. A zoo, he pointed out, has its own utility in facilitating nature education, raising awareness about animal welfare and undertaking research on various species. “The old idea of keeping animals in a cage is outdated. The modern concept is to give them space. The CZA guidelines clearly state which animal needs how much space,” Yadav added. The forest department has plans for rainwater harvesting by opting for ground water recharge after treating the accumulated rain water. “This way we can compensate the huge volume of water the animals will require. The park will be completely lit by solar energy, thereby saving government funds as well as reducing our carbon footprint. Since New Town is a smart city, we want to gift it one of the most eco-friendly zoos in the country,” Saha said. Since huge footfall is expected, there will be separate entry and exit. Visitor-friendly facilities have been planned like drinking water dispenser and a central cafeteria. Going online The deer park recently got broadband connection. “Hidco chairman Debashis Sen visited us and inaugurated the online ticketing system on July 6. Our website will be ready in a week. Once we reopen, visitors can book tickets online,” said range officer Biswanath Sengupta. Tickets to Harinalaya, currently closed due to the lockdown, cost Rs 30. Green light for phase I The first phase of the proposed mini zoo will have the herbivore block where giraffe, zebra, turtle and hippopotamus will be housed as well as two aviaries and crocodile enclosures, as was reported in The Telegraph Salt Lake on January 24, 2020. The two aviaries are for pheasantry and wild flying birds. “We will need to check which species are in surplus at Alipore, Darjeeling and Siliguri zoos. We can also get some under exchange programmes with outside zoos,” said Saha. Work on five enclosures is almost over. “The master plan of the first phase has been approved by the CZA. Other than the herbivores, there will be separate water bodies for salt water crocodile and gharial. They cannot be kept together because of risk of in-fighting,” said Saha. A mixed deer enclosure is also coming up which will have hog deer, swamp deer, black buck, mouse deer and sambar. “We already have two varieties of deer — barking and spotted — totalling 32,” said Yadav. The authorities are hoping to open the mini zoo on completion of the first phase by November. The budget is Rs 4.5crore. “In future, we will start an animal breeding programme and a rescue centre. It will be part of our master plan. We will add things step by step as and when we get CZA approval,” Yadav said. The park was handed over to the West Bengal Zoo Authority on August 1, 2017 by the West Bengal Forest Development Corporation. “We got approval from the CZA to set up a mini zoo here in May 2018,” said Sengupta. The area was surveyed, keeping in mind how much space each animal would require, and a proposal was sent to the CZA regarding the mini zoo’s infrastructure in end-2018. But the pandemic caused a delay, he added. With Eco Park next door and Mothers Wax Museum across the street, visitors, the authorities are hoping, will enjoy a full day’s activity once the mini zoo opens. “This will be the most happening part of the city,” said Saha. Write in to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
