24-07-2021||Calcutta||Family, fun and social call||Birla High School alumni conducted Yaas Relief Camp Sunderbans 2021 with a visit to the cyclone-affected areas to provide help to the inhabitants. A team of four, led by Sachin Saraff, vice-president of the alumni association, visited Dhulki and Sonagaon in Gosaba with food, clothes, medicines and other necessities. The team provided essentials to around 300 families of the two villages. Vijaynagar High School principal Sukumar Paira helped the association in the endeavour. The alumni members funded the initiative themselves. “The BHS alumni have long association with Gosaba island in the Sunderbans — from reconstructing school to distributing food in the earlier pandemic. On learning about the destruction from Yaas, the alumni members visited the island carrying daily necessities such as clothes, mosquito nets and food. They also carried two pumps to drain out salty sea water from ponds, so that drinking water is available to villagers and the water borne diseases can be prevented,” said the alumni president Atul Churiwal. Heritage Academy High School recently organised a relief camp at a cyclone-hit village in Kakdwip block. They provided essentials to 300 families of Meer-er-thhek where the Yaas cyclone left many homeless. Parents and teachers, along with the school authorities, contributed to the initiative. The non-teaching staff members helped assemble the provision packets, along with a few student volunteers from the senior section. “We, as a school, have a social responsibility towards the affected people and want to reach out to as many of them as we can. We shared with our students about this initiative in the online classes, and many wanted to join in and help. However, as the Covid protocols were in place, we could allow only a few students to come to the school and help,” said administrator Sourya Sadhan Bose. BD Memorial recently organised a virtual visit to Alipore Zoo for its students to commemorate the World Family Day. The children, along with their grandparents, visited the zoo online with a view to rekindling the age-old bond between grandparents and grandchildren. They got to know about different animals through pictures and videos. They loved the visual walk through the zoo while staying safe at home. The students made a reflection of their visit through beautiful posters and inspiring quotes on their experience at the zoo. “Since children are now learning about animals and the environment around them, we thought of taking this initiative. It would help increase their cognitive abilities. It was an eye opener for them as they got to know about so many species. Since they are doing all the activities at home, we thought of involving grandparents and celebrating World Family Day too,” said director Suman Sood. The Blue Umbrella, Born Free and Battleship Potemkin — students of classes IX to XII got to enjoy such box office favourites at Cinema Paradiso, a virtual film festival organised by all the four branches of Apeejay Schools recently. Named after the award-winning Italian movie, the festival was a celebration of youth, friendship and everlasting magic of movies. Timeless classics from different genres and periods were screened to develop a holistic perspective among children. The festival kicked off with the animation film Coco, and next came Born Free and a string of other hits. Stanley Ka Dabba was also a popular choice. The students discussed the film and their learning experiences from them as part of an open discussion on the last day. “The film festival hosted by Apeejay schools in Calcutta, Bhubaneswar and Haldia helped to unleash the skills and the imagination of young children. In our schools, we give students the opportunity, technology and resources to create and innovate. The film festival was a step in that direction. It also helped to build empathy and understanding among the students,” said Apeejay schools chief executive officer Kiranjit Singh Pannu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||Lawyers’ petition on acting chief justice court||A large number of members of the Calcutta High Court Bar Association on Friday placed a joint petition before the executive committee seeking an immediate decision to boycott the courtroom of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal for his alleged “unethical activities”, which, according to them, were tarnishing the image of the “oldest high court of the country”. The decision was taken at an extraordinary meeting of the association. Although most members of the association were present at the meeting that lasted for over two hours, the general secretary of the lawyers’ body did not turn up. The meeting resolved that the future course of action would be decided on July 27 and Friday’s discussion communicated to Justice Bindal for his consideration. Tussle between the lawyers and the acting chief justice had started after the latter on May 17 had taken up the CBI’s prayer regarding the arrest |of four leaders accused in the Narada case instead of sending it to a single judge bench. “Moreover, the acting chief justice unethically set up a fivejudge bench after the brother judge of his division bench had differed with him on the issue of granting bail to the four leaders. According to convention, a third judge of the court is usually involved in disposing of a case if two judges of a division bench have two different views on a matter,” a senior lawyer of the court said. Most lawyers present at the meeting on Friday were in favour of boycotting the acting chief justice’s court immediately. However, such a decision was avoided as senior member of the association, Arunava Ghosh, advised them to give Justice Bindal time to consider their grievances before embarking on the boycott path. The members asked |executive committee member Ritzu Ghoshal to intimate Justice Bindal about their decision. The meeting also urged the acting chief justice to resume physical hearing of cases in the court immediately as many lawyers did not have proper infrastructure to fight their cases virtually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||Howrah’s ‘golden’ ball souvenir from Tokyo||A tense final was drawing to a close at Komazawa hockey field in Tokyo that afternoon in 1964. Several members of the Indian Olympic contingent as well as Indian expatriates working in Japan were in the stands as India led the defending champions Pakistan 1-0. When the final whistle blew, two men jumped from the stands, ran to collect the ball from the field and hid themselves. Lakshmi Kanta Das’s face still lights up recalling the moments. The weightlifter had participated in the Tokyo Games, his second consecutive Olympic appearance after Rome in 1960. And this ball is the trophy that he brought back to Howrah. “Sometime later, (wrestler) Maruti Mane and I emerged from our hiding place. I gingerly entered the warm-up room and got the winning team to autograph the ball.” His second daughter Arundhuti brings the ball out from the cupboard, encased in a glass box. “Our Liluah workshop manager got the box made for me. Everyone here was stunned that I could bring the match ball back. You can still make out the captain (Charanjit Singh)’s signature," says the former Eastern Railway employee. Das was reminiscing about Tokyo 1964 on a day the Olympic flame was lit to mark the opening of Tokyo 2020. At 81, Das’s memory is fading like the other autographs on the ball which caught fungus since and had to be cleaned, thus smudging the pen marks. Yet he remembers enough. ““It would often rain in Tokyo. So we were given umbrellas. When India got the gold (the only medal from that Games), we whirled the umbrellas over our heads in ecstasy. Pakistan had beaten us in Rome four years back and this was revenge. Mine broke right there. A picture of us celebrating was carried in the Indian newspapers. In the evening, the maharaja of Mysore, who was part of our contingent, brought a crate of wine to celebrate in the Games Village.” Royalty was routine presence in Indian Olympic squads, either as participant in sports like shooting or as officials. “The Patiala maharaj’s son was there too. They got invited to the Emperor’s box.” Emperor Hirohito had inaugurated the Games, he recalled, just as his grandson Emperor Naruhito was doing right then at the inauguration playing out on TV as Tokyo became the first Asian city to host the Olympics twice. The 1964 edition was also about Japan’s regeneration after the bombing. "We were given a tour of Hiroshima, Nagasaki and Mt Fujiyama. The bus went right to the top level of the volcano,” Das says. The weightlifting contingent was housed with gymnasts at the Games Village. “I also got friendly with the wrestlers — Malwa, Bishambhar and Maruti. I saw their events and took their autographs.” The main venue of this edition will be the same National Stadium that had hosted the Games in 1964 too but will be a completely new-look one. “Even in our time, the organisation was immaculate, even better than in Rome. Each of us had been assigned a college student as interpreter. They were all so disciplined!” The 11-time national champion, who received the Arjuna Award in 1962, is aware of Mirabai Chanu being the only lifter from India at these Games. “She is a medal prospect," he says confidently. But mention Covid-19 looming over the Games and his face falls. “The standard of competition had suffered in 1980 because of the US and China’s boycott of the Moscow Games. It would be a shame if top players do not take part because of Covid,” says the stocky octogenarian, shaking his head in dismay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal records highest number of lightning strikes in 2020: Report ||Bengal recorded the highest number of lightning strikes from cloud to ground per square kilometre in India in 2020, according to a recent report. South Asia Lightning Report 2020, prepared by Earth Networks, says Bengal received 9,40,958 lightning strikes from cloud to ground last year — about 11 per square kilometre. The entire Bengal delta, spanning across West Bengal and Bangladesh, has become a hotspot for lightning strikes, says the report prepared by the US-headquartered Earth Networks, which operates the world’s largest hyper-local weather network. Bangladesh recorded the highest proportion of lightning strikes on ground — 37.1 per cent — in south Asia. The lightning strikes that were counted comprised intra-cloud fireworks as well as cloud to ground bolts, which can cause fatality. In India, Jharkhand comes second with 10 lightning strikes per square kilometre. Odisha, Chhattisgarh,Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh recorded between four and eight strikes per square kilometre. In the overall lightning strikes category, Bengal stands fifth with close to 3 million strikes. Tamil Nadu tops the list with close to 6 million strikes. Earth Networks developed the data based on their extensive network that constantly monitors lightning strikes through thousands of sensors. “For all of 2020, Earth Networks… detected 39,549,444 lightning pulses in India, of which 12,022,402 were dangerous cloud-to-ground strikes…. Lightning (strikes) increased by 22.6 per cent (in 2020) compared to 2019,” the report states. The rise is even more striking if one considers the period from April 2020 to March 2021. “During the period, 18.5 million lightning strikes were recorded in India, which was a 34 per cent rise from the 13.8 million strikes between April 2019 and March 2020,” reads an analysis of a report prepared by the ministry of earth sciences, India Meteorological Department and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), among other agencies. The analysis was done by the Delhi-based environment think tank Center for Science and Environment. The IMD report points out that the number of lightning strikes has doubled in Bengal during the period from April 2020 to March 2021, compared with the same period the year before. “It’s a fact that the number of lightning strikes has increased in our state recently. Though many had succumbed to lightning attacks, the number is much less compared to many states despite Bengal receiving more lightning pulses,” said state disaster management minister Javed Ahmed Khan. The IMD report says that 37 people were killed in the state, and 1,700 across the country, by lightning strikes between April 2020 and March 2021. “Climate change, particularly warming, is contributing considerably to the rise of lightning strikes by enhancing heat and moisture, which are key components for lightning,” said Sunil D. Pawar, an expert in atmospheric electricity at the IITM. “Heat waves cater to more thunderstorms, which in turn trigger more lightning strikes,” said K.J. Ramesh, a former director general of the IMD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||Kasba cops ask men in shorts to return in trousers to get complaint registered||Two men who had gone to report a theft at Kasba police station wearing shorts were asked to go home and return in trousers to get their complaint registered. When one of them reported the incident on Calcutta police’s Facebook page and Twitter handle, he got a response asking him whether he would go to office in shorts. Barnik Datta, 33, from Picnic Garden Road, and his friend Avishek De Biswas, 31, from Deshapriya Park, had gone to Kasba police station on July 17 to report a theft at the Datta family’s temple. “We went to the police station wearing shorts. At the entrance, a policeman who was not in uniform stopped us and said we should change to trousers before entering the police station,” Datta, who works as a consultant in a start-up, told The Telegraph on Friday. “I still entered the police station and requested the duty officer to accept our complaint. But he, too, said there were women in the police station and we should be wearing full pants.” Dutta and De Biswas left the police station. Datta, who lives nearby, returned in an hour wearing trousers to get his complaint registered. Told about the incident, several IPS officers, serving and retired, said there could be several types of circumstances under which a person had to visit a police station. Former Calcutta police commissioner Prasun Mukherjee told this newspaper: “This (imposing a dress code on a complainant) could be (a reflection of) an inherent mentality of members of the uniformed force…. This could be an individual’s opinion.... To my knowledge there is no written order that defines the dress code of a visitor to the police station. There are dress codes only for the uniformed forces.” De Biswas and Datta said their intention to highlight the matter was “not to complain” but to seek clarification on the dress code, if any, for a visitor to a police station. Later on Friday, deputy commissioner (south suburban division) Rashid Munir Khan told this newspaper: “We have started an inquiry in the matter as there is no such dress code. The constable who said this (at the police station) has been identified. It appears that he said this out of ignorance. We will initiate a departmental inquiry against him.” Datta said: “Once I came back wearing full pants, I received extreme cooperation from the police. I must mention that, too.” De Biswas, who said he was an actor, had posted a query on the Calcutta police Facebook page and Twitter handle asking whether there was a dress code for people visiting police stations. “@CPKolkata @KolkataPolice please clarify if it’s mandatory to wear full pants to visit a Police Station and file a complaint of theft. I was just rejected entry by Kasba P.S because I was in my gym shorts. It is necessary to dress up to report any emergency?” De Biswas had tweeted on July 17. De Biswas said he received a response from the Calcutta police Twitter handle: “Would you go to your office in shorts”. “I was shocked to see the response as what I wear to my office was not the police’s lookout at all,” De Biswas said. As he posted screenshots of this conversation on social media, the matter apparently caught the attention of senior officers. Datta and De Biswas both received a call from Kasba police on Friday and were asked to visit the police station, where a senior officer told them that there was a mistake. An hour later, they were re-summoned to meet an officer of the rank of assistant commissioner, who had started an inquiry into the matter. Police on Friday arrested Dibakar Das alias Tridib for his alleged involvement in the murder of Subhrajit Dutta in Birati. Cops tracked him down based on CCTV footage. Dutta, 39, had been shot dead on Wednesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||State transport department bans beacons, flasher eligibility restricted||The state transport department issued a notification on Friday that bans beacons and allows flashers only on top of vehicles engaged in emergency and disaster management. The notification is in line with a 2017 central government notification that abolished beacons and suggested the use of multi-colour red, blue and white flashers. Beacons are of one colour — red or blue — and are dome-shaped, while flashers are of multiple colours. Friday’s notification said that the order is based on the “provisions laid down in para 3 of the notification No. SO 1374(E) dated May 1, 2017 issued by the ministry of road transport and highways, government of India”. The new notification changes the way police have been prosecuting violators for unauthorised beacon use. A senior police officer said: “This means beacons are completely off and whoever is eligible will have to put the red-white-blue flasher, as are already attached to all escort vehicles.” The notification had no mention of the eligibility for light-fitted cars of central government officers in the state. Before Friday’s list, the state had last issued a list of ranks eligible for beacons in 2014. Friday’s list for flasher eligibility does not include a number of posts — such as governor, leader of opposition in the Assembly, high court judges and mayor of Calcutta — which were earlier entitled to beacons. The new notification mentions 14 categories of emergency and disaster management authorities allowed to use flashers while on duty: ⚫ Ministers / ministers of state of the Bengal government ⚫ State chief secretary ⚫ Additional chief secretary, principal secretary, secretary in charge of the departments of the state government ⚫ Divisional commissioners in their respective jurisdictions ⚫ Director generals / additional director generals of police of the state police ⚫ Director general of fire services in the state ⚫ Commissioner of state excise and commissioner of the commercial taxes in state ⚫ Inspector generals / deputy inspector generals of police in their respective zones and ranges in the state ⚫ District magistrates in Bengal in their respective districts ⚫ Municipal commissioners in their respective jurisdiction ⚫ Commissioners / additional commissioners / joint commissioners /deputy commissioners of police in Bengal in their respective jurisdiction ⚫ Sub-divisional officers / sub-divisional police officers in Bengal in their respective jurisdictions ⚫ All police patrol cars, escort vehicles and fire tenders. The 2017 notification by the Centre had said: “...the vehicles on office duty may be allowed to use multi-coloured red, blue and white light on the top, namely — a) the duties relating to control of fire; b) the duties by police, defence forces or parliamentary forces for maintenance of law and order; c) the duties relating to management of natural disasters including nuclear disaster, chemical disaster and biological disaster.” The Centre's notification had also mentioned the distribution of a sticker each to the eligible government officers with watermark and hologram of the respective transport department. However, the state transport department officials said on Friday they were yet to finalise the stickers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||JU’s science faculty wants to sieve candidates seeking admission in undergraduate courses||Jadavpur University’s faculty of science has proposed a mechanism to screen candidates seeking admission to undergraduate courses. The admission committee of the science faculty council had resolved last week that “20 per cent weightage be given to online group discussion/viva-voce to select” undergraduate candidates. In its resolution, the committee has also stated the “university must be allowed a bit of autonomy to select quality candidates with natural inclination and inclination to study a particular subject in a coveted seat in the nationally and internationally renowned departments”. Teachers of the science faculty have requested vice-chancellor Suranjan Das to speak to the higher education department about implementing the admission methodology. When contacted, Das declined to comment. Sources in the university said the VC had forwarded the resolution to the department. The committee met three days after the higher education department had on July 13 instructed the state-aided colleges and universities to screen students for admission to undergraduate courses solely on the basis of plus-II marks. The resolution says: “In case of selection, 80% weightage be given to the marks obtained in the previous examinations passed and 20% weightage be given to online group discussion/viva voce to select candidates from a long list of candidates who had got same numbers in the subjects of the previous examinations passed.” The head of a department, who attended the meeting, said in a year when the school-leaving examinations could not be conducted because of the Covid pandemic, it was imperative that some screening was done to select candidates. “It is not that we are showing any disregard to the board marks. All we want is that an online group discussion or viva voce be allowed. Apart from enabling us to choose students if scores are tied, it will help us determine whether a candidate has it in him or her to study a particular subject,” he said. The science departments have been over the years admitting students solely on the basis of marks in the plus-II board exams. At least three departments — physics, chemistry and mathematics — have been demanding since 2018 that plus-II marks as well as admission test scores be considered while screening students. A general deterioration in the quality of students gaining entry on the strength of their board examination performance has prompted the three departments to make the demand. Partha Pratim Roy, an invitee to the admission committee of the science faculty, said they were fearing a further decline in standards if students were selected solely on the basis of plus-II marks in a year when the board examinations could not be held. “Institutions like Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira will screen students for admission through an online viva voce after shortlisting them based on board marks. So, JU, an autonomous institution, must be given a free hand to choose bright students,” said Roy, a former student of Vidyamandira. JU teachers had on Tuesday written to education minister Bratya Basu saying his department’s instruction on the admission criteria of undergraduate students “goes directly against the autonomy of universities”. Assessment through an admission test “is vital for determining whether or not a candidate ought to take up a particular field of study at the higher levels,” they argued. Asked why the science faculty did not push for an online screening mechanism last year, Roy said the plus-II exams in most of the papers were held. “Besides, over the past one-and-a-half years, the university has gained expertise in holding classes and exams on online platforms. So holding an online viva won’t pose any hindrance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||Navy bans use of drones within 3km of all naval installations in Bengal||The navy has prohibited the use of drones within 3km of the perimeter of all naval installations in Bengal. “All individuals or civil agencies are prohibited from flying any such non-conventional aerial objects, drones and UAVs within these zones,” read an order issued by the naval-officer-in charge of Bengal. The places in the state where naval installations are located include Calcutta, Barrackpore and Diamond Harbour. Officers of the eastern naval command said the order meant that in Calcutta no drones would be allowed to fly over or around Fort William, second Hooghly bridge and Hastings, which is home to the naval base, INS Netaji Subhas. Though Fort William is an army installation, it figures on the list of no-fly zones because it is within 3km of Hastings. “The order comes into immediate effect and all state and central agencies concerned in Bengal have been given copies of the directive,” said an officer of the eastern naval command. “If any unmanned aerial vehicle is found to violate the directive, the naval installation can confiscate or destroy it without prior approval.” Since the twin blasts at the Jammu airbase on June 27, which are suspected to have been carried out by drones, intelligence agencies have been instructing naval commands to step up surveillance to thwart any suspected attack using UAVs. Naval officers said a clearance from the security office of the navy at Hastings had to be obtained a week in advance before flying UAVs or drones in the areas where those were banned. In March 2019, CISF personnel at Victoria Memorial had arrested a Chinese national for flying a drone over the monument.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||ICSE and ISC results on Saturday; scores on website||The ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) 2021 results will be declared on Saturday at 3pm. “The results of the ICSE & ISC Year 2021 Examinations will be made available on the website of the council and through SMS,” reads a notification issued by Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), which conducts the two exams. Individual candidates can access the results on the council’s website — www.cisce.org. On the website, a candidate has to click on the link — Results 2021 — and select ICSE or ISC and enter his/her unique identification number, index number and CAPTCHA as shown on the screen. They can also get their results through text messages. For receiving the result through text messaging, a candidate has to type ICSE or ISC and then the unique identification number and send the message to 09248082883. The council expects a huge rush when thousands of students will try to access the results. “We have taken all precautions so that there are not any glitches or breakdown. We have enough servers to handle the load,” Arathoon told The Telegraph. The council said schools could access the results by logging into the Careers portal of the council using the principal’s login ID and password. The ICSE and ISC exams both were cancelled because of a renewed surge in Covid cases across the country. “Recheck of answer scripts is not applicable for the ICSE/ISC Year 2021 Examinations as the candidates have been awarded imputed marks,” reads the statement issued by Arathoon. The council said if a candidate had objections regarding “computation of marks in the result”, she/he might send a written application to the school, stating the objection in detail along with reasons. “You (the school) are required to review all such applications, and only upon being satisfied with the contentions made therein, forward the same to the CISCE along with your comments/remarks endorsing the contentions made and documents supporting the opinion regarding the computation of marks,” Arathoon’s statement reads. The applications have to be forwarded, from the head of the school’s official email address, to the council by August 1. The “dispute resolution mechanism” is only for the correction of calculation errors, the council said. “The CISCE will review the request, supporting documents and the head of school’s comments/remarks and convey its decision to the concerned school, in writing. In case the result will need to be altered, the CISCE will notify the head of the school concerned,” the council statement says. In a circular to the school heads on Friday, the CISCE said candidates who would be eligible to appear for compartment and improvement exams would have to register with the council between July 26 and August 1. The candidates have to contact the head of their school, the council said. The compartment and improvement exams will be conducted in August or September, depending on the pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
24-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court proposes measures for safety of women and transgender people||The division bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee of Calcutta High Court asked the state transport authorities on Friday to consider if CCTV cameras could be fitted in every mode of passenger transport across the state. The bench also expressed the need to display emergency numbers for women and transgender persons to lodge complaints if they face any trouble while travelling. The bench also held that if needed, the existing motor vehicles rules should be amended to implement the actions. Since the Motor Vehicles Act, based on which the motor vehicles rules have been formulated, is a central act, the bench has made the Centre's additional solicitor general party to the case and directed him to ask the Union government to assist the state in amending the law. The order followed a PIL seeking an order directing the state to set up closed circuit cameras inside public vehicles. Several lawyers wondered whether the order could be implemented. “I doubt whether closed circuit TV cameras can be fitted in taxis and app cabs. Privacy of passengers would be hampered,” said advocate Rabishankar Chattopadhyay. The bench has asked both the state and the Centre to come with a decision on the issue on August 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
