25-07-2021||Calcutta||ISC board results: Anxiety over college admissions after marks glut||Schools in the city reported an unusually high number of students scoring 95 per cent or above in aggregate as the ISC (Class XII) board results were announced on Saturday. The glut in marks has left many students with stellar scores worried about finding a seat in a college of their choice in a year when admission will depend largely on board results. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations announced the results for both the ICSE (Class X) and the ISC on Saturday. The pass percentage is 99.76 in the ISC (India and abroad) among 94,011 students from 1,166 schools. In Bengal, the pass percentage is 99.63 among 26,859 candidates from 282 schools. In the ICSE, the pass percentage is 99.98 per cent (India and abroad) among 219,499 students from 2,422 schools. In Bengal, where 39,520 students from 391 schools appeared, too, the pass percentage is 99.98 per cent. Terence Ireland, principal of St James’ School, said the “gap between super performers and those in the next level” was very narrow this time. “The students are anxious about whether they would get a college or subject of their choice with so many high scorers around. (There are) many high scorers in many schools....” “Even (a margin of) 0.1 per cent or 0.2 per cent (in aggregate scores) will make a difference for the good students,” said Sujoy Biswas, principal of the Rammohan Mission High School. The council had cancelled both the ICSE and the ISC exams because of the pandemic, working out a way of marking students on the basis of past exams, project and practical work and internal assessment, normalised against their schools’ performance in recent years. “In spite of the (Covid) crisis, the CISCE has against all odds and difficult circumstances prepared and tabulated the results for the ICSE and ISC,” said Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary, CISCE. Among those who scored 95 per cent or above are 96 of 173 students from Modern High School for Girls; 56 of 139 from La Martiniere for Girls; 75 of 231 from The Heritage School; 46 of 121 from Loreto House; 16 of 124 from Calcutta Girls’ High School; 17 of 63 from the Rammohan Mission High School; 19 of 105 from the Sri Sri Academy; 20 of 168 from the MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School; 39 of 217 from La Martiniere for Boys; and 43 of 223 from St. Xavier’s Collegiate School. Several schools said the number of high scorers and the class average in the ISC seemed to have risen this year, with teachers fearing a “bottleneck” in college admission. “The colleges will have to find ways to screen the deserving candidates,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, principal of Modern High School for Girls. “So many factors were considered while calculating the (ISC) results; similarly, for college admission, other factors should be taken into consideration and not the marks alone.” Teachers said that while the number of high aggregate scorers had risen, the number of students scoring 100 or 99 in subjects like mathematics had fallen this year. “Some students would surely have scored 100 had there been a physical exam,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, principal of La Martiniere for Girls. But this year’s marks depended on two years’ performance, and a student losing a mark or two here or there got reflected in the final results, Sarkar added. Many students regretted that their Class X board marks too were considered while calculating their ISC scores. “My science and maths scores were low in the ICSE, and these were taken into account (in the calculation of ISC scores),” a humanities ISC student said. “I have scored 96 per cent but I’m not sure how many (high-scoring) students I have to contend with.” Sarkar of La Martiniere for Girls said the challenge for the students would be to fulfil the requirements of a viva or an entrance test, if held.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
25-07-2021||Calcutta||Mamata Banerjee picks Jawhar Sircar for Rajya Sabha ||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday decided to send Jawhar Sircar, a retired civil servant with 42 years of experience, to the Upper House of Parliament, a decision that is set to add to Trinamul’s firepower in the Rajya Sabha against the Narendra Modi government. “We are delighted to nominate Mr. @jawharsircar in the Upper House of the Parliament. Mr. Sircar spent nearly 42 years in public service & was also the former CEO of Prasar Bharati. His invaluable contribution to public service shall help us serve our country even better!” Trinamul said in its announcement on Twitter. The 69-year-old Sircar is a prominent member of the key section of India’s civil society firmly standing its ground against the Modi regime and its perceived machinations against the core elements of India’s ethos, such as plurality and democracy. “This intolerant, despotic regime should be firmly resisted on all fronts. This opportunity will enable me to reach out to a much wider audience and speak more forcefully against this government at the Centre,” Sircar said later in the day. “Jawharbabu has been one of the most vocal as well as the most irrepressible voices of the nation’s conscience in recent years, a thorn in the saffron ecosystem’s side. His ascent to the Rajya Sabha would be a great gain for India’s democracy,” said a Trinamul vice-president. “These are measures to turn our Upper House team second to none, in terms of quality and ability,” he added. Of the 16 Rajya Sabha seats from Bengal, two are now held by the Congress and one by the CPM. The remaining 13 are with Trinamul. Out of the 13, two Bengal Rajya Sabha vacancies — created by the resignation of Dinesh Trivedi, who left Trinamul for the BJP earlier this year, and Manas Bhuniya, who won the Assembly polls and became a minister — are to be filled via bypolls. The Trivedi vacancy Sircar would fill in an August 9 bypoll will last till the summer of 2026. Different names are doing the rounds for Bhuniya’s vacancy, but Trinamul insiders think former Union finance minister Yashwant Sinha has the edge over others. Sircar, an IAS officer of the 1975 batch, was widely respected in the UPA I and II governments at the Centre, and was known for his proximity to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, whom he reported to. Sircar retired as the Union culture secretary and then served as the chief executive officer of Prasar Bharati, before stepping down on account of differences with the Modi government at the Centre and coming out as one of its fiercest critics. A Calcutta boy, Sircar did his schooling from St. Xavier’s College and graduated in political science from the then Presidency College, before completing two master’s degrees from Calcutta University — in history and sociology. While serving as an IAS officer, Sircar studied at the Institute of Development Studies, University of Sussex, and the Queens’ College, Cambridge University. “She (Mamata) called me in the morning, informing me that I was being considered for the Rajya Sabha. She asked me if I was willing. I thought a bit and then I said I do not have any objection…. The formal announcement was made not long after that,” said Sircar, adding that he was not a political person but would do his best to work for the people, and to raise key issues that matter to the masses on the floor of the Upper House. The Bengal chief minister, a seven-time parliamentarian with several stints as a Union cabinet minister, has been close to Sircar for decades. A senior Rajya Sabha member of her party said she and Sircar share “a bond of siblings”, fondly recalling a meeting at Writers’ Buildings between Sircar, then the Union culture secretary, and Mamata, who had just come to power in Bengal in 2011. “He had dropped by to personally congratulate her in her new office. She was delighted. She kept urging him to come back to the state and helm the administration here as the chief secretary. Jawharda heartily laughed and explained to her it made no sense as he had months left to retire,” he said. “Jawharda advised her to instead try and retain Samar Ghosh — one of the most brilliant civil servants the state had ever produced — as the chief secretary for as long as possible. Which is what she did,” he added. The Rajya Sabha veteran said Mamata had immense appreciation and admiration for Sircar’s role in civil society over the past few years. He added that she was particularly grateful for how the public intellectual — along with countless others nationally — threw his weight behind her in the run-up to the Assembly elections this summer, considered widely as a “battle to save Bengal’s soul”, and — most recently — for his role amid the controversy over now retired IAS officer Alapan Bandyopadhyay’s alleged harassment by the Centre after Cyclone Yaas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
25-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal BJP plans to nominate candidate for Rajya Sabha seat to sharpen attack on Mukul ||The Bengal BJP will field a candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat — vacated by Dinesh Trivedi — for which election will be held on August 9, senior leaders said on Saturday, though state party president Dilip Ghosh refrained from a formal announcement. Though the BJP doesn’t have the numbers to win the seat, party sources said that it plans to nominate a candidate to sharpen its attack on Mukul Roy, the Trinamul leader who joined the BJP in 2017 and became the party’s national vice-president and MLA before returning to his old party last month. Technically, however, he is still a BJP MLA. Legislators cast open ballots to elect a member to the Rajya Sabha. The BJP leaders believe Roy would vote for Jawhar Sircar, nominated by Trinamul. “As an MLA has to show his ballot to the authorised agent of the party, it will be established beyond doubt that Mukulda has defected to Trinamul... It will strengthen our anti-defection case,” said a BJP source. When asked whether BJP would nominate someone for the Rajya Sabha polls, the party's state unit president Dilip Ghosh said: "We are yet to talk about it in the party. We shall announce (the plan) after we have decided." The state BJP leaders are desperate to get Roy's legislatorship cancelled since his defection. The BJP's Nandigram MLA and Bengal's leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, who is also a Trinamul turncoat, has said he will move court against Roy if needed. The conflict was aggravated after Roy was nominated as the chairman of the Public Accounts Committee of Bengal Assembly, a post which is generally awarded to a member of the Opposition. Defending Roy's nomination, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had then said he is "a member of the BJP". "According to the rules, six of 20 PAC members are nominated by the Opposition. Mukul Roy's name was not there in the list we had submitted with the Speaker. Yet, the CM had said that he is our party member," a BJP state functionary said. "Now when Mukulda votes in favour of the Trinamul candidate in the Rajya Sabha elections, it will prove which side he is on," this source added. Sources in the Assembly, however, said that if Roy wishes to steer clear of the controversy, he may abstain from casting his vote altogether.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
25-07-2021||Calcutta||CMC launches facility to provide information on property ||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Saturday launched a facility to provide information on pending tax, licence fee or litigation involving a property that any prospective buyer can get from the civic body’s website. Earlier, such buyers had to engage lawyers or pay multiple visits to the CMC offices for the information. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of CMC’s board of administrators, who launched the facility, said it would save people from the time wasted on getting such information. “People will be able to know if a property has pending property tax or unpaid licence fee or water tax...,” Hakim said. Someone interested in knowing the outstanding payments of a property has to visit the website https://www.kmcgov.in/KMCPortal/jsp/KMCPortalHome1.jsp. On the left hand side menu of the home page one would find the item “Encumbrance Certificate”, fifth from the top. A click on this item would open a page where the person who is searching the information has to provide the premises number, assessee number, ward number and name of the street on which the property is located. Many prospective house-buyers here have faced the difficulty in obtaining details about a property they plan to buy. The problem was more acute in case someone was buying a property on resale. A senior CMC official said some of the information that would now be available through a single click on a link in the CMC’s website were already available in a segregated way on the website. “The new facility has aggregated all these information and brought them into one place,” said the senior CMC official. Information on outstanding water tax was not available, the official added. Residential units in Calcutta do not have to pay any water tax to the civic body but large commercial buildings that have bulk meters and whose daily water consumption is very high have to pay tax, the senior official added. Encumbrance Certificate facility will provide information about pending property tax, water tax, licence fee and any litigation. But only court cases that are recorded with the CMC will be available. Information about court cases, if any, that was filed by the owner against CMC or vice-versa, or where CMC has been made a party will only be know. Information about ongoing court cases between two tenants or two owners will not be available. Besides, the availability of information pertaining to all tenants of a commercial building was not available before. “Earlier only information on one licence was available against that licence number. If someone is buying a commercial building, she/he would be able to know the outstanding licence fee of all the commercial units running from that building,” said the official. Civic sources said there are thousands of businesses in Calcutta that have running for years without paying the annual licence fee. The outstanding licence fee amount many business runs into tens of lakhs. Hakim said that the facility was part of the ease of doing business (EoDB) initiatives of the CMC. A protest meeting will be held at Milli-Al-Ameen College near Park Circus at 4pm on Sunday “against the institutional killing of Father Stan Swamy”. Father Felix Raj, St Xavier’s University VC, will be one of the speakers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
25-07-2021||Calcutta||Sukanta Chaudhuri now fellow of The British Academy||Sukanta Chaudhuri, professor emeritus at Jadavpur University (JU), has been elected a Fellow of The British Academy. The academy, incorporated in 1902, is a fellowship of around 1,300 of the world’s leading academics elected by peers for distinction in the humanities and social sciences. The other fellows elected this year from outside the UK include political scientist and theorist Pratap Bhanu Mehta and the US-based literary theorist and feminist critic Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak. A teacher at the JU department of English, Chaudhuri has a wide area of scholarship — thought and literature of the European Renaissance, Shakespeare and Early Modern English literature, textual studies, translation and translation studies as well as Rabindranath Tagore and digital humanities which find combined expression in the Bichitra website, a database of Tagore’s complete works. His name features on the academy’s website under the specialisation of early modern languages and literatures to 1830. “I feel privileged and reassured that my life's work on a variety of subjects has found international recognition,” he told The Telegraph. Other living India-based fellows of the academy include sociologist Andre Beteille and historian Romila Thapar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
25-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Pharmacist held for vaccine fraud in Diamond Harbour||A man who police said was a pharmacist attached with a primary health centre in Diamond Harbour has been arrested for allegedly procuring vaccines and organising small camps in people’s homes in Sonarpur to administer the liquid he claimed was Covishield vaccine. Mithun Mandal, a resident of Satjeliya in Gosaba, around 91km from the city, was arrested when he was about to hold another “camp”. Mandal lives in a rented apartment in Sonarpur. The police said two vials with “Covishield” labels were seized from him. “A sample will be sent for forensic examination to ascertain the composition of the liquid,” said a senior officer of the Baruipur police district. Mandal is a pharmacist at the Mashat primary health centre under Panchagram Rural Hospital in Diamond Harbour block, where he was in charge of the vaccination unit and officially had access to the doses, police sources said. Debasish Roy, chief medical health officer, Diamond Harbour, said: “It is a very sensitive matter. I am unable to comment as an investigation is on.” A senior health department official said that the vials found on Mandal had a serial number on them and it would be possible to match it with the stock to check their veracity. A senior officer said they had received information that Mandal had been organising small camps in people’s homes to avert the glare of the police or the administration and was administering drugs, which he claimed were vaccines, himself. “Preliminary investigation suggests that he was charging Rs 300 or Rs 400 per dose. Till now, we have information that he vaccinate at least 40 people. Most of them have got text messages from Co-Win confirming their vaccination. We are in process of verifying how he managed to do this,” said an officer of Sonarpur police station. The police said they suspect that Mandal could be stealing vials from the official stocks he received for vaccination at the primary health centre and because he is a pharmacist, he could administer them. Mandal was produced before a court on Saturday and sent to police remand for three days. The police said they were collaborating with the district health officials to prepare a list of the people who had received shots from Mandal. An officer said all of them would be examined by health officials to check if any of them have developed any adverse effects. The arrest rekindled memories of fake IAS officer Debanjan Deb who organised several illegal vaccine camps not so long ago. Deb, who had impersonated an IAS officer, had been organising fraudulent camps posing as a Calcutta Municipal Corporation officer, using drugs — which later police said, could be an antibiotic named Amikacin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
25-07-2021||Calcutta||Don Bosco Park Circus to start a co-educational college on its campus||Don Bosco Park Circus is starting an undergraduate co-educational college on its campus from this academic session that will admit students to science, commerce and professional courses. It will be an evening college affiliated to Calcutta University. The state higher education department in last year October had given its “no objection” to the Don Bosco Educational Society to start Don Bosco College, a self-financing undergraduate institution. A notice issued by the institution says it is offering BSc honours in computer science, mathematics, physics and chemistry. It is offering honours in BCom as well. Students can apply for BBA (bachelor of business administration) and BCom (general) and BSc (general) too. Online applications can be submitted from August 2. Father Bikash Mondal, principal of Don Bosco Park Circus, said they would admit students on the basis of an aspirant’s performance in plus-II and Class-X board exams. “Since the Class XII board exams could not be conducted across the boards owing to the pandemic, we would consider the Class X board results as well,” said Father Mondal. The college will offer 30 seats for each honours programme in BSc. While BCom (honours) and general will offer 100 seats each, BBA will have 60 seats. The number of seats to be offered at the BSc general programme will be announced later. Although Don Bosco is starting as an evening college, in three years it intends to launch morning and day classes as well. “We would build additional infrastructure on the same campus that houses the school, to expand the college,” Father Mondal said. Although admission in the college would be open to all, those who are passing out from the school would enjoy preference during the admission process. “When we process the applications, we will see how students from our school can be accommodated. But seats would be open to neighbouring schools as well,” said Father Bikash Mondal. St Xavier’s College, Park Street, has started accepting online applications for admission to undergraduate programmes from June 21. St Xavier’s has announced that it would give 75 per cent weightage to marks in the Class XII results and 25 per cent to the subject in which an aspirant wants to major while drawing up the merit list. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will screen students for admission to undergraduate courses in 12 out of 15 subjects through online viva voce and marks at the plus-II and/or secondary levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
25-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Low footfall in mall sale season, stocks move online||Footfall is still low in the city’s malls several weeks after they resumed business. The discount season has started but that has not made much of a difference, said personnel at several stores across the malls. The state government allowed reopening of malls from June 16. Now, malls can operate with 50 per cent capacity and bars and restaurants can remain open till 8pm. Store personnel at malls are complaining about poor inventory and greater focus on online business. Mall owners are waiting for fresh guidelines from the state government lifting the restrictions and easing of transportation. Many retail stores across the big malls are also merging their online and offline business for more viability. “We would have around 10,000 pieces for a sale season at our store before the Covid pandemic. This July, we have barely 2,000 at our store,” said the store manager of a mid-level fashion brand, which has stores in several city malls. He said the procurement was the same as last year but most of the inventory was shifted to the online platform. “The order for the procurement for a season is usually placed one year earlier. It takes about a year for the products to reach the stores from the manufacturers,” said an official of a retail garment brand. However, a bulk of the procurement for 2020 could not be sold at the stores because the malls were closed because of the pandemic and even after they opened, footfall was very low, he said. “So, these unsold products had to be shifted to the online platforms. Learning from the pandemic, now, a bulk of the products have already been shifted online,” he said. “The focus at the store is only the traditional fashion items, while the innovative ones are kept aside for  selling online.” An official of an international footwear brand that has stores in several city malls said they have changed their policy and the online and offline selling have been merged. “Now, a customer can see products of our offline stores on the online platform. Earlier, only the warehouse products were accessible for online customers,” said the official. Several other retail brands, too, have adopted the strategy to boost offline store sales. Mall owners said they are not worried about the growing shift to online and are expecting the footfall to rise once the pandemic restrictions are lifted further. “Public transport is still not freely available. Also, many are still not comfortable taking public transport unless absolutely necessary. The pandemic and lack of ease of transport is boosting online sales,” said Manmohan Bagree, vice-president, South City Group that runs South City Mall. He said the mall has had 30 per cent of its pre-pandemic footfall barely a month after reopening this time. During the first wave of Covid, it had taken three months for the mall to achieve this footfall. “The mall is not only a shopping destination but also a hangout place. But because of the restrictions on restaurants, visitors don’t feel the urge to come to the mall now. We are expecting easier norms to be announced by the state government in August. Also, vaccination is playing a crucial role in increasing the confidence among people,” said Bagree. He said the discount season has started but is not as aggressive as it used to be. “The brands have procured less inventories because of the lockdown restrictions. New product launches tempt customers at offline stores.” However, Bagree feels there is no threat for the offline stores. “Online business creates aspirational buyers who can buy a brand’s products at more discounted rates. This increases brand consciousness and will compliment the offline store business, too.” Sushil Mohta, chairman, Merlin Group, which runs Acropolis Mall, said the new scenario would not threaten the existence of stores. “Online and offline businesses compliment each other. There are customers who want the look and feel of a product, particularly high-end designer wear or gadgets and accessories. Even if they buy online, they would prefer to check the product at a store,” said Mohta. He said usually, the discounts provided online are on older items, launched months ago. “Even if products are sold online, the brands want to have their presence at malls where footfall is huge. This creates brand awareness.” But for that, the footfall needs to increase. Acropolis Mall has an average footfall of 15,000 on the weekends now, compared to over 30,000 in normal times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
