26-07-2021||Calcutta||Focus on Urdu play in online drama workshop||Farhat Anjum, a Class X student of Jagbandhu Girls High School, was eager to do something new when she got an invitation to attend an online drama workshop. It taught Farhat much more than honing her acting skills. “It was fun emoting before a phone screen and using our limited space to the fullest,” she said. Farhat was one of the nine less privileged girls, who got to attend a 15-day workshop conducted by Canadian playwright Jawaid Danish. An initiative of NGO Rehnuma-e-Niswaan, the actors were selected from Calcutta, Howrah and South 24 Parganas. This workshop was a part of Kashf, an annual event comprising intra and inter-school competitions organised by Rehnuma-e-Niswaan for the Urdu medium schools. The girls there learnt some basics of theatre, dialogue delivery and life skills. More so, a full-fledged play was performed online. The 21-minute play, Lockdown Ki Aik Khamosh Eid, had an all-female cast. The workshop and the subsequent performance ended up empowering the girls besides teaching them the role of drama in daily lives. “Running my professional theatre group, RangManch, in Canada for 25 years gave me the confidence to work with the young and dedicated. This play was created without proper gadgets. The girls often borrowed their household cellphones for the project,” said Danish. The Urdu play focused on how children were dealing with the pandemic and their home-bound lives. It also explored their mental state while coping with a pandemic, climate change and global violence. Class XII student Gulrana Aafreen Shahedi of Howrah High School said, “We were encouraged to get into the skin of the characters that we were portraying. Rehnuma-e-Niswaan plans to organise many more online events for students. “Public speaking is a great way to boost the children’s confidence. We were testing waters in the virtual platform this time, but the response was overwhelming,” said the NGO’s secretary and founder Tabassum Siddiqua.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Stan Swamy wasn’t mum when doubters were tortured: Felix Raj ||Father Stan Swamy was not a “silent spectator” to the torture that was being unleashed on whosoever dared to question ‘the ruling powers of India”, said Father Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University. He was speaking at a meeting on Sunday to protest “against the institutional killing of Father Stan Swamy”. The VC quoted from a video message of Father Stan: “…What is happening to me is not something unique, it is a broader process taking place all over the country. We all are aware how prominent intellectuals, lawyers, writers, poets, activists, student leaders are put in jail because they have expressed dissent or raised questions about the ruling powers of India.” “He (Father Stan) was happy to be part of the process because he was not a ‘silent spectator’. ‘I am ready to pay the price, whatever be it’, he said,” Father Felix Raj said at the meeting organised by the Paschim Banga Samajic Nyay Mancha, Kolkata Jela Committee, and held at Milli-Al-Ameen College in central Calcutta. “His tragic death in custody is termed as a case of judicial murder…. His bail petition was rejected so many times and this proves the inherent weakness of a section of the judiciary.” The 84-year-old ailing Jesuit and tribal rights activist from Ranchi had died in custody in Mumbai earlier this month while waiting for bail for nine months, since his arrest by the National Investigation Agency in connection with the Elgaar Parishad case. More than 100 people attended the protest meeting following all Covid safety protocols. Father Felix Raj described as “politically motivated” the arrest of Father Stan. “Looking at the shameful way this senior Jesuit priest had been arrested, I find myself failing to repeat the words of Christ on the cross: ‘Father, forgive them; they do not know what they are doing’. The arrest was politically motivated,” said the VC, who had led a march in Calcutta on October 15, demanding the release of Father Stan. Father Stan, he said, was a “gentle protector” of the rights of the tribals and other downtrodden people. Abdul Kafi, one of the speakers at the event, said the fascist regime in the country had become so desperate that they denied an aged person suffering from Parkinson’s disease the basic facilities that he deserved in jail. “A fascist regime always seeks to create a narrative that it is feeling threatened and cooks up conspiracy theories repeatedly. That is why they implicated an 84-year-old in a false case. They did not even allow a Parkinson’s disease patient, who could not eat by himself, a straw and sippers. NIA said they did not have these. How shameless can a regime be?” said Kafi, who teaches Bengali at Jadavpur University. A disability rights body in November had launched a campaign to send sippers to the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, where Father Stan was lodged. The Jesuit had on November 6 petitioned a court requesting the National Investigation Agency to return his straw and sipper, which had been seized when he was taken to the jail on October 9. Debesh Das, a professor of JU and president of the Calcutta district committee of Paschim Banga Samajic Nyay Mancha, said it was time for academics and thinkers to speak out against the arrest of activists and acts of injustice.  “That is how we can pay a befitting tribute to Father Stan Swamy,” he said. Former Kalyani University professor Tirthakankar Chatterjee said Father Stan Swamy was murdered because he dared to question those in power why tribals were being denied the rights guaranteed by the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Changing profiles of Covid and corporate healthcare ||Covid has affected all lives and there is no industry that did not witness its impact. Lot of issues got exposed, especially in corporate healthcare. WHO had formally declared the coronavirus pandemic on March 11, 2020. In India, nationwide lockdown started on March 25, 2020. A gradual unlocking process started on June 1, 2020. The advent of this disease caused extreme stress and despair in the lifestyles of the common person and the medical profession. Right from the beginning, the disease gave no respite and the situation kept worsening. India has lost around 4.09 lakh citizens to Covid so far. A recent study indicated that the mortality among the hospitalised Covid patients was 7.2 per cent in the first wave and 10.5 per cent during the second, an increase of 45 per cent, which is phenomenal. The hospital workload also increased tremendously, almost to a break point, which resulted in a large number of critical patients having been waitlisted. It may be interesting to assess various aspects of this problem from different perspectives. Common man’s perspective: There has been increasing mistrust between patients and corporate hospitals for quite some time. The main issue is the cost of treatment and transparency. Clinical outcomes of treatment are also a critical issue. Usually, the best service at the most reasonable cost is desirable. The cost-related issues are mainly dealt by the corporate management and not by doctors, as commonly perceived. Addressing the medical fraternity on National Doctors Day, the Chief Justice of India (CJI) raised the question why should profiteering by corporates and investors be blamed on doctors. This observation is very pertinent and sums up the reality. There is a significant disparity in cost for the same services and investigations at different corporate hospitals. This issue is yet to be addressed. Increasing cost of treatment has been a matter of grave concern among patients. This has given rise to the concept of “hidden costs”. Patients today demand adequate infrastructure and more government regulations. Issues relating to insurance are also of paramount importance. Many of the common people’s queries regarding insurance remain unclarified. In corporate hospitals, disposable PPE kits are chargeable on a daily basis but not always recoverable by insurance. Since this pandemic has brought in many travel restrictions, outstation treatment is no longer a reality. Patients need to make a choice within the city. The treatment outcomes, safety and security of the patients are of utmost concern. Poor outcomes are not always caused by negligence, as perceived by many. Medical perspective: Doctors and healthcare workers (HCW’s) have been in the forefront during the Covid war and have endured extreme stress and hardship. They have been overworked, sometimes more than 24 hours at a stretch without much pay benefits in many cases. The contribution of the healthcare workers often goes unnoticed by society. There have been several incidents of social injustice in housing complexes and other public places. It appears as though medical professionals are now the “new untouchables” in society, even after providing such selfless service by risking their lives as well as the future of their families. The initial priority list for vaccination, issued by the government, included HCWs but excluded their families, which was surprising. There have been many occasions where the public have held the doctors responsible for corporate infrastructural deficiencies, like shortage of PPE kits, oxygen and emergency medications, which was really unfortunate. The CJI has questioned why medical professionals should be at the receiving end for someone else’s failures and struggle to get decent salaries even after eight to nine years of rigorous training. Very realistic indeed. During this pandemic many have ignored their health issues and worked selflessly rising to the occasion. There have been significant changes in daily medical practice during the period. Tele-consultations and social media communications, in place of face-to-face meetings, are now commonplace. Most practicing doctors have experienced a significant reduction of income during this period. Corporate hospitals: In spite of the questions raised, the corporate hospitals have put up an exemplary performance. The cost of setting up ICUs, acquiring ventilators and employing competent personnel has been huge. Governmental regulations have been changing from time to time and the hospitals have been admitting patients under certain schemes that are not always cost-effective. However, there are frequent complaints of overbilling. Secured software programmes have been installed minimising paperwork. Adequate training of personnel for online consultation have been initiated. Post-Covid clinics for medical management and mental health tele-consultations have been started. Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai, a grant-in-aid institution under the department of atomic energy of the government of India, has launched Navya, an online consultation clinic where opinion regarding any case related to cancer is available 24 hours. Violence at workplaces has been a major concern over the past few years, a problem which needs urgent solution. The laws in this regard need strict and impartial implementation. Better communication, education, improved primary healthcare and tele-medicine may be useful to some extent. A change in mindset is essential and good sense should prevail. It is time for corporate hospitals and the medical fraternity to reassess their priorities and further aid the common person. Dr Gautam Mukhopadhyay is secretary, Bengal Oncology Foundation, and clinical director, department of surgical oncology, Peerless Hospital, Calcutta ◙ Doctors, healthcare workers and corporate hospitals have all contributed significantly during this crisis. They have kept the hopes alive even at times of extreme despair ◙ Transparency regarding cost and implementation of government regulations are essential ◙ Acceptance of poor outcomes and prevention of violence at workplace are essential ◙ During the second wave of Covid, 798 medical professionals lost their lives. Supreme sacrifices cannot go in vain, they need to be honoured ◙ Teamwork is necessary but understanding others’ viewpoint is mandatory ◙ Now, there may be more questions than answers, but success is still achievable||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Impostor cleans out aged man’s bank account in Baguiati, arrested ||A 35-year-old man was arrested from his house in Asansol for allegedly duping an elderly man by posing as a bank official, police said. Rajesh Kumar Mondal, 25, had allegedly called up Baguiati resident Rama Prasad Chakraborty, 72, and introduced himself as assistant manager of the bank where Chakraborty has a savings account. After getting the account details, he transferred the money to another account. “We found that the stolen money was sent to a single account. A debit card attached to the account was used to buy electronic items from a shop in Asansol. We tracked down Kumar through the store,” the officer said. The police are trying to find out whether Kumar had duped anyone else.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Unauthorised Sonarpur camps: Vial numbers match, say police||Police probing alleged unauthorised vaccine camps in Sonarpur said the serial numbers on the vials found in possession of the accused, Mithun Mandal, had matched those on Covishield vials in batches sent to Diamond Harbour for use in the official drive. This means the liquid administered in the alleged unauthorised camps could be Covishield, which Mandal, a pharmacist at a primary health centre in Diamond Harbour, seems to have removed from the official stocks in an unauthorised manner. Police are awaiting a final forensic report on the composition of the liquid found in the seized vials. “Our preliminary investigation and inputs from the state health department suggest that the batch numbers and serial numbers of the vials seized from the accused have matched the stock details of the officially despatched Covishield vials. For further confirmation we are awaiting the forensic report on the liquid in the vials,” said a senior police officer. An official in the health department said Mandal had misused his position to steal vials and then entered the details of the people whom he administered the vaccine on the CoWIN portal. Those who were administered the liquid at Mandal’s camps, which he held in people’s homes, got vaccination certificates from CoWIN. “Mandal had direct access to vaccines and was also in charge of data entry in CoWIN. He thus misused his position,” said an officer. The health department official said Mandal could exploit his position and steal vials because of shortage of staff in primary health centres in remote areas. The Diamond Harbour subdivision has 11 primary health centres and 184 vaccination centres. “It is a known fact that we do not have adequate staff at remote health centres. Usually, the responsibility of handling vaccines and data entry in the portal is shouldered by two or three employees. At times even one person has to do everything,” said a health official in the South 24-Parganas district administration. Mandal, who has been remanded in police custody, has purportedly told the police that he had administered the liquid to not more than 30 or 40 people. Police sources said at least five health department employees were examined on Sunday. “Mandal might not be the only one involved in this," said an officer of Sonarpur police station. A police team took Mandal to several locations in Diamond Harbour on Sunday, apparently to try and ascertain the sequence of events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Website mirrors making of Satyajit Ray’s Goopi Gyne Bagha Byne||Between the covers of two traditional red cloth-bound notebooks is enclosed the creative process that resulted in one of Satyajit Ray’s landmark films, Goopi Gyne Bagha Byne. In Ray’s centenary year, a bilingual website, exploreray.org, is presenting the kheror khata in which he kept detailed notes covering all aspects of the film, from costume sketches to musical notes and dialogues. “The first khata has 733 pages of the story line, sketches of the characters and elements of the sets, the shooting script and the story board, all of which he developed over time. The second book has about 200 pages on the dance of the ghosts and post-production work,” said Ayananshu Banerjee, head, projects and digital transformation, TCG-Crest. The website has been developed by the Centre for New Media, an institute under TCG Crest, which deals with digital entertainment. This website not only presents the scanned pages but also offers extensive annotations, cross-referenced to the script. Over 500 movie clips, 100-plus images, movie stills and music snippets provide a multi-dimensional experience to Ray fans and researchers alike. By scrolling the pages, dated from December 25, 1964 to August 21, 1966, one can track how the film developed in the maker’s mind. “When a tune came to his head, he jotted down the notation, sometimes along with snatches of the lyrics. Many were never used. In one case, we found a tune recorded here used years later, in Goopi Bagha Phire Elo,” Banerjee says. Recordings have been made of piano renditions of the original notations for this project. The script is in Bengali but to make Ray accessible to the world, translations have been added. “Goopi Gyne… was the first Bengali film to release at Globe cinema. Ray had prepared the English subtitles for the screening. Since his storyboards were heavy with illustrations, there is little verbal description. So we did not have to translate much ourselves,” he points out. The team also accessed the magazine Sandesh in which Upendrakishore Roychowdhury’s story came out in 1915, serialised over six issues. The pages have been archived here alongside those of the reprint in the Puja edition of the magazine which grandson Satyajit revived as editor in 1961. Sandip Ray, the principal advisor to the project, said the project had been mooted before the lockdown but work could start only over the year-end. “Father kept two kheror khata for every film but the ones on Goopi Gyne Bagha Byne are rich as the film was special to him. We had showcased some pages during an exhibition organised by Ray Society on the film’s golden jubilee. But this website will provide comprehensive and easy access,” he said, adding that the Shatranj ke Khilari notebooks were next in richness of detail. “We will take a call on whether to take up another film depending on the response this gets,” said Sandip. Filmmaker Mrinal Sen’s US-based son Kunal, a year junior to Sandip at Patha Bhavan, has offered technical and creative assistance to the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid victim’s friends donate Rs 75,000 to Bhalopahar School in Purulia||A group of friends who lost schoolmate Abhignan Mukherjee — an inspector in Calcutta police’s traffic department — to Covid last year, donated Rs 75,000 to a school in Purulia on the death anniversary of their friend. Most of the students at Bhalopahar School in Purulia’s Bundwan block, about 300km from the city, are tribal and first-generation learners. Their parents barely earn a few thousand rupees a month. Mukherjee’s school friends — 10 of them — handed the money to the school on Saturday, exactly a year after the inspector succumbed to the disease. They said they wanted to do something in memory of their friend for a school, because “school is where their friendship had been founded”. The Purulia school, which depends on contributions, runs classes from Nursery to VIII and has 220 children on the rolls. The pandemic has shattered the aspirations of many of the children and their parents as the school had to be closed as a precaution against Covid. “Many of us have lost at least one loved one to the pandemic. He (Abhignan) was at the forefront of the fight against Covid and we are proud of him. We wanted to do something in his memory that would be of some significance,” said Debasish Sarkar, one of the 10 who raised the money, while returning from Purulia on Sunday. “It is a joint effort. Friends from India, Singapore, Canada, the US, Nigeria and Dubai have come forward. None of us knows what others have contributed. That was intentional.” The friends are from three batches of St Thomas’ Church School, Howrah. Kamal Chakraborty, 77, the co-founder and secretary of Bhalopahar School, plans to set up a library with the money. “No one reads now, but still I want to set up a library with the money,” said Chakraborty, who founded the school with Jayati Chakraborty. The school came up in 2004. “There were a few schools in the area but students would hardly go there. I got these children to school, gave them mid-day meals and also arranged for buses to ferry those who lived far away to school,” Chakraborty said. He rued that it was difficult to ensure that the children kept studying — and the pandemic has made the task even more difficult — because girls were married off early and boys started digging soil to earn a living. “Also, some of their parents go to other states to work as contract labourers and the children are left behind…. It is difficult but I am trying,” he said. Chakraborty had left his job in a private firm in Jamshedpur in 1996 and relocated to Bhalopahar, where he built the school and a health centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta woman’s videos leaked on 84 pornographic sites||A woman who was allegedly paid Rs 3,000 to appear in a shoot with the promise that the videos would only be viewed outside India learnt to her shock that those were leaked to 84 pornographic sites accessible from the country, police said. When the woman demanded that the videos be taken down, the two persons who got her to appear for the shoot — a photographer named Pratap Ghosh and a make-up artist named Jaysree Mitra — allegedly demanded money from her. Based on a complaint the woman lodged with Bidhannagar police on Saturday, Ghosh and Mitra were arrested. “The victim has told us that she was promised that none of her videos would be accessible to people in India. But after a few weeks of the shoot, she came to know through a friend that her videos were available on multiple pornographic sites, all accessible from the country,” said an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. Most of the videos were shot at Central Park in Salt Lake in March. The complaint says at least three of the videos were uploaded on 84 pornographic sites, an officer said. “Panicked, the woman, who works at a private firm, requested Ghosh and Mitra to take down the videos. She was allegedly told that the videos would be taken down only if she paid up,” an officer said. “The two apparently cited the expenses they had incurred and asked her to compensate them if she wanted to have the videos removed.” The police said Mitra had lured the complainant into appearing for the shoot after befriending her on Facebook. “Initially, she was told that the shoot was part of a modelling assignment. Then she was asked to shoot with fewer clothes and was told that 25 other women had done similar shoots,” said the officer. At least six videos were shot, out of which three were uploaded on pornographic sites, the woman has told the police. The police said they found the “profile” of several other women in the app where the woman’s videos were uploaded first. The accused were produced in the Bidhnanagar court on Sunday. Mitra was remanded in police custody for two days and Ghosh for five days. The lawyers representing Ghosh and Mitra said the allegations were false. Both have been booked under the Indian Penal Code sections related to cheating and also under the Information Technology Act. The woman’s husband told Metro that their primary aim was to get the videos removed from the Internet, but as the accused allegedly started demanding money to take them down, they had no choice but to lodge a complaint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19 restrictions alter eating-out timings in Calcutta||The restricted timings for diners at restaurants have changed the way Calcuttans eat out. The restaurants are allowed to serve diners from noon to 8pm at a 50 per cent guest capacity. At most places, the last orders are being taken between 7pm and 7.15pm. From an old favourite on Park Street to a glitzy new place inside a mall, the post-lunch period used to be a lean time for most restaurants. But not anymore. Early dinner is in vogue. So is “pregaming” (the practice of having a light drink before attending a social event), followed by takeaway. Groups of friends who used to book tables late in the evening at their favourite joints are now meeting over lunch. A string of eateries dotting Purna Das Road, Sarat Bose Road and Hindusthan Park have been buzzing with diners almost throughout the day. The 4pm-8pm slot is the busiest, said owners of the coffee shops and restaurants. A low-down on how Calcuttans are eating out. Many people are going to their favourite restaurants to order a drink or two, have some quick bites before getting the main course packed. The pregaming at the restaurant is like a prelude to a house party. Around 7.30pm on Friday, a group of three friends was leaving Trinca’s, each carrying a bag of food. “This is our favourite hangout. We had a round of drinks before ordering food. We asked for one starter at the table and then got the other items packed. We had another round of drinks with the starter before leaving,” said Diptangshu Mukherjee, 39, one of the three. The group was headed to Mukherjee’s home off CIT Road in Moulali, where two other friends would drop in. Siddhika Ghose Chaudhuri, the owner of Wise Owl, a café on Purna Das Road, has had a substantial rise in takeaways since the restricted timings came into force. “It is difficult to quantify but there has been a jump of around 20 per cent in takeaways,” she said. “Patrons are arriving early in the evening, ordering some beverages with chicken fingers wrapped in bacon or Caesar salad. They are getting a chicken stroganoff packed for dinner,” she said. The trend was more pronounced on weekends, said Ghose Chaudhuri. Kabir Azhar, director of Aminia Restaurants, said that before the fresh curbs were imposed in May, online aggregators made up nearly 70 per cent of the sales. “Takeaway by diners now make up 20 per cent of the total share. The share of online aggregators has come down to 50 per cent,” he said. Around 6.45pm on Friday, some 10 tables at Flavours of China, part of the Bar-B-Q restaurant on Park Street, were occupied. Mocambo was also buzzing with patrons. A group of four from Alipore was among those eating at Bar-B-Q. “Today is my husband’s birthday. He is no more. But this used to be his favourite restaurant. We came here after a long time,” said Puja Tandon, who had come with her son, daughter and a friend of her daughter. “If eating out means eating out early, so be it,” said Rishi, her son. Puja’s daughter Radhika studies BBA in Paris. An internship stint with an NGO has brought her to her hometown. She was accompanied by a friend from Paris, Martin Andries. “I have a high level of spice tolerance. I tasted Indian Chinese for the first time and loved it,” said Andries. “Indians usually don’t get hungry before 8.30pm-9pm. But these are unprecedented times and people adapt. We have been getting a good lot of early diners, especially on weekends,” said Nitin Kothari, the owner of Mocambo and Peter Cat. On weekends, often there is no gap between lunch and dinner rush, he said. Anjan Chatterjee, veteran restaurateur, described as “rudimentary” the urge to eat out and socialise. “Man is a social animal. He needs to satiate that rudimentary need. He will adapt in whichever way possible to do that,” Chatterjee said of the change in eating-out habits. His standalone restaurants as well as those in malls have been busy during what earlier used to be an interval between lunch and dinner. Young people who would earlier meet over drinks and dinner are now meeting over lunch, said restaurateurs. “A young group usually spends more time on a table. With the curbs, it is difficult to find three hours in the evening window. So, the young people are catching up mostly over lunch, usually over weekends,” said Pratap Daryanani, the owner of Oasis on Park Street. He had three tables booked for lunch on Saturday, for different groups aged under 40, Daryanani told this newspaper on Friday evening. Anand Puri, the owner of Trinca’s, spoke in the same vein. “Family crowds or elders make up a sizable section of early diners. The lunch crowd, on the other hand, has been witnessing a lot of young faces,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
26-07-2021||Calcutta||School students take a detour to the world of fiction||A WhatsApp link takes you to a shelf of books. Tiles like The Cherry Tree, The Wind on the Haunted Hill and The Blue Umbrella pop out. Clicking on the book covers takes one to the story inside. Welcome to an e-library project initiated by the Asian International School (AIS) for classes V to XII to mark the birth anniversary of Ruskin Bond in May. Thus, most books of the growing library are dedicated to the author. The Birla High School junior section has also come up with a same initiative in June to keep boredom at bay for their students. Built on similar lines, the school will be adding around 10 books for each class every month. The selection includes a range of classics and popular authors, Ruskin Bond and Roald Dahl being universal favourites. “The e-library project aims to encourage the children to read. Many students have shared with their teachers how much they are missing their school library. That’s when I decided to start an e-library. We plan to dedicate a month to each author and stock up on his books,” said AIS principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar. As of now, the AIS library is stocked with Ruskin Bond books, the Harry Potter series and worksheets for students. The link is being sent to their WhatsApp groups as well as on the school portal. Class VI student Anubhav Pal loves The Blue Umbrella and Harry Potter. “I can re-read them again. But what I am really looking forward to are some new authors. I hope to read up on some classics during this period,” said the bookworm. The principals and teachers at the AIS are working hard at stocking up their e-library with textbooks as well as fiction. “It will be very useful if more study material is available online, through the e-library. We plan to add more magazines and non-fiction. That way the senior students will not have to search too far for their reference material, now that the school library is off limits for them,” added senior science teacher Anita Shaw, who also co-ordinated the project. The Bengali and Hindi teachers are also coming up with their list of popular books and must-reads. The plan is to add an author every month in English as well as regional languages. “Next month the focus will be on Sudha Murty. Both the audio and online versions will be added to our e-shelves,” said the principal. Somraj Roy of Class IV, Birla High is looking forward to reading The Wonderful Wizard of Oz by L. Frank Baum from his school’s new e-library that came as a surprise. “I love to read after completing my school assignments. My entire family, including my three-year-old sister, reads together for an hour before dinner,” said Somraj. “We are getting used to holding lessons, activity classes and even inter-school events virtually. Our reading classes are enjoyed by all but students still miss the school library a lot. To satiate this hunger and fuel the passion for reading we set up the e-library for our children from classes I to V. Each month the collection will be updated by our librarian and language teachers, so that students have a wide variety of reading material to choose from,” said Birla High headmistress Farida Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
