27-07-2021||Calcutta||Homoeopath glare on Life Care nursing home||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Monday ordered an inquiry against Life Care nursing home in Howrah’s Bally, where a homoeopath allegedly issued the death certificate of a woman admitted under an allopathic doctor. The nursing home has also been asked to keep admissions on hold till further orders. A number of commission members, all doctors, felt that the death certificate of a patient admitted under an allopathic doctor must be issued by a person who has at least an MBBS degree, said retired justice Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the health panel. The woman’s family told the commission that they doubted the credentials of two doctors involved in her treatment. Later, the hospital told the relatives that one of the doctors was a homoeopath and the other an ayurved. Banerjee said the 74-year-old woman, who suffered from septic shock, altered sensorium, acute febrile illness and chronic kidney disease, was admitted to the nursing home last August. “The patient was admitted under an allopathic doctor, who would visit her once a day. It seems that she was mainly treated by a homoeopath and an ayurved,” Banerjee said. “We have asked Howrah’s chief medical officer of health to inquire about the allegations against the hospital. The hospital has been asked to keep new admissions on hold,” said Banerjee. An official of the commission said that since the patient was admitted in a clinical establishment that had licence to offer allopathic treatment, it should not have used the services of a homoeopath or an ayurved. “An ayurved or a homoeopath does not know the intricacies of modern medicine. No questions would have been raised had the patient been admitted in a homeopathic or an ayurvedic hospital,” the official said. Banerjee said they suspected the two doctors had given fake registration numbers. “They had mentioned registration numbers issued by the West Bengal Medical Council. But homoeopaths and ayurveds are not registered by the council,” Banerjee said. The commission also asked Midland Nursing Home in Belghoria to pay Rs 2 lakh as compensation after it found that the health-care facility had employed a nurse and a resident medical officer who were not authorised to work. AMRI The commission on Monday asked AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria to offer a discount to a patient’s family after it found that the hospital did not follow its advisories on discounts on pharmacy products, consumables and pathological tests. Last August, the commission had asked private hospitals to offer Covid-19 patients discounts on the maximum retail price of medicines and consumables. “Eighty per cent of the bill was paid by the insurance company and 20 per cent by the patient’s family. We have asked the hospital to include the discounts on consumables, pharmacy products and pathological tests and offer 20 per cent of that amount as discount to the patient’s family,” Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
27-07-2021||Calcutta||Man held for cheating lawyer of Rs 40 lakh by promising him job in CBI||A man has been arrested for allegedly cheating a lawyer of Rs 40 lakh by promising him a job in the CBI, police said. Biswajit Chatterjee, the lawyer from Baranagar, lodged a complaint against Krishanu Mandal, a resident of Baguiati, on Sunday. “The accused had allegedly  provided Chatterjee a fake appointment letter and a forged identity card,” said an officer of Baranagar police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
27-07-2021||Calcutta||Balcony of two-storey house collapses in north Calcutta, elderly man injured ||An elderly man was critically injured when the balcony of a two-storey house in north Calcutta on which he was standing collapsed on Monday afternoon. Golok Chandra Das, 68, who fractured his hip, lives in Behala and returned to the north Calcutta house where he is still a tenant to get his second Covid shot. Three other members of the family, including two women, were trapped on the first floor of the building. They were rescued by fire department personnel. Residents of the area said the building — 9 Dayal Shome Lane — was at least 100 years old. Das was standing on the balcony around noon when neighbours heard a loud noise. They rushed out and found that the balcony had collapsed. Das was lying in a heap of debris. “He was trembling and unable to speak. A friend and I brought him out of the debris and took him to the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital in an app cab,” said Rajdip Pal, who lives in the same neighbourhood. “We have been tenants of the house since my grandfather’s era. My parents have all their identity documents registered at that address. We now live in Behala but my parents wanted to take the vaccine in our old neighbourhood. They were vaccinated on Friday,” Das’s son Joy said. The balcony that collapsed could be accessed from all rooms on the first floor. To reach the staircase, one has to walk through the balcony. Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials said they had declared the building “dangerous” long ago but the families living there did not move out. On Sunday afternoon, a portion of the roof of a dilapidated building on Ashutosh Mukherjee Road in Bhowanipore had collapsed. The CMC often declares buildings as “dangerous” but it allegedly does not do much beyond that. “The problem is most of the dilapidated buildings are litigated. If the CMC tries to demolish them, it is dragged to the court,” said an official in the civic health department. To overcome this problem, the CMC had introduced a rule that allowed relaxation to the owners of dilapidated buildings to construct additional floors if they demolished the risky structures and raised new ones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
27-07-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission writes to Centre, seeks 4 lakh Covishield doses at discounted price ||Ramakrishna Mission has written to the Centre seeking 4 lakh Covishield doses at a discounted price of Rs 150 a jab to launch a mass vaccination drive in all 23 districts of Bengal and parts of the Northeast. All states procure Covishield from the Centre at Rs 300 a dose and private players buy it from the manufacturer — the Pune-based Serum Institute of India — at Rs 600 a dose. Swami Atmapriyananda, the pro-chancellor of the Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Educational and Research Institute and coordinator of the Covid vaccination project of the Mission, has urged Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya for a “special concession to procure the vaccines from the Serum Institute India” to vaccinate around 2 lakh people (with both doses) as part of the order’s “Free Covid Vaccination Programme”. The Centre is yet to respond to the appeal, made earlier this month, said a monk of the order. “We want to reach out to the masses in remote areas of the districts with free vaccines in keeping with the Ramakrishna Mission’s ideology of ‘selfless service’,” said Swami Atmapriyananda. “The idea is to aid the state government in offering vaccine cover to all with the motto of ‘Siva jnane jiva seva or serving living beings as embodiments of divinity or God’.” Monks of the order said two organisations — the Bangalore-based Atyati Technologies and Bagri Foundation — have promised Rs 6 crore to the Ramakrishna Mission for its mass vaccination programme. Two other philanthropic organisations — the Calcutta-based Vivekananda Swasthya Seva Sangha and the Bangalore-based Karuna Trust —have assured the Mission of logistic support by providing doctors, nurses, support staff, ambulances and mobile vans to conduct the mass vaccination programme. Ramakrishna Mission wants to utilise its branch centres and its extensive network to organise vaccination camps. In a letter to the Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, Ramakrishna Mission has said it wants to immediately take up the mass vaccination programme in Bengal. “We propose to vaccinate all in the age group of 18+ and try to cover particularly the rural parts of Bengal and the Northeastern region on mobile vans which have been named ‘Vivekananda Covid Vaccination Centre on Wheels’,” the letter to Bhushan says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
27-07-2021||Calcutta||State tech university starts renting accommodation to set up WiFi-enabled hostels ||The state tech university has begun renting accommodation in the vicinity of the campus to set up WiFi-enabled hostels where students can attend classes over digital platforms, a university official said. The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT), to which all private and government engineering colleges in the state are affiliated, has two hostels on its Haringhata campus, where a section of students of the university’s in-house programmes stay. Vice-chancellor Saikat Maitra said they now wanted to provide accommodation to as many students as possible so they could attend online classes without any connectivity woes. A notice from the university’s registrar, Partha Pratim Lahiri, on July 21 said: “It is hereby informed that MAKAUT will be hiring rented accommodation within the vicinity of the university’s main campus for entire requirements like store, hostels and for other purposes which may deem fit.” An official of MAKAUT said close to 2,000 students were enrolled in in-house programmes — undergraduate and postgraduate courses run directly by the university. “Of them, about 550 students have been provided hostels. But we have to increase the number of hostels if we are to accommodate more students who are unable to attend classes on digital platforms because of the digital divide,” he said. “Since constructing a hostel will take time, we are renting accommodation.” VC Maitra said the new hostels would have the WiFi facility. The hostel infrastructure is being ramped up so that physical distancing could be maintained once students are called back to the campus, following an approval from the government, the VC said. “The number of students has increased over the years. The Covid pandemic is not going to end anytime soon. So, we have to ensure alternative plans so that studies can go on without disruptions. Before recalling the students, we have to get the infrastructure ready so students can attend online classes maintaining all safety protocols,” he said. A MAKAUT official said once they set up the infrastructure, they would seek permission to call the students back to the campus. “Many of the students cannot afford data packs because of pandemic-induced economic constraints.” Last month, the university had waived the hostel, library and laboratory fees for its in-house students till the resumption of in-person classes. Unstable Net connectivity at home is also a problem for many. Another official said: “We don’t want any student to avail of public transport while coming to the campus when in-person classes resume because physical distancing norms are hardly maintained in buses. We will deploy our own buses to bring students from the hostels that are being developed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
27-07-2021||Calcutta||City likely to get more rain in coming days: Met office||A weather system brewing over the Bay of Bengal is likely to bring a wet spell in south Bengal. The system was in the form of a cyclonic circulation on Monday. It is expected to turn into a low-pressure area over the next 24 hours. The Met office recorded around 8mm of rain in Alipore on Monday. Some areas recorded more rain. “The city is likely to get more rain in the coming days. The system is expected to remain active till July 31,” said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
27-07-2021||Calcutta||Absence of written test hurt students, say schools||Several schools reported that no student had scored 100 per cent in ISC (Class XII) maths unlike other years. Some said the highest in the subject had gone down, too, making them believe that the absence of pen-and-paper exams had hurt students. At least two schools said they intended to bring it to the notice of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) that announced the ICSE and ISC results on Saturday. In some other schools, students had contacted their teachers to ask for a provision of improvement exams or rechecks. In La Martiniere for Boys, Calcutta Boys’ School, Loreto House, Calcutta Girls’ High School, Sri Sri Academy, Delhi Public School New Town, Sri Sri Academy, M P Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School and Julien Day School Howrah, not one student scored 100 in maths. All these schools have several students scoring 100 every year. A Calcutta Boys’ official said usually, the school has eight or nine ISC candidates who score 100. A La Martiniere for Boys official said they usually have 15 students who score 100 and a Loreto House official said at least five score full marks. Sri Sri Academy, MP Birla and Calcutta Girls’ officials said three or four of their students score 100 every year. Teachers in some schools said that if the marks in other subjects are high, for those vying for prestigious colleges, the maths score could become the differentiator. “A student might lose out in the competition for admission in top colleges,” said a principal. A school head said that those who had secured admission in foreign universities were safe but many others were worried. “Students are worried that a dip in their percentage might affect their college admission,” said a school head. For example, in one school, the highest in maths is 93 and 27 students have scored 90 and above — in the 90 to 93 bracket. In another school, the highest maths marks last year was 99. This year, it is 84. Teachers in some schools said marks were not as expected and students would have performed better had they appeared in a written exam. “The marks in the subject are not as expected. A lot of our students in both science and commerce have approached us because they want to write an improvement exam,” said Gargi Banerjee, vice-principal, Sri Sri Academy. Teachers across schools said writing an exam would have let the academically stronger students get better marks than what they scored in the rehearsal exams. “The rehearsals wake them up because they see their answer scripts and understand where they stand and prepare better to write a board exam. It is in the last leg that they burn the midnight oil, which was missing this year,” said Raja McGee, principal, Calcutta Boys’. The council had cancelled this year’s ICSE and ISC exams because of the Covid pandemic. The council had asked for the average marks of Classes XI and XII. Teachers said that seriousness among students does not set in before they are in Class XII. “In Class XI, they still cannot overcome the joy of passing ICSE. They are also busy with activities and co-curriculars,” said McGee. “A 99 or 98 is not a bad score. Since the formula considered marks in Class X, XI and XII, unless a student scored a 100 in all three, it is not possible to get a 100 in the board exam,” said John Stephen, acting principal of La Martiniere for Boys.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
27-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal receives 1.5 lakh Covaxin doses,  another 1.7 lakh to arrive on Tuesday||Bengal on Monday received around 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin and got an assurance from the Centre that another 1.7 lakh doses would arrive on Tuesday, paving the way for administering the second jab to Covaxin recipients in Calcutta. Sources in the health department said on Monday around 40,000 doses of Covaxin were handed to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). An official of the CMC said they would resume administering Covaxin on Tuesday. The civic body was forced to stop administering the vaccine, manufactured by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, as it had run out of stock. The state health department, too, had run out of Covaxin doses. “We received 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin today and the Centre assured us that another 1.7 lakh would be sent tomorrow. Priority will be given to those who took their first dose of Covaxin more than 42 days, or six weeks, ago,” said an official of Swasthya Bhavan. “Once we start receiving more doses, more and more second dose recipients will be covered.” The second dose of Covaxin is to be administered four to six weeks after the first. As the state government had run out Covaxin doses, a large number of second dose recipients were clueless when they would get the jab. “We require 2.5 lakh Covaxin doses to administer the shot to all those who are waiting for their second jab,” an official in the state health department said. The official said that apart from Calcutta, Covaxin doses were sent to some of the districts adjoining Calcutta, including North and South 24-Parganas, and Howrah. The supply of Covishield, manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, is likely to remain steady for the rest of the month. “Around 18 lakh doses of Covishield are expected to arrive by July 31. As of Sunday evening, the state health department had about 8.5 lakh Covishield doses,” the official said. “The supply of Covishield has improved this month. We will be able to scale up vaccination with the arrival of the Covishield and Covaxin doses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
27-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta assumes life of its own after night curfew sets in||A slice of Calcutta assumes a life of its own after the night curfew sets in. Ballygunge Circular Road, the leafy, upscale south Calcutta neighbourhood, has never been a stranger to a vibrant nightlife. Two dhabas on the road, which remain open through the night, have always drawn a sizable section of the city’s late-night revellers. A tour of the road on two consecutive nights, Friday and Saturday, showed little has changed because of the 9pm-to-5am curfew. A series of cars were still parked outside the two dhabas on both days. Waiters served food to the occupants of the cars. The dining area inside the eateries was also busy. All well beyond 9pm. The party goes on till well into the morning. Many elderly residents complained they are woken up in the middle of the night by the vroom of the super cars. Some of them alleged racing. Earlier, the noise would merge with the sound of other passing vehicles. In the middle of a pandemic-forced night curfew, there is little else on the road and the noise seems louder. Late-night snippets from Ballygunge Circular Road, when a ban on any movement — barring those for medical emergencies and those of essential service providers — is in force across the city. 11.15pm, Friday A dhaba right opposite the gate of the Ballygunge Maidan army camp was bustling with customers. At least 15 cars were parked outside the eatery. A Mercedes S-Class pulled into a vacant spot, minutes after a Mahindra XUV 500 left.The aroma of kebabs, daal and hot butter-laced rotis filled the air. Most people were busy eating inside cars. The plates were sometimes kept on the bonnets and boots of the cars. Soft drinks and water bottles were kept on the roof. A group of waiters was busy serving the occupants. Some other waiters waved expectantly at every car that passed by. “Gari ke andar khaiye, bahar khaiye, restaurant mei baithke khaiye. Jidhar marzi khaiye. Raat bhar khula hai (You can eat inside the car or inside the restaurant. Whatever you like. We are open through the night),” a waiter said as our car stopped by. A young group sat inside a Hyundai i10. A waiter served food inside the car and kept a jug of water on its roof. One occupant of the car reached out for the jug. But he was stopped by a woman seated next to him. The waiter was called again, this time for a bottle of packaged drinking water. Every now and then, a two-wheeler of online food aggregators turned up at the eatery. Home delivery of food is allowed through the night. Asked why food was being served to people after 9pm, a man sitting at the counter of the eatery said: “Yahaan to log raat ko hi aate hai (Most people come here at night)”. 12.05am, Saturday At least a dozen cars were parked outside one of the eateries, right next to the quarters of IAS officers. The waiters were busy doing the rounds between the kitchen and the cars. Every now and then, one of them was stepping out with a series of trays in both hands, walking briskly up to a car and serving the food. One of the waiters serves two plates of kebabs to the occupants of one car and rotis and curries to the occupants of another. The destination of the kebabs was a Toyota SUV. Inside, two glasses were kept on a seatback table. A man poured liquor from a bottle into one of the glasses, added water to it before taking a sip. Another man stood near the rear window, talking to the man inside. Inside a Hyundai Creta a few metres away, a family of four were having dinner. A man sat at the wheels, a woman beside him and two children in the back. A waiter was rebuffed by the man for being late in bringing the food. “Bada gari hai na bahut, is liye hamare liye time nahi hai tere paas (There are a lot of fancy cars around. That is why you don’t have time for us),” the man barked. The waiter had just delivered papads and salads to the occupants of a BMW 3 Series 330i Sport, which had come “long after” the Creta, according to the man. The Telegraph had sought to know about the violation of the night curfew from police. “The eateries usually remain open for online orders. I was out last night to ensure the enforcement of the night curfew. We will act against violators,” said the officer-in-charge of Ballygunge police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
27-07-2021||Calcutta||City police start prosecuting vehicles with faulty number plates ||The city police have started prosecuting vehicles with defective number plates and the ones that have registration numbers written in fonts that are difficult to read when the vehicles are in motion. Police said such vehicles, when found violating traffic rules, often result in faulty citation cases, causing inconvenience to motorists who get falsely implicated. The police have prosecuted 2,252 motorists over the past 26 days for using defective number plates. “The number plates that do not conform to the standard size and font are deemed defective. Among those are the ones on which the digits and the letters are written in a font that is difficult to read when the vehicle moves,” said a traffic officer posted in south Calcutta. “The registration plates of some of the prosecuted vehicles were damaged and on some the numbers and letters were hazy.” Most of the motorists prosecuted are said to have told the police that they were unaware of the rule related to the font and size. “The motorists whose vehicles had number plates with cursive writing or small display were difficult to convince that using a plate like that was an offence,” the officer said. According to the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, all vehicles registered after April 1, 2019, should have a High Security Registration Plate (HSRP), which are issued only by the government and have a number of security features. A transport department official said it was mandatory for all vehicles to sport HSRPs, which have to be bought from regional transport offices. The HSRPs, which are acceptable across the country, are made of aluminium with a unique laser-etched code below the IND (international registration code for India) and the Ashoka Chakra hologram. The number plates are secured with snap-locks which become non-reusable when tampered with, an officer in the motor vehicles department said. The city police depend on traffic constables and homeguards for manual citations of vehicles that are spotted flouting traffic rules. Citations are also recorded based on footage from automatic number plate recognition cameras, paired with red light violation detection cameras. Once the registration numbers of violating vehicles are noted down — manually or through cameras — an e-challan is generated against the name and mobile number of the person in whose name the vehicle is registered. A number of Calcuttans issued such a challan protested that their vehicles were not at the spot of the violation. “Defective registration number plates were responsible for a large number of faulty citations,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
