28-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Enforce night curfew strictly, says chief secretary ||The chief secretary on Tuesday asked all police commissioners, police superintendents and the excise department to step up vigil on all major thoroughfares to ensure strict compliance of the 9pm-to-5am curfew, which is imposed every night to contain the spread of Covid. A senior bureaucrat said chief secretary H.K. Diwedi said at a meeting how the night curfew was being flouted and stressed the need to stop it immediately. “He said unless close watch is kept on the Covid situation, things may again spiral out of control,” the official said. The instruction came on a day Metro reported how diners drove in throughout the night at dhabas on Ballygunge Circular Road. Metro saw over two weekend nights food being served to people in cars and in the dining areas inside the eateries well past 9pm — when no one should be on the roads except those in medical emergencies or engaged in essential services. “Sir (chief secretary) was very clear. He said it has been observed that restrictions imposed from 9pm to 5am are being flouted with impunity in most districts, by the public and commercial establishments like restaurants. He requested the police chiefs to deploy flying squads and naka checking on all major thoroughfares to ensure compliance,” the officer said. According to the night curfew rules, people are expected to stay indoors from 9pm to 5am and those caught flouting the rule are to be prosecuted. Hotels, restaurants and eateries are to be closed by 8pm, as part of Covid curbs. Hours after the directive, Metro on Tuesday evening called one of the two dhabas that were serving food on Friday and Saturday night, asking whether a table could be reserved for a group of four later in the night. “We will not serve food after 9pm,” the person who answered the call said. Asked if they would serve in the car, the person said: “We will deliver only through... (he named two online food aggregators).” Officers of the East traffic guard on Tuesday downed the shutters of the eateries at 8.12pm, citing the Covid-19 restrictions. “Only online delivery services will be allowed,” an officer said. An officer at Lalbazar said: “Only the take-away counter (of an eatery) can operate during the curfew period. People are not allowed to step out and go to a take-away counter to collect food. Only online delivery, which has been included in emergency services, is allowed between 9pm and 5am.” On Friday and Saturday, the nearest police personnel Metro spotted was near Ballygunge Phari, about 1.5km from the dhabas. They stopped some vehicles and sought explanations. The dhabas were happily serving food to whoever came. Senior officers of Calcutta police said they had been instructed on Tuesday to tighten the security checking at night and ensure that “everything” was closed by 9pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
28-07-2021||Calcutta||Fake IPS officer arrested after extortion attempt in Calcutta||A man who allegedly pretended to be an IPS officer and travelled in a beacon-fitted car was arrested on Monday night. Rajarshi Bhattacharya, the accused, allegedly posed as an officer of the National Investigation Agency and tried to extort money from a Calcuttan, threatening to arrest him if he did not pay up. Police said the 45-year-old resident of Belghoria, on the northern outskirts of the city, refused to talk to anyone other than an “IPS officer” after his arrest, following which an IPS officer from Lalbazar questioned him. “He said he just wanted to wear the khaki uniform of IPS officers once and got a uniform stitched. However, we have learnt from his ‘guard’ and driver that he was in the habit of flaunting his uniform. He went to star hotels for coffee wearing it, pretending to be a senior officer,” an officer said. Bhattacharya is said to have told the police that he had thrown his “uniform” into the Hooghly. The police are yet to verify the claim. Officers said they found out during investigation that Bhattacharya was a physics graduate from a south Calcutta college. His late father taught at a south Calcutta college and then at a university, the officers said. “The accused was maintaining his charade till his wig came off and he started fumbling,” said an officer. After he purportedly admitted that he was lying, Bhattacharya claimed that he was involved in trading in paintings. The police are yet to verify this. Bhattacharya has been booked for cheating, impersonation of a public servant and extortion. Two others — Abhijit Das, whom he had hired from a private security agency to be his guard, and Mohammad Sikandar, who drove his vehicles — have also been arrested. “Das and Sikandar have claimed that they were under the impression that Bhattacharya was a real IPS officer,” said an officer. Sources said a 0.32 licenced gun with six rounds of cartridges were found in Bhattacharya’s possession. “The gun has not been seized because he has a valid licence for it. We are trying to find out how he got the licence,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
28-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Queue chaos outside CMC vaccination centres  ||Chaotic scenes outside most Covid vaccination centres run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) have become a daily affair. People join the queue while it’s still dark and wait for hours only to be told they cannot be vaccinated that day because of shortage of doses. The lucky ones who do get the jab return home after standing in the queue for as long as seven to eight hours. On Tuesday, people started queuing up outside some of the Covid vaccination centres at 2am or 3am. Some of them who arrived a “bit late” — around 5am — learnt around 10.30am that the centre would run out of doses before their turn came. Dipankar Bhowmick, a resident of Kasba, arrived outside a vaccination centre in Kasba’s Jadavgarh at 5.30am on Tuesday. There were already around 1,000 people in the queue. “I waited in the queue for five hours. Around 10.30am, employees of the CMC came and said they had received only 200 doses of Covaxin. They distributed coupons for Covishield first and then for Covaxin. The 200 Covaxin coupons were exhausted before my turn came,” Bhowmick recounted. He said he would join the queue on Wednesday at 2am. Bhowmick said four members of his family were waiting for their second dose of Covaxin. He visited two private hospitals but was deterred from taking the jabs there because of the cost. The hospitals are charging Rs 1,400 for one dose of Covaxin. Another Calcuttan said he had joined the queue at a CMC clinic at 1am last Saturday to get a coupon which would ensure a jab. “Officials announced around 8am that coupons would not be distributed because of shortage of doses. They could have made the announcement or displayed a notice earlier. That could have saved us from harassment,” the man said. For people like Bhowmick there is no option but to wait under the sun and in rain to get vaccinated. Long queues, often stretching 100 metres or so, are seen outside most CMC vaccination centres daily. The physical distancing norm, a must to prevent infection, is hardly followed in the queues. Frequent altercations break out if anyone suspects a person is jumping the queue, as most people remain agitated waiting for so long. The areas outside the gates of the vaccination centres and primary health centres, as well as the space inside, remain crowded with people waiting to get vaccinated. The chaos has only been aggravated by the scarcity of vaccine doses, especially Covaxin. The CMC has decided to administer only the second dose of Covaxin for now to ensure that no one misses out on the second jab, said Atin Ghosh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who is in charge of the civic body’s health department. “We will administer only the second dose of Covaxin. No second dose recipient will be turned away,” he said. CMC doctors, however, said they had no option but to turn away prospective recipients if doses got exhausted for the day. “It often happens that there are more people in the queue than the number of doses we have received. Our hands are tied. We always advise people who are being turned away to come back the next day,” said a senior CMC doctor who is managing vaccination in a part of Calcutta. In Bidhannagar, identical scenes are witnessed outside vaccination centres. At least 10 centres run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation have been shut down because of shortage of doses, an official of the civic body. “Only Matri Sadan Hospital in Salt Lake’s EE Block and Narayanpur Matri Sadan Hospital in Rajarhat are administering shots,” an official said. “But these two centres are struggling because a large number of people are queuing up.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
28-07-2021||Calcutta||Rise in Covid patients at private hospitals in Calcutta ||The number of Covid patients getting admitted to private hospitals in Calcutta is increasing again but the demand for vaccines at these facilities has reduced significantly, leaving public health experts worried about a fresh wave of infections. Several hospitals said admissions in critical care units had gone up, too, and some are planning to increase the number of beds in August. The state government at a meeting with district administrations on Tuesday stressed the need to ramp up Covid tests and vaccinations, and introduce stricter rules to ensure mask mandate compliance, officials said. Most hospitals have been seeing an uptick in admission of Covid patients over the past three or four days. The Telegraph has been reporting how people have been dropping their guard since the government started relaxing Covid instructions. Despite a 9pm-to-5am curfew, cars were seen parked outside dhabas on Ballygunge Circular Road and waiters were serving food on weekend nights. In public areas, many people are being spotted without masks. At Belle Vue Clinic, all beds in the Covid ward were vacant over the last weekend. On Tuesday, there were 17 patients, 10 of whom were in the critical care unit. “We have observed a sudden spurt in the number of admissions. Most of the patients are in a critical condition. If this trend continues, we have to increase the number of beds again,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue. The Loudon Street hospital had around 200 Covid beds during the peak of the second wave, in May. It reduced the bed count to 33 after the number of cases started falling in the beginning of July. Tondon said the footfall for vaccination at the hospital had reduced significantly over the last few days. The hospital vaccinated around 700 people daily last week. The figure has since come down to 200 to 300 and most of the people turning up are second dose recipients. “We are continuing our offsite vaccination programme, where around 3,000 people are being vaccinated daily. We are conducting the drive at places like Haldia, Asansol, Kalyani and Baruipur, and also in Calcutta,” said Tondon. At Peerless Hospital, the average occupancy in the Covid ward was six for a few weeks. The patient count over the last couple of days has gone up to 17. “All seven ICU beds are occupied. Last week, there were only two to three patients in the ICU. We are thinking of augmenting the number of beds in August, if the upward trend continues,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital had 175 Covid beds during the peak of the pandemic this year. Now, it has 40. Mitra said the rate of positivity of Covid test results had also gone up sharply over the last couple of days, from around 2 per cent daily to 5 per cent. The vaccination footfall, on the other hand, has dropped sharply from a daily average of more than 500 to around 300. “We have vaccine doses but there are not enough takers,” Mitra said. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, too, the rate of positivity has gone up but the demand for vaccination has gone down. “The positivity rate has gone up from an average of 2 per cent daily to 4 per cent. But the number of people coming to get vaccinated every day has gone down from around 1,000 to 600,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the Mukundapur hospital. At Charnock Hospital in New Town, the number of Covid patients admitted has gone up from 16 a few days back to 20 now. “Like other hospitals, we, too, reduced the number of Covid beds as cases started falling. But now it has started increasing again and we are keeping watch,” said Ipsita Kundu, the CEO of Charnock Hospital. She said the demand for vaccination has gone down at her hospital, too. “Earlier, we could not administer the jab to more than 100 people daily because of shortage of doses. Now, not even 100 people are coming to get vaccinated,” Kundu said. Doctors said the sudden spurt could be because of relaxation of curbs and violation of Covid norms. “The patients being admitted are not from a particular area. They are from across Calcutta and its surrounding areas. Most of them are unvaccinated,” said Chandramouli Bhattacharya, an expert in infectious diseases and tropical medicine, attached to Peerless Hospital. Bhattacharya, part of the Covid treatment team at the hospital, said it could be a warning signal of a fresh wave but it was too early to say anything definitely. A senior health department official said they were keeping a close watch on the situation. On Tuesday, at a meeting with district administrations, state government officials stressed the need to make people wear masks and scale up testing and vaccination. “We have identified districts and areas where many people are not wearing masks. The district administrations of those places have been asked to enforce norms strictly,” said Ajay Chakraborty, Bengal’s director of health services. He said the state government is giving priority to vaccinating people in slum areas of urban and semi-urban areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
28-07-2021||Calcutta||Stan Swamy’s death is a moment of awakening: Stanislaus D’Souza||The death of Father Stan Swamy is “not an end” but a “moment of awakening in the journey to affirm our faith in the Constitution of our country”, the Jesuit Provincial of India, Reverend Stanislaus D’Souza, has said. He has also urged people to mark July 28 as National Justice Day. In Calcutta, a prayer service will be held at the Archbishop’s House and St Xavier’s College on Wednesday evening in memory of the 84-year-old Jesuit priest who died in custody earlier this month. The Roman Catholic archdiocese of Calcutta has sent an email to all 65 churches and institutions in its fold encouraging them to organise a prayer meeting on Wednesday for the priest. Cardinal Oswald Gracias, the archbishop of Bombay and president of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India, has written to all bishops in an email: “Each bishop can see what is most suitable for his region. I know this is a short notice and communication is neither fast nor easy.… A memorial service like this will help to keep alive in our hearts the desire to work for the poor and neglected.” Reverend D’Souza, also the president of the Jesuit Conference of India, has said in his statement: “Stan’s death is not an end; it is yet another moment of awakening in our journey to affirm our faith in the Constitution of our country. Stan has joined the company of Adivasi martyrs and all those who sacrificed their lives to protect the secular and democratic fabric and diverse cultures of our nation.” The statement says: “Stan’s death is a moment of deep consolation, as he has united people across cultures, religions and nationalities to walk boldly and courageously in the path of justice to human family and creation.” The events of July 28 will be organised “to pay our deep respects to Fr. Stan Swamy SJ and carry forward his legacy”, the statement adds. Reverend D’Souza has also urged Indians not to be silent spectator “amidst growing inequalities, violence, atrocities, discrimination and exclusion in our country”. Father Stan “inspired us to sing the values of the Preamble to the Constitution of our country — Justice, Liberty, Equality and Fraternity — amidst the adversities…. As a Jesuit, he committed himself to walk with the excluded, whose dignity is violated, in a mission of Reconciliation and Justice,” Reverend D’Souza’s statement says. Through his lifelong accompaniment of the Adivasis, Dalits and marginalised communities and "by his martyrdom he has given us a new ethical mandate to be compassionate, to be the voice of the voiceless and defenders of human rights, speaking truth to power," the Jesuit Provincial of India’s statement says. “The prayer meeting is to create awareness... that we can no longer be mere spectators, but it is time to plunge into action and raise our voices against the prevailing injustices,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
28-07-2021||Calcutta||Unions of yellow/metered taxis threaten two-day strike||Several unions of yellow/metered taxis have threatened a 48-hour strike beginning August 12 if the state government does not respond to their pleas for a fare hike. Earlier, the CPM’s labour arm Citu had called a taxi strike on August 6 and 7 demanding fare revision. There are around 14,000 metered taxis in the city. For the last few years, the owners have been saying the existing fare is not in sync with the cost of fuel and other operational expenses. The Bengal government had last revised the fares in 2018 when the lowest fare, for the first 2km, was fixed at Rs 30. Thereafter, the fare would increase by Rs 3 for every additional 200 metres. On Tuesday, taxi owners demanded that the lowest fare be fixed at Rs 50 for the first 2km. Thereafter, they said, the fare should increase by Rs 5 per 200 metres. “The price of diesel is Rs 93.02 a litre. Three years back, on the same date, the price was Rs 71.08 a litre. There has been a rise of over Rs 20 a litre but the fares have remained the same,” said Bimal Guha of the Bengal Taxi Association. “How can this be feasible for taxi operators?” For some time now, most taxi operators across Calcutta have stopped agreeing to ferry passengers at metered fares. Instead, they quote a lump sum for any destination, anytime of the day. Several taxi drivers on Tuesday said the metered fare had long ceased to exist for all practical purposes but the government would not admit it. “There aren’t enough passengers…. Many drivers prefer to keep their vehicles parked at home,” said Shyamal Maity, a yellow cab driver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
28-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Autumn semester at IIT Kharagpur to be online||IIT Kharagpur has informed students, barring 500 who are facing resource constraints, that they will continue to attend online classes in the autumn semester as the authorities want to “avoid the life risk to students by calling them to the campus”. The autumn semester continues from July to December. The 500 students who are facing resource constraints will be called back so they can use the institute’s facilities to attend online classes. An email addressed to BTech students on July 23 says that since “the risk of infection in the cities and towns remain high” and “travel restrictions continue to be in place”, they won’t be recalled until the situation becomes conducive. According to an institute official, most of the students want to return to the campus as they have “got bored and tired attending classes from home” and feel that a hostel life, even with adherence to Covid protocols, will be a welcome change. Unstable Net connectivity at home is also prompting many to request the authorities to allow them to return to the campus. The email to the students, on behalf of the dean of students’ affairs and three other deans, says: “You are aware that the Covid-19 situation is still not in complete control…. Efforts are being made to bring students to the campus when the situation becomes conducive to do so in a phased manner. However, until the situation warrants, with a view to avoid life risk to the students..., director as Chairman of the senate has approved… the Autumn Semester will be completely through online mode.” The dean of students’ affairs, Dhrubajyoti Sen, said the 500 BTech students encountering digital divide, who would be brought back from August 2 in batches, would also attend online classes using the facilities in hostels. “As for bringing others, we want to go slow as the situation has not become conducive yet,” Sen said. An official of the institute said they wanted to keep a cap on the presence of BTech students to avoid any assembly on the campus, which had to be shut for about a fortnight last September following a spurt in Covid cases. “The 500 students will stay in hostels. If we bring more students, this will create an assembly.... we have to exercise caution,” he said. The return of IIT Roorkee students to the campus in April, when the second wave was under way and Kumbh Mela was being held, triggered a surge in cases there, said an IIT Kharagpur official. “Learning lessons from that incident, all the IITs have become cautious,” he said. Another official said some of the research scholars were already on the campus and a cap had been set on their presence as well. Altogether 900 research scholars stay on the campus as of now and a fresh batch will be called once a section of the scholars leaves on completion of research. The mail addressed to the BTech students says: “In line with the last two semesters the following components of the fees are exempted: electricity and water charges, mess advance, hostel overhead charges, hall budget and technology film society fees.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
28-07-2021||Calcutta||Artificial limbs distributed with Covishield jabs in Calcutta||Scores of people without limbs got prosthetic legs and Covid-19 vaccines at a camp organised by young entrepreneurs on Sunday. Around 150 people attended the camp at Ekbalpore. Over 70 people got artificial limbs. Each beneficiary, along with a family member, also got the first dose of Covishield. The camp was organised by Young Indians, the youth wing of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). The recipients included people with deformed limbs since birth. Some had to get a part of, or the entire limb, amputated after an accident or gangrene. One of them was Susmita Chakraborty, 27. Her right leg is around 7.5 inch shorter than the left. She was born with the disorder. “My parents deserted me because of the disorder when I was barely three-and-a-half years old,” said Chakraborty, who lives with her maternal grandmother at Kanchrapara in North 24-Parganas, 50km from Calcutta. Her parents live in Siliguri with her younger sister. Her grandmother is a retired railway employee and her pension sustains the family of two. Despite her physical condition, Chakraborty aspires to become a dancer. She does not have any formal training but has participated in reality shows. So far, a caliper (a metal support) held her right leg. On Sunday, she got a prosthetic leg as well as a Covid shot. The upper portion of the limb is made of plastic. The appendage or the foot portion is made of rubber for flexibility. “This is like a new lease of life. The limb will help me chase my dream of becoming a dancer,” said Chakraborty. The Covid vaccination drive has not made sufficient inroads into India’s vast population of differently abled people, said rights activists. “There are many free vaccination camps organised by the government as well as NGOs. But because of mobility challenges, it is difficult for many differently abled people to make it to the camps. So far, the state has failed them,” said a rights activist who did not want to be named because she works with the government on several projects. “We believe in making the country self-reliant and bring the underprivileged into mainstream society. We have set ourselves a target of providing 10,000 artificial limbs in two years. We have already covered over 900. The vaccination drive is an added effort because of the pandemic,” said Arpit Dhandhania, the chairperson of the Calcutta chapter of Young Indians. Most of the beneficiaries on Sunday came from economically backward sections. The organisation had associated with Mahavir Seva Sadan, an NGO, for the drive to provide artificial limbs. The NGO is behind Jaipur Foot, the renowned brand of affordable prosthetic limbs. “Every Sunday, a group of differently abled people come to the Sadan’s office at Ekbalpore to give measurements for the tailormade limbs. Next Sunday, the group gets the limbs,” said Sohan Raj Singhvi of the Sadan. “In the recent past, our Covid task force has already set up an oxygen support system, donated ambulances for patient transfer and already provided more than 15,000 vaccine doses through various camps. We will continue the limb distribution and the vaccination drive together for two more Sundays,” said Vaibhav Soni, the co-chairman of the Calcutta chapter of Young Indians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
28-07-2021||Calcutta||Police arrest 14 people for operating fake call centres in Calcutta||The city police arrested fourteen persons from two locations on Monday night for allegedly running fake call centres. Eleven of the arrested were allegedly making Internet calls to people in the UK, pretending to be representatives of the customer care wing of the e-commerce giant Amazon. The remaining three were allegedly posing as employees of another US-based company and trying to cheat people by offering web-based services like web designing and market strategies on Google, the police said. The 11 were arrested by the anti-rowdy squad of the detective department from a room on the third floor of the Webel IT Park building in Taratala. An officer at Lalbazar said the raid at the Webel IT Park was based on a “specific tip-off”. The police allegedly caught the racketeers making Internet calls to people in the UK posing as Amazon representatives. The police have been tracking several illegal call centres across the city over the past few weeks. They have unearthed rackets that were allegedly cheating people abroad by pretending to be employees of Amazon. A police officer said the racketeers would use different types of tricks to lure people to buy a product online and then cheat them by accessing their mobile phones or laptops by sending a link for screen sharing. “The first step was to call a potential buyer and play an electronic voice saying Amazon was offering discounts on certain products and to know more, the person should connect with the representative of the shopping portal. If the potential buyer agreed and dialed the number to connect to a representative, the latter would convince him or her to open a link on his computer or smartphone to access the directory of products that had discounts on them,” said an officer. Once the person would click on the link, a spyware would be installed on his or her device and it would enable the racketeers to access the Net banking details of the victim, the officer said. The other three accused, who were allegedly trying to dupe people by offering web-based services, were picked up by officers of Karaya police station from a building on Tiljala Road. The gang was allegedly targeting people in the UK, the US and Canada. All 14 were produced in court on Tuesday. They have been remanded in police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
