29-07-2021||Calcutta||Ten persons arrested for running fake call centre ||Ten persons were arrested on Monday for allegedly running an illegal call centre from a building on Tiljala Road. A police officer said: “The racketeers, posing as representatives of the Reliance Jio survey department, were calling people to inform them that their terrace had been chosen to set up a 5G mobile-tower, for which they would get  Rs 20 lakh and a monthly rent of Rs 15,000 to Rs 25,000.” The potential targets were allegedly asked to deposit Rs 10,799 if they wanted to let their terrace be used. “Based on a specific tip off, a flat on the fourth floor of a building on Tiljala Road was raided from where 10 persons were arrested,” said an officer of south east division. The police said they suspect the group of men had cheated several people to the tune of Rs 5 crore. An officer said they carried out the verification of all the bank accounts where the victims had been depositing money and found that all the accounts had been opened with alleged fake documents. “It is apparent that there are more people involved in the racket. The people who were making the calls were only at the front, but there are those who collected the phone numbers, opened bank accounts and withdrew cash from the ATMs. We are we are trying to locate them also,” said an officer of Karaya police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
29-07-2021||Calcutta||Panel issues refund order to four hospitals ||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Wednesday asked several private hospitals to refund part of the amounts paid by patients’ families as the bills had been prepared ignoring the panel’s advisories on rates and discounts. Ohio Hospital in New Town has to return Rs 1,61,864 to the family of an elderly couple who had passed away at the hospital after suffering from Covid, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson. “The hospital did not offer discounts on pharmacy products and consumables…,’ said Banerjee. “A more surprising fact is that the hospital had charged for physiotherapy when one of the patients was in ICU. How is this possible?” Nabajiban Hospital in Shyambazar has to return Rs 35,000 to the family of a 46-year-old man who was admitted with Covid and passed away. Banerjee said Nabajiban had charged more than the stipulated rate for PPE kits. Ispat Cooperative Hospital in Sonarpur has to return Rs 2.38 lakh to a patient who was admitted there with Covid. “The daily ICU charge at the hospital was Rs 60,000 and daily general bed charge was Rs 30,000. The patient was billed Rs 85,000 for doctors’ consultation for a 10-day stay. We... asked them to return Rs 2.38 lakh to the patient,” Banerjee said. Health World Hospital in Durgapur has to pay Rs 50,000 to any philanthropic organisation as penalty for not providing adequate services to an 81-year-old man, who passed away at the hospital. The man’s family said he did not get help when he had to go to the washroom and was not served food at the right time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
29-07-2021||Calcutta||Man arrested for snatching gold chains from 3 women in New Town||A 33-year-old man, Mohammad Shaban, alias Raj, was arrested for allegedly snatching gold chains from at least three women in New Town over the past couple of weeks. “Shaban and his three accomplices would ride on two motorbikes. The moment they spotted a woman walking alone, they would ride up behind her and snatch chains or any other jewellery,” said a police officer. He was produced before a court in Barasat that sent him to police custody on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
29-07-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine doses run out, 400 turned away in Bidhannagar sub-divisional hospital||A family waited for the Covid shot outside Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital for more than 11 hours on Wednesday only to be told there were no doses left for them. At least 400 men and women who had queued up outside the Salt Lake hospital during the day for their second Covid shot were turned away as the centre had run out of doses. Many of those in the queue had turned up as early as 3am and were told around noon to go home. Lake Town resident Tapan Das said he and several of his neighbours had queued up at 3am. “We had learnt that the centre was administering second doses. However, in the afternoon, hospital employees stepped out and told us they had run out of doses,” he said. Rajkumar Yadav, a Rajarhat resident, said he had joined the queue around 4.30am. Past 3.30pm, he was told he would not get the shot. “We waited for more than 11 hours and were told that there were no vaccines left and to try again later,” he said. Yadav, a driver by profession, said he wanted to take the shot at a government centre with his family of five because he could not afford to take it at a private facility. A hospital official said: “We had received around 100 doses of Covaxin and Covishield each on Wednesday. But over 500 people had queued up.” After learning that they would not be inoculated, the people in the queue started protesting. Many tried to enter the hospital by opening the collapsible gate, which had been locked. “The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has decided to administer only second doses of Covaxin and Covishield for now to ensure that no one misses out on the second jab,” said a senior official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation's health department on Wednesday. “No second dose recipient will be turned away,” he said. Officials of the civic body’s health department said they had no option but to turn people away if doses got exhausted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
29-07-2021||Calcutta||State health dept launches centre for treatment of hepatitis at RG Kar Medical College and Hospital||The state health department on Wednesday launched a centre at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital to screen, test and provide treatment for viral hepatitis. This is the second centre in Calcutta where all viral hepatitis-related services will be provided free. The other centre functions from SSKM Hospital. The College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital in Kamarhati runs a free hepatitis centre, said a senior health department official. A helpline number was also launched on Wednesday where people suffering from the disease or those who want to get tested for the disease can call. The number —7044041011 — will be operational from 10am to 5pm, Monday to Saturday. It will be operated by Liver Foundation. A screening, testing and treatment programme for the inmates of the correctional homes in the state was also launched on Wednesday. Several doctors and health services administrators called viral hepatitis "a silent killer" where the symptoms manifest very late. The common symptoms include yellowing of the skin and eye whites, diarrhea, nausea, loss of appetite, among others. But doctors advised that people who are in vulnerable group - those undergoing regular dialysis, those who suffer from thalassemia and have to undergo regular blood transfusion and those who suffer from haemophilia - must get screened for viral hepatitis. Health care workers and those who donate blood frequently too must get screened for the disease, they said. Ajay Chakraborty, the state's director of health services, said that there were 28lakh people suffering from hepatitis B in Bengal and 7 lakh suffering from hepatitis C. "Since this disease does not kill within a short time people are not that aware of its ability to impact humans. People infected with the disease have to deal with a lot of pain and suffering. Viral hepatitis is a silent killer. The disease can lead to liver cancer and cirrhosis of liver," Chakraborty said. Another doctor of the health department said that the numbers cited by Chakraborty reflected only those who have been identified as suffering from the disease. There could be lakhs of others who are yet to be identified. The website of the World Health Organisation (WHO) mentioned that it estimated "296 million people were living with chronic hepatitis B infection in 2019, with 1.5 million new infections each year" across the globe. WHO's website added that "In highly endemic areas, hepatitis B is most commonly spread from mother to child at birth (perinatal transmission) or through horizontal transmission (exposure to infected blood)". Hepatitis B also spreads by "needlestick injury, tattooing, piercing and exposure to infected blood and body fluids, such as saliva and menstrual, vaginal and seminal fluids. Transmission of the virus may also occur through the reuse of contaminated needles and syringes or sharp objects…Sexual transmission is more prevalent in unvaccinated persons with multiple sexual partners". According to the WHO, Hepatitis C, another viral hepatitis infection that can also lead to cirrhosis and cancer is transmitted primarily by "the reuse or inadequate sterilization of medical equipment, especially syringes and needles in healthcare settings; the transfusion of unscreened blood and blood products; and injecting drug use through the sharing of injection equipment". Doctors of the state health department said there was hope against both the infections. "Hepatitis C is curable while there is vaccine against Hepatitis B. We are urging people to come to the centres opened by the state government to come and undergo screening. We are conducting the tests and also providing free treatment and medicines to those diagnosed with viral hepatitis from these centres," said Pallab Bhattacharya, the state programme officer for National Viral Hepatitis Control Programme. The RG Kar clinic will remain open every Monday and Thursday, between 9am and 2pn, said Kingshuk Dhar, the head of gastroenterology at the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
29-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal tiger count in Sunderbans steady at 96||Two cyclones in successive years have failed to dislodge the Bengal tiger from its terrain, suggests a study. Experts pointed out that the numbers in the study are a proof of the famed adaptability of the Bengal tiger, which counts as home the Sunderbans, one of the most difficult terrains on the planet. The 2020-21 census shared by the Bengal administration on Wednesday, on the eve of the International Tiger Day, counted at least 96 tigers in the Indian territory of the Sunderbans. The 2019-20 census had also counted as many big cats in the Indian terrain of the mangrove delta. The state conducts a tiger census every year. The national census happens once every four years. While forest officials welcomed what they called a “stable population despite natural odds”, some of them warned that the increase in human dependence on forests because of the pandemic was a threat to a thriving tiger population. “Cyclone Amphan had left an unparalleled trail of destruction in 2020. This year, Cyclone Yaas triggered massive inundation of low-lying areas. But the tiger count has not gone down. This is a testament to the adaptability of the Sunderbans tiger,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal. The Sunderbans tigers are extremely tough because they have to survive in the inhospitable terrain. In the past two years, one tiger had to be captured from a fringe village because it was straying into human habitat. At least two tigers have died because of “natural causes”, according to the forest department. The latest number excluded cubs under the age of one year. “The Sunderbans tigers are among the toughest and most adaptable predators on the planet. They might have moved to relatively higher land during or before the storm or figured another way to survive. They can sense natural calamities,” said Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. The tigers also survived a depletion in their prey base because the two cyclones are believed to have killed many herbivore animals, said another official. The Sunderbans Tiger Reserve (STR), with its four ranges — Sajnekhali Wildlife Sanctuary, Basirhat, National Park East and National Park West — spans an area of over 2,500sq km. The tiger habitat in the South 24-Parganas division comprises Matla, Raidighi and Ramganga ranges, measuring around 1,100sq km. The latest census found 74 tigers in the STR area and 22 in the South 24-Parganas region. A total of 1,307 camera trap units were installed at 726 locations for the census, said an official. The photographs, each clicked by a pair of cameras were analysed by software capable of identifying tigers by their stripes. “The stripes of each tiger are unique. The software can identify individual tigers by their stripes,” said the official. The 2018 tiger census had pegged the number of big cats in the Sunderbans at 88, a dozen more than the findings of the last national count in 2014. A section of forest officials and wildlife activists pointed out that while it was a relief that the tiger population was stable, the picture was far from rosy. “More and more people in the Sunderbans are turning to the forests for livelihood because the pandemic has robbed them of their income. The people are illegally entering the forest creeks to catch crabs and fish, risking their lives. The intrusion has led to a spurt in human-wildlife conflict,” said a wildlife activist. Over 25 people have died in tiger attacks since March 2020, according to the forest department. “Tigers are extremely secretive animals. They avoid breeding if they sense human presence in their habitat. If the instances of people entering the forests do not come down, it will be detrimental for the breeding of tigers,” said a veteran forest official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
29-07-2021||Calcutta||State expert committee asks all labs to ramp up Covid testing||The number of daily Covid tests in Bengal has gone down from 60,000 in June to just above 40,000 now, prompting doctors to call for stepping up testing to detect cases early and contain the spread of the virus. The expert committee on Covid-19, set up by the state government, has instructed all testing labs in government hospitals and medical colleges and clinics run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to ramp up testing immediately. “Patients with complaints of diarrhoea, mild fever and persistent cough need to be screened as intensively as those complaining of sudden loss of smell and taste. We have urged all testing centres to increase the number of tests immediately,” said Gopal Krishna Dhali, who is leading a 10-member expert committee on Covid 19 in the state. “The false sense of security is misleading. The real numbers will help the state government identify any emerging trend (in the epidemic) and the health department prepare better.” According to the health department data, the number of tests for Covid-19 has slid from 60,113 on June 13 to 45,122 on July 28 — a fall by 14,991 in just about a month and a half. The fall in the number of tests, experts said, is leading to a fall in the number of reported cases and encouraging a section of the people to drop their guard from a false sense of security. This at a time when several private hospitals in the city are seeing a rise in the number of Covid patients, including those in need of intensive care. Public health experts have called the trend dangerous, particularly because a growing number of people have stopped abiding by the mask mandate and other Covid protocols. Metro reported on Wednesday about an abrupt rise in the number of Covid patients, including critical ones, being admitted to private hospitals in Calcutta. Some of the hospitals said they were planning to increase the number of critical care beds in August. Officials at testing labs in a number of government Covid hospitals, including the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and MR Bangur Hospital, said the flow of swabs had reduced drastically with patients refusing to turn up for tests. “So far most critical Covid patients in Calcutta died after being admitted to hospital. If there aren’t adequate numbers of tests, we will suddenly start recording deaths without any admission,” said Yogiraj Ray, an infectious disease specialist and a member of the expert committee. “Without tests how can doctors handle any epidemic situation?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
29-07-2021||Calcutta||At Father Stan Swamy’s prayer, call to defend falsely accused||A resolve to “weed out injustice, defend the falsely accused, speak out for the voiceless, and bring justice to the wronged” was strengthened during a prayer service for Father Stan Swamy at the Archbishop's House on Wednesday evening. Prayers for “justice and peace” were held in churches across the city at 6pm. The Archbishop of Calcutta, Thomas D’Souza, attended the prayer at Morning Star College in Barrackpore. Hymns were sung and candles were lit and in some churches Father Stan's life and work were remembered during the prayer. The 84-year-old, ailing Jesuit priest passed away while in custody after being repeatedly denied bail. His death was announced while a court was hearing his prayer for bail on health grounds. Many allege the death of Father Stan, who worked for years among some of India’s poorest of the poor, amounted to institutional murder. “Today we strengthen our resolve to stand up and weed out injustice, defend the falsely accused, speak out for the voiceless, and bring justice to the wronged for we are all brothers and sisters…. Anyone in need is our neighbour and, as Christians, we will stand with all who are wronged, treated unequally and unjustly. Thank you, Father Stan, for your inspiration,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta, who conducted the prayer at the Archbishop’s House. Father Gomes later told Metro that it was no longer enough to be “onlookers or silent observers”. It is “time for action” to fight injustice, he said. “Silence in the face of blatant injustice is cowardice,” Father Gomes said during the prayer. “Father Stan and many like him, with whom we stand in solidarity today, show us that between the pre-dominant world culture of ‘silence and/or violence’ there is a way of ‘active non-violence’.” The Jesuit Provincial of India, Reverend Stanislaus D'Souza, had on Tuesday urged people to mark July 28 as National Justice Day and to pay “deep respects” and carry forward the legacy of Father Stan. Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, described Father Stan as a “crusader of peace”. He quoted Reverend Stanislaus D’Souza at a prayer service at the college: “It (Father Stan’s death) is an opportunity for us to pause, ponder and proceed boldly on our way.” At all the services, the speakers reminded the audience that Father Stan struggled for the oppressed through legal, constitutional and peaceful means. “His (Father Stan Swamy) was a struggle for all the oppressed everywhere totally through legal, constitutional and peaceful means. He was never a proponent of violence.… In life and death he remains a crusader of peace and reconciliation following the path of Jesus. Thus he remains a model for us all for reconciliation and peace, for justice and equality, for fraternity and harmony,” said Father Savio. “We are here to pray for justice, peace, harmony, equality in the world, in India, in our place, in our hearts.” At St Xavier’s College, the prayer was organised together with St Xavier’s Collegiate School. Priests, college staff and members of St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association and Alumnorum Societas (St Xavier’s School Old Boys’ Association) joined the prayer. Father Thamacin Arulappan, the principal of St Xavier’s Collegiate School, and Father Jeyaraj Veluswamy, rector, were among those who offered their prayers. The Catholic Association of Bengal held a service at Prabhu Jessu Girja, where “candles of hope were lit”. “We pray that many other Stan Swamys are born and we carry forward what he left behind,” said Angelina Mantosh Jasnani, the president of the association. At the Archbishop’s House, Father Gomes urged people to stand up for equality and justice in small ways in the parishes. “It is applicable not only on public platforms, but that we all in our small and humble ways make a difference to the lives of those around us,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
29-07-2021||Calcutta||Dissatisfied ISC students raise objections, seek recalculation of marks ||ISC (Class XII) students in several schools have raised objections to the marks awarded to them in the board results and are applying for “dispute resolution” that will look at possible calculation errors. Many of the students who are seeking a recalculation are high scorers who are upset with their board results and feel they should have got more, school heads said. The council had cancelled this year’s ICSE and ISC exams because of the Covid pandemic and asked for the average marks of Classes XI and XII. In at least one school, students felt that those who had appeared for the pre-board exams online scored more than those who wrote the paper in school. The ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) results were published by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Saturday. Since then, several schools have received recalculation applications from students. In La Martiniere for Boys, 50 ISC students have applied for dispute resolution, about 30 in St Xavier’s Collegiate School, around 15 in Loreto House, 12-odd in Don Bosco Park Circus, about 12 in Delhi Public School New Town, 10 in Calcutta Girls’ High School,  and several in Sri Sri Academy, MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School and St James’ School. Several school heads said students were upset with maths, commerce, accounts and science subjects’ marks. Several schools are still getting applications. The last date for schools to forward the requests to the CISCE is August 1. “Since colleges are considering marks for admission and will not conduct admission tests, even one or two marks will make a big difference for students,” said Basanti Biswas, principal, Calcutta Girls’. Several teachers said good students were feeling they would have done better had the board exams been held. “Students who got very high marks (above 95) in school exams would want similar marks in the boards. They are applying (for recalculation) because their performance in the last two years have been considered in the absence of exams,” said Sonali Sen, principal, Delhi Public School New Town. “The above-average students who appeared in offline exams (pre-boards) have applied (for recalculation of marks). They are looking at the marks of students who appeared in online exams and feel they deserve better scores,” said Father Thamacin Arulappan, principal, St Xavier’s Collegiate School. The council has given students the option of dispute resolution — if a candidate has objections regarding the “computation of marks”, he or she can send a written application to the school. The council had asked schools to review all such applications and forward them to the CISCE with their comments and supporting documents only if they were satisfied with the contentions. The dispute mechanism is “only for the correction of calculation errors,” the council had said. “When we receive an application we simply do not recommend (it to the council). We do so only after studying the request. The requests have come from above-average students whose marks have dipped in some subjects,” said John Stephen, acting principal, La Martiniere for Boys. The council has also given students the provision to apply for improvement exams by August 1. The exams will be held in August or September, subject to the “prevailing conditions in the country at the time”. “We have more students wanting to appear for improvement exams (compared to dispute resolution). Our children study hard in the last leg and because our assessment is strict, they score more in the boards than what they score in internal exams, which is why they want an improvement exam,” said Father Bikash Mondal, principal, Don Bosco Park Circus. Parents are also making inquiries about when the improvement exams will be held because of the fear of rise in Covid infection. They are worried that if the Covid situation worsens, it would be difficult for the students to sit for physical exams. “It is a valid query from the parents and we are in touch with the council. But as of now they could apply if they want to appear for improvement exams,” said Suvina Shunglu, principal, Sri Sri Academy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
