30-07-2021||Calcutta||Mili Dutta's garden has kept her busy, peaceful and hopeful during the pandemic||Mili Dutta’s flat has one of the most beautiful views of the township — her veranda oversees the Metro viaduct. But then daily commuters using the Metro may just as eagerly be waiting to pass her home too. For even a fleeting glance of her colourful flowers and shapely foliage can brighten their day. My forte and my pride are my Orchids. In winter, I grow Petunias and Chrysanthemums, in summers I have Alamondas and cacti but rare and difficult-to grow Orchids blooms in my balcony round the year. My fascination with these flowers began when I visited Thailand some 15 years ago. I saw and loved the Orchids there so much that I brought some home. My husband would keep going back for work and kept getting more varieties of Orchids to add to our collection. Back then, Orchids were rare in Calcutta and so I had enquired about their upkeep in Thailand itself. I watered them carefully, added coconut husks and can proudly say that every one of them thrived in my verandah. Ironically, it’s Orchids that I got from Kalimpong that died! I also grow Oranges that bear tons of fruits. They aren’t too sweet and so we’d let them stay on the branches till they dried up and fell off. But last winter, my husband decided to eat them after all. He ate them daily and it must have been a chore as a single plant this time bore more than 100 Oranges. I had entered this plant in a flower show too. The rules required a minimum of two pots but I didn’t know that and had taken that single plant. Even then the judges were so impressed they gave me a special prize for it! I was pleased and asked them to start a new category for Orchids so I could present my specialities. The plants attract different kinds of birds, butterflies and, in the pre-Covid era, even neighbours who would join me for tea in the balcony. My daughter and husband love plants too although my husband prefers clicking their photographs more. Even if a pumpkin or bitter gourd starts growing, he documents them at every stage of growth. The pandemic has hit my family hard and I have lost many relatives to it. But I have been able to overcome the losses and much of the credit goes to the garden that keeps me busy, peaceful and hopeful. If you have a garden you tend to yourself, send your address and contact number to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Forest festival week: Gift from Bidhannagar Horticultural Society||It was a tough to call to take, since most of the members of Bidhannagar Horticultural Society are senior citizens. “But then we asked members to vote and 90 per cent wanted a Forest Week celebration after all,” said secretary Arijit Poddar. “We couldn’t hold it last year and everyone missed it sorely.” So on July 18, a sapling distribution ceremony was held in the open air parking space of an AD Block building where member Saumitra Maiti lives. Members had been asked to send the organisers their choice of plants and so the distribution was simpler and faster. To maintain Covid protocol, members were encouraged to pick up their saplings and leave without crowding. More than 100 members showed up and they were given four saplings each. “We gave expensive items like Roses and rare plants like Biliti Dhone Pata, spices like pepper and cardamom and even fruits like Banana and Lemons. “I’ve placed a request for Hibiscus, Jhumkolata, Gondhoraj Lebu and Adenium,” smiled Ratna Saha of HB Block. “Those who are passionate about plants wait for this occasion the whole year. We are always excited to add to our collection. I’m glad the organisers managed to pull it off despite the pandemic.” She also arranged to meet and exchange home-grown Lilies there with Kalyani Kundu, another member she met on the society’s WhatsApp group. The society also gifted 60 saplings to a bamboo garden that has come up in New Town. “It’s for a good cause and so we’re gifting them 30 Bamboos, 15 Rangans and 15 Lantenas. Nayan Mitra, founder director of Sustainable Advancements, the company that is looking after the BE Block plot in New Town, drove away that day with a car full of greenery. “It means a lot to have this society help us and join our efforts to increase the greenery and oxygen around us. The more the stakeholders, the greater the ripple effect,” she said. Over a 100 saplings each were distributed from the AA Block community hall and from outside BD Market recently. The drive was organised by Ward 41 along with the block associations.  The state lost a huge number of trees during the Amphan cyclone last year and we have to try and plant enough new trees to replace the lost ones,” said ward co-ordinator Ratna Bhaumik. Fruit and flowering trees like Lemon, Amla, Guava and Hibiscus were given out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Green drives mark forest festival week ||It’s not just residents who care about the environment; shopkeepers did their bit to spread greenery too. The traders of IA Market held a week-long drive. The first day of the event was graced by chief guests MLA and minister Sujit Bose, chairperson, board of administrators of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Krishna Chakraborty and ward co-ordinator Minu Das Chakraborty but other eminent personalities were invited the rest of the week. “We distributed 10 trees from the market for seven days, on a first-come first-serve basis,” said Rishiraj Ghosh, secretary of Bidhan Nagar IA Market Traders’ Association. “Interested customers were given coupons and asked to collect them at a designated time to avoid crowding.” They also launched a mobile campaign on one of their friends’ cars. The bright red car had banners all over, bearing afforestation messages and it was driven around the township the rest of the week. Audio messages were played from a loudspeaker in the car. “One needs lots of permissions to fell trees but none to plant. So we wanted to inspire people to plant as many trees as possible,” said Ghosh. The shopkeepers will be planting trees themselves as a long-term project but want to carefully choose the spots so they can nurture them to maturity. The project was held in collaboration with the East Point Organisation for Social Development, a Kestopur-based group that many IA Market traders are associated with. More Bon Mahotsav week coverage in the next edition of Branching Out||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp in Covid times||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||New containment zones on list, but barricades not in all||At least three new micro-containment zones have been marked in different blocks of Salt Lake by the district administration on July 25, taking the total number of containment zones in the planned area of Salt Lake to 11. But although a flat has been earmarked as a micro-containment zone in Sraboni Abasan, no traffic guardrails or policemen were spotted there as is the case in most other addresses housing Covid-positive patients across Salt Lake. The housing complex has high-ranking government officials as residents. Neighbours alleged that in the absence of barricades, the contained residents were freely moving out. When this irregularity was pointed out by The Telegraph Salt Lake, an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said guardrails were not placed in front of the apartment as all the residents were government officials who needed to step out for important work. “Blocking the entry is going to create a hindrance for them,” said the official, his response putting a question mark against the very concept of a micro-containment zone. Incidentally, when a family tested Covid positive some weeks ago in D Block of Labony Abasan, the building entrance was barricaded with guard rails tied to bamboo poles. The barricade was removed after 21 days. Apart from Sraboni Abasan, a house in DA Block has got added to the list after several members of the same family tested positive for Covid-19. “We have given the residents our contact numbers so that they can get in touch with us for essentials as well as medical emergencies. We have asked them not to step out,” said the official. A flat in EE Block and a house in AH Block have also been identified as fresh containment areas. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) area has still the highest number of micro containment zones in North 24-Parganas with 18, while Barasat comes second with 11. There are seven zones in Habra and Khardah Municipality has five. Rajarhat block has three along with Kamarhati Municipality. As of now, Covid numbers in the BMC area are low. Around eight to 15 new cases are being reported on an average every day, and there have been no Covid-related deaths reported in the past week, officials said. Should a micro-containment zone be barricaded even if it is an apartment block?Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Door-to-door scan for unvaccinated residents||A door-to-door survey is on by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to compile data on residents of its 41 wards and determine how many residents have yet to receive the first jab of the Covid-19 vaccine. According to an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, the drive has already started and in Salt Lake civic teams are visiting different blocks in all three sectors of the township. The drive is being conducted so that the civic body has concrete figures on the number of unvaccinated residents across all age groups. “We shall then send in a request for the specific number of doses required to the state health department. As it is, we are getting limited quantity of vaccines and our centres are finding it tough to deal with the number of people walking into health centres to get the shots,” the official said. An official of the civic body’s health department said the corporation-run clinic and several camps organised across wards have administered around 80,000 shots. These figures are inclusive of both the first and second doses. An official of the Bidhannagar sub-divisional hospital said they, on the other hand, have administered around 50,000 shots since the vaccine drive began and that the figure includes regular residents as well as special categories like polling personnel and police. The civic official said that this, combined with the doses given by private hospitals, takes the figure up to nearly 2.8 lakh vaccines to have already been administered. “However the figures also include those who are not residents of any ward of the civic body but have taken their shots here,” the official added. Apart from the figures collected by the civic body, several blocks in Salt Lake had tied up with private hospitals and conducted paid vaccination camps at community halls. Most of the primary health centres had to be shut due to shortage of vaccines, but BMC officials said they had been vaccinating frontline workers, hawkers and street vendors, and several wards had been organising vaccination camps to administer the second dose. Jabs at home Some councillors are also drawing up lists of residents who need jabs at their doorstep, even though there has not been any formal notice about conducting these. Neelanjana Manna, co-ordinator of Ward 33, says about 300 people in her ward are still in need of the first dose. “I have appealed for more camps in my area as there are domestic helps, drivers and the like who would benefit from free vaccines. There is also a need for jabs at the doorstep for residents who are immobile and unable to reach camps at community halls,” she said. Collecting this information would require co-operation from block committees. “This is because neither are the aged tech savvy enough to register themselves for any such online surveys nor would they like it if we showed up at their doorsteps when a contagious infection like Covid is raging. “A head count of immobile residents will be tough but we have to do it,” Manna said. Tulsi Sinha Roy is ready with her homework. “There are two residents in my ward – a lady in Labony Estate and another in CD Block – who are immobile due to their advanced age. Several vaccination camps have been held in my area but these ladies will not be able to go over. We have to provide them vaccination at home and I have already informed the corporation’s health department about it.” The chairperson of the board of the corporation’s administrators, Krishna Chakraborty, admits to the need for such a service, “but we cannot go outside the purview of the rules set by the government. As and when such a facility is allowed we shall go ahead with vaccination at home,” she said. Are you facing problems getting vaccinated in Salt Lake or New Town? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||15 minutes daily in the sun||After more than a year of hiding behind four walls, residents, it appears, are suffering from Vitamin D deficiency. This was an observation by Soham Mandal, consultant orthopaedic surgeon, at a free orthopaedic camp held at CK-CL Block community hall on July 24. “Indians as it is tend to suffer from low calcium and Vitamin D levels in their bodies and the lockdowns have further reduced their exposure to the sun. So I’m not surprised that the most common ailments I’m getting today are knee and lower back pains. They are all related,” said the doctor who practises at AMRI Salt Lake among other hospitals. At least 15 minutes of daily exposure to the sun was necessary. “It can be at any time of the day while the sun is up but it is best if the back and arms are exposed,” Mandal said. The camp was organised by Rotary Club of Calcutta Universe and over 100 people had come to get themselves screened. Some patients came with old X-rays and prescriptions, some came with new complaints and a few just for a check-up. “Check-ups are particularly important for women, as they tend to get osteoporosis after 60 years of age. But 60 is too late to start medication. They need to consult a doctor at 40 and get their vitamin D and bone mineral density (BMD) levels tested. A BMD test is used to measure the levels of calcium and other minerals in one’s bones. If the levels are found to be low, calcium supplements can be started before osteoporosis sets in,” said the doctor. While a healthy diet devoid of junk food and comprising milk and eggs was recommended, Mandal said they might not be enough to prevent deficiencies. “This is why such camps are all the more necessary so doctors can be consulted.” The camp was attended by MLA and minister Sujit Bose and chairperson of the board of the administrators, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Krishna Chakraborty. “I used to play football and cricket back in the day and know how crippling leg pain can be,” said Bose. “It’s commendable that this organisation is providing help to those in pain and that too for free.” Chakraborty cited how common it was to see grandmothers suffering from arthritis and commended the group on their effort to help the needy. “Indeed, many of our well-wishers were informed about today’s camp but they were forced to wish us success from home. They could not come as they are immobile from leg pain,” said president of Rotary Club of Calcutta Universe, Digbijoy Chakraborty. “We want to change this with awareness. We also want to hold health camps in different disciplines over time.” The vice-president of the club, Shanti Ranjan Paul, is also secretary of Bidhannagar CK-CL Block Residents’ Association. The camp took place at the block’s community centre. “It was a win-win situation for me. As I am well acquainted with my block residents, many of them could avail of this facility and the club too fulfiled its motive of serving a good number of people,” he said. Besides doctor’s consultation, a BMI machine brought in by the organisers aroused curiosity. A person had to stand on the machine, that looked like a weighing scale, and hold out a handle, that was attached to it, at arm’s length. The machine then did the math and revealed the person’s BMI (Body Mass Index), body fat percentage, resting metabolism and “body age”. “My body age came 13 years older than my biological age,” said Tapash Sen, of CL Block. “I also have some sports injuries from my childhood, that I neglected. They bother me now. But these tests have been a wake-up call for me and I shall carry out the tests that the orthopaedic advised me today and follow up with treatment.” Some medical representatives also distributed common medicines that the doctors prescribed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Tribute to Bards over three evenings||• New Town-based cultural group Sanskriti hosted a three-day online Rabindra-Nazruljayanti with participants from across the township. The show began with an inaugural group song Mahabiswe mahakashe led by Sunita Dasgupta and Kanika Dey. Bani Das narrated the childhood of Tagore and his Totakahini was enacted by children like Hridhhiman Sarkar, Harsha Biswas and Archita Biswas. It was directed by Madhumita Sarkar and Sunita Dasgupta. Nazrul’s Rajbondir Jabanbondi was presented by Srabanti Biswas, Nupur Gupta and Dhuryoti Gupta. A dance-recitation collage, titled “Rabindra Nazrul bhabnay nari”, was compiled and narrated by Bedasree Ghosh while others sang and danced along. “Tagore’s initial women characters in works like Sonar Badhan and Manasi were conservative but this changed in later works like Chitrangada and Strir Patra,” she explained. “Nazrul, throughout his life, wrote of equality as seen in the poem Samyobadi.” The first day’s events were co-ordinated by Sunita Dasgupta and the highlight of the second day was Tagore’s Dui Pakhi, about the conversation between a free and a caged bird. Madhura Adak of Class I danced to Kothao amar hariye jabar while her brother Bibhore and cousin Shoutrik Mitra essayed the roles of the caged and free birds respectively. “We rehearsed so much that my voice cracked during the show!” Shoutrik confessed later. The same day Lichuchor was enacted by tots Krisav Makar and Rayan Mondal and a collage titled “Sadhre ajike praner sadhan” was presented with recitation by Biswas and Nafisa Yasmin, and dance by Asmita Biswas, Shree Mukherjee, Rupanjana Sarkar etc. Sakhi bhalobasa kare koi, on different shades of love, had recitation by  Hasi Dutta, Biswas, Yasmin and dance by Sanghamitra Banerjee, Paromita Mullick etc. More music was presented by Gouri Chatterjee, Subrata Nandi, Rina Roy and others. The third day began with a chorus of the Nazrulgeeti Anjali laho mor sangeete by Mithu Das, Madhumita Sarkar and Mithu Roy while Ushasi Nandi presented Amar hiyar majhe with narration and visuals of landmark moments of Tagore’s lives. Krishnendu Kishore Biswas recited self-composed poems on both the bards  and a chorus of Akash bhara surjo tara was presented by Aparna Biswas, Sumita Mondal, Swapna Mondal etc. Child artist Anish Raha played the harmonium and sang Nazrul’s Tumi amar sakalbelar phool. Piyali Dasgupta, an elderly member of the group, danced to Tumi robey nirobe. “I used to dance long back and am feeling very happy that I could perform today,” she later said. The show concluded with the presentation titled Rituranga, an array of colourful dances on seasons. The narration was by Bedasree Ghosh to the dance of Ayesha Chowdhury, Sushmita Seal, Biswas Manali and others. The concept of the show was by Biswas and Sharmila De had edited and clubbed all the performances together using video clips that were sent to her beforehand. “The main objective behind this show was to accommodate as many participants as possible. People are depressed because of the pandemic and an online show gives them the chance to perform something,” said Biswas, who also anchored the show. If you want to get a programme featured in this column, write in to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta - 700001 or call 22600115 on  Wednesday evening or e-mail to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Facebook group to promote local mart||In a pandemic-hit world where customers are shifting online, a community market in New Town has climbed onto the social media bandwagon in a bid to catch eyeballs. A public group, called CB Market, has been created on Facebook which has already garnered close to 300 members. It has regular posts on various shops and their products on display for the day, from fruits, vegetables and fish to items of home decor and hair cutting. The group was floated by Biplab Pandit who owns the Decona interior designing and furniture store on the ground floor. “CB Market in Action Area 1 is the most popular of the 10 community markets run by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority. But amid the pandemic, footfall is taking a hit because of the increased tendency of residents to buy things online. The rise in the number of vegetable cycle van sellers parking in the streets nearby is also stopping residents from stepping in. This is hurting stall owners like us who have paid lakhs to the NKDA,” said Pandit. The group, he hopes, will increase awareness about the variety of products and services available in the market across its two floors. “There are 40 shops that are open, including a ladies tailor and a hair-cutting salon . But even those who come are used to visiting just one or two stalls. They don’t even know what is selling in the shop next door, leave alone on a different floor,” he pointed out. The other purpose would be to provide visual enticement for buyers. “A picture of the morning’s fresh catch at the fishmonger’s usually gets good response and translates to orders.” Though Pandit himself has a furniture store, he gets his shop attendant Manas Maity to take pictures of other stalls and post in the group. “If I have to succeed, I need more people to visit this market. That is why I am taking the trouble to publicise products sold at other stalls too. Many of the fruit or vegetable sellers do not have a smart phone or are unaware of the benefits of social media. If there is no immediate impact, they give up,” said the youth who has an MBA degree. It is for the same purpose that he is offering services like air-conditioner, geyser and chimney maintenance. “There is hardly any profit in these services but they serve to increase my shop’s popularity,” he added. The group is gaining in popularity. While it had 119 members at the start of the month, the number rose to 287 on July 28. Manotosh Mondal, who owns multiple stalls at the market selling fruits, vegetables and meat, is happy that the Facebook group has been created. “I used to offer home delivery services from earlier. I am getting more calls now to deliver at doorsteps, especially after the morning’s display of fish is posted. Many of the callers ask for items that I do not sell. But if it is something simple like a packet of biscuits or so, I get it picked up from another shop and send it across simply to help the caller,” he said. But there are irritants too. Some ask for the day’s rate in the comment section, expecting an instant reply. “We expect them to come to the market to buy whatever they want, so why ask for the rates from home? Is it to compare with online delivery rates?” a fish monger exclaimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Pandemic push to elders’ tech skills||A year and a half ago, the high point of their birthdays would be a phone call from children and grandchildren living abroad. Now their birthdays are incomplete without a video chat on Zoom with 50 relatives from around the world. Video conferencing has always been around but it took a pandemic to get senior citizens to use them. Many of them have shed inhibitions and self-doubt and are experimenting with technology. They are paying bills online, tuning into religious shows on YouTube, watching serials on OTT platforms and performing at cultural programmes virtually. First smart phone Maushumi Basu of BE Block got her first smart phone during the pandemic. “My son gifted it to me and our caretaker taught me how to use it. I never felt the need for this gadget before but now I realise how bored I would have been without it during the lockdown,” says the lady who is as comfortable using WhatsApp as she is shopping for home decor items online. Her husband hasn’t warmed up to the device but he listens to classical music with her when she plays it on YouTube. Rina Chandra decided to get a smart phone during the pandemic too. “Every one had one in hand except me! I was beginning to feel backdated,” smiles the septuagenarian of BD Block who still drives herself around. Chandra has now joined the WhatsApp group of the horticultural society she is a member of and browses YouTube to learn more about growing plants. “I’m still no expert at using the phone but there’s no one to teach me. One of these days I’ll devote an entire day to giving myself a crash course on it. Winds of change “In just a year senior citizens have become more open to technology. Previously they would dismiss anything new saying they wouldn’t be able to use it but now at least they are trying,” says Sharmistha Sen Das who runs Paritosh Sen Memorial Elderly Care Society. After the lockdown last year, she started a WhatsApp group for members and started encouraging them to share songs, recitations and hold discussions on various festivals. This was a substitute of the monthly meetings they would have before the pandemic. “I had to individually call up members and direct them on how to use the app and in the first few video conferences someone’s audio or video elements went missing but now they have become experts,” says Sen Das. But there are many, she says, who do not use smart phone or still need help in getting registered on the CoWin app for their vaccines. Sutapa Majumdar used to teach music to other senior citizens at Swapno Bhor till the pandemic struck. “When the lockdown happened, I retreated into a shell. Students kept asking me to teach them online but I would refuse. I had neither conducted such classes before nor was I interested in the idea. I knew I wouldn’t be satisfied without seeing the students’ faces up close,” says the lady who kept resisting for months. In August, she finally decided to try out a class on a WhatsApp group with seven students and it turned out to be better than she expected. “Now I hold four such group classes and students are joining even from Mumbai and Pune. I’ve got a fresh lease of life thanks to online classes,” Majumdar smiles. Serial to spiritual Basu has given up television and watches shows on OTT platforms at her preferred time slots. Avijit Chaudhury is attending his Buddhist meetings and chanting mantras virtually. “It’s not rocket science. With my basic knowledge of smart phones I downloaded Zoom in the beginning of the lockdown and now attend everything from spiritual classes to annual general meetings on it. My wife Anuradha listens to Hemanta Mukherjee songs on YouTube while cooking,” says the CK Block resident. Majumdar was not too Net savvy last Durga puja but this time she plans to watch live streaming of Chandipath and rituals from maths. Age no bar IB Block’s nonagenarian Chandrasekhar Bose has had a smart phone for the past few years but only got time to explore it during the pandemic. He recorded a video speech of over half an hour duration on it that was shared at an online event last year and he has been added to so many WhatsApp groups that he barely has time to read all the messages now. EC Block’s Mihir Kumar Chatterjee celebrated his 100th recently with 50 relatives on a two hour-long Zoom call. While he doesn’t use a smart phone himself, he was helped by a neighbour’s son who lent his laptop for the needful. Learning curve Sithi Kana Ghatak admits that two or three-year-olds these days are adept at using smart phones. “But we senior citizens take longer to pick up. Our block is full of retired people and naturally, there was an initial resistance when I suggested virtual programmes,” says the convenor of New Town CD’s Block’s cultural association. But Ghatak’s daughter and other youths helped the elderly to download the necessary apps. “We try to hold as many events as possible to keep them engaged and now virtual meets are a piece of cake for them. We have even performed virtual audio dramas that were aired on Radio New Town Ghatak,” she says the lady who has started two Facebook pages recently. Neighbours, children, grandchildren, caretakers have all played important roles in empowering the elderly. “Our children can get impatient if we take time to learn these things,” says Sonali Basak of DB Block. Basak has spearheaded many a virtual cultural show for her ladies group Gulabi Gang. “In such cases I tell my friends they cannot give up. When our kids were little we too took pains to teach them the alphabet and now the roles have reversed.” If newcomers to their group fail to understand the technology she asks them to go over to the nearest fellow member’s house and learn. “But what I’m clear about is that no one dare say ‘amar daara hobe na’. If I can do it, they can do it,” says the lady who learnt Zoom and Skype from her son-in-law and Facebook Live from a friend’s son. “Even if we don’t join Tik Tok or Instagram, video conferencing, WhatsApp and Facebook are basics that we must all know lest we fall behind.” Dilip Syam stays busy enough with WhatsApp and so has not ventured into Facebook but he is grateful to the platform as his daughter used it to locate his long lost friend. “Now we have video conferences with friends from Salt Lake, New Town, Mumbai and London whenever we miss one another,” smiles the resident of Sanjeeva Town Bunglow Estate. Shopping online For Kali Prasad Saha online shopping was a way out of ennui during the lockdown. “I have a green thumb but wasn’t being able to step out of home to buy plants or fertilisers,” says the resident of New Town’s CE Block. “Then one day I clicked an ad on Facebook and it took to a lovely site for plants.” Soon Saha was buying plants and supplies online. “Since cash on delivery wasn’t available for purchases under Rs 2,000 I started paying online too,” he says. “The system is so convenient now that I shop online very often now.” Basu says her children were reluctant to let her shop online, saying she may click something wrong. “But with time I’ve become an expert shopper. Everyone loves my choice and I sniff out the best deals,” smiles the lady who has been buying plants, bottles, bed covers et al. Ditto with Basak, who is shopping online so much that her children are teasing her about it. “I share my birthday with my elder daughter who lives in Bangalore and this year she sent me a garment steamer and I too sent her a microwave that I bought online! I’m so happy I could do it on my own,” she beams with pride. Basak’s younger daughter lives in New Town and keeps dropping by. “I could easily hand her gifts but the excitement of shopping online is such that I prefer sending them directly to her. Why, the other day I sent her a sil nora,” says the lady who also teaches dance online. But many like Chandra refuse to buy things without the touch-and-feel experience. Fruits, vegetables and groceries are available on the Net too but many elderly citizens said they get the convenience of home delivery from cycle carts that go door-to-door these days. Cyber alert Many senior citizens refrain from online payments too. “We don’t have debit or credit cards,” says Majumdar. “During the lockdown we would request youths in the neighbourhood to encash cheques for us. As for bills, our son pays them online from Bangalore. My husband and I do not want to dabble with online payment as we aren’t familiar with it. What if we click something wrong?” Syam has switched to online bill payments but is always alert. “A friend of mine lost Rs 1.5 lakh through cybercrime. We elderly are a more trusting breed and hence susceptible to these,” he says. Basak now pays bills online, transfers money online, uses mobile wallets…. “With practice I have become confident and don’t need anyone to help me make these payments anymore,” says the lady who lives alone in DB Block. “If there is one positive about the pandemic, it is that it has made us independent.” Learning curve Sithi Kana Ghatak admits that two or three-year-olds these days are adept at using smart phones. “But we senior citizens take longer to pick such things up. Our block is full of retired people and naturally, there was an initial resistance when I suggested virtual programmes,” says the convenor of New Town CD’s Block’s cultural association. But Ghatak’s daughter and other youths helped the elderly download the necessary apps. “We try to hold as many events as possible to keep them engaged and now virtual meets are a piece of cake for them. We have even performed virtual audio dramas that were aired on Radio New Town,” she says the lady who has started two Facebook pages recently. Neighbours, children, grandchildren, caretakers have all played important roles in empowering the elderly. “Our children can get impatient if we take time to learn these things,” says Sonali Basak of DB Block. Basak has spearheaded many a virtual cultural show for her ladies group Gulabi Gang. “In such cases, I tell my friends they cannot give up. When our kids were little we too took pains to teach them the alphabet and now the roles have reversed.” If newcomers to their group fail to understand the technology, she asks them to go over to the nearest fellow member’s house and learn. “But what I’m clear about is that no one dare say ‘amar dwara hobe na’. If I can do it, they can do it too,” says the lady who learnt how to Zoom and Skype from her son-in-law and Facebook Live from a friend’s son. “Even if we don’t join Tik Tok or Instagram, video conferencing, WhatsApp and Facebook are basics that we must all know lest we fall behind.” Dilip Syam stays busy enough with WhatsApp and so has not ventured into Facebook but he is grateful to the platform as his daughter used it to locate his long-lost friend. “Now we have video conferences with friends from Salt Lake, New Town, Mumbai and London whenever we miss one another,” smiles the resident of Sanjeeva Town The Bungalow Estate. Shopping online For Kali Prasad Saha, online shopping was a way out of ennui during the lockdown. “I have a green thumb but wasn’t being able to step out of home to buy plants or fertilisers,” says the resident of New Town’s CE Block. “Then one day I clicked on an ad on Facebook and it took me to a lovely site for plants.” Soon Saha was buying plants and supplies online. “Since cash on delivery wasn’t available for purchases under Rs 2,000, I started paying online too,” he says. “The system is so convenient that I shop online very often now.” Basu says her children were reluctant to let her shop online, saying she might click something wrong. “But with time I’ve become an expert shopper. Everyone loves my choice and I sniff out the best deals,” smiles the lady who has been buying plants, bottles, bed covers et al. Ditto with Basak, who is shopping online so much that her children are teasing her about it. “I share my birthday with my elder daughter who lives in Bangalore and this year she sent me a garment steamer and I too sent her a microwave that I bought online! I’m so happy I could do it on my own,” she beams with pride. Basak’s younger daughter lives in New Town and keeps dropping by. “I could easily hand her gifts but the excitement of shopping online is such that I prefer sending them directly to her. Why, the other day I sent her a sil nora,” says the lady who also takes dance classes online. But many like Chandra refuse to buy things without the touch-and-feel experience. Fruits, vegetables and groceries are available on the Net too but many elderly citizens said they get the convenience of home delivery from cycle carts that go door-to-door these days. Cyber alert Many senior citizens refrain from online payments too. “We don’t have debit or credit cards,” says Majumdar. “During the lockdown we would request youths in the neighbourhood to encash cheques for us. As for bills, our son pays them online from Bangalore. My husband and I do not want to dabble with online payment as we aren’t familiar with the process. What if we click something wrong?” Syam has switched to online bill payments but is always alert. “A friend of mine lost Rs 1.5 lakh through cyber crime. We elderly are a more trusting breed and hence susceptible to these frauds,” he says. Basak now pays bills online, transfers money online, uses mobile wallets... “With practice, I have become confident and don’t need anyone to help me make these payments anymore,” says the lady who lives alone in DB Block. “If there is one positive about the pandemic, it is that it has made us independent.” Have you or any senior citizen you know picked up technological skills in recent times? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Vehicle late fines waived till end of the year in Bengal||The state government said on Thursday late fines would not be charged for failing to renew driving licence, road permit, fitness test certificate and learner’s licence till December 31. The late fine for not renewing permits could be up to Rs 5,000 a year and that for not taking a fitness test could cost a vehicle’s owner Rs 18,000 a year. For several bus and minibus owners the waiver comes as a shot in the arm since running a vehicle without a valid fitness certificate would otherwise invite a fine of Rs 5,000, police said. “The fine for running a bus or a minibus without a valid fitness certificate for a second time is Rs 10,000,” said Sajal Maity, a private bus owner from Kidderpore. “Most bus operators failed to get their vehicles tested because of lack of funds.” Earlier this month, the government had announced a waiver of road tax for transport vehicles till December.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government vetoes Jadavpur University screening proposal||The education department has struck down Jadavpur University’s proposal to screen students for admission to undergraduate science courses based on plusII marks and online interviews/group discussions. The government has asked all colleges and universities to screen students based on plusII marks only. JU vicechancellor Suranjan Das had written to the department last Friday, seeking the government’s opinion on the screening proposal. A letter addressed to Das and signed by a special secretary of the department on July 28 says: “With reference to your… dated 23.07.21 on the above mentioned subject, I am directed to request you to kindly follow this office memorandum No… dated 13.07.21. In connection with other points as mentioned in the letter, which have not been covered in those two memorandums, I am directed to request you to follow the existing norms”. The VC declined to comment. The university’s admission committee that met on July 16 resolved 20 per cent weightage be given to online group discussion/viva voce “to select candidates from a long list of candidates who had got same numbers in the subjects of the previous examinations passed”. The committee was of the view: “university must be allowed a bit of autonomy to select quality candidates with natural inclination and inclination to study a particular subject”. Partha Pratim Roy, an associate professor of the physics department, who is also the secretary of the teachers’ association, said the department curbed the autonomy of the university by rejecting the proposal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Celebrating Jesuit service to society through education||Rev Fr Dominic Savio SJ, the principal of St Xavier’s College (Autonomous), writes  on St Ignatius of Loyola  and the service rendered by the Society of Jesus, which he had founded. The feast of St Ignatius is celebrated on July 31 and 2021 is the 500th year of the Cannonball Moment in his life. July 31 every year marks the celebration of the Feast of St Ignatius of Loyola, the founder of the Society of Jesus. Ignatius was reared to be a courtier in the service of the Crown. His desire was to win fame as a soldier of great valour. Sensual, proud, belligerent, he was the typical self-seeking young man of his time. Then an incident took place that transformed his life totally. It is known as the Cannonball Moment and it took place on May 20, 1521. This year, we are celebrating the Ignatian Year to commemorate the 500th year of the Cannonball Moment in the life of St Ignatius. The Spanish and the French were fighting for the control of Pamplona in north-eastern Spain. Ignatius led a band of Spanish troops who were ready to surrender. Only Ignatius continued to hold off the French until a French cannonball shattered his right leg. With his fall, the battle ended. The Spanish troops surrendered. But the French army, admiring the valour of Ignatius, instead of imprisoning him, carried him back to his castle in Loyola about 100km away. There his condition worsened. His leg had been set wrong. He had his leg broken and set again. The surgery was excruciating but he endured it. During his convalescence, he wanted books to read, but instead of the chivalric romances he had asked for, he was given the Life of Christ and Lives of Saints. Overcoming his initial dislike, he was overwhelmed by the exploits of the Saints and thought they were worth imitating. This was the beginning of his transformation. He decided not to serve earthly kings any more, but to serve only the Heavenly King, as he felt God’s immense and unconditional love transforming him. God gave him a New Vision. Instead of self-seeking, he decided to seek what God wanted of him. It was to love and serve God in all things and in all persons. His values, thoughts and actions changed. This was his real transformation and it eventually led to the birth of the Society of Jesus or the Jesuits in 1540. Over the next 20 years, from 1521, Ignatius went through many deep spiritual experiences as he tried to serve and bring people closer to God. He spent about 11 years in Spain and Paris studying to become a priest. At the University of Paris he had six committed companions who, motivated by him, were also deeply transformed to love and serve God. With them, Ignatius formed The Society of Jesus (S.J.) or the Jesuits in 1540. Himself transformed, Ignatius transformed many others who in turn brought immense spiritual transformation throughout Europe and Asia of that time. One of them was Francis Xavier. He came to India in 1542 and preached the message to love and serve God in our brothers and sisters. At great personal risk, he also zealously carried this message to South-east Asia and Japan. His sacred body is now preserved in the Church of Bom Jesus in Goa. For the last 480 years, the Jesuits, their associates and their students have continued this mission of service to all. It is sustained through our commitment to social uplift and justice for the downtrodden, the poor, the landless and displaced, the marginalised, and to spirituality that brings people closer to Nature and to God. This mission, consciously responsive to contemporary needs, empowers the Jesuits to become “Men for Others”, and their associates and students to become “Men and Women for Others”. The success of the mission has been achieved in many ways, most importantly, through Education with emphasis on Education for the poor, the oppressed and indigenous peoples as that has always played a pivotal role in the transformation of society. Jesuits are the first religious group to operate schools, colleges and universities as a principal and distinct service. When Ignatius died in 1556, the Jesuits were already operating a network of 74 schools and colleges on three continents. Today, our service to society through Education spans the globe. In India, the Jesuits run 839 Schools, and 61 Higher Education Institutions, including universities, autonomous and non-autonomous colleges, research centres, management institutes, BEd colleges, engineering and law colleges, and colleges of theology and philosophy. As we grow into the future, we look back for inspiration. That is why on this 500th year of commemoration of that Transforming Cannonball Moment, we go back to the Vision given by God to Ignatius to love and serve Him in all. Re-living that moment will revive, inspire and challenge us to love and serve all in this Ignatian year so that we too will see all persons and things new in God, as Ignatius did. This Jesuit love and service for God in all brothers and sisters has now been prioritised in the New Vision which focuses on four spheres, called Universal Apostolic Preferences: to care for Mother Earth; to accompany the young and students in the creation of a hope-filled future; to walk with the poor, marginalised, displaced, in a mission of reconciliation and justice; to transform people through spiritual means, so that we all love and serve God in our brothers and sisters. In this context, this is what our Superior General Rev Father Arturo Sosa, S.J. has said: “This Ignatian year offers us a great opportunity. It is a call to allow God to work on our Transformation. We ask for the grace to be renewed by God. We wish to discover a new enthusiasm inside ourselves; a new life, a new way to follow God. That is why our theme for the year: to see all things new in God. The whole year we will be guided by this New Vision, the Four  Universal Apostolic Preferences,  for transformation for each  of us, for our communities, our institutions and all our works. We ask for God’s Grace of a real change in our day to day life-mission. I specially address our companions and associates in this mission, the ordinary people, religious and those from other beliefs or human convictions, who participate in the same struggle. Many of you feel a deep commitment to this inspiration. I thank God for that grace and I thank each of you for your enthusiasm and closeness. To young people and students I say: We want to learn to accompany you. We want to learn from you. Each one of you is unique, born with a special purpose. Ignatius struggled to discover the meaning of his life. In him you can find inspiration as you struggle to make your life meaningful and as you ask how you can contribute to building a better world, where the dignity of people is respected and where you live in a joy-filled harmony with nature. I express our desire to accompany you through what we do and most especially through who we are — people willing to share our time, our dreams.” With this new vision in this Ignatian year, let us usher in a new era, inspired by St Ignatius, St Francis Xavier and all the other Jesuits who set the path before us, holding hands with all persons of goodwill so as to love and serve God in all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Ten held in hookah bars in Bhowanipore||Two hookah bars in Bhowanipore were raided on Wednesday night and 10 persons arrested for violating Covid restrictions imposed by the state government. Three of the accused were picked up from a bar on Elgin Road and the rest from one on Ashton Road. Around 100 people were allegedly in the two hookah bars together when police reached there. “Most of them fled,” said an officer. The state government has ordered all bars, including hookah bars, to close at 8pm as part of the efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus. “We have asked for CCTV footage of the bars,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Downpour causes waterlogging across several parts of the city||Downpour over prolonged periods caused waterlogging across several parts of Calcutta and some of the busiest hospitals in the eastern part of the city once again turned into islands as roads leading to them went under water on Thursday. Large parts of Kasba, Mukundapur and New Garia, among other pockets, were inundated. The roads outside AMRI’s Mukundapur unit and an eye hospital opposite Avidipta I housing complex, and the one leading to the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) were under ankle-deep water. Patients or their families who came walking to AMRI’s gate had to wade through ankle-deep water. The medicine shops around the hospital, too, had water outside them. An official of AMRI’s Mukundapur unit said only about half of those who had booked slots for Covid jabs on Thursday turned up. The footfall at the outdoor clinic, too, was less than usual. “This is a routine affair outside our hospital. The water takes five to six hours to recede after rain stops completely,” said the official. The scene was the same outside Netralayam, an eye hospital on Mukundapur Main Road, stretches of which were under knee-deep water. Those who had to walk the last stretch on their way to the hospital were most inconvenienced. The same was the fate of the patients and their families visiting the RTIICS. “Fortunately, there was no water inside the campus this time, unlike last time when the volume of rain was very high,” said an official of the hospital. Metro has earlier reported about the poor drainage system of the area, where some of the busiest private hospitals of the city are located. The areas around the hospitals get waterlogged multiple times every monsoon. The problem has persisted for over a decade but the civic body has not been able to find a solution yet. An engineer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said high volume of rain was the primary reason for waterlogging in Mukundpur and elsewhere in the city. “It rained almost continuously since Wednesday night. That has led to waterlogging. But the problem is less severe than last time,” said the engineer of the civic drainage department. Many homes in Kasba, Mukundapur and New Garia were flooded and water seeped into the underground reservoirs of some homes. CMC sources said that between 10pm on Wednesday and 8pm on Thursday, Ballygunge received 115mm of rain, Jodhpur Park 129mm; Kalighat 91.40mm; Mominpur 104mm and Ultadanga 105mm of rain. The sluice gates that allow water from parts of central and north Calcutta to drain out into the Hooghly could not be opened for nearly five hours in the afternoon because of high tide in the river. The CMC was expecting water to recede fast after the sluice gates were opened around 6pm. But heavy rain in many pockets since the evening made the prospect of water receding fast bleak. “If it rains heavily overnight, waterlogging will be inevitable in some more areas,” said a CMC engineer. Pockets of north and central Calcutta also got inundated. Long stretches of BB Ganguly Street, stretches of CR Avenue and a stretch of the Park Circus-Science City connector (nearly the China Town gate) were flooded. Water entered the Mohammad Ali Park fire station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Heavy rain triggers power cuts in South 24-Parganas, puts CU students under duress||Power cuts in places like Canning and Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas triggered by heavy rain posed problems for students of Calcutta University who had to email or upload their answer scripts after writing their final semester exams on Thursday. Many students of Bankim Sardar College in Canning could not upload or mail their answer scripts because charge had drained out of their phones by the time the three-hour exams ended at 1pm. Students are required to scan the hand written A-4 size answers scripts and email them to their college or upload them on the college’s portal. Some students of Sundarban Mahavidyalaya in Kakdwip had to wade through flooded streets to hand the answer scripts to the college authorities because power outage made it impossible for them to mail or upload the scripts. The undergraduate final-year students of CU are writing the theory papers of BA and BSc courses, which started on July 29. The exams will continue till July 31. At Bankim Sardar College, about 12 per cent of the examinees could not submit the answer  scripts on time because of power woes, said principal Tilak Chatterjee. “The problem was faced by those who stay on the other side of the Matla, adjoining Gosaba and Basanti,” he said. The downpour that started on Wednesday and continued through much of Thursday caused the power outage. “Barely 2-3 per cent power remained on the phones minutes before the exams were to end. Many students called departmental heads for help. They sought time till they could get the phones recharged,” the principal said. According to UGC rules, a student has to upload answer scripts or email them within 15 minutes of the completion of an examination. An official of the college said they received the scripts at 4pm. A teacher said a bigger worry loomed as students were unsure about writing the exams on Friday because there was no end to the power outage. Chatterjee has written to CU pro-vice-chancellor (academic) Ashis Chatterjee about the problems the students faced. Repeated calls to the pro-VC went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Three policemen of Kasba PS have been found 'guilty' for not allowing two men to report a crime ||Three policemen of Kasba police station have been found “guilty” for not allowing two men to report a crime at the police station because they were wearing shorts, according to an inquiry by a senior officer. Departmental proceedings have been initiated against a sub-inspector who was the duty officer at the time. The officer allegedly said the two men should wear trousers because there were women at the police station. A constable has been fined Rs 1,000 and a civic volunteer has been benched for 10 days as punishment for allegedly stopping the two men at the entrance to the police station on the ground they were wearing “inappropriate” clothes. Police did not formally name the three cops. The incident had happened on July 17 when Barnik Datta, 33, a resident of Picnic Garden Road, and his friend Avishek De Biswas, 31, from Deshapriya Park, went to Kasba police station to report a theft at Datta’s family temple. First, they were stopped at the main gate of the police station and told they should come back wearing “proper trousers”. The duty officer, too, had given them the same advice citing the presence of women in the police station. The two had to leave. Datta returned to the police station wearing full plants, after which his complaint was registered. The three cops were produced at the office of the deputy commissioner (south suburban division) on Thursday for the final hearing of the inquiry. “We have tried to sensitise them about the matter. It had sent a wrong signal about the entire force and we would not like anyone else to repeat this mistake,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
30-07-2021||Calcutta||July’s heaviest rain floods Calcutta, kills one||Almost incessant rainfall since Wednesday night submerged several parts of the city, damaged homes and led to at least one death because of suspected electrocution. The weather in Calcutta is set to improve from the second half of Friday. A 56-year-old man was reportedly electrocuted to death in a north Calcutta garage on Wednesday night. Police said Kashinath Jyoti used to live in the garage space on the ground floor of a three-storey residential building on Darpanarayan Tagore Street. He was electrocuted around 9.15pm, when he was trying to roll down the shutter of the garage, the police said. Two men survived electrocution at the Alipore chief judicial magistrate’s court on Thursday afternoon. The men — both law clerks — received electric shock while trying to wade through stagnant water in the court compound around 1.25pm, police said. An eyewitness said some bystanders dragged them out of the water. Arijit Mukhopadhyay, 25 and Supratim Barik, 24, were rushed to a private hospital in Alipore. They were treated and discharged from the hospital. Another man was injured after a portion of the top-floor balcony of a three-story house in the Girish Park area caved in on Thursday morning. The house stands on Kailash Kabiraj Street. Narendra Nath Jha, 45, was taken to a hospital from where he was discharged later in the day, the police said. In the evening, a portion of the top floor of a three-storey residential building in Shib Narayan Das Lane in north Calcutta collapsed and a portion of a wall of the top floor of a three-storey building in Balaram Majumder Street, also in the north, caved in. No one was injured. A tree was uprooted at the intersection of Park Street and Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road around 10am. The tree brought down a signal post and a mesh of overhead wires along with it. The Met office recorded over 100mm of rain in Alipore between 8.30pm on Wednesday and 8.30pm on Thursday, the most in 24 hours this July. The rain was triggered by a low-pressure area that had formed over the north Bay of Bengal off the Bangladesh coast. The system intensified into a well-marked low-pressure area and was stationed over Bangladesh for most of Wednesday and the first half of Thursday. It was moving westwards and was over the Bengal-Bangladesh border on Thursday evening. “The system is set to head towards Jharkhand via Bengal. It would pass over North 24-Parganas, Burdwan, Birbhum and adjoining western districts of Bengal before moving through Deoghar, Dhanbad and Gaya,” said G.K. Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. The weather in Calcutta is set to improve from the second half of Friday. The sky is expected to remain cloudy and one or two spells of rain are likely. But the rain will not be non-stop like Thurs-day, said a Met official. The western districts of Bengal are likely to get heavy rain on Friday. Under the influence of the system, the sky was cloudy in patches over Calcutta throughout Wednesday. But it’s real impact was felt from Wednesday evening. Multiple sharp spells of rain lashed the city since Wednesday night. By the time most Calcuttans were out of their bed on Thursday, several low-lying areas were already under water. As the day progressed, the roads became deserted and shops closed early. The number of vehicles also went considerably down in the second half of the day and those who stepped out had a trying time returning home. Train services — only staff special trains are plying because of the Covid-19 curbs — between BBD Bag and Prinsep Ghat were stalled for a long time because of technical problems following the downpour. Metro Railway services were unaffected but the passenger count was quite low, said an official. July is usually the rainiest month of the year. But in the absence of rain-bearing systems over the Bay, the city had registered a rain deficit of around 25 per cent till the third week of July. The latest downpour, however, wiped out the deficit, said a Met official. “This was the first low-pressure area to have an impact over south Bengal this month,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
