31-07-2021||Calcutta||Several long-distance trains cancelled, delayed due to waterlogging ||Several long-distance trains were cancelled or delayed on Friday because of waterlogging on the tracks leading to Howrah station following relentless rain on Thursday. The Tikiapara carshed was inundated for a better part of Friday, leaving many Howrah-bound trains stranded. Some trains had to originate from Santragachhi and Shalimar because of the waterlogging near Howrah, said an official of the South Eastern Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Calcutta||ICSE, ISC improvement and compartment exams to start on August 16||The ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) improvement and compartment examinations for this year will start on August 16, the ICSE council announced on Friday evening. “The ICSE & ISC Year 2021 Improvement and Compartment Examinations will commence from 16th August 2021,” Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, said in a statement. Students can register for the improvement and compartment exams till August 4. The exams will be held offline. Students who have relocated to other cities during the pandemic can seek a transfer of centre later to write the exam at a venue closer home. The requests for transfer of centres have to be forwarded to the council through the CAREERS portal. “The module for submitting the requests... will be activated after the candidates have been registered for the said examinations,” said Arathoon. The candidates who have sent a dispute resolution request can apply for the improvement exam. The dispute resolution is “only for the correction of calculation errors”. “The candidates who are not satisfied with the Result awarded to them using the CISCE’S Scheme for ICSE & ISC Year 2021 Examinations, may get themselves registered for the ICSE/ISC Year 2021 Improvement Examination,” said Arathoon. Unsuccessful students are allowed to appear in the compartment exams provided they meet certain criteria of the council. The council had cancelled the ICSE and ISC exams because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Calcutta||Weather in Calcutta improves from Friday morning||The weather in Calcutta improved from Friday morning after relentless rain on Thursday that continued well into the night. “The system that triggered the downpour was over Jharkhand and Bihar on Friday. In the absence of any fresh system, there is little chance of heavy rain over the next few days,” said a Met official. Between Thursday morning and Friday morning, the Met office recorded 150mm of rain in Alipore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Calcutta||15-year-old trafficking survivor heads child panel for an hour||A 15-year-old boy who was trafficked as a child labourer at the age of seven was made chairperson of the state commission for protection of child rights for an hour on Friday. “I was fortunate to be rescued. But many children are not so lucky,” the teenager told The Telegraph. The boy from north Bengal was trafficked by a person while he was playing with friends. He was taken to a family who forced him to work as a domestic help. “His work included mopping floors, washing clothes and looking after a baby girl in the family. He had spent a year there before being rescued,” said an official of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Minors are forced to work as domestic workers across the state, said rights activists. The boy, who lives with his parents and siblings, was made chairperson of the panel to mark the World Day Against Trafficking in Persons. He studies in Class VII now. “History is my favourite subject,” he said. Some of his demands the commission will place before Shashi Panja, the minister in-charge for women and child development and social welfare: ⚫ The government must ensure sponsorship for children forced into labour, because of the situation at home, so they don’t have to leave school ⚫ The government must create awareness among children so they don’t interact with unknown people or accept anything from them ⚫ Traffickers should be punished strongly and fined heavily. They should be made to bear all expenses of the victim’s education. Last November, a 17-year-old girl who grew up in a red-light area became the chairperson of the state commission for protection of child rights for an hour in what officials said was a first-of-its-kind move.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Calcutta||Jesuit mission at the court of Mughal emperor||I joined the Jesuit Order in 1973 and pronounced my perpetual vows of Poverty, Chastity and Obedience in 1976. For the past 48 years, I have been living and working in various capacities without any hesitation or regret. Life has been like a flowing river with immense joy, satisfaction and also with challenges. My God and my World has always been big and my principle — “think global and act local”, based on the Ignatian motto “Ad Maiorem Dei Gloriam (For the Greater Glory of God)” — has guided me all through my journey as a Jesuit. Jesuits and their co-workers across the world are celebrating the Ignatian Year from May 20, 2021, to July 31, 2022, to mark the 500th anniversary of their founder’s “cannonball moment” — that fateful day in 1521 when Ignatius the soldier, struck by a cannonball, began his transformation into Ignatius the pilgrim for Christ. St Xavier’s University, Calcutta, commenced its year-long celebrations on May 20 with an inaugural function and will conclude them on July 31, 2022, on the Feast Day of Ignatius. Pope Francis, a Jesuit himself, in his message to all the Jesuits said: “That cannonball meant that Ignatius failed in the dreams he had for his life, but God had a bigger dream for him. God’s dream for Ignatius was not about Ignatius. It was about helping souls. It was a dream of redemption, a dream of going out into the world, accompanied by Jesus, humble and poor.” This Ignatian Year presents an opportunity for all Jesuits and their co-workers to stress upon their core mission, especially in education, to form men and women for and with others. It is a time for reflection and renewal to discern a hope-filled future for young people and for our planet. Let me this time, on the occasion of Ignatius’ feast, recall the Jesuit Mission at the Court of the Mughal Emperor. Since their beginning in 1540, Jesuits have been working in many countries at the forefront of many assignments. They have been pioneers in high-level administration in courts and governments and, at the same time, they have stood with the poor and the excluded for the cause of building networks for villages and slums. That is why Malachi Martin rightly wrote on the dust jacket of his book, The Jesuits: “… In that world where faith and power clash, Jesuits have been the most fabled and fabulous, the most admired and reviled, in the practice of both. Down the four and a half centuries of their existence, Jesuits have been both a puzzle and a model for the rest of the world. Friends and enemies, Catholics and non-Catholics, have all tried to unravel ‘the power and the secret’ of these religiously trained and devoted men who stand as giants in every secular pursuit of mankind as well. “In science and art, writing and exploration and teaching — and not least in world politics — Jesuits always aimed to be the best. And they were. They had a part to play in every major political alliance in Europe and America, in Asia and Africa. They became shapers not only of religious history, but of world history. Even Nazi generals dreamed of such a cadre of men; and even Lenin envied them.” One of their ardent admirers was the great Mughal Emperor, Jalaluddin Muhammed Akbar, who was impressed by their religious and intellectual pursuits. Akbar was deeply religious, who, in the words of his son, Jahangir, “never for a moment forgot God”. More open-minded than most contemporaries, he invited to his court Islamic, Hindu, Christian, Jain and Zoroastrian scholars for religious discussions. Akbar got his first insight into the Christian character and religion from the actions of two Jesuits — Frs. Antony Vaz and Peter Dias, who had reached Bengal in 1576 from Goa. These Jesuits had severely rebuked some Portuguese merchants who had defrauded the Mughal treasury by not paying taxes. They had asked them to restitute; otherwise there would be no forgiveness for them. Akbar was greatly impressed by this news and curious about the religion, which insisted so much on honest dealings. In September 1579, Akbar’s ambassador arrived in Goa with a letter, asking for two learned Jesuit priests to be sent to Akbar’s court: “…I am sending Abdullah, my ambassador, and Dominic Perez (an Armenian Christian, the interpreter) with the request that you will send me two learned Fathers and the books of Law, especially the Gospel, that I may know the Law and its excellence….” He wanted them to provide him and his Muslim and Hindu courtiers with first-hand knowledge about Christian doctrines. The invitation elicited great hopes among the Jesuits. The Provincial chose three Jesuits for the project — Fr. Rudolf Aquaviva, who led the mission, Fr. Antony Monserrate and the Persian-born Br. Francis Henriques. They reached Fatehpur Sikri via Surat and Gwalior in February 1580 and were received with extraordinary warmth and affection by the emperor, whose attachment with them and their religion continued throughout the three years of the Jesuit Mission. The Jesuits spoke to Akbar about Christianity and debated its virtues with the ulama. Akbar evaded deeper issues of Christianity and appeared to be doubtful as to all forms of faith, unwilling to commit himself. So the Jesuits returned to Goa in 1582, thus ending the first Jesuit Mission to the court of the great Mughal emperor. Fr. Anthony Monserrate is said to be the first Jesuit geographer in India. When the team left Goa for the Mughal Mission, he was asked to keep a diary of all the events, which he did faithfully, adding greatly to its value by his geographical and astronomical observations. On his journey from Surat to Fatehpur Sikri in 1580, he made a survey and took observations for the latitudes. When Akbar marched to Kabul in 1581, against his half-brother Mirza Muhammed Hakim, he took Fr. Monserrate along for continuing the tuition of his second son, Murad. Akbar encouraged Fr. Monserrate to take observations en route. He, however, showed no interest in the data collected by Fr. Monserrate, who kept it with himself even when he returned to Goa. Later in 1804, Francis Wilford of Bengal Engineers made use of Fr. Monserrate’s manuscripts to prepare a valuable map of the countries west of Delhi. That is why Romila Thapar rightly said, “if the Jesuits had not been to India, there would be no written history of India”. Once again, after a gap of 13 years, in response to Akbar’s earnest request, Fr. Jerome Xavier (grandnephew of St. Francis Xavier) accompanied by Fr. Manuel Pinheiro and Bro. Bento de Goes, arrived in Lahore in May 1595. This time Akbar gave them permission to open a school and to build churches in Agra and Lahore. However, the king avoided the subject of religion with the Fathers on the pretext that the Jesuits needed to learn Persian before embarking on religious discussions. This Mission had more of an impact on both Mughals and the Portuguese. Akbar commissioned Fr. Jerome to translate the Life of Christ into Persian as the Dastan-i-Masih. This was completed in 1602.The Jesuits enjoyed the patronage of Akbar and his son Jahangir; but under Shah Jahan and Aurangzeb this disappeared, and they were often arrested and tortured. Akbar also married an Armenian Catholic, Mariam Zamani Begum. Mariam’s sister, Lady Juliana, was the doctor of the royal harem. Juliana was given in marriage to Prince Jean Philipe de Bourbon of Navarre of the royal house of France. It is said that Juliana built the first Church in 1600 in Agra and named Akbar’s Church, which stands till date even after 421 years. Akbar had an adopted son, Mirza-Zul-Qarnain (Zulcarnen), first son of Mirza Iscandar, an Armenian Catholic who was a cavalier at Akbar’s court. Mirza-Zul-Qarnain was a generous donor to the Jesuit Fathers and built the Jesuit College in Agra in 1603, which does not exist now. The Jesuit mission at Akbar’s court, however, cannot be considered a total failure. The Jesuit presence did help to bring about a better understanding and dialogue between Islam and Christianity. It opened up an extremely important chapter in the history of inter-religious dialogue in India, which was precisely what the circumstances had thrust upon them there. The friendship that came into existence outlived the Jesuit missionaries. Their contact created a pattern of normal relationships between the learned of different religious convictions. The Jesuit mission at the Mughal court laid the foundation for the widely spread Jesuit networks in 10 provinces (including Delhi, Patna, Ranchi, Nepal, Darjeeling, NE and Calcutta) with over 2,800 Jesuits. We wish them all a Happy Feast of their Founder today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Calcutta||VIP Road, New Town remain under knee-deep water till Friday evening||Stretches of VIP Road and large parts of New Town were under knee-deep water till Friday evening, triggering massive traffic snarls that led to more than 100 people missing their flights. Vehicles crawled on the airport-bound and the Ultadanga-bound flanks of VIP Road as a 2.5km-long stretch of the artery was flooded, following the downpour since Wednesday night. Airport officials said they had received calls from nearly 100 fliers who narrated the ordeal to them and requested them to tell airlines to let them board the flights late. “We could accommodate most of the fliers who reached late on next flights. Many passengers got delayed as VIP Road and Major Arterial Road in New Town were waterlogged,” said an airport official. Parts of New Town as well as places off VIP Road, including Kaikhali, Chinar Park and Kestopur, were under knee-deep water even 12 hours after the rain had stopped. Water from the Bagjola canal, which cuts across New Town, and the Kestopur canal, which flows along VIP Road, as well as their network channels breached their banks after the rain. All three action areas of the planned township had waterlogged streets on Friday. The parking lots of a number of housing complexes and cooperative societies in New Town as well as off VIP Road were under water. The 38km-long Bagjola canal, which carries water from Kamarhati to the Bidyadhari river and cuts through parts of Baranagar, Dum Dum, Lake Town and New Town, was to get desilted this year. “Let alone desilting, even the garbage has not been removed. The entire canal is full of garbage. To add to our worries, rampant dumping of construction materials have completely choked the gully pits,” said Samaresh Das, a member of the New Town Forum and News, an organisation of residents of the township. An official of the state irrigation department said the canal was last thoroughly desilted ahead of the monsoon in 2017. “The dredging has started but we have not reached the part that flows through New Town and Lake Town,” the official said. The worst affected areas in New Town included the blocks nearest to the canal in Action Area I, including AB, BA, BC, BD and BE blocks. In Action Area II, the road in front of City Centre II as well as the one in front of Shrachi Greenwood Elements remained flooded till late on Friday. Action Area III was badly affected, too, with the main road leading to Sukhobrishti housing complex remaining waterlogged till Friday evening. “We had to deploy extra pumps to prevent water from entering our basement parking lots,” said Ranjan Basu, the president of the Rosedale Housing Complex Flat Owners’ Association. An official of New Town Kolkata Development Auth-ority said the water from both canals had started overflowing at 9.30pm on Thursday. On VIP Road, residents of complexes like Poddar Vihar, Space Circle and others said they had a harrowing time even crossing the road. "The road in front of our complex is under knee-deep water," said Manoj Sharma, a resident of Poddar Vihar. A resident of Koyla Vihar said they had to take their cars out of their parking lot and park them in front of Haj House on VIP Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Calcutta||JU to draw up merit list based on Class X and XII board marks||Jadavpur University will draw up the merit list for admission to undergraduate science courses based on their Class X and XII board marks, officials of the university said. The decision was taken on Thursday after the education department struck down JU’s proposal to screen students for BSc courses based on their plus-II marks and online interviews or group discussions. The government has asked all colleges and universities to screen students for admission to undergraduate science courses this year solely based on board marks. According to the eligibility criteria fixed by the admission committee of the JU science faculty, aspirants “having passed 10+2 examination... with chemistry, mathematics, physics and securing at least 75 per cent marks in average obtained in chemistry, mathematics and physics are eligible” for pursuing honours in physics, chemistry and geological science. Mathematics honours aspirants have to score at least 75 per cent in average in mathematics and two other subjects from among chemistry, physics, computer science and statistics. Those who want to study geography honours have to score 75 per cent in average in math and two other subjects from among physics, chemistry, geography, geology, statistics and economics. A member of the admission committee said marks in the Class X board exams would be considered while drawing up the merit list to break ties and get an idea about the candidate’s grasp over the subject he or she was keen on studying. “The applicants had written on-campus secondary board exams in 2019. Plus-II board exams were cancelled this year,” he said. While preparing the merit list in physics, for example, marks obtained in physical science/science in secondary/ equivalent examination (200 marks) and marks obtained in math in secondary/equivalent examination (100 marks) will be taken into account. Last year, JU had only considered science subject scores in Madhyamik for admission to undergraduate science courses for Bengal board students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Calcutta||High number of 95-plus scorers in CBSE exams may lead to tougher competition for college admission||The high number of 95-plus scorers in the CBSE Class XII exams, the results of which were declared on Friday, will lead to tougher competition for college admission in a year when marks will be the sole criterion for many higher educational institutes. Many students are relieved that they are “in the race for admission to premier colleges” but there is uncertainty about whether they will qualify. At South Point High School alone, the number of students who scored above 95 is three times that of last year — 111 as against 36. In Birla High School for Boys, 56 students scored above 95 this year — the same number as last year. In Mahadevi Birla World Academy, 44 students scored above 95 this year as against 36 students last year. In Delhi Public School Ruby Park, 142 students scored above 95 this year; the number was 111 last year. In Lakshmipat Singhania, 49 students scored above 95 this year. In Shri Shikshayatan School, 71 students scored above 95 this year. In Bhavan’s Gangabux Kanoria Vidyamandir, 86 students scored more than 95 per cent this year. In Indus Valley World School and Delhi Public School Joka, about 10 per cent and in North Point Senior Secondary School, about 5 per cent students have scored above 95 per cent. Metro reported that many students scored above 95 in ISC and several schools have said that the number is higher this year. In Bengal HS, 9,013 students scored above 90 per cent this year. “The concentration of students towards the higher end of the scale would make the fight (for a college seat) close. Students are fighting for more or less a static number of higher education seats and they can lose out for even a mark or two,” said Krishna Damani, trustee, South Point school. The CBSE pass percentage in the Bhubaneshwar region, which includes Bengal, is 99.55. In Bengal, autonomous institutes like St Xavier’s and institutes of Ramakrishna Mission are coming up with their own selection criteria not solely dependent on marks. State-aided colleges and universities, however, will screen students on the basis of marks alone. For Sreejita Das who is planning to apply to colleges in Calcutta for a chemistry course, the completion seems very tough. “There are students in my school or other schools or from other boards who have scored more than me... Since everything is dependent on marks, I am not confident of getting a college of my choice despite scoring 96.6 per cent,” she said. Teachers said that the high achievers are worried. “Possibly only a student who has scored a 100 can be confident (of getting a college of their choice). The uncertainty for many other high achievers remains because their aspirations are higher and they will apply in premier institutes. They will be eligible to apply but whether or not they get selected is not known because ultimately it is a question of numbers,” said Anjana Saha, principal, Mahadevi Birla World Academy. Students are worried that they might not get a subject of their choice. “If colleges decide on other screening criteria, say group discussions for example, to screen students, it would be a fairer way of selection,” said Bratati Bhattacharyya, secretary general, Shri Shikshayatan School. “But students should also remember that one exam result does not make their CV and they have many more years to prove themselves.” Several school heads said the marks match with what they had submitted to the board, barring a few changes. Results on hold In Calcutta, the results of 110 students of The Newtown School are on hold because they are the school’s first batch of Class XII candidates.  The results will be declared within a week’s time, the CBSE said. A school’s best results in the past three years is an essential component in calculating the 2021 CBSE marks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
