01-02-2021||I pulled out a book from the shelf and out came a torn strip of the cigarette pack that my father must have used as a book mark. For an instant||A minimalist to the core||But at the same time, many things are missing. That hookah is not there nor are the people who used to throng to hear about the latest. Nor can I read Hind Samachar, the Urdu daily we used to get every day without fail.Advocate Gian Chand Dhanda was an enigma. He was a true master of criminal law and stubbornly refused to touch any other work. His bedroom was his office and the living area. On the shelf, there were loads of books on various subjects, mostly on history and literature and also biographies of great men. A book would always make him cheerful.He would go to any length to defend his client, not bothering whether he had been paid the fee or not. A couple of times, he got into serious trouble when he lost temper in the court on some observation of the judge which he thought was irrational and against the poor litigant. He was charged with contempt. All his colleagues advised safe exit by tendering an unconditional apology, but he thought otherwise. He withdrew his power of attorney from his old friend (of Lahore times) and a top-notch lawyer because he also held the same opinion. He then argued himself and got an honourable acquittal.He got addicted to opium during his teens as that was prescribed for his asthma by his maternal uncle. At that time, it was freely available and not banned. At the same time, he was a fakir, a man who did not possess anything. Nor did he carry any grudges.He never went to the court on a day when none of his cases was fixed and would remain in bed, propped on pillows with a book in one hand, the pipe of the hookah in the other.A true minimalist, he had only one pair of shoes, which he himself polished. Yet, he was immaculately dressed. Neat, crisp uniform, shining shoes, long grey hair combed backwards, a handsome persona and a cigarette loosely held between his lips, weaving a heady mix of tobacco and perfume.He never went to any designated religious shrine. But his prayers would not go unanswered. One of a kind in the legal fraternity, who never tried to jostle for professional space, the imprint he left on those around him remains indelible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/a-minimalist-to-the-core-206041
