04-02-2021||She’s expecting her sixth child||Together we make a family||The year 2020 had undeniably been a difficult one for everyone. One of those annoyances has been the inability of so many of us living in faraway lands to be able to visit families back home. Back in August, when we found out that I was pregnant for the second time, we were jubilant. But my thoughts instantly drifted to my hometown — Chandigarh — where my family lives, a home away from home that I wouldn't be able to visit for the entire duration of my pregnancy. Where no quality time would be spent this time sitting around the living room discussing baby clothes, babysitting duties or making name lists. This time, we wouldn’t be able to grab our handbags and drive off on a whim to find the perfect nursery print fabrics to sew together cot sheets for the baby's bassinet — an old wooden crochet gem that had been in the family for generations and had been my bassinet, too, when I was a baby.My first born had been privileged to enjoy all of this and more. Born in Mohali in a pre-pandemic world, he had spent the first three months of his life in Chandigarh surrounded by the hustle-bustle of a house teeming with family — grandparents, a great grandmother, aunts, uncles and two dogs to fuss over him. I was also able to whisk him off to Jalandhar for a month, where my husband’s parents — another doting set of grandparents — live.The pandemic has fractured our ability to take a flight home and left a gaping hole rife with homesickness and longing for family time. Raising a child without access to the invaluable support of ‘the village’ and simultaneously expecting a second one makes one often feel paralysed. But having to do all of this while being shackled by a pandemic, wherein movement is curtailed and anxiety plays like background music in our minds, while we try to stay the course and navigate our way through a ‘new normal’, the parenting routine is taxing in unprecedented ways.But the show must go on. And there’s always Netflix to binge-watch. ‘The vaccine is coming, so I suppose that is some positive news,’ I venture betraying the uncertainty in my punctured voice.‘I just hope she doesn’t go and have her seventh child while we are still waiting for the vaccine,’ retorts my friend as we burst into laughter.Sometimes there is another kind of family around us. It’s a matter of positivity and perspective.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/together-we-make-a-family-207516
