25-02-2021||On a balmy day||Stuck with male name & owning it!||The warm afterglow of conviction dogged me for the rest of my life. Every time someone told me that they had a brother/boyfriend by that name, I had my ‘Sutlej’ story to back me.My mother, an early riser, would switch on our shutter-equipped black-and-white TV to Vande Mataram. When I was born, mom’s mind zeroed down to ‘Pulkit’ — a word that figures in Vande Mataram.I grew up thinking my name was unique. The bubble had been pricked many times but it burst irrevocably when I went to college. Whenever I have introduced myself, people told me that they knew someone with my name. These namesakes were all – men!When it was essential to be perceived as cool, I was stuck with a boy’s name. After initial face-burning and numbing embarrassment, I dished out the argument about having known ‘only-other-Pulkit-being-a-girl’.The clincher was during a job interview. The manager had been caught on the offside of etiquette when he said he was expecting a Sikh boy when he saw my resume. At that moment I could have gladly taken the rather common name of a Purnima, a Puja or even a Punam.With age has come wisdom. When courier fellows call and ask if this is ‘Pulkit Singh’s’ number and I say yes, they invariably ask me to hand over the phone to ‘Sir’.Recently on a Facebook food group, someone tagged another Pulkit. What was I expecting? I clicked on the name knowing that it will be either a boyfriend or a husband of the lady. It wasn’t. From the picture, it resembled the girl I had met so many years ago. I had found the other half of my story. My search of twenty-five years had culminated.I take heart in the fact that there are many like me — people with names that factor in surprise when introductions are done. Gunjans, Prakashs, Sindhus and Debduttas of the world face what I do. A Bollywood actor, my namesake, is attempting to make it big. I don’t know how far he will go, stuck with a girl’s name. He owns it as much as I do. Does it matter? I could have been named ‘The Most Awesome Version of Humanity’ but if I don’t do one thing right in my life, it will come to nought. A name is just a few letters put together. They mean nothing set in stone. Last time I checked, actions speak louder than words.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/stuck-with-male-name-owning-it-217086
