01-02-2021||Jharkhand||One killed and one injured in 2 separate firing incidents||One person was killed and another injured in two separate firing incidents that took place in Hazaribagh on Monday. The shootings came as a big shock for the police and was seen as a serious law and order problem, by many. In the first incident, Korra police found the dead body of Rajendra Kumar Mehta from Deepugarga locality of Hazaribagh. A bullet injury was spotted on his head suggesting that he was murdered on wee hours of Monday. Mehta, a resident of Kurha village of Ichak block, was living in a rented house at Deepugarha mohalla for the education of his three children including two sons and a daughter, who are studying in a town school. His relatives said he was a farmer and was living a simple life. Police officials investigating the case said they had been informed about Mehta being a moneylender. “We are interrogating people close to him as well as his partner, a moneylender too,” police said. The dead body was handed over to his relatives after postmortem. The second incident took place at 7:30 pm on Monday when two bike-riding men opened fire at a tea seller named Dharmendra Chourasia (39). The victim was sitting at his tea kiosk, when he was attacked. He has suffered bullet injuries in one of his hands. The incident took place in the Panchsheel Colony in Madsipiddi area situated on Ranchi-Patna Highway (NH-33). Local people rushed to his help and sent Chourasia to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal also reached hospital and made arrangements for an ambulance to send Chourasia to a Ranchi hospital for better treatment. The police team reached on the spot and have initiated a checking drive to nab the culprits. However, the officials chose to remain tightlipped over the two incidents. Jaiswal expressed his anger and said it was a failure of law and order. “The two incidents in Hazaribagh town are enough to understand the poor law and order of the state,” he said targeting the JMM government. He urged officials to take both the incidents as challenges and crack it as soon as possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-154
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Singhbhum industry body welcomes Union budget||The Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry welcomed the Union budget on Monday presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. SCCI, the leading trade body of Kolhan region termed it a bold budget. "Bold because, inspite of a huge deficit, spending has not been curtailed, rather it has been qualitative spending. Welcome because unexpectedly the deficit has not been tried to fill up by way of tax,” said Bharat Vasani, general secretary of SCCI to The Telegraph Online. Vasani said the biggest announcement for Jamshedpur in the Union budget has been the Voluntary Vehicle Scrappage Policy. "This was in discussion for a long time. Auto sector was relying heavily on this to fight the cyclical nature of their industry. This will help Tata Motors, and this will enable the demand of more steel too. This will give a fillip to the entire economy of this region, as ancillaries too will benefit," he explained. The senior functionary of the trade outfit said that the healthcare spending of Rs 35000 crore on vaccine would mean affordable vaccine for all. Referring to the announcement of seven textile parks, he hopes they are put up where there is abundance of labour. "In a state like Jharkhand where cheap labour is available this would mean lesser migration of labour, and cost effective production," he pointed out. In response to Rs 18000 crore allocation for urban public transportation he said, " Every city of Jharkhand has very little public transportation. People have to rely on their own vehicles for commuting, which means increase in traffic density and paying huge fines for small errors. Jharkhand should get the best of this scheme. We had made a pre-budget demand that prices of industrial metals like steel, aluminium, copper etc should be checked, as they are the raw materials for many manufacturing industries." CEO and managing director of Tata Steel T.V. Narendra said the finance minister presented a very progressive and growth oriented budget while retaining the government’s focussed approach on infrastructure-led economic revival. "We welcome all the proposed reforms. However, the implementation of these reforms will be critical for the benefits to percolate across the economy. The increased Capex in the infrastructure sector, including the healthcare infrastructure, will have a multiplier effect as it will create demand across product categories, including steel, " he said adding that overall, it can be  called  a reformist budget as it recognises and emphasises the participation of private players in all key areas, including the financial sector. Commenting on the budget Prof. K. R. Shyam Sundar of HRM Area at XLRI said the Union budget is rather disappointing for the income-earners and the working people. "The two labour market outcomes from the Covid-19 hit economy are, unemployment and underemployment and diminution in incomes. The Union Budget does not address either, " he said. According to him, the economic survey did not acknowledge the problem of unemployment during the Covid-19 situation and skirted the whole issue. "Rather it sought to create a feel good factor by relying on annual and quarterly data unrelated to Covid-19 period," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-154
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Now Covaxin shots available at Nirmal Mahto hospital ||A total of 464 doctors and medical personnel were vaccinated in Dhanbad on Monday. Health personnel from different hospitals including 56 at Central Hospital Dhanbad, 80 in Patliputra Nursing Home, 67 at Asharfi Hospital, 80 at Jalan Hospital, 93 at Sadar Hospital Dhanbad and 20 at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) were vaccinated. Meanwhile, at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital where Covaxin administration started from Monday, the response was slightly timid as only 20 doctors and medical personnel took the vaccine. While Covishield vaccination is going on at all centres like Patliputra Nursing Home, Central Hospital, Asharfi Hospital, Jalan Memorial Hospital, Sadar Hospital and Railway Hospital, SNMMCH is the only hospital where the administration Covaxin has started from Monday. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Dr Rajkishore Verma co-nodal officer of Covid vaccination at SNMMCH said, “The Covaxin administration which began at our hospital from Monday will continue till February 6 and though we have a target of 100 vaccination per day, only 20 persons turned for vaccination out of which my daughter-in-law Kislaya Verma, a senior resident, took the first Covaxin at the hospital today.” “We carried out awareness among the doctors about Covaxin benefits. The efficacy of Covaxin is more than Covishield. The Covishield efficacy is around 60 per cent and Covaxin is 75 per cent. There was no reaction on Dr Kislaya Verma who took the vaccination along with the 19 other doctors and medical staff on Monday,” said Verma. “We appeal to more doctors and medical staff to come forward to take Covaxin and we expect that the number will increase from tomorrow,” further said Verma and added that Dr Kislaya Verma’s mother who is a doctor at Patna Medical College and Hospital took Covaxin last month in Patna and there are no side effects till now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-154
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Migratory bird festival held in Palamau Reserve||A first of its kind bird festival was held in the Betla range of Palamau Tiger Reserve on Monday where the presence of 169 species of birds was recorded. During the festival, school children wrote essays on the birds and drew colour painting depicting birds in the air and sitting close to the Kamaldah jheel. The participants watched the birds using binocular sets given by the tiger reserve officials. The bird festival, which lasted for around four hours, saw more participation from the younger generation than the elderly people. The bird festival was held at such a time when scare of bird flu is raging around the country. The festival was like a pressure release function as Palamau Tiger Reserve had plunged into sorrow following deaths of the two elephants Kaal Bhairav and another aged female elephant in a span of less than 10 days and there was a palpable anger against the tiger reserve officials over such deaths of the elephants here. South division deputy director of the Palamau Tiger Reserve Mukesh Kumar said, “We understand our bird festival is a first of its kind in the state of Jharkhand. It will go a long way to help conserve birds also.” Mukesh Kumar said, ‘The bird festival, held on Sunday near our watchtower at the Kamaldah jheel in the Betla range was the brainchild of our field director of PTR and chief wildlife conservator Y K Das.” “We chose the venue of the bird festival at the Kamaldah jheel because this lake plays a big host to many migratory birds like bar-headed goose, lesser whistling duck, common pochard, godwall and black headed ilbis, etc.” he added. The aim and purpose of holding the bird festival was to connect common people to the birds. “It was to generate awareness about the importance of birds in life,” he stated. “There was the august presence of the birdman of Jharkhand Panna Lal Mahto of the Ramgarh district in this bird festival here in Betla regaling the audience with voices of as many as 40 species of the birds,” informed Kumar. The field director of PTR and chief conservator of the forest Y K Das urged the youth of the villages to shun using the slingshots to bring the birds down on the ground. Last year an advisory was issued by Y K Das to keep a tab on youths with slingshots roaming dangerously for hunting birds. There are around 192 villages in and around the Palamau Tiger Reserve and villagers are pretty fond of killing birds for their food. Mukesh Kumar said he was delighted to spot the Malabar pied hornbill in the Bareysarn range of the Palamau Tiger Reserve recently. A noted environmentalist D S Srivastava said, “This tiger reserve has a good variety of owls like barn owls, horned owls, jingle outlet owls, etc. which face jeopardy during Diwali when people try to capture them for a good harvest of wealth.” He also said that one migratory bird named brain fever, which gives incessant calls during its visit hereis easier to kill as youths find it easy to locate it for her nonstop call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
01-02-2021||Jharkhand|| Budget pro-capitalist, says JMM-Congress-RJD alliance||The JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government of Jharkhand termed this year’s Union Budget as pro-capitalist, something that had failed to provide any hope to the common man, migrants and the marginalised. State transport minister Champai Soren, who is an MLA from Seraikela, said he was always prepared to be disappointed with the 2021 budget. “It doesn’t say anything about providing relief to the aam-admi. On the contrary, it is aimed at further burdening the common man as fuel is set to get costlier further with introduction of new agri-cess. Insurance (LIC) will provide less returns in the coming days with a hike in FDI from 43 per cent to 74 per cent. “Also, there’s been no relaxation in taxation for the salaried class, while there’s no word on improving the lives and livelihood of migrants, labourers and the like,” he said, adding that the BJP’s capitalist friends would be elated with the Budget as it had laid the groundwork for the “sale of all other remaining government entities”. “Airports, roads, ports, railways will further get privatized in the name of proper operation and maintenance, which in turn will cost the pockets of the aam-admi,” he noted. JMM’s ally, Congress reacted on similar lines. Congress party’s state spokesman Rakesh Sinha said, “Did anyone hear about farmers and common-man in this budget? In a nutshell, we see it as a template to sell India and its assets to crony capitalists.” Notably, Congress president and state party president Rameshwar Oraon in his wish list to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitarama last month, had asked for an IIT in Ranchi to boost higher education, increase in central assistances, special road projects under Bharatmala project and rail links to districts that are untouched. RJD, another constituent of the ruling alliance, also snubbed the budget. State labour and employment department minister and Chatra MLA Satyanand Bhokta said, “Budget 2021 clearly shows that in the coming years, the central government will sell all government resources. A state like Jharkhand which is on the path of development did not get any benefit.” The BJP in Jharkhand, however, hailed the Budget as a step towards achieving the Prime Minister’s goal of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Former chief minister Raghubar Das said, “The first ever Union Budget coming amid the covid-19 global pandemic embodies the spirit of ‘vocal for local’ to make India self-reliant in coming years. The highest takeaway in this budget is the government’s commitment to spend towards public health and infrastructure by allocation of Rs 2.23 lakh crore, which is perhaps the highest ever.” The former chief minister also said that the Sonnagar-Gomoh eastern freight corridor project (263.7km rail network) would also benefit Jharkhand in the coming years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand may get more Eklavya schools, benefit from freight corridor||The Union Budget 2021-22, tabled by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman on Monday, does not have much in store for the people of Jharkhand, barring the dedicated Eastern Freight Corridor that would pass from Gomoh and Eklavya Schools likely to come up in places that have a high tribal population, economists said on Monday. While the budget promises road infrastructure development in four poll-bound states – West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam _ economists who have been studying the trends in Jharkhand fear that it would encourage migration from states like Jharkhand and Bihar, which have a high number of labourers. “Our labourers have expertise in building roads. So, it is obvious that they will migrate to the poll-bound states to work in construction of roads there. This budget is encouraging migration instead of creating equal job opportunities in all the states,” said eminent economist, social activist and critic Ramesh Sharan, former HOD of economics department in Ranchi University. Sharan said that the Centre has decentralized development work by focusing only on the poll-bound states and neglecting states like Jharkhand. “There is nothing specific for a state like Jharkhand barring a few general decisions which may improve the health and education sectors in the state,” he added. Chief Minister Hemant Soren criticised the Centre for focusing only on privatization of public enterprises and agencies in the budget. He also mocked Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat slogan, claiming that the current situation reflects the idea of “atma-becho Bharat”. “From banks to ports and airports to railways, the Union government is hell bent on privatising everything. There is nothing for the poor in this budget, and no efforts have been made to revive the ailing enterprises and sectors,” said Hemant. Sitaraman, during her budget speech, said that the government would construct at least 750 Eklavya Vidyalayas in tribal-dominated areas, and Jharkhand is likely to benefit from it due to its high tribal population, say experts. The finance minister also announced the opening of 100 Sainik Schools in Private Public Partnership mode across the country, and Jharkhand may get one of these schools. As per government data, Jharkhand already has 23 Eklavya schools and is likely to get 69 more schools. If the government’s plans are materialized, then Jharkhand will have as many as 92 Eklavya schools, especially in tribal dominated areas, by 2022. However, the much talked about Metro Light and Metro Neo schemes for providing metro rail facilities to the residents of tier 2 cities in India are unlikely to benefit Jharkhand. Ranchi is the only tier 2 city in Jharkhand, and research conducted earlier showed that the soil here was not fit for setting up a metro rail network. Economist Harishwar Dayal, the Director In-Chief, Centre for Fiscal Studies, however, said that the Centre’s focus on improving health infrastructure will benefit Jharkhand, which is in need of better health facilities in the rural areas. “The budget promises investment of Rs.2.2 lakh crore in health. Jharkhand, along with other states, will benefit from it. The Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor will also benefit Jharkhand along with other eastern states,” said Dayal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Coldest day in Ranchi as state set to witness extended winter||Jharkhand is likely to witness an extended winter, weathermen predicted on Monday, explaining that the frequency of western disturbances would ensure that the season will be extended well beyond February second week. Both IMD's Ranchi and Patna Met centres issued an alert of rain and thundershowers in isolated pockets of the state around February 5-6. Again, adverse weather conditions were expected around mid-February. Weather officials forecast light to moderate rain in western, central and southern Jharkhand on February 5 and 6 due to the impact of a western disturbance passing through higher latitudes. "An induced cyclonic circulation is expected to form over western Rajasthan due to the impact of the western disturbance. The cyclonic circulation would move towards eastwards resulting in unseasonal showers over Jharkhand. A trough formation was also expected in mid and upper layers of the atmosphere about 1.5 km above the mean sea level," said a duty officer at the Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He added that this would extend the winter's stay in Jharkhand beyond February 15 as night readings would again witness an abrupt fall after the system waned. He said another western disturbance was expected around February 15-16 which would result in light rains in some parts of the state in the third week of February. Weathermen at the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore, Calcutta, confirmed a longer winter for Jharkhand. “Several western disturbances had impacted Jharkhand's weather in January coupled with the formation of anti-cyclonic circulations due to the confluence of northerly and easterly winds. Such western disturbances would continue to impact Jharkhand's weather in February, thereby prolonging winter's stay," said a weather official at the Calcutta-based Regional Meteorological Centre. Officially, India Meteorological Department (IMD) declares winter's adieu when minimum readings rise over 13°C for a consistent number of days. Cold wave conditions prevailed for the second consecutive day in several districts across Jharkhand, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Koderma, Lohardaga, Chatra, Garhwa, Hazaribagh, Latehar, Palamau, Gumla, Simdega and West Singhbhum. On Monday, Ranchi experienced the coldest day of this winter with a reading of 6.3 degree Celsius. Kanke on the outskirts of the state capital recorded the day’s lowest minimum reading across the state a minimum temperature of 5.2 degree Celsius. Daltonganj recorded a minimum temperature of 5.8 degree Celsius while Bokaro recorded 6.1 degree Celsius. Severe cold wave conditions continued to prevail at Chaibasa in West Singhbhum for the second consecutive day on Monday. The local observatory at Chaibasa recorded a minimum temperature of 5.8 degree Celsius, which was eight notches below normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Salaried class disappointed with Budget 2021||Dhanbad residents have termed the Union Budget a mixed bag, but the salaried class dubbed it a disappointment as no income tax concessions were announced. Also upset were insurance employees who termed the Union finance minister’s announcement of increasing FDI in the sector to 74 per cent from 49 per cent as discouraging. But doctors and the medical fraternity at large welcomed the Union Budget for its increase in allocation for the health sector. Traders and industrialists also welcomed the budget. Pramod Pathak, former head of the department of management studies of IIT (ISM), said the budget was a mixed bag. The focus on the health sector was much needed. But the excessive focus on privatization, especially the increase of FDI in the insurance sector, was not required, he explained. “Though some sops have been given to the MSME sector and micro industries, until and unless the confidence of the common consumers is increased, the economy will not improve,” said Pathak, who is also president of Jharia Coalfield Management Association. On start-ups, he said that although promotional steps were announced for the development of mobile apps, the focus should have been on the promotion of cottage industries. General Secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association Rajiv Sharma said, “The Budget is more or less on expected lines. We expected it to be an extension of the announcements made by the finance minister in May last year. “The focus on industries will help boost the economy, and considering that we are battling a  pandemic, the budget seems to be good enough,” he said. IMA state president Dr A.K. Singh termed the Budget as forward looking because of increased allocation for the health sector. “Learning lessons from the pandemic, the government has taken pragmatic steps to increase spending on the health sector which was most needed,” said Singh, who lives in Dhanbad. Hemant Kumar, the Dhanbad based general secretary of Insurance Employee’s Association, Hazaribagh division, termed the Budget “disgusting, discouraging” and “pro-capitalist”. “It will lead to more inequality. The Budget is anti-farmer, anti-labour and we vehemently oppose the increase in FDI in the insurance sector,” he said. “The government has announced nothing about restoring jobs of crores of migrants who have had to return to their homes in the absence of work,” he rued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||State reports less than 50 fresh Covid cases in a day||Jharkhand on Sunday reported less than 50 cases of Covid-19 infection for the third consecutive day, while recoveries outnumbered fresh cases, bringing the total count of Covid-19 patients in the state down to 553, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. Ranchi reported 21 of the 41 cases that surfaced in Jharkhand on the day, while it also accounted for 44 of the 63 recoveries. Ranchi is the only district in Jharkhand with more than 100 active cases of infection. All the remaining 23 districts either have less than 100 active cases or no cases at all. As many as 279 people were battling a Covid-19 infection in Ranchi by the end of Sunday. While the trend of a rapid fall in the number of patients continued on the day, a resident of Bokaro died of Covid-19 during treatment, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1072, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 6600 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. So far, as many as 1,18,296 people have been infected by the deadly virus in the state and more than 98% of them have recovered. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 0.04 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent. At the current rate, it would take more than 1700 days for the number of cases to double in Jharkhand. The national doubling rate was 662 days. The government also inoculated 139 people in Hazaribag against the Covid-19 virus on Sunday, the NHM stated in a separate report. Vaccination was not held in other districts on the day. So far, as many as 40,855 people have been administered the Covishield shots in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Over 10,000 people join Congress’s ‘Hul tractor rally’ for farmers||The Congress held a tractor rally that traversed the 80km stretch from Godda to Deoghar on Sunday to express solidarity with protesting farmers on the borders of Delhi with state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh promising to raise the Rs 50,000 farm loan waiver limit once the health of the state exchequer improved. The party later said that over 1,200 tractors and close to 10,000 people took part in the rally. Speaking at Godda’s Kargil chowk before the start of the rally around noon, Patralekh accused the Narendra Modi government of betraying the country’s farmers when he took a U-turn from his 2014 promise of waiving loans. Playing an old speech of Modi from one of his rallies during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Patralekh asked the gathering if anyone had received any waivers. “Did any farmer here get loan waivers from Modiji which he had promised before coming to power in 2014? But despite poor resources, our government here has implemented a farm loan waiver scheme within the first year itself. “Due to a funds crunch, we could manage to give waivers up to Rs 50,000 only. But we will increase it substantially once the financial condition of the state improves,” he announced and called on farmers to stand united and take on the Modi government for its wrong policies. “Demands of our farmers are genuine. We stand by their demand to repeal all three farm laws. The new laws are anti-farmer and are intended to privatise agriculture,” he said in the presence of Jamtara MLA Irfan Ansari, Poriyahat MLA Pradeep Yadav and close to 1,000 people, including party workers and farmers of Godda. Patralekh’s attempt to further consolidate farmers in Santhal Pargana, Jharkhand’s tribal heartland, is also an attempt to keep the electorate happy in the run-up to the bypoll to the Madhupur Assembly seat that fell vacant after the  demise of JMM minister Haji Hussain Ansari last year. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, Mahagama MLA Deepika Pandey Singh and many others were present at Deoghar even as many others joined the rally en-route. According to Congress workers, more than 1,200 tractors and close to 10,000 people took part in the rally titled “Hul tractor rally” since it commenced from the land of freedom fighters Sidho Kanho who led the Hul rebellion marking the rise of tribal uprising against the British in Santhal Parganas. Yadav said that Sunday’s tractor rally would similarly mark a farmer’s uprising from Jharkhand. “The farmers’ roar from this pious land will resonate in Delhi,” he said before driving a tractor bearing a giant poster of AICC leader Rahul Gandhi with Ansari and Patralekh seated in it. The state BJP ridiculed the Congress’s efforts, saying it was shedding crocodile tears for farmers at a time when paddy procurement in the state had been derailed. Part spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “The Congress is known for deceit and duping farmers. Congress in its election manifesto had announced farm loan waivers to the tune of Rs 2 lakh. But, in reality it is only Rs 50,000. They also promised Rs 2,500 as minimum support price but failed to do so. The situation is such that because of shoddy paddy procurement, farmers are forced to sell their produce to middlemen at throwaway prices.” Congress dubbed the rally “historic” and “successful”. But there was blatant violation of Covid-19 safety norms as almost everyone. including MLAs. Weren’t wearing masks. In Jharkhand, Covid seems to be on a downward trend with the total number of active cases standing at less than 600, according to a January 30 bulletin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
01-02-2021||Jharkhand||Active Covid-19 cases decline across Jharkhand||The number of active Covid-19 cases has declined across Jharkhand but Ranchi district has more than half of the total active cases in the state. According to the data released by the government at 9pm on Saturday, the number of active cases stood at 576 in Jharkhand after the detection of 49 new cases, 100 recoveries and one casualty. With 31 new cases detected on that day, Ranchi district had 63.25 per cent of the total new cases while the active case count stood at 302, accounting for 52.43 per cent of the total cases in the state. The number of active cases in East Singhbhum district came down to 55 though it recorded one-thirds of the state’s total casualty — 356 out of 1,071. Among other districts, Gumla had 39 active cases, Dhanbad 34, Latehar 25, Lohardaga 19, Palamau 15 and Bokaro 14. While the number of active cases in 15 other districts was six or less, Pakur continued to be the only district with not a single active case. The recovery rate in the state on Saturday was 98.61 per cent, better than the national rate of 97 per cent. The state’s mortality rate of 0.90 per cent was also less than the national rate of 1.40 per cent. “Ranchi being the state capital, more new people are coming here everyday and more people are also being tested here,” said Dr Prabhat Kumar, head of the Covid task force at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-155
