02-02-2021||Jharkhand||J.N. Tata Vocational Training Centre inaugurated virtually in West Bokaro||The J.N. Tata Vocational Training Centre (JNTVTI) was inaugurated at the West Bokaro division of Tata Steel on Tuesday, in a first-ever virtual programme. D.B. Sundara Ramam, vice president (Raw Materials), Tata Steel was chief guest at the function. He was joined by Manish Mishra, general manager of the West Bokaro Division of Tata Steel and  Prakash Singh, chief of Capability Development at Tata Steel. The JNTVTI centre at West Bokaro is the third centre at the Raw Materials Division after Joda and Jharia. As many as 35 students enrolled in the Site Safety Supervisor and Mining Supervisor programmes on the inaugural day of JNTVTI Centre at West Bokaro on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, Ramam said, “Skilling youth for employment to bridge the gap between demand and supply of skilled workforce comes with its own set of challenges. JNTVTI provides a unique opportunity to the youth of the region to develop their skills and guarantees cent  per cent  placement from the very first day of joining the centre.” A total of 4,300 students have benefitted from the six JNTVTI Centres across Jharkhand and Odisha since its inception. JNTVTI is a public charitable trust and a training institute mentored by Shavak Nanavati Technical Institute (SNTI), Jamshedpur. It aims to impart state-of-the-art skill development training to the youth of Jharkhand and Odisha. The courses at JNTVTI are accredited with National Skills Qualification Framework ( NSQF ) certification as a formal recognition by the Government of India. Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe students with outstanding performance during training are eligible for partial or full reimbursement of course fee (based on their performance) at the end of successful completion of training.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
02-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad rail colony women protest against eviction||Over 20 residents of the railway colony at Diamond Crossing in Dhanbad, mostly women, staged a day-long sit-in against a railway eviction drive on Tuesday. They also demanded action against supporters of MP P.N. Singh for manhandling them outside his residence on January 9 when they had protested there. They also submitted a eight-point charter of demand to Chief Minister Hemant Soren and Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh accusing the police of lodging cases against them instead of the goons. The protesters also demanded a deferral of the eviction drive by six months in view of the Covid-induced economic crisis. A protester named Nitu Devi said, “Majority of the hundred families living here make money by selling vegetables and fruits or working as daily wagers, and have been badly hit due to the lockdown. Making them houseless will only add to our difficulties.” She also said that the children, who go to Anganwadis and PDS outlets at the Railway quarters, will also not be able to get food, which is provided by these centres. “The railway administration has sealed 80 out of 100 quarters in the colony while the water and power supply of over 10 remaining quarters have been snapped. We are living here deprived of basic facilities and constant fear of eviction,” another protester Laboni Roy said. Regarding the manhandling episode outside Singh’s residence, she said, “We went to the house of Dhanbad MP, PN Singh at Dhansar seeking his intervention as a people’s representative but his supporters misbehaved with us in police presence.” “Police, instead of registering a complaint against the MP’s supporters, lodged FIRs against us,” Roy added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
02-02-2021||Jharkhand||NGO rolls out right to education camps for Ranchi’s poor  ||Association for Parivartan of Nation, an NGO working in the field of education, has started holding free camps to raise awareness about provisions of the right to education (RTE) law among poor parents and help them with paperwork to get their wards admitted to private schools. The NGO’s initiative aims to increase enrolments in private schools under RTE after a study by it revealed how several school seats in Ranchi and other districts go abegging, said members of  Association for Parivartan of Nation, On Tuesday, a camp was held at ward 45 commissioner's office at A.G. More, Doranda, where over 50 guardians and local residents came to gather information about free and compulsory education under Article 12(1)(C) of the RTE Act according to which 25 per cent seats in unaided private schools are reserved for children hailing from economically weaker sections of society. Guardians were also apprised about ways to apply for required documents such as a birth certificate, residential certificate, BPL card, caste certificate or  income certificate. President of the NGO Hasan Al Banna said, “In order to extend the benefit of RTE to a larger section of society, we are providing every crucial information regarding the law by setting up free  service camps in various locations of the city and helping locals fill in applications.” On Wednesday, a camp will be held at Mani Tola in ward 49 of Doranda followed by another one at ward 17 on Thursday. “We have also launched a helpline (9939979888) through which guardians can get information by simply placing a missed call. More than 500 hundred people have contacted us on helpline number so far,” Banna added. Nusrat Fatima, a domestic worker living in Doranda, turned up at Tuesday’s  camp. “I couldn’t get my son admitted in Class 5 in any school last year. Despite filing applications, none called us. Later, the district education officer  told me that my papers weren’t in order. Hence, I am here to learn the formalities for applying under RTE,” she said. According to report released by the NGO in November last year, 60 per cent seats reserved for underprivileged children in private unaided schools weren’t used in the last academic year (2019-20) in seven key districts of Jharkhand namely Ranchi, West Singbhum, East Singbhum, Bokaro, Godda, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Garhwa. In Ranchi, 74 per cent seats were unused out of 713 seats across 59 schools. In East Singhbhum, 820 out of 1,651 seats remained unused. In West Singbhum, 102 of 189 seats remained unused. Out of 608 seats in Bokaro, 418 remained unused. Garhwa, Seraikela and Godda had 55, 112 and 38 vacant seats out of 158, 153 and 69 total seats respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
02-02-2021||Jharkhand||LIC workers protest against FDI increase in Budget||Over a hundred LIC workers of Dhanbad on Tuesday staged a protest against the Centre’s announcement to increase the FDI in insurance sector from 49 per cent to 75 per cent, during Monday’s Budget presentation. Protesters under the banner of the Insurance Employees’ Association gathered at the Randhir Verma Chowk to burn an effigy of Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, as they shouted slogans against the government. Hemant Kumar, General Secretary of the Hazaribagh unit of the association, said, “There is absolutely no justification of FDI hike in the insurance industry.” “FDI hike in insurance will only hike foreign capital and gain greater control over domestic savings,” claimed Kumar. He said that it was important for a developing country like India to have control over its domestic savings. Allowing foreign capital greater control over these would harm the nation, he claimed. “Our union is of the firm opinion that privatisation of any public sector general insurance company is not in the interest of the nation. Despite intense competition the public sector general insurance companies have held their ground  to retain market dominance,” said Kumar. The government should have consolidated the Public Sector General Insurance companies to enable them to compete, he said. Raising the issue of LIC IPO he said that it is completely against the concept of Aatmanirbhar Bharat as LIC is the only institution of its kind, which doesn’t create profit for itself and distributes the entire surplus generated to the government and policy holders. The LIC IPO will undermine the very objectives of its creation as it was set up by an Act in 1956, the protesters alleged. “Rather than delivering value to the nation and its policyholders, LIC will be forced to work for creating value and generating profits for the shareholders,” said another protester Ajoy Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-154
02-02-2021||Jharkhand||Chief of truck owners' outfit hurt in bullet attack at Chatra village||Two men sustained bullet injuries, with one of them being grievously wounded, when criminals opened fire on them on Tuesday at the Dhangadha village in Chatra. Two bike riders shot Prahlad Singh(50), president of the Magadh Amrapali Truck Owners Association in Tandwa, on the chest, when he was visiting the village. A villager named Manoj Pasi, who tried to catch the attackers, also sustained bullet injuries on his left arm. Singh was immediately taken to Chatra Sadar Hospital, but seeing his critical condition, doctors referred him to Ranchi. He has been admitted to Medica Hospital in the state capital. Pasi is out of danger and is being treated at the Sadar Hospital. Chatra superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha said a probe has been launched and the attackers will not be spared. Eyewitnesses told the police that the criminals fled the spot, taking the road towards Karma More. Singh’s relatives told the police that he had been the target of extremists and criminals, and was receiving threat calls recently. However, it was not clear who was behind the attack. “Police have started working on various angles. We will soon catch the culprits,” Jha said. North Chota Nagpur DIG A.V. Homkar and Jha reached the spot later and asked officials at various points to look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-154
02-02-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum sets up 9 more vaccination centres||East Singhbhum added nine more health centres for the administration of Covishield to registered beneficiaries in an effort to ramp up the ongoing vaccination drive against the coronavirus. In all, the district now has 13 centres where the vaccine is being administered. District civil surgeon R.N. Jha said the nine community health centres where vaccination drive started on Tuesday, are at Patamda, Potka, Baharagora, Chakulia, Ghurabandha, Mosabani, Dhalbhumgarh, Dunaria and Jugsalai. "Earlier, the Covishield vaccines were given to health workers at Tata Main Hospital, Tata Motors Hospital, Sadar Hospital in Parsudih and MGM Medical College. But from Tuesday we started giving the vaccine at nine more places, mostly in the rural areas of the district," Jha told The Telegraph Online. He said the health department had already trained medical staff on administering the Covid-19 vaccine to recipients. A dry run was held in January. "Like in the four major vaccination centres of the steel city -- Tata Main Hospital, Tata Motors Hospital, Sadar Hospital and MGM Medical College -- we have set a target to administer the vaccine to 100 health workers at each health centre four days a week. A team of senior medical officers from the district civil surgeon’s office is monitoring the vaccination drive," said the civil surgeon. Jha said they had also planned to start the vaccination drive at Birsanagar Urban Health Centre but could not. "We had made all arrangements at the Birsanagar Urban Health Centre and had also carried out a dry-run. But due to some unavoidable circumstances, we have postponed the drive there," the civil surgeon said. The number of Coronavirus positive cases have shown a gradual decline of late. On Monday, among 1,890 people who were tested, only 10 persons tested positive. The total number of Covid patients in the East Singhbhum district is now 18,025. As of now 375 people have died of Covid-19 in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-154
02-02-2021||Jharkhand||Helmets compulsory for pillion riders in steel city||Helmets have been made mandatory for pillion riders too in the steel city. The district transport department, which has issued a circular in this regard, asked traffic police to initiate a checking drive of two-wheelers on the road. Police have been asked to also ensure that the visor of the head gear is clean and is in good condition. A fine of Rs 500 will be imposed on those found violating the orders. District transport officer Dinesh Ranjan said, "The traffic wing of district police have been asked to ensure that pillion riders too wear helmets. An awareness drive was held on Tuesday. Pamphlets highlighting road safety and how helmets can also protect the life of a pillion rider during road mishaps were distributed at Sakchi and other places." A traffic department official said the decision was taken after considering the rising number of cases of road mishaps in the district. "Helmet is mandatory for both men and women pillion riders," the official clarified. The traffic wing of district police will start a random helmet checking drive from Wednesday and if any pillion-rider is found without a helmet, he or she will have to shell out a penalty of Rs 500 as per the provisions of Motor Vehicles Act. On Tuesday, a couple of local NGOs took part in the awareness drive at Sakchi. During the drive, they highlighted the importance of helmets for pillion riders as well. Social activist Anand Kumar, who also works on road safety issues, said making helmets mandatory for pillion riders is a welcome move. "Though this provision is there in the Motor Vehicle Act, it was not implemented strictly. Pillion riders are also at risk if they are without helmets. As per the Act it is also mandatory to wear safety helmets meeting ISI specification for both the driver and pillion rider, " he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-154
02-02-2021||Jharkhand||No compensation for next of kin of Bagdigi mine mishap||Relatives of 30 miners, all but one of whom had died after the Bagdigi mine belonging to Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) was flooded due to a wall collapse in 2001, told the PSU authorities on Tuesday that they were yet to receive the full quantum of compensation. “Although I have been provided a job on compassionate grounds at BCCL, but we are yet to get the Rs 9 lakh compensation and other benefits promised to us. My children were promised free education, which hasn’t happened. I have also not got any promotion in the last 20 years,” said Sunita Devi, widow of miner Santaram Prasad. She was speaking to the media on the sidelines of a function held at Martyrs’ Memorial of Bagdigi to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the disaster. Among senior BCCL officials who attended Tuesday’s function were Director Personnel P.V.K.R. Mallikarjun Rao and GM safety A.K. Singh. The lone survivor of the accident, Salim Ansari, who was rescued was rescued on February 8, 2001, seven days after the flooding, also accused BCCL of failing to fulfil its promises. Ansari, who has since retired from BCCL, said his son was yet to be employed. Recalling the incident, Ansari spoke of how he “struggled” to survive in the flooded mine for seven days amidst darkness and the fear of death. “I was on duty on the seventh shift when suddenly water started gushing into the mine after there was loud bang. Somehow, I saved myself by sitting atop a mound of coal. But it was painful to see coworkers drown,” he said. Ansari said that during the eight days in the flooded mine, he lost hope many times. “Gradually, I lost all hope of survival with no drinking water or food. Then, I heard voices of those in the rescue team. I shouted out for help, and finally, I was saved,” he recalled. BCCL director personnel Rao said he has never seen such an accident in the 31 years of his service in the coal sector. But he reiterated that at BCCL safety was the prime concern. “We pay our deepest condolences to all those who laid down their lives while working for the company,” Rao said. The accident occurred on February 2, 2001 because of a wall collapse that led to the mine being flooded. Although a BCCL rescue team launched operations immediately, a special team of divers _ from Mumbai _ was deployed after three days to fish out bodies of the miners. Ansari was rescued seven days after the mishap on February 8. The mine has been lying closed ever since.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-154
02-02-2021||Jharkhand||WHO team to probe Palamau's stranded vaccine carriers||Surveillance medical officer of WHO in Daltonganj, Walema Devgam, UNICEF regional coordinator Manish Priyadarshi and district programme manager health Deepak Kumar will hold a joint inquiry into the abandonment of more than six vaccine cases in Palamau. The cases were recovered from the Jharee government sub health centre under Hussainabad subdivision on Monday. Civil surgeon Palamau, John F. Kennedy said that the probe will begin on Wednesday, and the report will be submitted within 48 hours. He added that medical officer-in-charge of the sub-divisional hospital at Hussainabad, Dr Ratnesh Kumar, has been asked to explain why this happened. He has been asked to separately submit a report within 24 hours. The vaccine cases were found outside its collection point setup at Jharee, where it stayed abandoned from Monday. They were later sent to the cold chain points, sources said. The carries should have been duly deposited at the cold chain point and not thrown away hazardously even within the campus of the health centre, they said. An ANM named Prabha Kumari and her team are under the scanner of the officials regarding the issue. The role of the helpers is to be minutely looked into during the probe, said sources. It was not clear if the cases had vials of unused vaccines in them. The reports of the two teams will make it clear. Health Secretary KK Soan has also asked DC Palamau Sashi Ranjan to look into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-154
02-02-2021||Jharkhand||Only 45 per cent registered to be inoculated turn up for Covid vaccination||Jharkhand on Monday achieved less than 50 per cent of its vaccination target for the first time since the launch of the nationwide vaccination programme against Covid-19 virus on January 16, figures shared by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed, further highlighting that more than 8600 of the 15,761 beneficiaries registered for inoculation on the day did not turn up at the various vaccination centres across the State. As per figures compiled by the NHM, only 7158 of the 15,761 people registered for vaccination were inoculated on Monday. The state achieved only 45 per cent of its vaccination target on the day. The State has so far achieved 55 per cent of its vaccination target. Meanwhile, at least 17 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on Monday, while 42 people were found infected in the remaining seven districts, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. Ranchi reported 19 cases, while East Singhbhum and Bokaro reported 10 and five cases respectively. As many as 81 Covid recoveries on the day brought the count of active cases down to 513 by the end of Monday. However, one more Covid patient, a resident of Ranchi, died during treatment, taking the Covid toll up at 1073 in Jharkhand and that in Ranchi to 236, highlighted government data. As per government data, at least 259 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi, while the count of active cases was below 100 in all the remaining 23 districts. So far, 118734 people have been infected by the virus and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. During the vaccination drive, at least 1153 people were inoculated in Ranchi on Monday, the highest among all the districts in Jharkhand. While Ranchi achieved 65 per cent of its target on the day, East Singbhum achieved only 47 per cent of its target by inoculating 431 of the 920 registered beneficiaries. Only 50 of the 400 beneficiaries registered for vaccination in Sahebganj got the Covishield shots. Only two cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) were reported in Jharkhand on Monday – one each in Lohardaga and Khunti. So far, the state has reported 226 AEFI cases, and none of them were severe, said doctors spearheading the vaccination programme in Jharkhand. “Most of the people suffering from adverse effects following immunization have mild symptoms. No severe case has come to my notice so far,” said Dr. Ajit Prasad, the in-charge of immunization programme in the state. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have administered Covishield shots to as many as 48,013 of the 86,946 people registered for vaccination in the state. By inoculating 3654 of 5293 registered beneficiaries, Palamu has achieved 76 per cent of its vaccination target – the highest among all the 24 districts in the State. Ranchi, on the other hand, has only achieved 48 per cent of its target, while Pakur has achieved 41 per cent of its target – the lowest among the districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi has reported the highest number of AEFI cases so far. As per government data, at least 159 of the 226 AEFI cases were reported in Ranchi. East Singhbhum has reported three AEFI cases, while Dhanbad has reported 10. Bokaro, Deoghar, Giridih and Garhwa have not reported any AEFI cases so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-154
