03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Chandil forest range receives Rs 28 lakh as compensation for villagers||Chandil forest range has received Rs 28.2 lakh from the state forest department on Wednesday for making payments of compensation to the villagers for the damage of crops and houses by wild elephants in the range area. An amount will also be given to the kin of those who were trampled to death by wild elephants during the year 2020-21. Revealing about the fund, Chandil range officer Ashok Kumar said, “During the current financial year a total of five villagers were trampled to death, about 70 houses partially damaged and over 100 acres of paddy fields were destroyed by the migratory elephants in the range.” "The kin of those killed by wild elephants are paid the compensation through cheques on an individual basis, but the compensation to those who suffered a loss due to damage of houses or crops are paid through banks on the advice by the forest department. The fund of Rs 28.2 lakh has reached belatedly due to the pandemic, but we will start making the payment to the victims soon," said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The Chandil range officer also stated that in the financial year 2019-20, a total of Rs 41 lakh was disbursed to those who were the victims to elephant menace in the Chandil forest range, but in the current financial year the amount of compensation will surpass that of the last financial year. "The Rs 28.2 lakh fund that has come for making the compensation will hardly meet the demand of the victims.  We are in process of sending a fresh petition for more fund so that all the victims may get their compensation by the end of the financial year 2020-21 i.e. March 31," said the ranger. Kumar said that the forest department has to spend a large amount of money on protecting the human lives in the man-elephant conflict area every year. "We have to spend money on buying crackers, torch-lights and diesel oil that we provide to the villagers for keeping the herd of wild elephants away from the human habitat. Then we have to spend a large amount towards the teams of ‘mahouts’ who are engaged for driving away the migratory elephants and finally we have to pay heavy compensation to the villagers for the damage caused to the paddy crops and houses by the wild elephants, besides the compensation to the kin of those killed in the elephant attacks," said the ranger while talking to this website. The range officer said being close to Bengal border and also close to Tamar as well as Seraikela jungle and Dalma elephant sanctuary, Chandil forest range area turns into a central place for the herds of migratory elephants to visit the area regularly. "As the wild elephants tend to graze paddy crops and also eat up stocks of paddy, herds of migratory elephants use to enter into human habitat and destroy houses on a regular basis, often leaving a trail of destruction in the villages. The forest department has to incur heavy loss as it has to pay the compensation for every bit of damage and the destruction that the migratory wild elephants do," said Kumar, adding that the elephant menace is increasing in the Chandil forest range.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Covaxin drive in Dhanbad picks up pace after initial reluctance||The Covaxin vaccination drive at the Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) in Dhanbad accelerated on its third day, having received a dull response on the first two. A total of 88 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Wednesday, while on Monday and Tuesday only 20 of them came to receive the jabs. The elevated response was spurred by a meeting with all the doctors and staff held under the chairmanship of SNMMCH Principal Shailendra Kumar. During this he and Arun Kumar Chaudhary, Superintendent of the hospital, exhorted the doctors and staff to come forward and take the vaccine to spread a positive message in the society. Talking to the media, Kumar said, “The administration of Covaxin began at our centre on February 1. The drive picked up pace on Wednesday with doctors and took the lead after a meeting.” The Principal and I took the lead and carried out the drive. All the heads of departments  and other doctors came forward to take the vaccine,” Chaudary told the media. Dr Asutosh Kumar, who took Covaxin, explained that initially there were some confusions as to why Covaxin was being administered at their hospital but others received Covishield. “It came to an end after the meeting on Wednesday and all the staff showed up to receive the shots.” District Reproductive and Child Health Officer of Dhanbad, Dr Vikash Rana said, “The response during the third day of drive at SNMMCH is really encouraging. We urge everyone to come forward and take the vaccine as it meant for their safety.” Meanwhile, 754 beneficiaries were administered the vaccine at different centres of the district on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Budget session of Assembly from February 26 to March 23||The Budget Session of the Jharkhand Assembly will be held from February 26 to March 23 with the state budget being tabled on March 3, the cabinet decided on Wednesday. This will be the second budget tabled by the Hemant Soren-led coalition government in Jharkhand. The Cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod to 45 proposals from various departments. It gave its approval to Jharkhand Good Samaritan Policy under which those who help victims of road accidents reach hospital on time will not be interrogated by the law enforcement agencies and instead rewarded for their efforts, said Cabinet Secretary Ajoy Kumar Singh. “Many people are reluctant to help victims of road accidents as they fear legal complications. This decision is intended to encourage people to help road accident victims without any fear of getting framed,” said Singh. The Cabinet also decided to withdraw cases against at least 204 migrant labourers for violation of lockdown guidelines last year. As per government records, at least 30 such cases were lodged in various parts of the state wherein migrant labourers were named on charges of violating the lockdown norms. As of now, there are commercial courts only in Ranchi, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur. However, in the wake of the growing number of cases, the Cabinet on Wednesday decided that civil judges and district judges in all the 24 districts will now be able to hear cases that were till now only heard at commercial courts, Singh said. Cases involving Rs 3 lakh to Rs 1 crore will be heard by civil judges, while cases involving more than Rs 1 crore will be heard by district judges, he added. The Cabinet also approved the signing of an MoU with the Airport Authority of India (AAI) for expansion of the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi. Accordingly, 27.34 acre land will be transferred to the AAI, while 276.28 acre land will be given to the AAI on lease by the state government. A total of 303.62 acre land will be provided to AAI for expansion of the largest airport in Jharkhand, officials said. The Cabinet also decided to give grace marks to members of displaced families for grade three jobs in the state government. The candidates who have lost less than 2 acre land will get two extra marks, while the ones who have lost more than five acre of land will get 10 extra marks in exams for grade 3 level jobs in Jharkhand, Singh said. Besides, GAIL India Ltd will now be supplied biodegradable waste free of cost from Ranchi, which they will process and sell, the Cabinet decided. A MoU for 22 years will be inked with GAIL, under which the company will be provided 8 acre land in Jharkhand, where they will set up processing plants. These processing plants, officials said, will have a capacity of 300 metric tonne.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Over 300 activists stage sit-in at Goelkera rail station||Over 300 activists of Nagrik Ekta Manch on Wednesday staged a Rail Roko agitation at the Goelkera Railway Station of the Howrah-Mumbai main line, demanding the stoppage of mail and express trains there. Men and women sat on the railway tracks and started their agitation from 8:45 am, disrupting train movement along the route. Several senior railway officials of South Eastern Railway's Chakradharpur  division including the senior divisional commercial manager Manish Pathak rushed to the spot. Deployment of Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) was also made in adequate numbers to prevent any untoward incident. Leading the agitation, the president of the outfit, Laxman Malgandi said that Goelkera Railway Station assumes importance as several mail and express trains running in Howrah- Mumbai main trunk route passes through it. "We want stoppages of all mail and express trains at Goelkera. We have been fighting for this demand for quite some time but to no avail," said Malgandi. The agitators were refusing to speak to the railway officials who were present at the spot. They were demanding the divisional railway manager of Chakradharpur division V K Sahu to come to the spot. The local administration had sent Block Development Officer of Goelkera, Sudhir Prakash for tackling the situation. The six-hour-long agitation was called off at around 3 pm. "The agitation was peaceful. No damages were caused to railway property," said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. The agitation affected movement of several trains, including South Bihar Express and Howrah- Mumbai Mail. Several trains had to be halted at the Rourkela Railway Station. They resumed journey after the agitation was called off at 3.10 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Senior citizens demand launch of OPD services, resumption of city bus||A delegation of senior citizens of Sindri on Wednesday met Dhanbad DC Uma Shankar Singh, demanding a host of services, including the launching of an OPD facility and resumption of bus operations among others. Comprising former employees of the Fertilizer Corporation of India factory at Sindri, the delegation led by Sewa Singh (73), also demanded ambulance service in the town and the deputation of a local doctor at the  Additional Community Health Centre. “The DC assured to solve our issues by constituting a committee to look after the problems faced by the Sindri residents. The meeting was held in a cordial atmosphere,” Swea Singh told The Telegraph Online. Giving more details about the issues, another member DN Singh (72) said, “Due to lack of any government or private hospital in Sindri, more than one lakh residents  are compelled to visit Dhanbad for treatment.” In November last year, the medical officer-in-charge of Jharia took some initiatives to launch a 24x7 OPD facility at the Additional CHC building in Sindri with the help of industrial bodies. However, that operation is yet to begin. “Sindri had one of the best medical facilities till 2001 when the FCI factory was still operational. But after its closure, the hospital shut down as well,” DN Singh noted. Sewa Singh also said that the representatives wanted a resumption of the city bus services, which have been disrupted due to the lockdown. “The disruption causes difficulties for Sindri residents to reach the district headquarters, which is 30 kilometres away. We have to undertake uncomfortable auto-rickshaw journeys. The fares are exorbitant too,” the former Public Relation Officer of FCI Sindri said. “Due to the suspension of passenger train service between Sindri and Dhanbad since March last year the residents are facing a lot of difficulties. The worst victims are senior citizens like us as we can neither afford to carry out the long journey in auto-rickshaws, nor we can pay the exorbitant fares charged by the operators,” DN Singh complained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police detain 17 in Parsudih for raping minor girl||Parsudih Police on Tuesday detained 17 men for allegedly gangraping a minor at the locality on Sunday night. The 17-year-old girl, who works as a daily wager, has accused as many as 22 men for committing the crime when she went out on a picnic to the nearby Hata area on Sunday morning. She alleged that the youths raped her one after the other through Sunday night, as a result of which she could not even bring herself to the police station. However, on Tuesday morning, she filed a complaint with the police, accusing the youths of stopping her at a secluded place in Parsudih where they committed the crime. On the wee hours of Monday, the accused men dropped her off near her rented house at the Chandni Chowk area in Shankarpur. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) at the Parsudih Police Station Alok Ranjan confirmed the incident to this website. "Though the girl had named about 22 youths, we are verifying whether they are the ones who have been accused of raping her. As of now we have picked 17 of the accused. We are getting the facts verified before making any formal arrest," Ranjan told The Telegraph Online. The families of the accused men were seen gathering at the police station, asking officials to verify facts before making any arrests. Interestingly, the father of one of the accused claimed that his son had gone to duty on Sunday and had not gone to picnic. Despite that, his name was there in the list of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||52-year-old man dies 33 hours after vaccination  ||A 52-year-old Ranchi man, who was vaccinated against the coronavirus on Monday afternoon, died on way to hospital 33 hours later on Tuesday night after complaining of discomfort in his chest, officials of the hospital where he worked said on Wednesday. Mednata Hospital where the deceased, Mannu Pahan (52), was working, had initially said Mannu did not have any of prior ailments. But by evening, the state health department issued a press communique clarifying that Mannu suffered from a tendency of high blood pressure. Superintendent of Medanta Hospital, Dr Madan Mohan Pandey told the health department that Mannu also complained of difficulty in breathing a day before his death. Mannu returned home after completing his day's work on Tuesday evening, the health department said. He woke up to answer nature's call around 9.30pm and fell unconscious on the ground. His family rushed him to Medanta Hospital, where he was declared dead at 10.10pm. This is the first fatality following Covid immunisation reported in Jharkhand, officials said. The Covishield dose administered to Mannu (on Monday, February 1 at 12.55pm) was manufactured on November 1, 2000, and its expiry date was April 29, 2021, health department said. At least 351 people have been administered Covishield shots at Medanta Hospital and all of them were doing fine, the communique added.  “Any connection between Mannu’s death and the Covishield vaccine could not be established. The state AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) committee will investigate the matter and submit a report to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,” the health department said in its communique, asking people not to panic nor spread rumours about “side effects” of vaccination.  According to Medanta Hospital, Mannu worked in the hospital’s housekeeping department. He was a resident of Ormanjhi in suburban Ranchi. As many as 151 health workers were vaccinated at Medanta Hospital along with Mannu on February 1, hospital authorities said. At least nine more health workers were administered shots from the same vial, but none of them reported of any discomfort or weakness since vaccination, authorities added. Mannu’s body has been sent to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi for post-mortem, said a hospital spokesperson. As per data with the National Health Mission (NHM), more than 55,000 people, mostly health and sanitation workers, have been administered Covishield shots in Jharkhand so far. While at least 229 AEFI cases have been reported in the state, doctors maintained that none of these was severe. Government figures highlight that almost 70 per cent of the AEFI cases reported in Jharkhand occurred in Ranchi district. As per NHM data, as many as of 160 of the 229 people, who suffered from adverse effects following immunisation, were residents of Ranchi. (An earlier version of the story has been updated with details from a communique issued by the state health department)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||First direct flight to Ahmedabad from Ranchi takes off||The first-ever direct flight from Ranchi to Ahmedabad took off from the Birsa Munda Airport in the state capital on Tuesday evening, adding up to the fleet of new flights that are connecting Ranchi to important cities across India, airport authorities said. The airport director, Vinod Sharma said that Indigo Airlines will run the flights to the Gujarat capital thrice every week – Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The flights will ferry passengers from Ahmedabad to Ranchi on the aforementioned days, and land here at 7.20 pm, Sharma added. From Ranchi, the flight will take off at 8.20pm. “There was demand for starting flights to Chennai and Ahmedabad. We have already started direct flights to Chennai, and the first flight to Ahmedabad took off today (Tuesday),” Sharma said on Tuesday afternoon. Daily direct flight service to Chennai from Ranchi started on November 18, and the response, airport authorities said, was positive. “Indigo Airlines offered to start services from Ranchi to Ahmedabad as well as to Chennai, and we gave our nod to them. We are in talks with the state government to start more flights from Ranchi as the demand for flights to various destinations is increasing here,” Sharma said. Sources said that Ranchi may soon get direct flights to Pune and Chandigarh as well and some private airline companies have shown their interest in the same. Several students and working professionals from Ranchi stay in Pune, and a direct flight would make travelling easier for them. Besides, flights to Darbhanga may also start in the days to come, sources from the Ranchi airport said. “The proposal to start direct flights to Chennai and Ahmedabad came to us before the lockdown was enforced. The process of starting the flights got delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. There are proposals to start flights to Chandigarh and Pune as well, but no official decision has been made yet,” said an official at the Ranchi airport, requesting anonymity. The passenger footfall at the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi has tripled since June, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) stated in December. However, the passenger footfall here was still less than half of what it used to be in pre-Covid times, local airport officials said. The AAI stated that the passenger traffic at the Ranchi airport had dropped down to 57,749 in the month of June, when travel restrictions were relaxed after strict lockdown since March. The passenger traffic shot up to 1,41,268 in November this year when more flights were allowed to ply, the AAI stated, lauding the airport staff here for their dedication. The Birsa Munda Airport, which bagged the top position in Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) last year, at present has a 75 meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport. The length of the basic strip, the airport director said, will be increased to 140 meters once the expansion plan is approved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||State's active Covid caseload falls below 500||Active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped below the 500 mark on Tuesday as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases in Jharkhand. The state reported 59 cases against 81 recoveries on the day, bringing the count of Covid patients down to 489, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. Meanwhile, two more Covid patients died during treatment in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1075. Dhanbad and Saraikela reported one Covid casualty each in the past 24 hours. Ranchi reported 30 fresh cases against 39 recoveries on the day, while all the remaining districts reported a single-digit-spike. As per government data, more than 98 per cent of the over 1.18 lakh people found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand have recovered so far. The growth rate of cases in Jharkhand was 0.04 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent. Jharkhand achieved less than 50 per cent of its vaccination target on Tuesday for the second consecutive day, bringing the total vaccination target achieved so far in the state to 53 per cent, figures compiled by the health department revealed. As many as 7389 of the 17,686 people registered for vaccination against Covid-19 virus were administered the Covishield shots on the day, a report released by the NHM stated. As per the report, at least 985 people were inoculated in Ranchi, about 52 per cent of the total target of 1897. Palamu achieved the highest vaccination target of 72 per cent by administering the vaccine shots to at least 681 of 940 beneficiaries registered for vaccination there. Only three cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) were reported in Jharkhand on Tuesday – one in Ranchi and two in Koderma. As per data with the NHM, at least 229 cases of AEFI have been reported in the state so far, and 160 of them occurred in Ranchi. By the end of the vaccination programme on Tuesday, as many as 55,441 people were inoculated in the state and at least 5,669 of them were residents of Ranchi. As many as 2,630 people were inoculated in East Singhbhum, while as many as 1882 people were administered the shots in Dhanbad, highlighted the NHM report. So far, Palamu, Giridih and Bokaro are the only three districts that have achieved more than 70 per cent of their vaccination target. While Ranchi has achieved 55 per cent of its target, only 41 per cent of the registered beneficiaries were inoculated in Pakur – the lowest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. As per government data, East Singhbhum has achieved 64 per cent of its target, while Dhanbad has vaccinated 54 per cent of the registered beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Farmers protest: Jharkhand Christian Youth Association express solidarity||The Jharkhand Christian Youth Association, a conglomeration of inter-denomination members, has expressed solidarity with the farmers’ protest. The association has backed the message of the All India Catholic Union (AICU) on Monday in support of the farmers. “We fully align with the solidarity message of the AICU reaffirming the demand for the withdrawal of the new farm laws and empathise with the agitating farmers. We stand with our peasants during this time when they need the support of all sections of India’s society and would extend our contribution in whatever manner possible to their cause,” said Kuldeep Tirkey, central president of the Jharkhand Christian Youth Association, a religious and social organisation, and a resident of Ranchi. The Auxiliary Bishop of the Ranchi Archdiocese, Theodore Mascarenhas, had on Monday released the message of the AICU, a 101-year-old organisation that has members in all states of India. “The members of the AICU are professionals, servicemen and small businessmen, and many of them work on the land as farmers of paddy and other grains, as owners and workers. We, therefore, are naturally in solidarity with people of all faiths who are farmers, fishermen and workers in factories. We know and understand how much labour and sweat of the farmer goes into producing food for the country, and cash crops for export,” AICU national president Lancy D’Cunha had said in a podcast in several languages. The AICU drew attention to the love the farmers have for the land, the animals they breed and the environment in which they labour. “This cannot be measured in terms of just money,” the outfit said in a statement dated January 31 and released by AICU spokesperson John Dayal. “We also know that in Europe and many other countries, the governments honour this labour of the farmers. Governments, therefore, give huge subsidies to their farmers,” the statement said. The situation in India, it pointed out, varies from state to state, and farmers are under great stress. If there is a drought or a hailstorm or a flood, their entire labour is lost, the AICU said. According to the statement, more than 350,000 farmers have committed suicide in the past 10 years because of failure to repay loans. “We stand in total solidarity with the farmers who are now agitating at the gates of the national capital, New Delhi. The farmers have been in a struggle to save agriculture and thus save India from disaster,” the AICU said. D’Cunha said: “These agriculture laws and the proposed electricity amendments are detrimental to all people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi hotels limping back to business as usual||Hotels in the Jharkhand capital that were allowed to operate over three months ago during the unlock phases are still slowly limping back to business as usual. “It’s (business) picking up slowly,” said Shantanu Guha Roy, general manager of Radisson Blu Hotel in Ranchi, that claims to be “the only international hotel of Bihar and Jharkhand”. Asked about the present occupancy position, he said: “Our guest count is about 75 to 80 per cent of our capacity during normal times but we are now getting a maximum of around 60 per cent.” Chandrakant Raipat who owns two hotels — Green Acres and Green Horizon — in the city, said: “In real terms, that actually means the hotels are now running with an occupancy rate of around 45 per cent of their capacity, which is far from satisfactory.” “The hotel business here depends mostly on corporate guests,” Raipat further said, adding that his hotels would run satisfactorily only when the business activities become normal. “Our present occupancy rate is even less; it now varies between 30 to 40 per cent of our capacity,” said the front office manager of another posh hotel of Ranchi who did not want to be identified. In order to boost business, Radisson Blu started a nine-day food festival from Tuesday. “This is for the first time after about a year that we are organising a food fest — Jharkhand Food Promotion — at one of our restaurants called Waterfront Cafe,” said Devesh Kumar, the hotel’s associate director of sales. He said they would serve Jharkhand specialities at dinner every evening to interested guests even if they are not staying at the hotel. “We have found that guests like indigenous dishes from across Jharkhand,” said executive chef Ramchandra Oraon. He said these traditional dishes are cooked in various ways — boiled, roasted, fried or in curry. He said some of the dishes are prepared in less oil and spice. “This event is a step taken to rediscover many untapped treasures and secret recipes of Jharkhand that could make forgotten dishes a preferred meal offering health benefits with great taste,” Oraon said, adding that their main ingredients would be locally sourced organic vegetables and tubers. Asked to name a few dishes, he said dhuska, rugra, dobki, phutkal saag, bathua bori, sanai phool bori, chhilka roti, dudhori, mudaua maas (mutton curry), murga jhoor (chicken curry), fish items, arsa and meetha khaja were on offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
03-02-2021||Jharkhand||Kids hurt in crude bomb explosion at Kendua Macchli Patti area||Three children were injured when a crude bomb exploded while they were playing near a ditch at Kendua Macchli Patti area in Dhanbad district of Jharkhand on Monday morning. Locals claimed that the blast was of such intensity that the walls of the nearby houses shuddered. Vivek Turi, 13, Dinesh Hadi, 10, and Badal Hadi, 8, who sustained injuries in the blast, were rushed to Pataliputra Medical College and Hospital for treatment where their condition is stated to be stable. “Locals informed that the children were playing near the ditch. One of them spotted a plastic bag lying in the drain partially hidden by the muck. The children then took out the bag and started playing with it when the bomb exploded,” said Vinod Oraon, OC of Kenduadih police station. Dhanbad senior superintendent of police Aseem Vikrant Minz said they are investigating the incident. “We are probing the involvement of some criminal elements who might have hid the crude bomb in the drain. We are looking into the incident as it is a crime-prone area. Though the police have not found any other bomb from the site, we are keeping a close vigil in the area,” Minz said. The area is around 150km from state capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-153
