04-02-2021||Jharkhand|| Defunct streetlights in Adityapur, Gamharia pose threat to commuters||Several streetlights on Tata-Kandra Road in Adityapur and Gamharia in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district have stopped functioning, causing the most part of the 15-km-long road to remain in darkness since the past one month. As a result, commuters, especially the industrial workers, have been facing risks while negotiating through the darkness in the night. Additionally, no agency is going to mend the defunct street lights in the near future as Jharkhand Accelerated Road Development Corporation Ltd (JARDCL), the agency which had set up the road almost a decade ago has been embroiled with a litigation with its partner agency. The Tata-Kandra Road was modified into a four-lane by the corporation at the behest of state Road Construction Department at a cost of Rs 185 crores in the year 2012, and was supposed to maintain the road over the next 30 years. There are about 500 street lamps starting from Adityapur to Kandra, out of which only 15 per cent are functional now, causing problems to almost 40,000 workers who travel through the stretch. "It looks very dangerous to ride through the four-lane during the night as heavy vehicles also pass through it, causing our vision to get blurred due to the headlights in absence of the streetlamps.  If the street-lamps were functioning, then the impact of the headlights of the heavy vehicles would not be so much disturbing," said Ashim Gope, an industrial worker who stays at Adityapur while talking to this website. Like Gope scores others who have to go to their duty in the industrial area and return home during night have complained of the difficulties they are facing due to the darkness on the four-lane. Executive engineer, Road Construction Department, Seraikela division, Nirmal Singh said the street lamps are not being maintained since the past two months after the road agency has been embroiled in litigation. "The partner agency IL&FS has filed a case in the Ranchi High Court after his dues were not paid in time. As a result the maintenance work of the Tata-Kandra Road has stopped since December and it is not clear when this matter will be sorted out," Singh told The Telegraph Online. The executive engineer, who monitors the maintenance work by the road agency regularly when queried said, "As the matter is pending in the high court it cannot be said when this issue is going to be settled.  Unless the matter is settled in the court, the maintenance will not resume." Significantly, Om Prakash, president of a local NGO, Jan Kalyan Morcha said the road construction department should be serious about the lives and property of the commuters who have to ride through the unlit road on Tata-Kandra Road. "It is a very shameful thing on the part of the state government as on the one hand the road construction and traffic departments are observing a Road Safety Month since January, on the other hand the street lamps of the important Tata-Kandra Road remains unlit," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||Congress, CPI to back farmers’ ‘chakka-jam’ on Saturday||Congress and Left parties in Jharkhand have extended their support to the farmers’ call for a nationwide chakka-jam on Saturday, February 6 to press for the repeal of the three new farm laws. Both the Congress and the CPI announced their plans separately on Thursday. Leaders said they would hit the road in full strength to enforce a three-hour blockade of state and national highways from noon. Addressing a press conference at the CPI office, former MP and state general secretary of the party Bhuneshwar Prasad Mehta said they held a meeting with various social and civil rights groups earlier this week to seek their support. “Jharkhand will witness a total blockade of all national highways on February 6. The entire nation is behind farmers, who are on a protest along Delhi borders for over two months to fight for their survival and future. The farm laws must be taken back,” said Mehta. Elaborating their plans, he said the party has decided to hold peaceful blockades along highways at Booty More, Bundu and Tupudana in Ranchi, Baharagora in East Singhbhum, Nirsa and Maithon in Dhanbad, Barhi, Chouparan and Bagodar in Hazaribagh, among others. “All the six districts in Santhal Parganas will also witness a total blockade,” he said. Congress, which is part of the ruling coalition in the state, will support Saturday’s agitation plans. “The Congress has been behind farmers right from the day the contentious farm laws were brought in by the Modi government. All party workers will be on roads on Saturday to enforce the bandh in a peaceful manner,” said party spokesperson Alok Dubey. In the morning, state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon chaired a meeting to fine-tune the party’s activities against the new farm laws. Later, the party announced a state-level tractor rally in Hazaribagh on February 20. The party held its first 80km-long tractor rally from Godda to Deoghar in Santhal Pargana on January 31, which it claimed was a success. More than 1,200 tractors and 10,000 people were part of the January 31 rally. “The Hazaribagh rally will be even bigger than the one we held in Santhal Parganas,” said Dubey, adding that state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh had been entrusted with the task of ensuring the success of the upcoming rally. On Tuesday night, Badal had also met with Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, who emerged as a rallying figure post the Republic Day fiasco in Delhi to give fresh impetus to the ongoing protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||RU likely to invite toppers only for convocation ||For the first time since its establishment in 1960, Ranchi University (RU) will be inviting only toppers to its convocation ceremony to be held in the last week of February, keeping the  Covid-19 pandemic in mind, officials said on Thursday. While top university officials have decided to call for a meeting to discuss the entry restrictions at the venue on the convocation day, sources said that it was almost confirmed that only the 56 gold medalists and important personalities from the university and government will be invited to the ceremony. Also, unlike past years, the convocation ceremony is likely to be held in a closed auditorium this year instead of the convocation ground at the RU campus in Morabadi, officials said. This will be the 34th convocation of RU whhc has never organised a convocation for a limited number of students in the past. “We will hold a meeting soon to discuss the different limitations to be imposed on the upcoming convocation ceremony. As of now, I will not officially say that only toppers will be invited to the ceremony,” said pro vice chancellor Kamini Kumar. She, however, admitted that the ceremony will be held in the presence of limited guests and all students graduating from the varsity will not be able to attend the function. Every year, RU holds a convocation ceremony for students of undergraduate, post graduate, PhD and vocational courses on the same day at the same venue. However, this year, the convocation ceremony will be held only for post graduate and undergraduate students, sources working in the administrative building of RU near Shaheed Chowk in Ranchi said. Last year, President Ramnath Kovind was the chief guest for the convocation ceremony. Kovind had conferred certificates and gold medals to all the 56 toppers – 45 girls and 11 boys. As per records with RU, this year, 37 of the toppers are girls while remaining 19 are boys. At present, the University has 23 post graduate departments, 15 constituent colleges, and 49 affiliated colleges, imparting education in medicine, psychiatry, law, engineering, business management, education, and general courses. Besides these institutions, there are UGC sponsored Academic Staff College.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||Decorators protest Dhanbad corporation compulsory licence rule ||Over 1,200 decorators and tent house owners in the district are up in arms against the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation following a recent order making trade, labour and catering licenses mandatory for working in marriage halls in the area. Disagreeing with the decision, a delegation of Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association on Thursday met the district municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar. Traders will have to close their businesses if the decision is implemented, the delegation, led by its president Pradeep Kumar Singh, said. The protesters are especially concerned over the DMC’s decision of imposing a registration charge of Rs 5,000 on the pandemic-battered businessmen. The representatives complained that due to lack of business, they were finding it difficult to even pay the rent of the gowdowns used to store equipment. “Majority of our members are facing the worst time of their lives due to cancellation of all major functions amid the pandemic. Imposing such a rule, especially the hefty registration charge, is totally illogical,” Singh told the media. Vinod Rawani, a decorator of the Godhar area in the district said he could do no business from March 22 to November 25 last year, and could not even pay his EMIs during the time. “We got entrenched and debt and the minor income earned during the wedding season was insufficient to compensate for.the loss of eight months,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||Two elephants killed by speeding goods train||Two elephants were killed after being hit by a speeding goods train at Bisra near Manoharpur in West Singhbhum district, about 180km from here, in the wee hours of Thursday. The tragic incident occurred past 1am when the two wild elephants were crossing the railway tracks between Bhalulata and Jeraikela railway sections in an area close to Odisha's Sundergarh district. The train was running at a speed of around 100 kmph when it hit the two jumbos. “It was an unfortunate incident which took place at around 1.10am. A probe has been initiated in this regard," said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. Ghosh said all the four-wheels of the front trolley of the parcel van (next to engine) got derailed after the mishap. The senior railway official added that no speed restrictions were imposed by the forest department in that section. Restoration work at the spot of mishap got completed around 9am after which train services in the section resumed. Death of jumbos in train accident continues to be a serious issue. Though several attempts have been made by the forest department and railways to avoid them, nothing seems to have served the purpose. On December 5, the Bhubaneswar-Rourkela Intercity Express had hit an elephant near Gargadbahal village between Jujumura and Hatibari area of Sambalpur district killing the jumbo on the spot. The spot of mishap was close to Jharkhand-Odisha border. In September last year, a wild tusker was hit by a speeding train and killed on the spot at the Howrah-Mumbai main trunk route in the Saranda forest area of West Singhbhum, about 190 km from Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||JPSC age norm tweak to help working professionals||The Hemant Soren government’s decision to relax age cut-offs for Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) aspirants will not only help the government achieve its recruitment targets, but also provide an opportunity to working professionals to switch jobs from the private sector to the public sector, academicians said on Thursday. “At a time when the challenges in private sector are rapidly growing, leaving limited scope for employee-friendly HR policies, the government’s decision comes as an opportunity for those who want to leave their corporate jobs and join a government job,” said Dr V.P. Sharan, a city-based academician and former pro vice chancellor of Ranchi University. The Jharkhand Cabinet on Wednesday decided that general category aspirants who were either 35-year-old or younger on August 1, 2016 will be eligible to appear for the upcoming seventh JPSC exams. Candidates belonging to the Scheduled Tribe or Scheduled Caste communities will get additional relaxations on the age cut-off as per the rules. As per the Cabinet decision, even a 40-year-old candidate was eligible for a shot at the civil services examinations in Jharkhand. Usually, the cut-off age for appearing in JPSC exams is 35 years. Sharan, who is currently associated with St Xavier’s College in Ranchi, said the Covid-19 pandemic wreaked havoc on people working in the private sector with layoffs and salary cuts announced in almost all corporate houses. “Even the ones who have retained their jobs are overworked and underpaid. Most working professionals dealing with such issues are around the age of 40 years, and the government’s decision will now give them a chance to appear for the exams and make a career change,” he said. Chief minister Hemant Soren has said on a number of occasions that year 2021 will be a year of recruitment in Jharkhand. Soon after coming to power, he said that his government would prioritise filling up vacant positions across the state and provide employment to youth. However, some academics are of the opinion that the relaxations in the age cut-offs may not benefit job-seekers to a large extent as there were very few vacancies in the state in comparison to the enormous number of qualified yet unemployed youths. “Around 3 lakh to 4 lakh candidates will appear for the exams, and not even 10 per cent of them will get jobs through JPSC,” said renowned economist and former Vice Chancellor of Vinoba Bhave University Dr  Ramesh Sharan. He, however, accepted that the relaxations provided by the government would  benefit candidates who have been preparing for civil services for years, but could not crack the exams. While the decision of allowing 40-year-old candidates appear for the examinations is seen as a welcome move, an economist and job analyst based out of Ranchi said that even if such candidates clear the test, they would only serve the government for 20 years. “If a candidate from the ST/SC category clears the test at the highest eligible age, then he would only serve the government for 15 years,” he said. Jharkhand Cabinet on Wednesday also decided to give additional relaxations to ST/SC candidates appearing for the JPSC exams by doing away with the clause that the cut off marks for ST/SC candidates cannot be less than 8 per cent from the cut off for general candidates. The decision is aimed at filling up the 15 per cent quota for reserved category candidates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||Headmaster dies in school fire in Pakur||A 50-year-old headmaster of a government middle school in Pakur district was charred to death on Wednesday when a sudden blaze erupted in the building. The deceased, identified as Nakul Pandey, was in his room inside the Pochobeda village school when the mishap occurred. The cause of the fire has not yet been identified, police said. Pandey was a resident of Kalitalka area in Pakur, over 400 km from state capital Ranchi. “The incident occurred between 1 and 2pm. Locals spotted smoke emanating out of the school building after which they rushed to find the school principal completely charred. Soon after we got the information, a fire tender was rushed to douse the fire. The body has been sent for autopsy and probe is on to find reasons which led to the singe,” Manoj Kumar, officer-in-charge of the Amrapara Police Station, said on Wednesday. Francis Marandi, an assistant teacher posted here said that the school is closed for students in the wake of continued lockdown. He added that during the time of the incident, the principal was alone in the school single storied building doing routine office work in his cabin. “On directives of the principal, I had gone to the nearby village to call kids to come to school for collecting their midday ration as per the government scheme, when I learnt about the incident. I immediately rushed back to the school when I saw heavy commotion and that the principal was dead,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 46 fresh Covid cases, 49% vaccinated in a day||At least two more Covid-19 patients, one each from Ranchi and Dhanbad, died during treatment on Wednesday, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand up at 1077, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. While the number of Covid casualties has been on the rise in Jharkhand, there has been a significant fall in the count of patients in the tribal state. On Wednesday, as many as 46 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus, while at least 80 patients recovered, bringing the number of active cases down to 453, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Ranchi reported 20 of the 46 cases, but as many as 51 of the 80 recoveries were also reported here. Wednesday's test results brought the number of active cases in Ranchi down to 208. However, this district continues to be the only Jharkhand district with more than 100 active cases. There were no active cases of Covid-19 infection in Giridih and Pakur by the of Wednesday, highlighted the NHM bulletin. At least 15 of the 24 districts have less than 10 active cases. Meanwhile, as many as 823 people were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Wednesday, NHM stated in a separate report. The state achieved 49 per cent of its vaccination target on the day. So far, as many as 67333 people have been administered Covishield jabs in the state. However, Jharkhand has achieved only 52 per cent of its vaccination target since the beginning of the immunization programme on January 16. As many as 13 beneficiaries complained of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) on Wednesday, taking the total number of AEFI cases in the state so far to 242, highlighted government data. Ranchi reported six of the 13 AEFI cases on Wednesday, taking the total count of AEFI cases in the district to 166, which is close to 70 per cent of the total cases in Jharkhand. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid cases in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent. As per NHM, it would take more than 2042 days for the Covid cases to double in Jharkhand. So far, 1.18 lakh people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to host Eco-Retreat in March||Jharkhand will host its maiden “Eco-Retreat” festival next month and one of the venues will be the scenic Chandil dam in Seraikela-Kharswan district. State tourism director A. Dodde along with tourism and sports secretary Puja Singhal visited Chandil dam on Tuesday and took stock of the facilities at the natural reservoir. “We are satisfied with the facilities and have asked the Seraikela-Kharsawan district administration to make necessary arrangements for Eco-Retreat 2021 which will be held at Chandil dam, in Netarhat and Patratu dam. We will soon select a private agency for conduct of the activities as part of the Eco-Retreat which is tentatively scheduled between March 1 and 31,” said Dodde, also the former deputy commissioner of Seraikela-Kharsawan who is acquainted with the Chandil dam. As part of the Eco-Retreat, which is aimed at attracting tourists to the scenic spot, the private agency would have to erect over 25 luxury cottage tents, restaurant and bar, and arrange for sight-seeing and live performances along with land and water sports activities. Earlier in the day, Singhal and sports director Zeeshan Qamar took stock of the facilities at the JRD Tata Sports Complex and Tata Football Academy in Jamshedpur. After inspecting the facilities for nearly two hours in view of the proposed hosting of camps for the U-17 and U-20 national women’s football teams, the officials expressed satisfaction. “We are satisfied with the sports infrastructure and would be sending the details to the All India Football Federation (AIFF). We expect the national camps for under-17 and under-20 women’s teams to commence tentatively from mid-February. The camps will be ideally held for a period of three months,” said Qamar. Sources in the state sports department said that Jamshedpur will continue to host the women’s football national camps till the infrastructure is ready at Birsa Munda Football Stadium at Morabadi in Ranchi. After the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the AIFF and the Jharkhand government last year, a major chunk of women’s national football camps would be hosted in the state from this year onwards. Singhal, who also is the secretary of the industry department, later visited the Electronic Manufacturing Cluster (EMC) in Adityapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
04-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand support for farmers’ protest||Jharkhand agriculture minister and Congress leader Badal Patralekh met Rakesh Tikait, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) leader who has become a rallying point of the farmers’ movement, in Delhi on Tuesday evening to express solidarity with the agitation demanding withdrawal of the Centre’s three new farm laws. After the meeting, Patralekh, the MLA from Jarmundi, told the media: “A narrative is being set up by people with vested interests that the farmers’ agitation is confined only to a few states. But I have come here to not only extend moral support and solidarity to the agitation but also make it clear that a cross-section of people in Jharkhand are backing the farmers. Almost all the 24 districts in Jharkhand witnessed farmers and civil society groups taking part in rallies to support the movement against the farm laws.” The leader from Santhal Pargana further said that resentment against the farm laws was not only present in Jharkhand but was also palpable in other eastern states. “I had met leader of the Opposition in Bihar Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of the RJD and saw thousands of farmers coming out on the streets against the farm laws. We also welcomed thousands of farmers from Odisha who left for Delhi to join the agitation. Similarly, in Chhattisgarh too there is resentment among farmers towards the Union government’s new farm laws. Political parties and social organisations are also backing the farmers’ agitation,” said Patralekh, who offered jal (water) brought from different Jharkhand districts to Tikait. Patralekh also said that Delhi police was a “mere puppet” in the hands of the Union government which wanted to crush the farmers’ agitation. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders since November 26 last year against the three farm laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-152
