05-02-2021||Jharkhand||Acid attack survivor receives compensation under state social security scheme||Principal District and Session judge of Dhanbad Basant Kumar Goswami handed over a cheque of Rs 6.5 lakh to acid attack victim Sonali Mukherjee on Friday under a social security scheme of the government as per directives of Jharkhand State Legal Services Authority (JHALSA). Speaking at the function, held during a legal service cum empowerment camp organised at the District Legal Services Authority office here, Goswami said, “Though, the trauma and suffering of the Sonali Mukherjee can’t be mitigated by any  compensation, the monetary compensation can at least help her manage livelihood expenses.” The judge added that Sonali was earlier provided with a compensation of Rs.1.5 lakh, but since the amount has increased under the lastest social security scheme, she received the additional compensation. Legal awareness programmes are being carried out over the past month to appraise people about the different social security schemes, as per the directives of the authority, Goswami said. Sonali was a college student when she went through the acid attack for refusing to marry one Tapas Mitra, in 2003. Mitra and his friends, Sanjay Paswan and Bramhadev Hazra, on the night of April 22 that year, poured sulphuric acid on Sonali’s face while she was sleeping, damaging her face and vision. Sonali got media attention in 2012 when she met the state women’s commission chairperson, seeking financial support. She subsequently rose to fame later that year after appearing on national television in popular game show Kaun Banega Crorepati, hosted by Bollywood megastar Amitabh Bachchan. After that, several organisations came out in her support and helped her go through a series of surgeries at a New Delhi hospital. The state government, too, later provided her with a clerical job. Apart from handing out the cheque to Sonali on Friday, Goswami provided wheel chairs to two physically challenged persons of Nirsa -- Hashiyar Khatoon and Sheikh Hasiuddin. They also received cheques of Rs 40,000 each under the PM Awas Yojana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||NIA arrests man linked to human trafficking gang in Khunti||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday arrested 41-year-old human trafficker identified as Shiv Shankar Ganjhu alias Shankar, from Ganaloya village in Khunti,in connection to a case pertaining to running a trafficking racket under the guise of placement agencies. The NIA has produced him in a special court in Ranchi and took him into custody for four days for further questioning. Shankar is the brother of trafficking kingpin Panna Lal Mahto. In a statement issued in the night, the central agency  said, “The accused Shiv Shankar Ganjhu was the owner of two placement agencies, namely M/s Laxmi Placement Service & Birsa Security and Placement, which were being operated by his brother and notorious kingpin of human trafficking racket in Jharkhand and Delhi, Panna Lal Mahto who was earlier arrested in the case.” The statement further added that the case against Shankar was filed by state police in anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU) on July 19, 2019 under section 363, 370(3)(4)(5)(6), 370(A), 371, 374, 120B, 420, & 34 IPC and sections 16, 18 of Bonded Labor System (Abolition). On March 4, 2020, NIA re-registered the case to take up the investigations. “The accused had played a significant role in trafficking minors from Jharkhand. During investigation, it was revealed that other accused Panna Lal Mahto and his wife Sunita Devi were operating a big human trafficking racket in the guise of three placement agencies in Delhi. They used to bring poor and innocent minor boys and girls from Jharkhand on the pretext of providing them with jobs in Delhi and neighboring states, but they were exploited and were never paid the promised remunerations. The accused was today produced before the NIA special court in Ranchi and taken in police custody for four days for further investigation,” the statement added. Notably, on December 3 last year, the NIA had arrested one Gopal Oraon in the same case while Panna Lal is in jail following his arrest in June 2019. In another development on Wednesday, the NIA arrested Mrityunjay Kumar Singh (34) from Chandwa in Latehar district for his alleged role in killing of four police personnel by CPI (Maoist) in 2019. An FIR was lodged against him in Chandwa police station on November 23, 2019 under different sections of IPC and arms act and section 18 of UA (P) Act. On the night of November 22, 2019, Maoists attacked a police patrolling party at Lukaiya More in Latehar, killing four cops and looting their arms and ammunition. “The state police had earlier arrested and charged six accused in this case. After taking over the investigation, NIA had conducted searches at several places in the districts of Latehar, Loherdagga and Palamu. During one of the searches at the premises of Mrityunjay Kumar Singh in Chandwa, unaccounted money amounting to Rs 2.64 crores was recovered. Investigation revealed that a day before the incident Mrityunjay had met Ravindra Ganjhu, regional committee member of CPI (Maoist) at Bearjanga forest, and had provided him money for the attack,” the NIA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad students stage protest against university ||Over 100 students who could not get admission to undergraduate and post graduate courses of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University, staged a day-long dharna on Friday, accusing the varsity administration of being opaque about its processes. During the sit-in at the university office at Babudih, the students alleged that they were denied admission on various grounds, namely, error in submitting details on the Chancellor's Portal and delayed examination results. Anupriya Kumari, an English graduate who was among the protesters, said that one of the four students who applied with her to the PG course, did not get admission. “Despite securing good marks, I could not find my name in the merit list of the postgraduate course. While the government keeps the gross enrolment ratio (GER) of the university by increasing seats, students who want to pursue higher education are deprived of it,” she added. Another protester Jyoti Kumari said though she did not meet the cut off criteria, students getting lower grades than her got admission into the college. “The university must think of increasing the number of  seats in such courses, otherwise meritorious students will be deprived ,” she said. Ashish Paswan, district president of the student wing of JMM, Jharkhand Chhatra Morcha, “There are several loopholes in the admission process. Students who have falsified their marks have secured admission in the university.” He also said that the admission cell of the university is also in a total disarray and students rarely get news about it. “We have submitted a memorandum to Vice Chancellor Anjani Kumar Srivastava, to establish an enquiry cell, so that the students can get proper information about admission” Paswan added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||CBI team from Assam nabs cyber criminal from Jamshedpur||A two-member CBI team from Assam raided a house in the steel city on Friday and arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly siphoning off over Rs 3 crore from  customers of banks in Assam. The CBI team, in cooperation with the local police, raided the rented house of Kamlesh Pal, a contract worker, in the Govindpur area and picked him up early on Friday morning. Pal was getting ready for work when the CBI team arrived. Govindpur thana OC Ranjit Kumar Singh, who accompanied the raiding team, said the CBI officials tracked Pal’s mobile phone, and finally, zeroed in on the house at Kailash Nagar by studying mobile tower locations. "Although we are not aware about the details of Pal’s cyber crime operations, but we know he was operating from the rented house in Govindpur where he was staying," Singh told The Telegraph Online. After his arrest, the CBI team took Pal to MGM Medical College Hospital for examination and subsequently approached the local court for a transit remand. The CBI officers left Jamshedpur after they go a two-day transit remand. According to police, the accused is a resident of Garhwa district of Jharkhand. They believe he is likely to divulge crucial information about cyber criminals active across Jharkhand and Assam. Pal’s arrest created a sensation in the Kailash Colony neighbourhood. Local residents considered him to be an amiable person doing odd jobs as a contract worker. "We thought Kamlesh was a decent person. We were really surprised to learn that he was a cyber criminal in the guise of a humble contract worker," quipped Vikash Srivastava, an immediate neighbour of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||Civic worker goes missing, colleagues protest||Over 50 sanitation workers of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) staged a protest in front of Kadma Police Station on Friday, demanding the arrest of an official, accused of harassing an employee who has gone missing. Sanjay Chutel (34), a supervisor of the JNAC, has been missing from Thursday after allegedly leaving behind a suicide note. According to his family, Chutel, father of a five-year-old, told his wife that he was going out for some ‘special work’ at 4 am on Thursday and has not returned since. His family found the note in the evening, and rushed to the police station to lodge. Though Chutel did not mention anyone’s name in the note, his wife Sudha Devi later alleged that harassment by senior official Saurabh Kumar was the reason that he might have committed suicide. She said that Kumar would pass adverse comments about him, and even snatched his gate pass on one occasion. On Friday, Kadma OC Thakur assured the protesters of every possible action to trace Chutel and promised an impartial investigation, following which they dispersed. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Thakur said that an initial probe has been launched into the case. “From the initial probe we found that the missing supervisor had attended his duty till Tuesday, and that his gate-pass had never been snatched by Saurabh Kumar as alleged by the complainant. We are still looking into the matter seriously and are talking to other JNAC officials  to find out whether Sanjay was being harassed by Saurbh Kumar or not.” Special officer, JNAC, Krishna Kumar backed Saurabh, saying he is not the kind of a person to harass someone for no reason. “Saurabh Kumar also told me that the JNAC staff are worried about Sanjay’s whereabouts,” he said. A senior JNAC official said that Chutel was appointed on a casual basis, but he was not performing properly since the past couple of months. He would not attend his duty regularly, citing health problems, but would roam around in the locality, thus inviting the ire of the senior officer, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||Indian Steel emerge overall champs in district archery||Indian Steel & Wire Products (ISWP) pocketed 22 medals – 10 gold, 6 silver and as many bronze – to emerge overall champions in the 5th East Singhbhum District Archery Championship on Friday. Tata Archery Academy (TAA) finished second with 20 medals – 8 gold, 6 silver and as many bronze – at the day-long event held at the archery training centre ground in Burmamines. The championship organised by East Singhbhum District Archery Association marked the return of the sport post-Covid. The archers of the cradle run by ISWP came up with some fine shooting skills to find the target with precision. The likes of Megha Besra (309 points), Santoshi Giri (296) proved their mettle in the senior and junior section for girls compound division. Santoshi also claimed gold in the sub-junior and under-14 section to win all-round applause from a motley crowd. ISWP archers also came with excellent performance while making a clean sweep in the junior boys’ category Indian round with Satri Samad (148 points), Satnam Singh (143) and Rajkumar Bhagat (142) claiming the top three spots in the Indian round. Meghrai Soren of ISWP grabbed the top slot in the senior boys’ section by scoring 152 points, also in the Indian round. The trainees of TAA made a clean sweep in the recurve division event for junior boys with Shrey Bhardwaj (328) Mrinal Chouhan (309) and Alpi Tudu (299) walking home with the top three positions. Shrey also topped in the senior recurve category with 328 points, in the process edging out teammates Subhodeep (327) and Sourav (313). The cadets of Tata cradle also held complete sway over the boys’ sub-junior recurve section.  Aditya Roy (318), Kunal Biriuly (316) and Dev Arjun (315) finished in the top three. TAA’s Piyush claimed gold in the boys’ under-14 with 318 points in his kitty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||BJP MPs bat for students, seek train stop at Aligarh||Jharkhand BJP MPs V.D. Ram and Sunil Kumar Singh have urged the railways to ensure that at least two trains of the state stop at Aligarh station to benefit students studying at Aligarh Muslim University. Ram, a Palamau MP, and Singh, a Chatra MP, say that hundreds of students from their constituencies study at AMU and face troubles reaching Aligarh. A letter has been sent in this regard to Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Ram told The Telegraph Online. Three trains -- Ranchi-Delhi Rajdhani, Ranchi-Delhi Garib Rath and Sambalpur-Jammu Tawai express -- pass through Palamau but the first two do not make a stoppage at Aligarh. The third one, on the other hand, is never on time, making the journey even more difficult for students who have to wait till midnight for the train to reach its destination. Ram said that he has raised the issue several times but in vain. Chatra BJP MP Sunil Kumar Singh confirmed that he too has demanded that the Garib Rath Express should make a stop at Aligarh, citing the students’ problems. Aligarh BJP MP Satish Kumar Gautam will also support the issue, Singh said. A resident of Daltonganj, whose son studies at AMU, said he has to make a 140-kilometer road journey from Delhi to Aligharh, which is exhausting as well as expensive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||Late Haji Ansari’s son, Hafizul Hassan, sworn in minister ||Hafizul Hassan, elder son of JMM minister Haji Hussain Ansari who died last year, was sworn in as a minister in the Hemant Soren cabinet on Friday at Raj Bhavan in the presence of a host of dignitaries, including chief minister Hemant Soren, some of his cabinet colleagues and JMM patriarch Shibu Soren. JMM sources said that the sudden decision to induct Hassan into the cabinet was to pre-empt the party’s alliance partners Congress and RJD to stake claim to the Madhupur Assembly seat that was vacated after the demise of Haji Hussain in October last year after recovering from a bout of Covid. The induction of Hafizul, who is yet to become an MLA, would make him the natural JMM candidate for the Madhupur seat where a byelection is likely to be held in the next few months. After he was administered the oath of office by Governor Draupadi Murmu, Hafizul admitted he had not been told about his ministerial portfolio. He said he would follow his father's footsteps to serve the people. "My father lived a very simple life despite holding high offices in his career and was dedicated to serve the people of this state. I too will follow his preachings," he said thanking Hemant Soren and the JMM for giving him this opportunity. On his priorities, the new minister said he was aware that the people of Madhupur have for long been demanding a separate subdivision. "Yes, this has been a long pending demand… I will try to make it a reality now," he added. Governor Murmu was in her home state of Odisha and returned to Ranchi around 10am on Friday just in time for the swearing in, Raj Bhavan sources said. After winning the 2019 Assembly polls, the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance distributed ministries on a 6-4-1 formula in a 12-member cabinet, leaving one seat vacant. Following Haji's death, two seats were vacant. Of these, one was finalised on Friday. Hafizul’s father, the Late Haji Hussain Ansari, had won the Madhupur seat in Santhal Parganas four times since he first contested on a JMM ticket in 1995. After beginning his career with Congress, Haji joined JMM in 1990 and stayed on with the party until his death last year. He was also the first Muslim to become a minister in the state after the formation of Jharkhand in 2000. On the hurried swearing in, a JMM source iterated that the Madhupur Assembly seat belonged to the JMM. "The RJD has already begun raising demands to field it's candidate at Madhupur. Although, a formal proposal was yet to be placed by our alliance partners, but there have been media reports quoting their leaders in this regard. It got vacated after Haji's demise. So, there is no question of JMM not fielding it's own candidate on behalf of the alliance," he explained. Another JMM leader added, "During the Bihar Assembly polls, despite being our coalition partners in Jharkhand, RJD did not accommodate us. Hence, we fought solo on about half a dozen seats but lost. In Jharkhand, JMM is the dominant force."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||43 per cent vaccinated, 58 fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand in a day||Jharkhand on Thursday achieved 43 per cent of its vaccination target by inoculating as many as 2728 frontline workers and 3833 healthcare workers in the past 24 hours, a report released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per figures shared by the NHM, Jharkhand has achieved 45 per cent of its vaccination target for frontline workers and 52 per cent for health care workers. While at least 70,931 healthcare workers have been inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in the state, only 3,539 frontline workers, mostly policemen, have been administered the Covishield vaccine, highlights government data. Of the 1.43 lakh people registered for vaccination in Jharkhand so far, as many as 74,526 have been administered the vaccine jab. As per government data, at least 243 people have complained of adverse events following immunization in the state so far, and as many as 167 of them were residents of Ranchi. A 52-year-old health worker, who have vaccinated on Monday, died on Tuesday night. However, he did not complain of any adverse events following immunization on the day he was administered the jab. The state reported only one case of AEFI on Thursday from Ranchi. Meanwhile, the number of active cases of Covid-19 infection dropped further down to 447 on Thursday as the state reported at least 64 recoveries against 58 fresh cases of infection, a separate bulletin released by the NHM stated. Ranchi accounted for at least 33 of the 58 cases and 39 of the 64 recoveries on the day. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 13 of 24 districts did not report any fresh case of infection on Thursday, while 10 districts reported a single-digit-spike. No Covid casualties were reported in Jharkhand in the past 24 hours, keeping the Covid toll in the state at 1077. The growth rate of Covid cases was 0.04 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.10 per cent by the end of Thursday. As per government data, it would take at least 1953 days for the number of Covid cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was less than 750 days. So far, the government has tested swab samples of 52.25 lakh people and more than 1.18 lakh of them have been found infected. However, at least 98.71 per cent of the infected people have recovered in the state, while 0.90 per cent of them died, reveals NHM data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||Bid to detain train, driver over jumbo deaths||In perhaps the first such instance in Jharkhand and Odisha, a forest division team from Rourkela sought to detain the driver and the goods train which had mowed down two elephants early on Thursday. The goods train hit and killed the elephants near Mahipani level crossing close to Jeraikela railway station which falls under Bisra range of Rourkela forest division in Sundergarh district of Odisha around 1am. The tracks pass through an elephant corridor where the incident happened. Around 8am, a team of Rourkela forest division, led by assistant conservator of forests Dilip Kumar Sahu, reached Manoharpur station under Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway in West Singhbhum district of Jharkhand where the goods train had stopped, to detain the driver and the train. However, this led to a heated exchange of words for nearly two hours between the four-member team of forest officials and the RPF unit of Manoharpur over the issue. Finally, the matter was resolved after talks between Manoharpur station manager S.K. Das and Sahu. “We got information from our forest guards that the train was travelling well over the permissible speed limit when it hit the two elephants, one aged 15 and another five years, leading to their death. According to Section 56 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, the forest department has the right to seize the vehicle, in this case, the train which caused the accident. “The driver is at fault as there is a standing circular from the railway ministry to run trains between 20kmph and 30kmph along identified elephant corridors. The site of the mishap falls under one such elephant corridor. From the reports which we have gathered from our forest guards and looking at the severed parts of the dead elephants, it is clear that the train was running at a speed of well over 80kmph when the mishap took place,” said Sahu. He further said that they relented from detaining the train and the driver on the request of Manoharpur railway officials who assured they would be producing them within 24 hours. “The railway officials said that the parcel train was carrying essential commodities and the driver had changed duties. “We have asked them to find out from their official records about the driver who was on the train when the mishap occurred and produce him and the train before the forest officials within 24 hours,” Sahu added. According to railway sources, the parcel train was going from Nasik in Maharashtra to Shalimar (Bengal) when the mishap took place. Meanwhile, senior divisional commercial manager, Chakradharpur, Manish Pathak, on Thursday evening issued a media communiqué which said that one wagon of the goods train got derailed after hitting the elephants and both the up and down lines were blocked after the accident. However, no person suffered any injury. The two dead elephants were removed from the tracks at 6.30am and the lines were restored thereafter. The communiqué also said that trains ply in the elephant corridor following forest department rules, including blowing the whistle for a longer period and drivers keeping a sharp lookout for animals moving on the tracks. Manoharpur is around 150km from Jharkhand capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
05-02-2021||Jharkhand||State cabinet approves Jharkhand Good Samaritan Policy||People who are apprehensive about taking road accident victims to hospital for fear of police harassment in Jharkhand need not be hesitant anymore. The state cabinet in its meeting on Wednesday evening approved the Jharkhand Good Samaritan Policy that will not only protect helpful citizens from police harassment but will also reward them. Since hospitalisation of road accident victims within the golden hour (the first hour after an accident takes place) helps initiate effective treatment and save their lives, the cabinet approved the policy expecting people would now come forward without any fear to help such victims. According to the police, the police would not force such do-gooders to reveal their identity if they are not willing to disclose it or detain them for interrogation. Not only that, such good Samaritans will also be rewarded, the policy said. If two persons hospitalise any road accident victim, they will get Rs 2,000 as incentive, the policy said. A amount of Rs 5,000 would be given if more than two persons help in the hospitalisation so that the amount could be equally distributed among them, it added. Even the hospital will not detain such persons when they admit any road accident victim for treatment, the policy said. In case the police need to contact such persons in the course of enquiry or name them as witnesses under special circumstances, they should be called a minimum number of times only and the police must also deposit Rs 1,000 in their bank account every time they are called, the policy added. Such a policy was being adopted for saving the precious lives of youths, who are mostly the victims of road accidents, said a release issued by the chief minister’s secretariat. In Jharkhand, over 5,000 road accidents take place every year in which more than 3,000 lives, mostly of the youths, are lost, it said. There were less road accidents during the lockdown in 2020, it added. Even then, 3,366 road accidents, involving 2,294 deaths, were reported till October 2020, the release said. Old-age pension Among other decisions, the state cabinet also resolved to cover needy persons above 60 years under the Mukhyamantri Rajya Pension Yojana so that they can get Rs 1,000 every month under the scheme. There were about 5.13 lakh such persons in the state who were not getting any pension, according to another release issued by the chief minister’s secretariat. Around 3.65 lakh of them would be brought under the pension scheme immediately, it added. The number of such pensioners that stood at 3.65 lakh at present would be doubled for providing old-age pension to 7.30 lakh people, it said. Those who are left out would also be brought under the scheme gradually, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-151
