06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police still clueless about missing JNAC supervisor, scan call records||The disappearance of 34-year-old Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) supervisor Sanjay Chutel continues to remain shrouded with mystery as his body was not found nor were his whereabouts detected after 48 hours of his missing. Concerned with the disappearance of Sanjay in a mysterious way, the police have intensified search operations and have started taking every possible step to unravel the mystery. Father of a five-year-old child, Sanjay had left home early on Thursday morning, revealing his wife Sudha Devi that he was going for a special work. Later in the evening, the family members discovered a suicide note which triggered fear in their mind, leading them to lodge a complaint with the Kadma thana alleging the JNAC supervisor might have taken a decision to end his life due to scolding by his boss at the civic body. Sanjay also left his cell phone at home, making the family members as well as the police to get puzzled further. Revealing about the investigation, OC of Kadma thana, Manoj Thakur said that they had obtained the call details record (CDR) of Sanjay's cellphone on Saturday but could not get any clue from the CDR. "The missing supervisor had made on average 50 calls a day during the last week. The calls he made was either to his family members, relatives, departmental colleagues or to his friends. None of the calls was such that it might draw attention. Despite that, we spoke to each of those who had talked to Sanjay during the past one week," said Thakur while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC said apart from trying to detect a clue from the Sanjay's cell phone CDR, they scanned the CCTV footage of the Shastrinagar locality in Kadma where Sanjay resided and also at the Tatanagar railway station as well as Sitaramdera bus terminus. "There is no CCTV camera installed near his house at Shastri Nagar in Kadma, but we scanned the footage of the surveillance camera installed at a little distance away from his house but in vain. We checked the footage of the surveillance cameras installed at Tatanagar railway station and also at the Sitaramdera bus terminus meticulously, but did not find his image anywhere," informed the OC. He said the police also talked to the JNAC workers with whom Sanjay would pass time together and also with his relatives, as well as friends, having summoned them at the police station on Saturday morning. Everyone gave a general impression about the missing supervisor that they did not saw any such unusual behaviour in him that would lead him to commit suicide. Thakur said they are also taking the stock of bodies at the MGM Medical College mortuary and also at the mortuaries of Seraikela Sadar Hospital as well as Chaibasa Sadar Hospital, but found no such body resembling the feature of Sanjay. "Finally, one aspect which might be linked to the disappearance of Sanjay is a probable extra-marital affair. We have, therefore, decided to talk to some of his close friends and try to find out whether he had an affair," the OC pointed out, adding that they have kept every other option open in the investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||At Nirsa, over 100 Left supporters block NH-2||The nationwide 'chakka jam' organised by political parties and social organisations in support of the ongoing farmers agitation impacted the outskirts of Dhanbad, stalling traffic for hours in some areas, especially Nirsa, on Saturday. At Nirsa, more than 100 supporters led by a former MLA sat on dharna on NH-2 and blocked the road for more than one hour near Sanjay Chowk leading to a traffic snarl. A similar blockade was held by trade unions and other Left organisations near the district headquarters on Randhir Verma Chowk. But since the protesters blocked only one side of the road, movement of vehicles wasn’t hampered. Protestors led by district president of Marxist Coordination Committee Hari Prasad Pappu and others, including former national general secretary of CITU S.K. Bakshi, raised slogans in support of farmers during their three-hour blockade. Talking to the media, Pappu said, “We are protesting against the farm laws enacted by the Union government. We are demanding the withdrawal of the controversial laws which are aimed at benefiting corporates at the cost of common farmers.” “Government should desist from carrying out atrocities against farmers and labourers and immediately hold talks with the protesters in Delhi,” he added. District president of JMM Ramesh Tuddu, said, “Farmers provide us food. No country in the world can progress by crushing its farmers. But the Narendra Modi-led government, at the behest of corporates, have brought the farm bills which will adversely affect them.” Asked what provisions of the farm laws were against the farmers, Tuddu cited the MSP issue. “The government has plans to abolish the minimum support price for foodgrains through the farm laws. It is also carrying out atrocities against farmers by lodging cases against them when they are protesting against the farm laws peacefully,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Congress activists set up picket at Dimna Chowk||Local Congress activists on Saturday staged a blockade at Dimna Chowk on NH-33, extending support to the nationwide agitation of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of 40 farmer unions protesting against the three new farm laws. The blockade which began at noon continued for about an hour before police arrived the spot and dispersed the party activists led by a local leader Manoj Jha. As a result of the blockade, there was a long queue of stranded vehicles, including trucks, trailers, buses, cars and two-wheelers on either side of the busy highway. On the call of district president Bijay Khan Congress workers in solidarity with the protesting farmers supported the protest. "We are here to extend support to the cause of farmers. Ambulances and private vehicles carrying elderly persons and women were allowed to go through, " said a party worker. The blockade delayed a Ghatshila-based businessman bound for Ranchi's Birsa Munda Airport. "I was scheduled to catch a flight for Delhi from Ranchi in the afternoon. But, I think due to the chakka jam agitation I won't be able to catch the flight," said Vikas Agarwal, a local trader of Ghatshila. Congress leader Iqbal Ansari, who was participating in the agitation, said the farmers’ agitation had become a global issue but even then, the Union government was not paying heed to their problems. Farmers in several other parts of the Kolhan region also took part in the “chakka jam” agitation on national and state highways from noon to 3pm in response to the nationwide agitation call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Sangh-linked NGO files complaint against Rihanna’s firm for using mica extracted by children||An RSS-backed NGO has lodged a complaint with the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights against popstar Rihanna for allegedly using mica extracted by child labourers in Jharkhand in cosmetic products and hair colour manufactured by her company, Fenty Beauty Foundation, NCPCR members said on Saturday. Vinay Joshi, a founder member of Legal Rights Observatory (LRO), a civil society organisation affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), lodged the complaint against the popular singer, requesting the NCPCR to take cognizance of alleged child rights violation in functioning of the cosmetics company owned by Rihanna. “We have received a complaint against Rihanna’s company for (allegedly) encouraging child labour by using mica extracted by children from mines in Jharkhand. Necessary action will be taken as per the provisions of the law after thorough investigation,” said Priyank Kanoongo, the chairman of NCPCR. Rihanna has been in the news for extending support to the ongoing farmers’ protest in India on microblogging website Twitter. The singer found herself in the crosshairs of several famous Indian celebrities who called her out, unjustifiably, for “interference in internal matters of the country”. Several hundred children visit the abandoned mica mines in Koderma and Giridih districts of Jharkhand daily to gather mica flakes, risking their wellbeing and inviting various respiratory diseases. Activists claim that almost a dozen children die every year in mine cave ins, but their deaths are never reported. The mica, which the children collect, are often sold in the open market from where they are exported to other countries, said Rishikesh Mishra, an activist from Giridih. Mica dust is one of the major causes for tuberculosis among local residents of  the area. Mica miners are prone to lung ailments, and the local villagers are at a higher risk due to lack of protective gear and awareness. “Besides mine cave-ins, tuberculosis and other lung ailments claim several lives here,” said Mishra. India is one of the world's largest producers of mica, which has gained prominence in recent years as an environment-friendly material, used in car and building sectors, and electronics and cosmetics. Jharkhand, researchers say, used to produce superior quality mica in the 1970s, some of which were exported. The Forest Conservation Act 1980 banned mica mining in forest areas where most of Jharkhand's mines were operating since the Birtish era. However, in the wake of casualties and health hazards associated with illegal mica mining and scavenging, the government is proceeding with regularisation of mica mining in the tribal state, officials from the mines and geology department of Jharkhand said. Sanjay Mishra, former member of the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR), said that local agents purchased mica from children at throwaway price, and sold them to cosmetics and hair colour companies. “This matter needs to be taken seriously as several children have lost their lives while extracting mica and many more are compromising with their health and future by visiting abandoned mica mines every day,” Mishra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Shuttler Aadhya Singh signs 3-year deal with Yonex||Jharkhand’s emerging shuttler Aadhya Singh has signed a three-year sponsorship contract with Yonex Sunrise – world’s number 1 brand for badminton equipment. The youngster, a resident of Adityapur in Seraikela-Kharsawan district and currently ranked fourth in India (under-15 age group), is the first badminton player from Jharkhand to get the sponsorship support. Yonex Sunrise will sponsor complete equipment like racquet, shoes, kitbag, shorts, t-shirts, etc. to Aadhya for a period of three years. Aadhya, a student of Sheyn International School in Kandra (Seraikela-Kharsawan), hones her skills under national coach Sachin Rana at Mohan Ahuja Stadium in Jamshedpur. Jharkhand Badminton Association (JBA) secretary, K Prabhakar Rao said, “Aadhya has a long way to go and she has got the sponsorship at the right time. Aadhya is a talented shuttler who is ranked number 4 in the country. She’s a hard worker and is making rapid improvements in her game.” The 14-year-old is the first player in Jharkhand and Bihar to participate in all age groups – under-13, under-15, under-17 and under-19 – in one calendar year. Aadhya likes to compete in higher age groups, added Rao, who is also the joint secretary of the Badminton Association of India (BAI). The shuttler seldom skips daily training sessions. “Aadhya is a talented shuttler who is making steady improvements. She loves to take up challenges. Her hand and eye co-ordination is very good,” said mentor Sachin, who has accompanied Indian badminton teams for off-shore competitions on more than one occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Agri minister leads charge to enforce chakka jam at Booty More||The ruling coalition in Jharkhand, joined by Left parties, fanned out on national highways across the state on Saturday to enforce a “chakka-jam” from 12pm to 3pm in solidarity with farmers who have been leading an agitation for over two months on the borders of Delhi to demand a rollback of three new farm laws. In Ranchi, the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD dispatched several teams of leaders to the borders of the state capital to stage sit-ins, hold demonstrations and raise  slogans against the Union government while describing the laws as anti-poor and anti-farmer. In areas like Booty More and Durga Soren Chowk at Namkum —two points on NH-33 that serve as gateways to Ranchi _ several trucks and private vehicles were forced to wait in queue because of the blockade. Booty More remained the hub of major activities as state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh sat on the road there with party workers to enforce the blockade. Leaders of the JMM, Left parties, joined by various social outfits, were also present to drum up support for lakhs of protesting farmers. “Let us make it very clear to the Union government that this protest isn’t just restricted to one state,” Badal said, referring to Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar’s calling the protests as a problem of a handful of farmers in one state. Badal added, “The three laws are like death warrants for farmers in this country. Till the time they are rolled back, the agitations won’t stop. Congress party and Jharkhand government stands in solidarity with the farmers of the country in their fight for survival.” Tomar had in Parliament criticised the Opposition and farmers for calling the legislations “black laws”. And Badal reacted to it strongly. “The Union government’s intentions behind these laws are wrong. That is black. The way the law was brought in without consulting states was wrong. That is black. Farmers don’t want this law, but government is hell-bent on thrusting it on them and calling the protests anti-national. This is black. If the laws are so good, then why are the farmers on the boil?” he said. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee, who also joined the Booty More stir, added that even though the BJP regime has been operating in the most autocratic way in terms of dumping its decisions and policies on the country since it came to power, this time, they are pitted against farmers, who the backbone of the country. “It is the farmer’s fight for survival and the entire nation stands by them today,” he said, adding that the government’s attempts to privatise everything would not work. “If the Union government is for farmers, they must repeal the laws immediately,” Bhattacharjee added. In Namkum, many truck drivers came out openly in favour of the farmers’ agitation. Satwinder Singh, a middle-aged driver from Haryana, said, “We too hail from the farmers’ community and support this agitation. Even if we were to park our trucks for five days in their support, we won’t mind.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Cold wave to make a comeback on Sunday||The weather office has warned of a cold wave, expected to kick in on Sunday and Monday (January 7 and 8) in several districts of Jharkhand, with the mercury taking a sudden plunge and pushing down night readings. According to IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre, the cold wave alert has been issued for Ranchi, Palamu, Garhwa, Chatra, Koderma, Latehar, Lohardaga, Ramgarh, Gumla, Bokaro, Hazaribagh ,  Giridih, West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum and Simdega districts. "Night readings are expected to plummet by three to four degree Celsius in all these districts from Sunday because of the restoration of dry and crisp north wind," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Most parts of the state are likely to experience shallow to moderate fog in the next 48 hours. "The clear weather and favourable wind pattern will result in an abrupt drop in minimum readings in most parts of the state from Sunday. Minimum readings will again witness a gradual rise around midweek," said a duty officer at IMD's regional meteorological centre at Alipore in Calcutta. On Saturday, several places in northern and central Jharkhand witnessed light rain and overcast skies due to a cyclonic circulation caused by the impact of a western disturbance passing through Jammu and Kashmir. Daltonganj and its adjoining areas experienced around 0.5 mm rain. Capital Ranchi, Ramgarh and several places in central Jharkhand experienced rainfall in traces (that cannot be measured). The cloud cover and change in wind pattern resulted in a rise in minimum readings on Saturday. Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 13.2 degree Celsius while the local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur recorded 11.8 degree Celsius. Daltonganj recorded a minimum temperature of 14.1 degree Celsius while Bokaro recorded 13.1 degree Celsius. Met data revealed a trend of rising minimum temperatures in several other districts on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Tatas to deploy women in all shifts at Noamundi mines||Tata Steel has chosen 22 women who will now be trained to operate earthmovers and then deployed at its Noamundi iron-ore mine in an initiative titled Tejaswini 2 which was launched on Friday. Tejaswini 2 was launched at Noamundi in West Singhbhum district in the presence of senior Tata Steel officials, including Atrayee Sarkar, vice-president, human resource management, D.B. Sundara Ramam, vice-president, raw materials, Atul Bhatnagar, general manager (OMQ Division), and Siddhartha Shah, chief human resource management (raw materials). As per, Tejaswini 2.0, technical training is provided to unskilled women workers to enable them to work in core jobs at mines. The ore mines & quarries (OMQ) division became the first division in the company to launch the initiative. It received over 350 applications of which 22 candidates were selected after a written test and interview. The average age of the new trainees is 23 years and the minimum qualification required to apply was matriculation. The candidates will undergo intensive training to hone their skills as HEMM (heavy earth moving machinery) operators. After successful completion of their training, the women will be deployed as operations assistants to operate earth moving machinery such as dumper, dozer, shovel, excavator and drill. This initiative is also a step towards empowering local talent as a majority of these women are locals from Noamundi located in neighbouring West Singhbhum district. “We are happy to induct the first batch of 22 women who will join as HEMM operators at our Noamundi iron-ore  mine,” said Atrayee Sarkar. “The Tejaswini 2.0 initiative reflects our commitment towards fostering a culture of diversity and inclusion. Tata Steel has been a torchbearer in the manufacturing sector by introducing several pathbreaking initiatives such as ‘women@mines’ to encourage diversity at the workplace.” Tata Steel has consistently taken steps to improve diversity and inclusion in the organisation and is working towards a workforce of 20 per cent women by 2025. Earlier, in September 2019, the steel major had become the first company in the country to deploy women in all shifts in mining operations. Tejaswini 2.0 is another step in this direction to empower and employ women in the mining sector. West Bokaro division of Tata Steel has also initiated the process of recruiting women HEMM operators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro to get two new indoor badminton courts at Sports Complex||Bokaro is all set to get international level badminton courts for the players here as two modern badminton courts are being constructed at the Sports Complex situated in Sector-4, with a huge investment by Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL). There is already one badminton court in the Sports Complex, where the players practice every day. These two new courts are being set up apart from the existing one. Sports Complex is owned and maintained by BSL, a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL). The Sports Complex used to be a club earlier. About a decade ago the club was transformed into the Sports Complex where players, BSL officials and bureaucrats play badminton and other games. With Bokaro being listed among the Global Active City, BSL will celebrate this year as a ‘Sports Year’ motivating everyone in the town to get themselves involved in sports activities to lead a healthy life. In this process, BSL is undertaking the development of sports facilities in the township. The construction of world-class badminton courts is almost 70 per cent completed. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “Work related to the new indoor badminton courts in Sport Complex in the town is being done with a view to promote and encourage the activities related to sports. BSL is working hard to achieve the goal for a remarkable change for the betterment of sports which seems feasible to our conditions.” The new indoor badminton courts are coming up with a dimension of 1320 square feet. “Teakwood planks is to be installed of size about 22 x 60 mm. Anti-termite treatment, laying of polythene paper, fixing of conical high induction cushion rubber (pads), line marking and installation of YONEX badminton mats is to be done,” informed Dhan. Arun Kumar Behra, an officer in Bokaro Power Supply Company Limited (BPSCL), who is a badminton player, said, “At present, we have to either play doubles or wait hours for our turns as there was only one court in the Sports Complex. There are about two dozen players who come in the evening. All have to wait. We are very happy with the addition of two badminton courts as now we don’t have to wait and we can also play singles.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||Active Covid-19 cases drop below 200 in Ranchi||The number of Covid-19 active cases dropped below the 200 mark in Ranchi on Friday as the district reported 29 recoveries against 26 cases on the day, according to the figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM). However, Ranchi still accounted for nearly half of the total active cases in the state. As many as 41 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Friday, while 49 patients recovered, bringing the count of active cases down to 441. As per government data, at least 198 of the 441 Covid patients in the state were residents of Ranchi. Meanwhile, as many as 8,962 people were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Friday. The state achieved only 39 per cent of its vaccination target as at least 22,971 beneficiaries were registered to get the Covishield jabs on Friday and more than half of them did not turn up at the vaccination centres. At least 7672 healthcare workers and 1,290 frontline workers, mostly policemen, were administered Covishield jabs on the day. As per the records with NHM, the state has so far achieved 46 per cent of its vaccination target for healthcare workers and only 3 per cent of the registered frontline workers have been vaccinated. As many as 5,495 of 1,58,919 registered frontline workers have got the Covishield shots, while 78,608 of 1,69,785 registered health workers have been administered the vaccine shots. As many as 1,200 of the registered 3,125 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Ranchi on Friday, while at least 600 of the registered 1,587 beneficiaries were inoculated against the virus in West Singhbhum. So far 8,820 people have been vaccinated in Ranchi – the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. However, the district has achieved only 17 per cent of its target, which is the lowest among districts in Jharkhand. Jharkhand has so far reported 246 cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) and at least 169 of the cases occurred in Ranchi. East Singhbhum has reported only five AEFI cases, while Koderma and Jamtara have reported 18 and 10 AEFI cases respectively. As per the figures shared by NHM, the growth rate of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent. As per NHM, it would take more than 2,008 days for the cases to double in the state at the current pace. The doubling rate in India was 926.29 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
06-02-2021||Jharkhand||10,000 to join Jharkhand chakka jam||Over 10,000 farmers from all 24 districts of Jharkhand will take part in the “chakka jam” (road blockade) along national and state highways on Saturday from noon to 3pm in response to the nationwide agitation call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions protesting against the three new farm laws. “We have decided to join hands with our fellow farmers in response to the call given the Samyukta Kisan Morcha after the Union budget ignored our demands and also against the oppressive measures of the central government especially banning of Internet at various farmer protest sites bordering Delhi,” said Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvay Samity state convener Sufal Mahato, a farmer from Tamar area in Ranchi. The Samity is coordinating the agitation in Jharkhand.
Mahato said that they would allow essential services to ply on the highways and other roads. “It would be a peaceful protest and we will not stop any vehicle on emergency services like ambulances and those carrying edible items and students going to attend exams. Our members will also provide drinking water to the passengers of commercial vehicles and inform them about the demerits of the three new farm laws before allowing them to leave. We do not mean to harass anybody during the agitation,” he added. Leaders have asked farmers not to resort to violence at any cost during the agitation. “It is difficult to ascertain the number of farmers who will be out on the streets on Saturday. But we expect over 10,000 farmers coming out to stage protest along the national and state highways. There would not be violence at any cost. We have asked protesters to desist even from burning tyres or forcibly stopping any vehicle,” said Sapan Mahato, president of the East Singhbhum district unit of the Samity and a farmer from Baharagora block. Meanwhile, the state Congress unit extended its support to the February 6 agitation and also announced it will organise a state-level tractor rally near Hazaribagh later this month to demand repeal of the new farm laws. State Congress president and cabinet minister Rameshwar Oraon said the tractor rally is tentatively scheduled for February 20 and is a means to express the solidarity of farmers in Jharkhand with their counterparts elsewhere in India in the protest against the farm laws. Congress and Left-backed unions will also be joining hands on Saturday in enforcing the “chakka jam” across the state. Farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been camping at Delhi’s borders seeking the repeal of the Centre’s three agriculture laws. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. The Union government, however, has rejected these claims stating that the laws will only give farmers more options to sell their produce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-150
