07-02-2021||Jharkhand||Eight members of interstate cyber crime gang arrested in Bokaro||On Saturday, police arrested eight cyber criminals, hailing from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar from Yamuna Hotel in Bokara. The cyber thugs had been operating from the hotel rooms when the cops nabbed them after getting a tip-off. A woman was also arrested during the raid. Their four-wheeler – a Scorpio, has also been seized by the police. Confirming the news and sharing details about the arrest, Chandan Kumar Jha, SP, Bokaro, said, “Police have recovered several passbooks, ATM cards, cheque books, 19 mobile, gold chain, and Rs 4.17 lakhs from their possession.” According to sources in the police, the gang has been actively cheating people for the past three years. People across the country have been robbed by them. However, the police claimed that the gang of thugs had entered Bokara, two days back. The modus operandi was simple – team members of the gang would pose as bank executives or call centre executives and call the victims, seek their bank details over the phone and then make online transactions in their favour. The SP said, “Police on a tip-off conducted a raid at the Yamuna Hotel and found that the gang members were staying in room numbers 206 and 407. They came to Bokaro via road, two days back.” These cheats would keep moving between places, hire hotel rooms from where they would call people and trap them into sharing their bank details. Later they would transfer the money to their fake bank accounts and then withdraw it from the ATM. Police found passbooks, cheque books, ATMs, mobile numbers which are on fake names from the hotel rooms. The arrested individuals have confessed before the police that they also have fake bank accounts in the name of other people. “Those arrested have been identified as Vijay alias Veer Hans of Uttar Pradesh, Atmanand Kumar alias Shambhu, Gaurav Kumar of Bihar Nawada, Mintu Kumar of Bihar Sheikhpura, Avinash Anand of Nalanda, Rajmuni Sehgal of Bihar, Kunal Kumar of Nawada and Anita Kumari wife of Atmanand of Nawada,” said SP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||One COBRA personnel, two naxals injured in encounter in West Singhbhum||One CRPF jawan was injured in an encounter between paramilitary forces and CPI-Maoist rebels at the bordering areas of West Singhbhum, Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts under the West Singhbhum district about 80 km away from here on Sunday morning. The injured jawan identified as Narayan Khetri (25) who is posted in the COBRA's 209 battalion of CRPF sustained gun-shot injury in the shoulder and has been air-lifted to RIMS at Ranchi. Revealing about the encounter, West Singhbhum superintendent of police Ajay Linda said that the encounter took place while the police and paramilitary forces were carrying out a special operation at the bordering area of West Singhbhum, Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts. "The special operation of the police and paramilitary forces were going on in the stretch of Rolahatu and Lanji jungle which is located in a triangular point in Toklo thana area in West Singhbhum near the border of Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts since early on Sunday morning. The encounter started at around 8.30 am after the rebels had started firing at the paramilitary forces," said Linda while talking to The Telegraph Online. The superintendent of police said that in the encounter two rebels have also sustained bullet injuries, but the fellow rebels managed to take the injured rebels away while fleeing the spot. "We got the information regarding two rebels being injured in the encounter from the villagers who had seen the fellow naxals carrying them in their shoulders," he pointed out. Linda said the police have recovered ammunition, IEDs, haversack and other materials from the spot of the encounter. He said from the investigation that followed it was learnt that the naxals were holding a camp at the stretch while keeping a watch on the operation by the police and paramilitary forces, and had resorted to firing at the forces as the latter had come close to them. He said the encounter lasted for about 30 minutes, but seeing greater firepower from the paramilitary forces, the rebels fled the area, leaving their belongings including ammunition, IEDs and other materials. The superintendent of police said soon after the jawan was injured, a helicopter was pressed into service and the injured was carried to RIMS. Linda said he was monitoring the condition of the injured jawan and he is out of danger, adding that a combing operation was going on in the adjoining areas of the encounter spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||MP seeks CBI probe into killing of naval officer from Palamau||Palamau MP V.D. Ram wrote to Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh on Sunday seeking a CBI probe into the mysterious abduction and killing of a naval officer from Jharkhand while he was returning to duty from his home in Palamau.  The 26-year-old naval officer, Suraj Kumar Dubey, a resident of Purabdiha village in Chainpur block of Palamau, was reportedly abducted by three unidentified assailants who set Dubey ablaze after failing to get a ransom of Rs10 lakh from his family, police have found prima facie. He died at a Maharastra hospital on Saturday. The Telegraph Online has a copy of both the letters addressed by the local MP to Union home minister Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh. “I have requested home minister Amit Shah for a CBI inquiry into the murder of Navy sailor Suraj Kumar Dubey since this case is a fit case for a CBI probe,” said Ram, adding that the incident was murky and mysterious. In the letters, Ram wrote that Dubey was kidnapped around 11pm on January 30 from Chennai airport by three unknown people who whisked him away in an SUV. Ram stated Dubey was found in “semi-conscious state” at Vaiiji Veljipada forest in Gholvad Palghar Maharashtra on Saturday. The sailor succumbed to 90 per cent burn injuries while on way to the Sion/ INHS Ashwini hospital in Maharashtra where he was declared dead. A former DGP of Jharkhand V.D. Ram has raised pertinent questions in regard to the design and motive behind this gruesome crime where he reiterated the utter failure of Maharashtra police which could not find Dubey until some civilians brought this case of 90 per cent burns to the notice of the Palghar police. He has written that it baffles most that the killers of Dubey travelled 1,500km from Chennai in Tamil Nadu to Palghar in Maharashtra to dispose of the body in the forest of Vaiiji Veljipada Gholvad Palghar in Maharashtra. It is the same place (Palghar) where sadhus were lynched last year. Mithilesh Kumar Dubey, father of the deceased navy sailor, submitted a written complaint to the Chainpur police on February 1 stating that his son, after availing of one month leave, had left for the INS Agrani unit in Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu on January 30 itself. But his cell phone was found switched off from 6.46pm on January 30, Ram wrote in the letter. Officer in charge of the Chainpur police station Uday Kumar Gupta said, “We registered this complaint as ‘Sanha’ and made a proper entry in our police station diary dated February 1.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||Over 2,000 attend Congress-JMM ‘Jan Akrosh’ rally in Ranchi||Congress and JMM, two key constituents of the ruling coalition in Jharkhand, held a Jan Akrosh Rally near Durga Soren Chowk at Namkum on Sunday to condemn the attack on chief minister Hemant Soren’s cavalcade last month and demand a rollback of the three contentious farm laws. Over 2,000 people, majority of them tribals from Namkum, Khijri and adjoining blocks of Ranchi, attended the rally carrying banners and posters denouncing the attack on Hemant. Several protestors comprising women and children also turned up at the rally on tractors carrying spades and other farm tools to vent their ire against the farm laws in solidarity with the farmers protesting on Delhi borders. As the crowd began trickling from 11am, vehicular movement was disrupted on the road that connects Ranchi with NH-33 and serves as a gateway to the state capital. Traffic police struggled to maintain order as cars and buses jostled for space. On January 6, the chief minister’s cavalcade was attacked by protestors at Kishoreganj Chowk while they were demanding action against those responsible for the murder of a young woman whose body was found earlier that week at Ormanjhi. After weeks of investigations, the accused are finally behind bars. But the ruling coalition blames the BJP for orchestrating the attack on the chief minister’s entourage. Congress MLA from Khijri Rajesh Kachchap, who conceptualised Sunday’s rally, said, “The ‘jan-akrosh’ rally is to tell the BJP that the entire state and its tribals are behind our chief minister. The rally is to warn the BJP for acting against people of this country. One by one, they are conspiring to sell everything to private players to suit their capitalist friends. Now, lives of the farmers, who are the backbone of this country, are at stake due to the three black farm laws. The laws must be taken back.” Congress ministers Rameshwar Oraon (finance), Badal Patralekh (agriculture) and a host of workers attended the rally. Oraon said the Congress would not sit idle till the farm laws were repealed. “While farmers are fighting for their rights along Delhi borders for the last two months, in Jharkhand, we stand in solidarity with them. On February 20, the Congress party is going to stage another state-level tractor rally at Hazaribagh after the grand success of the Hul tractor rally in Santhal Pargana last week,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||Special athlete injured ahead of national camp ||An injury after a recent road mishap has cast doubts over the participation of Rakesh Bagh in the national floorball preparatory camp for the Special Olympics World Winter Games. Three special athletes and a coach from Jharkhand will be attending the national floorball preparatory camp which is scheduled from March 6 to 11 in Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh. The camp is being organised by Special Olympics Bharat (SOB) with logistical support from Sports Authority of India (SAI). It is the final camp for selecting the national floorball squad for the Russia Games. The Special Olympics World Winter Games is scheduled to be held in Kaza, Russia from January 22 to 28, 2022. Rakesh (24), a resident of the city’s Sitaramdera locality, experienced unbearable pain in his left leg during a short training camp held at JRD Tata Sports Complex last month. “Rakesh just could not move properly and left the camp after 10 minutes. He was also not being able to walk properly,” said Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) assistant area director, Satbir Singh Sahota. According to him, chances of Rakesh making it to the preparatory camp looks very slim. “We blame Rakesh’s parents for the situation. They allowed him to drive motorbike which caused an accident. We appeal to the parents of our athletes to not allow their wards to take any unnecessary risk,” Sahota added. The SOJ has also requested parents to allow their wards to do some physical exercises. “The special athletes sat idle due to the Covid-induced lockdown. Light exercise will help the special athletes to tune-up for the camp,” Sahota explained. According to him, the preparatory was originally scheduled from March 15 to 20 but has been preponed due to a festival in Himachal Pradesh. “The Indian floorball team for the Russia Games will be selected during the camp in Bilaspur. Rakesh is a good player and stands a fair chance of getting the nod. But his injury has forced us to keep our fingers crossed,” Sahota said. This is the second time Rakesh would miss the preparatory camp. He missed the national powerlifting camp for Special Olympics World Winter Games in 2019 (in Abu Dhabi) as he fractured his collar bone after falling down from his bike. Sital Sikka (East Singhbhum) and Rahul Kumar Sharma (Giridih) are others who would be attending the camp. Abhiranjan Kumar (Ranchi) will go as a coach. According to Sahota, the athletes and their coach will leave for Bilaspur on March 4. “We will shortly book their train tickets. We will ensure that valid passports, Aadhar cards, and IQ certificates of the special athletes are ready by February 15,” he informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI organises 28th Annual JRD Tata Oration virtually||XLRI hosted the 28th Annual JRD Tata Oration on Business Ethics virtually on Saturday. Fr. Stephan Rothlin, director of the Macau Ricci Institute and CEO of Rothlin International Management Consulting Ltd delivered the oration. Fr. Rothlin delivered his speech on the topic – China - The Emerging Superpower, The Ethical Underpinnings. He emphasised on the ethical perspectives and explained the key elements of business ethics, which he has been teaching in business schools in Beijing, Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, and Taiwan for the last 23 years. He also shared his insights about business ethics in China. “Case studies should be used as the most effective pedagogy for business ethics. Business schools should combine both the wisdom and traditions of India and China to cultivate moral virtues,” he said. Talking about China’s dramatic economic transformation, he referred to the data from the 2019 and 2020 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) economic survey and shared some outstanding figures vis-à-vis the growth of China. “The growth has slowed in the first half of 2020 but remains strong. China has managed to control Covid-19 pandemic and will remain the major driver of global growth, as is reflected by China’s significantly high GDP growth,” he said. In his oration, he also pointed out that China witnessed enormous trade frictions, which hurt not only both sides but also the global economy. “China has made impressive gains claiming to have lifted 700 million people out of poverty in 40 years since the open door policy. China should be given credit for the alleviation of mass poverty and handling the Covid-19 crisis very well after initial failures. If China manages to opt for a more sustainable economic growth, it would significantly impact the world economy,” he added. Earlier, in his welcome address, Fr. P. Christie, director of XLRI said, “Globalisation has further enhanced the importance of ethical, moral compass in business. Globalisation means that business strategy and business ethics cannot be separated from each other. Corporations have entered a new era, the ‘prove-to-me’ era. Unethical practices and organizations are not being shrugged off anymore. Even reputed organisations and some outstanding CEOs are named, shamed and fined, or imprisoned for their ethical lapses the world over. The culture of an organisation is established by the tone set at the top. Chief executives must lead by example.” He went on to say that the B-school has always emphasised the importance of adopting an ethical code of conduct within the corporate world. “We believe that no management education curriculum is entirely complete unless and until the students are instilled with a set of values that are necessary decision-making ingredients for the corporate manager today,” he said further. In 1991, XLRI, in association with a few select Tata Group Companies, established the XLRI-JRD Tata Foundation for Business Ethics to mark their long-standing commitment and contribution to business ethics in India. The foundation seeks to address itself by publicly affirming the imperative need for adopting ethics in business and striving to shape an enabling eco-system to foster ethical business practices. JRD Tata, himself a role model extraordinary, set the bar high for the successive ethics orations for over two decades as the first orator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||After rain & thunderstorm, brace for a cold wave||Unseasonal rain and thunderstorm lashed several parts of the state, especially Jamshedpur and Ranchi, on Saturday night in tune with predictions of the Met office that had flagged a western disturbance-induced cyclonic circulation as the trigger. Torpa in Khunti district recorded the highest rainfall of 5mm while Jamshedpur followed second with the local IMD observatory recording rainfall of 3.4 mm. Met statistics revealed that Ramgarh recorded 2mm rain while Arki experienced 1.5mm. The IMD observatory at Lohardaga recorded 1.2 mm rain while capital Ranchi recorded 1 mm. Kanke on the outskirts of Ranchi experienced a hailstorm. Branches of trees fell at several places in Jamshedpur and other parts of the Kolhan region as gusty winds swept at a speed of 35 Kmph. "The weather condition will gradually improve from Sunday in most parts of the state. We are expecting dry weather and clear sky with fall in minimum readings by 3 to 4 degree Celsius in the next two days," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Ranchi Meteorological Centre also issued an alert of moderate to dense fog in isolated pockets of the state during the next two days. The Met department also predicted a cold wave for the next two days as minimum readings are expected to fall abruptly. On Sunday, Ranchi and Chaibasa in West Singhbhum recorded a minimum temperature of around 11 degree Celsius. Jamshedpur recorded 13.4 degrees Celsius. Daltonganj witnessed plummeting night readings with the local observatory recording 9.6 degrees Celsius on Sunday. Bokaro, Dhanbad and Ramgarh recorded around 10 degree Celsius. As per forecast, minimum readings will witness a further fall in the next 48 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||Changing weather prompts migratory birds to stay put in Dhanbad||Many migratory birds are staying back at different sites of Dhanbad like the scenic Maithon and Panchet Lake due to the chilly weather conditions prevailing in the coal town, after a brief spell of warm weather from January 1 to 12. The weather condition is developing a favourable atmosphere for the birds to stay back. A group of bird lovers in Dhanbad, led by a retired banker A K Sahay (62) who are carrying out extensive survey of bird spots in Dhanbad since September last year, have spotted Red Crested Pochard  and Ruddy Shellduck during a visit to the Maithon Lake on Saturday. The team also spotted a few Tufted duck, a small diving duck of Northern Eurasia during their trip to Maithon Lake. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sahay said, “The migratory birds usually stay until the temperature lies below 10 degrees C and we expect the migratory birds to stay at least for 10 more days.” “We are very happy to spot around 25 Tufted duck at Maithon and probably they have drifted here from Doom Dooma area of Assam which is the favourite place for migratory birds. It is a good sign as we have spotted around 70 Tufted duck at Maithon last year also,” said Sahay and added that Dhanbad can be developed as a favourite spot for migratory birds with little support from the authorities. “We are working here under the banner of Dhanbad Birders and are identifying bird spots in the town as well as in the surrounding areas. We have identified six bird spots in the town including Jagjivan Nagar, DS Colony (near Pampu Talab), Bartand (in the vicinity of CIMFR), Bekar Bandh, Bhelatand (near DPS Hirak Branch) and Bhelatand village,” informed Sahay. “We have simultaneously identified seven bird sites during our extensive survey since September 202 on suburbs including Dhokra near Domerpur (17 km from Dhanbad), Govindpur (12 km from Dhanbad), Chhai Gadda near Kargali Ghat in Baliapur (20 km from Dhanbad), Domgarh Boating Point (23 km from Dhanbad), Maheshpur in Katras (23 km from Dhanbad), Aamtal (6.2 km from Dhanbad), foothills of Dhangi Pahar in Pradhan Khanta (14 km from Dhanbad),” further said Sahay. Dhanbad based renowned radiologist Dr Manish Vishwakarma, who is also the president of Dhanbad Birders, said, “There are some spots in the town like Domerpur which have good potential to be developed as a favourite site for migratory birds. Our delegation met the Dhanbad DFO, Bimal Lakra on February 3 and presented him our report.” “Lakra assured all cooperation in developing the bird spots including putting the signboards at these sites including Domerpur. The signboards will mention the names of the species of birds found at these sites and later declaring them as a prohibited area,” added Vishwakarma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jagarnath Mahto to be discharged from Chennai hospital on Monday||Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto is to be discharged from a Chennai hospital on Monday afternoon three months after he underwent a transplant surgery on account of Covid-induced lung fibrosis, doctors in the Tamil Nadu capital said on Sunday. However, the minister, who was flown to Chennai in an air ambulance from Ranchi on October 19 last year, will return to Jharkhand after spending at least a week in an accommodation in Chennai, said Dr. Suresh Rao, the Co-Director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Healthcare, Chennai. “He is fit to lead a normal life and we will discharge him on Monday afternoon. But his family members have decided to keep him at a private accommodation in Chennai for a week to see how he adapts to regular day-to-day activities after staying hospitalised for several months,” said Dr Rao. Mahto, doctors said, was fit to travel in passenger flights, but he would need to maintain social distance, wear masks and not visit crowded places even after returning to Jharkhand. “He will have to stay cautious in order to avoid any chances of developing an infection in the surgically operated lungs,” Dr Rao said. Mahto’s discharge from the hospital also indicates that he will attend the upcoming budget session in the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha scheduled to begin on February 26, sources from his party, the JMM, said. While Mahto may have won his battle against the Covid-19 virus, several issues in his ministry back home have aggravated. For one, protesting para teachers in Jharkhand are waiting for a dialogue with the education minister once he returns home. Demanding regularisation of services, the 70,000-odd ad hoc teachers have been staging protests outside the residence of all ministers in the Hemant Soren cabinet. Mahto, who was in the news for taking admission in an inter college at the age of 53, will also not be able to appear for his exams this year as he did not fill up the examination form due to his prolonged illness. Mahto tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 and was admitted to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi. He was shifted to the ICU of Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in the state capital on October 1 and put on non-invasive ventilation. The 54-year-old MLA from Dumri in Jharkhand, was put on a life support system called ECMO for around three weeks in Chennai before he underwent a lung transplant surgery on November 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||State meets 42 per cent vaccine target on Saturday||Jharkhand achieved 42 per cent of its vaccination target on Saturday, inoculating 6,306 healthcare and 3,609 frontline workers, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. More than 16,000 healthcare workers and almost 7,500 frontline workers were registered across the vaccination centres in 24 districts of Jharkhand. While 49 per cent of the registered frontline workers got the Covishield jabs, only 39 per cent of the registered healthcare workers turned up the vaccination centres to get the vaccine shots. Dhanbad inoculated at least 1,476 of the 1,569 registered beneficiaries there, achieving 94 per cent of its target, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi, on the other hand vaccinated only 1,311 of the 4,030 registered beneficiaries, achieving only 33 per cent of its target – one of the lowest in the state. As many as 512 of the over 1,400 beneficiaries were administered the Covishield shot in East Singhbhum. Since the beginning of the immunisation drive on January 16, Jharkhand has inoculated as many as 95,916 people against the Covid-19 virus, highlights government data. As per NHM data, more than 10,000 people were vaccinated in Ranchi alone – the highest among districts in Jharkhand. Of the 95,916 people vaccinated so far, 85,544 were healthcare workers, while 10,372 were frontline workers, mostly police personnel and sanitation workers, stated a report released by the NHM. The state has reported 246 cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) and 169 of these cases occurred in Ranchi. However, doctors say that none of the people who reported AEFI complained of severe symptoms. Meanwhile, recoveries outnumbered the fresh cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand, bringing the count of active cases down to 428, NHM said. Ranchi, however, registered a rise in active cases as the district reported 25 cases against 24 recoveries. As per the NHM bulletin, 41 people were infected in Jharkhand on Saturday, while 54 patients recovered in the state. At least 19 of the 24 districts did not report fresh cases of infection, but Ranchi accounted for more than 60 per cent of fresh cases reported in Jharkhand on the day. More than 1.18 lakh people have been infected by Covid-19 in the state so far and 98.73 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of Covid cases in the state was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.07 per cent. At the current pace, it would take more than 2,009 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was 924.65 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
07-02-2021||Jharkhand||Lunch packets for chakka jam-hit drivers||Around 20,000 farmers and representatives of the ruling UPA alliance in Jharkhand took part in the “chakka jam” (road blockade) at 64 places along the national and state highways on Saturday in response to the nationwide protest call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions, against the Centre’s three new farm laws. “It was a completely peaceful agitation. We are grateful to the political outfits who expressed solidarity with our cause and supported the Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s symbolic protest against the Union budget which ignored our demands and against oppressive measures of the central government, especially banning Internet at various farmer protest sites bordering Delhi,” said Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvay Samity vice-president Prafulla Linda, a farmer from Ranchi. The Samity is coordinating the agitation in Jharkhand. Linda reiterated that farmers had abided by their directives against causing harassment to the passengers and commuters during the “chakka jam” from noon to 3pm. “The agitation was a mark of protest against the central government and not intended to cause harassment to the masses. Along national highways in Dhanbad and Jamshedpur, our front members, with support from the Congress, the JMM, the RJD and the CPM, gave lunch packets to the truck drivers stuck in the jam. “In most of the other places drinking water, tea and snacks were provided to the truckers and in some cases to the passengers as well. At no place were the passengers or ambulances and vehicles carrying essential commodities stopped,” said Sufal Mahato, a Tamar-based farmer and convener of the Samity. Inspector-general (operations) and state police spokesperson Saket Kumar Singh also said that nobody was taken into preventive custody during the agitation. “Following a directive from the state police headquarters, security forces had been deployed at strategic places along the highways. There has been no report of violence from anywhere in the state. In most places, the agitators relented after persuasion by the police and lifted the blockade after an hour or so. So far nobody has been taken under preventive detention from anywhere in the 24 districts,” the officer said. Jarmundi Congress MLA and state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, who had met farmer leader Rakesh Tikait in Delhi, spearheaded the agitation at Lowadih along National Highway 33 in Ranchi. “It was a peaceful agitation against the central government by the farmers, youth and some political parties. We want to express our solidarity with our farmers. We will continue to agitate till the new farm laws, which are nothing but a death warrant for the farmers, are not repealed by the government. The Congress and likeminded parties will be undertaking phase-wise rallies and agitation on February 10, 13 and 28 in different parts of Jharkhand,” said Patralekh. Meanwhile, a 10-member delegation of the Kisan Andolan Ekjuttha Manch, Jamshedpur, on Friday night met Tikait at Delhi’s Ghazipur border, presented a memento of tribal icon Birsa Munda and expressed solidarity with the agitation against the farm laws. The delegation also met the agitating farmers at the Singhu border on Saturday to express their solidarity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-149
