08-02-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant-led govt has no intention to work for youth, tribals and women: Raghubar Das||Former chief minister of Jharkhand Raghubar Das termed Hemant Soren’s government ‘visionless’. He also questioned the logic and circumstances that made the present government take a U-turn on the 2016 state recruitment policy brought in by the previous BJP government. Significantly, Jharkhand High Court ruled against the policy highlighted by Das, while hearing a PIL last year. The Soren-led government had even challenged the order at the Apex Court. But the state-cabinet on February 3 resolved to scrap the policy, with the promise of introducing a fresh one. Addressing a press conference on Monday at the state BJP office, Das questioned the government’s move. “After defining the local residents’ policy, my government in 2016 came up with a holistic recruitment policy under which we had reserved jobs for grade III and IV categories for locals in 13 scheduled districts of Jharkhand. Later, on the basis of recommendations made by a high level committee, we extended the reservations to 11 non-scheduled districts to provide equal opportunities to state residents. However, Jharkhand High Court ruled against the policy following which the state government recently challenged it at the Supreme Court. But surprisingly, the government has completely struck down the policy.” He added, “We want to know - why did the government scrap it? If the policy was unconstitutional or had any flaws, then why did they challenge it in the Supreme Court?” Defending the recruitment policy devised by the previous, Das maintained that it was duly notified by Jharkhand governor Droupadi Murmu. “Under the fifth schedule of the Constitution, there is a provision to reserve certain jobs for locals and marginalised people in any place for a stipulated period of time. We had reserved it for 10 years only. Following all the constitutional norms, the policy was introduced to boost local employment. However, by scrapping the policy, the state government has made things uncertain for thousands of job aspirants who had applied for different jobs under the policy. Who is going to compensate the aspirants for the loss,” he said. “This government neither has any vision or the intention to work for the betterment of the youth, women and tribals of this state, which is contrary to the false promises made during the assembly elections. Today, everyone is feeling cheated by this government,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
08-02-2021||Jharkhand||ITI students protest delayed exams||More than 100 students of 2018-20 batch of different Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) of the district took out a foot march in Dhanbad and staged a demonstration at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district headquarters on Monday against the undue delay in holding of their final exams. The protestors who were holding posters, banners and placards, bearing slogans like “DGT Murdabad”, “ITI Exam me deri ke karan virodh pradarshan”, etc. later also handed over a memorandum to Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh demanding early exams. The agitators, who were shouting slogans against the Directorate General Training - the apex organization of ministry of skill for vocational training - for denying permission of holding final exams, also demanded resumption of their practical classes at the earliest which were lying suspended since March last year. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, Sourav Sao, one of the protestors who is a Fitter trade student KK ITI Institute - Dhanbad, said, “While ITI examinations in other states have been conducted observing the Covid protocols on time, only in Jharkhand, the examinations are being delayed on the pretext of Covid pandemic which is adversely affecting our career,” and added they have recently missed several crucial opportunities like apprenticeship of Defence Research Development Organization recently due to lack of degree and non-completion of their course. “The upper age limit of applying for apprenticeship course of several organizations is 24 years and several of the present batch students may miss the opportunity due to delayed examination,” said Sao, a resident of Barakar. Echoing sentiments, Sonu Kumar, another student of Fitter trader of KK ITI who also took part in the demonstration on Monday said, “Our course should have been completed a year ago. Now it has been delayed for more than a year as the exams were not held and it is adversely affecting our career.” Raising the issue of non-holding of practical classes, Kumar said, “Though National Council of Vocational Training (NCVT) the vocational training regulator has given nod for conducting practical classes in workshops but the state government is also not giving permission for holding practical classes which are affecting our training and skill development.” “During our meeting with DC Uma Shankar Singh, we apprised him about our difficulties but he expressed his inability to do much into the issue as it is related to policy level at the state government but assured us to inform the government about our difficulties,” stated Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
08-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia residents continue to face acute drinking water crisis||More than five lakh Jharia residents, who are already compelled to live under the choking air pollution, are now grappling with the acute drinking water crisis. All this, as water supply in several localities is available once in a week while in the majority of other localities water supply is available on alternate days. Worst is the situation of several localities like Baniahir,  Fatehpur Lane, Rajmata Colony, Mishra Para, Hetlibandh, Dumariyatand, etc. where water is being supplied after four-five days by civic body Jharkhand Mineral Development Authority (JMADA). Expressing disgust over the situation, Ankush Kumar (15), a resident of Baniahir locality who is also a Class IX Student of DAV Centenary School, Baniahir, said, “I have to devote two extra hours for bringing water from the adjoining pond in the morning to complete the daily chores of my house like bathing, cloth washing and dishwashing as the water supply is negligible in our area. We have no option other than to depend on water bodies like a pond.” He also added that his online class sessions are sometimes affected due to the extra load on him of bringing water. Echoing sentiments, Mala Devi (45), a housemaker of Baniahir, wife of a daily wage earner, said, “After performing the household work we have to put in extra effort to bring water from a pond situated around 800 meters away from our home. We have never faced such a situation in our life like we are now facing for the last two years,” and added that the situation has worsened recently. Similar is the situation in Hetli Bandh locality. Dilip Keshri, a puja paraphernalia shop owner of the locality said, “We used to get water twice during a day till six months ago but now the situation has deteriorated to extent that we are getting partial water supply after every two-three days which is too insufficient to fulfil our requirement and many people in our locality are compelled to purchase water from the vendors.” Dhanbad MP, PN Singh on December 27 wrote a letter to the managing director of JMADA, Dilip Kumar, drawing his attention towards the problems faced by the residents, where water supply is being made available once in two-three days although the residents of the same locality were getting water twice in a day. Singh also demanded immediate steps to fix the crisis and a probe to resolve the irregular water supply problem. Over 100 Jharia residents led by the former councillor of ward Number 37 of Jharia, Anup Sao, burnt the effigy of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) and served an ultimatum of four days to JMADA managing director Dilip Kumar, at the prominent square of the town, Bata More Chowk on the same day. When contacted, executive engineer of JMADA, Indresh Shukla said, “Water supply is partially affected during the winter as hyacinth floating on the River Damodar enters the intake well pump and sometimes broken pieces of the hyacinth reaches the water treatment plant affecting the treatment process.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
08-02-2021||Jharkhand|| IMFL worth Rs 7 lakh seized at Burmamines||Acting on a tip off, a team of Jharkhand Excise officials raided a mini factory at Carriage Colony in Burmamines and seized Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth over Rs 7 lakh on Monday. During the raid, the Excise team arrested two persons who were engaged in filling cheap quality IMFL into the bottles having brands of higher prices for selling the rebottled liquor into the market of rural areas in Jharkhand, Odisha and even in Bihar. The two arrested persons were workers, but the main racketeer whose name the department did not reveal, managed to escape. Beside the racketeer, half-a-dozen other workers also managed to escape at the sight of the approaching raiding party. Revealing about the breakthrough, Excise sub-inspector J Kujur said that they seized a total of 144 cartons of IMFL from the place where the liquor was being rebottled into the brand of higher price. He pointed out they have seized the liquor of three brands, King's Gold, McDowell's No.1 and Imperial Blue. He said, “Of the total cartons of seized liquor, 122 are of King's Gold, 22 Imperial Blue and two cartons of McDowell's No 1.” "The cheap quality IMFL, King's Gold whiskey was being filled into the bottles of McDowell's No.1 and Imperial Blue, keeping a marginally higher price so as to befool the gullible customers in the rural areas of Jharkhand, Odisha and even Bihar. It was like a mini-factory. For the rebottling work, they had managed to arrange stickers, corks, empty bottles and sealing machines. The rebottling work was going on at a large scale," said Kujur while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said the work of rebottling was going on in a thatched house inside the Carriage Colony so that no one could suspect such illegal activity there. Kujur pointed out while the price of a 750 ml bottle of King's Gold in the market is Rs 370, the prices of McDowell's No 1 and Imperial Blue of the same quantity is Rs 760 and Rs 780 respectively. The Excise sub-inspector stated on being interrogated the two arrested persons, identified as Budheswar Nath and Budheswar Kalindi, revealed that the work of rebottling had started since the past one month and also the rebottled liquor were being despatched for sell in the rural areas in the state and two neighbouring state. He also said though the seized whiskey appeared to be original, but still they will get its sample examined in a lab at Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
08-02-2021||Jharkhand||Working on sketches, police nab Chandil rapists||Two youths were arrested on Monday for the rape of a woman in a forest less then a month ago after police undertook a rigorous search aided by posters of the culprits printed on the basis of sketches prepared after referring to over 100 photographs of suspects. Seraikela-Kharsawan SP Mohammed Arshi told the media that the two, who were arrested on Monday morning, had changed their hairstyle and shaved their beard after the posters were circulated. Arshi said the two _ Budhe Kalindi (26) and Dinesh Behera (25) _ were caught after local residents identified them from the bike they used to forcefully transport the 21-year-old woman before raping her on January 12. The SP said that both Kalindi and Behera confessed their crime which was committed at a forest stretch near Pindrabera village under Chandil thana. Arshi said the incident took place at 8pm when the woman, a resident of Pather Salem village in Kandra, was returning home on her scooter. Kalindi and Behera followed her on their bike and intercepted her at an isolated spot. They then forced her on to their bike and took her to the nearby forests where they took turns to rape her. "As there was no CCTV footage, there was no record of the bike’s registration number. It was a blind case for us and hence challenging. But we took the help of the woman while preparing sketches of the two, referring to over 100 photographs of suspects,” he said. Police, he said, circulated the posters of the sketches in and around the Kandra locality right down to the panchayat and village level. Finally, the duo was nabbed on Monday morning. Kalindi and Behera are residents of Supudera in Parsudih, about 20km from the spot where the crime was committed. Arshi said after the duo was caught they interrogated them at Kandra thana where they confessed to their crime. He two were then arrested and sent to Seraikela divisional jail after being presented before a judicial magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
08-02-2021||Jharkhand||15 workers from Jharkhand missing in Uttarakhand||As many as 15 labourers from Jharkhand are among the hundreds missing at Chamoli in Uttarakhand where a glacier-break on Sunday triggered an avalanche and flash floods, district officers said on Monday as the Hemant Soren government set up a control room with helpline numbers to make it easier for families to establish contact with the authorities. While nine of the missing workers are from Lohardaga, six are from Ramgarh. Lohardaga deputy commissioner Dilip Kumar Toppo said the nine are for Bethat village. "Their family members contacted us today (Monday) to say that they had gone to work in an NTPC plant at Chamoli. We are trying to establish contact with the Uttarakhand authorities," he said. Ramgarh deputy commissioner Sandip Singh said six residents of Gola block had gone to work at the same NPTC construction site in Chamoli. "They went there through a third-party contractor. Their family members informed us that they are missing. We are trying to gather more information,” he said. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who is in Maldives on a family vacation, used Twitter to announce the setting up of the control room with helplines. “Students, labourers or anyone else of the state who are stranded may contact Jharkhand government on these numbers. People may also send Whatsapp messages on the notified numbers. We request people not to panic. The state government will extend all possible help to the needy,” he tweeted. The helpline numbers are: 0651-490055/ 2490083/ 2490037/ 2490058/ 2490052/ 2490125. Numbers with Whatsapp are: 97401135291/  9431336427/ 9431336398/ 9431336472/ 9431336432.  Officials said the control room had been set up at the state labour department.  “All the numbers have been activated and are manned to answer both voice and Whatsapp messages. Our teams will be alert and work with alacrity _ just like the way officials coordinated help during the migrant crisis last year when the nationwide lockdown was announced in the wake of Covid-19,” said a senior officer. He said they handled over 8 lakh calls during the lockdown and over five lakh migrants were brought back to Jharkhand safely via air, rail and road. “We are also in touch with our counterparts in Uttarakhand to identify if anyone belonging to Jharkhand is stranded so that we can make the necessary arrangements,” he said. According to a PTI report from Dehradun, 18 bodies had been recovered and 202 were still missing, officials at Chamoli district said on Monday, as multiple agencies joined hands to rescue at least 30 workers trapped in a tunnel at a power project site. With more bodies being recovered, the death toll touched 18 and could go higher, officials in the state emergency operation centre said. The 202 still missing include those working at hydel power project sites as well as nearby villagers whose homes were washed away with the force of the raging waters, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
08-02-2021||Jharkhand||Now for some women’s T20 in Ranchi, pro kabaddi in Deoghar||Jharkhand State Cricket Association announced on Sunday to host a T20 league for women from February 14-24 at the JSCA International Stadium Complex in Ranchi on the lines of its maiden Karbonn Jharkhand T20 league held in September last year. Titled Karbonn Jharkhand Women’s T20 Trophy, it will have five teams _  Jamshedpur Jasmines, Dhanbad Daffodils, Dumka Daisies, Ranchi Roses and Bokaro Blossoms, comprising players only from the state, officials said. “There will be 21 matches in all and all of them will be streamed live on the FANCODE App. Similar live streaming was held during the men’s T20 as well. The finals will be played on February 25,” said JSCA secretary Sanjay Sahay. “This tournament will be the first such event for women cricketers since the outbreak of the pandemic. Since the tournament will being played without the presence of spectators, everyone can watch the match live by downloading the App,” he added. The tournament will be strictly for players registered in Jharkhand and the teams will be selected by JSCA appointed selectors. “There will be no franchisee/team owner, no mentor, no auction of players, no player fee or prize money involved,” he said, adding that JSCA would ensure necessary precautions and adherence to all Covid-19 guidelines. “Strict rules have been put in place for all players and officials to ensure their safety. All officials and players will reside within the premises of the JSCA stadium. Only players with a negative Covid-19 test report will be allowed to play. Players will have to undergo medical check-ups and thermal screening daily and a medical desk shall be operational round-the-clock,” he said. Kabaddi league In the temple town of Deoghar, the district sports authority is gearing up to host the first ever Deoghar Kabaddi League themed on the big-ticket Pro Kabaddi League as part of its efforts to revive the game in the state. The tournament is tentatively scheduled between April 6-21, said officials. CEO of Kabaddi Association of Jharkhand Gopal Thakur said, “The Deoghar league will have a minimum of eight teams and maximum of 16. Deoghar sports authority has mooted this initiative to revive sporting activities in the district and promote kabaddi.” On a possible Jharkhand Kabaddi League, he said, “We are working out plans to hold it among four select districts of Jharkhand, namely Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, and Dhanbad, dates of which will be announced soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
08-02-2021||Jharkhand||Over one lakh vaccinated in Jharkhand so far||The count of people inoculated against the Covid-19 virus crossed the 1 lakh mark in Jharkhand on Sunday as almost 10,000 beneficiaries were administered the Covishield jabs in the state on the day, figures with the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Jharkhand achieved 41 per cent of its vaccination target on Sunday by inoculating 9866 of the 24,203 healthcare workers and frontline workers registered to get be Covishield jabs on the day, a report released by the NHM stated. As many as 4369 of 9648 registered frontline workers were administered the vaccine shots on Sunday, while 5497 of 14555 healthcare workers were inoculated at the various vaccination centres across the 24 districts in Jharkhand, the NHM report highlighted. Dhanbad achieved 96 per cent of its vaccination target on the day by administering the Covishield jabs to at least 2029 people – the highest among districts in Jharkhand. As many as 616 people were inoculated in Ranchi, which was 49 per cent of the total 1256 registered beneficiaries here. As per NHM data, only 18 of 412 registered beneficiaries in Latehar were inoculated on the day. The district achieved only 4 per cent of its taget – the lowest among the 24 districts in the state. So far, as many as 1,06,221 people have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand since the launch of the nationwide immunization programme on January 16. However, the state has achieved only 32 per cent of its vaccination target. As many as 10,747 of the over 1 lakh people vaccinated in the state were residents of Ranchi, while 7786 were from Giridih. At least 6619 people have been administered the Covishield shots in East Singhbhum and 7433 people have been inoculated in Dhanbad. As many as 7629 residents of Dhanbad have been vaccinated so far. Meanwhile, one more Covid patient, a resident of Ranchi, died during treatment on Sunday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1078 and that in Ranchi to 238, a separate bulletin released by the NHM stated. As many as 38 people were found infected by the virus in Jharkhand on the day, while 34 patients recovered, the bulletin stated. At least 431 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand by the end of Sunday. At least 17 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of infection, while Ranchi accounted for 22 of the 38 cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-148
