09-02-2021||Jharkhand||Bring law on MSP if you’re really serious, JMM tells Modi||The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come up with a law on minimum support price (MSP) if he was really serious about it. Reacting to Modi’s statement made in the Rajya Sabha on Monday, the tribal outfit snubbed him for defaming protesting farmers by calling them Andolanjivi. Talking to the media at the party office, JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “Yesterday (Monday), the PM said ‘MSP tha, MSP hai aur MSP rahega’ (MSP was there, is in force and will be there). We welcome it. So, if the PM is serious on his words, we demand his government to bring a law on MSP in the ongoing Budget Session. The entire protest by farmers in the country against the farm laws is to demand for a dedicated law on MSP. Let’s bring it and prove your good intentions.” The party said that by invoking former PM Manmohan Singh’s name and dubbing protesters as Andolanjivi, the PM has again exhibited that they are trying to run away from addressing the real concerns and mislead people. “Modi-ji said that he did what the UPA government under Manmohan Singh wanted to do. Manmohan Singh-ji never brought such controversial laws, you did. Even then if you say that BJP government did what UPA regime wanted to do, then why not BJP rechristens its name as BJP-Congress party,” he mocked, “If all protestors (farmers) are Andolanjivi, BJP must never stage any protest anywhere,” he said, adding that rather than trying to solve the impasse, the entire government machinery is focused on discrediting a public movement against the anti-farmer and anti-people policies of the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||Seven tourists from Jamtara missing from Dehradun||The state labour department has said that seven tourists from Jamtara are missing in Uttarakhand where a glacier break on Sunday triggered an avalanche leading to massive flooding that has destroyed two hydel projects in addition to hundreds of homes. Officials manning the helpline set up by the state labour department said that on Tuesday, they received fresh information of eight missing persons, taking the total number of missing to 21. The missing tourists are from Jamtara’s Mihijam block. “They had gone for vacation and are reported missing from Dehradun,” said an official quoting data prepared by officials manning the state helplines. Ramgarh deputy commissioner Sandip Singh clarified to the media that four, not six, persons of the district were missing. “Initially, we got information of six persosn from Gola block missing in Chamoli. But today (Tuesday), four missing persons are confirmed. Attempts are on to trace them,” he said. Nine missing workers from Lohardaga district still remain untraced. One worker is missing from Bokaro. He has been identified as Amrit Kumar, a resident of Mugsarla in Petarwar block. He was working at Ritvik Projects, a private company. “He was in Vishnugarh in Tapovan in Chamoli,” said the official. Ten residents of Latehar are stranded in Chamoli. “All are residents of Jagir village in Bariatu block in Latehar. They are labourers too,” he added. Meanwhile, with the recovery of five more bodies, the death toll rose to 31 in Chamoli and at least over 100 are reported missing even as various agencies were working round-the-clock. On Monday, chief minister Hemant Soren used Twitter to announce the setting up of a dozen helpline numbers in an effort to establish contact with those from the state who had been stranded in Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||‘We’ve lost our ID cards and have no cash… where do we go?’||At least 10 labourers from Jharkhand’s Latehar, who were working in a National Thermal Power Project (NTPC) site at avalanche-ravaged Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, are stranded in the area with no cash in hand and no document to prove their identity. “All our government identity cards got washed away in the avalanche. We don’t even have Rs10 in our pocket. God only knows when and how we will manage to return home,” Rooplal Singh, one of the stranded labourers, originally from Bariatu village in Latehar, about 110km north west of capital Ranchi, told The Telegraph Online. Santosh Singh, another stranded labourer staying with Rooplal in a temporary accommodation arranged by NTPC after Sunday’s disaster, said the company was providing food to the labourers, but they desperately wanted to return home and see their families after such a close encounter with death. “There is no work left for us here, and we desperately need to return home. We do not have any document to prove our identity as all our valid identity cards got washed away in the incident,” said Santosh, also a resident of Bariatu village, from where several labourers move to other parts of the country to work as daily wagers every year. On Tuesday, the number of missing Jharkhand labourers in Uttarakhand rose to 21 from Monday’s 15. Callers from Chamoli shared names of at least seven labourers from Jamtara and one from Bokaro, who were missing after the avalanche that triggered massive flooding alongside the Alaknanda and Dhauliganga rivers on Sunday morning. As per data gathered by the state helpline, as many as nine people were missing from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh, seven from Jamtara and one from Bokaro, while 10 labourers from Latehar were stranded in Chamoli. Santosh and Rooplal fear that the loss of IDs may pose as a hurdle for them to avail of any relief from the government. Both of them, along with eight other residents of their village in Latehar, went to Uttarakhand on January 23. However, they have not gone to work since the incident and have not earned their daily wage. “We want to return home and start afresh. Our families are entirely dependent on the daily wage we earn. We cannot afford to sit idle here with no income and wait for the government’s help, but there is no other option as we do not have enough cash to travel,” Rooplal said over phone from Chamoli.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||Group of 20 youths joins ‘bird walk’ in coal town ||A group of 20 youths, led by ornithologist AK Sahay, went on a walk at Jagjivan Nagar locality of Dhanbad on Tuesday morning, with an aim to study the habitat, behavior and food habits of a wide variety of birds. Organised by coal town-based outfit Dhanbad Birders, the walk that began at 8 am from Bartand, was aimed at generating curiosity and sensitivity among the common masses about birds, as well as the environment and ecosystem in general. “The event was planned in a bid to generate social sensitivity about issues like the environment, wildlife, ecosystem and food chain, which are of paramount importance, especially for the youth and children who are major stakeholders of the next generation,” President of Dhanbad Birders  Amit Vishwakarma said. Similar events would be organised regularly, he added. The participants also took photos of around 60 types of birds found in the Children’s park of Jagjivan Nagar, while answering various queries of passers by. Talking about the event, Hemant Kumar Prasad (18) said, “The experience was really great. We spotted many birds including spotted dove, Alexandrine parakeet, rose-ringed parakeet, prinia and oriole.” Prasad, who joined the community in September last year, added that the site at Jagjivan Nagar is home to 50 different species of birds and is among the top five bird hotspots in Dhanbad. Jodeep Gorai, a class XII student said, “Although I am a late joinee, I can identify 50 species of birds now.” Gorai joined the group last November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
09-02-2021||Jharkhand|| Body of missing civic worker found in Subernarekha river||The body of Sanjay Chutel, the missing supervisor of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), was found floating in the Subernarekha river near Domuhani along the Sonari Police Station area on Tuesday. Sagar Chutel, Sanjay’s brother, had to identify the body from tattoos inscribed on the hand, as he was beyond recognition. Confirming the incident, Kadma Police Station OC Manoj Thakur said that the unidentified body was initially moved to the MGM Medical College mortuary for post-mortem. “Suspecting it to be that of the missing JNAC supervisor, we summoned the family members concerned.  The body was identified as that of Sanjay Chutel by his younger brother Sagar on the basis of two tattoos on his left hand at the mortuary,” Thakur told The Telegraph Online. Locals had stopped the floating body at the Subernarekha River, and informed the Sonari Police Station. Officials of Sonari and Kadma police later recovered the decomposed body. Father of a five-year-old, Sanjay was untraceable since Thursday morning after he left a suicide note and left home. The note, however, was discovered much later, following which a missing person complaint was lodged by Sanjay’s father. On the same night, the deceased's wife accused a senior official of JNAC of harassing Sanjay, leading him to take such a drastic step. Based on the complaint, police had interrogated the accused Saurabh Kumar. Having found nothing substantial in the allegation against the JNAC officer, the police had derived call details record (CDR) of Sanjay's mobile phone and also tried to trace his movement through the CCTV footage. The police had also talked to Sajany's relatives and close friends so as to get a clue to his sudden act of disappearance having dropped a suicidal note.  But they did not get any clue to the reason that led Sanjay to leave his house.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||Don’t want Covid-19 vaccine? Sign declaration||Healthcare workers who refuse to get vaccinated against the coronavirus in Ranchi will have to submit a declaration stating that they have voluntarily opted out of the immunisation programme, officials from the district administration said on Tuesday, claiming that many healthcare workers had not taken Covishield vaccine jabs without specifying a reason for their apprehension. “Health workers who are called for vaccination but refuse to get inoculated will have to submit a declaration stating clearly that backing out from the immunisation programme was their voluntary decision,” said Ranchi deputy commissioner Chavi Ranjan. As per data collected by the National Health Mission (NHM), more than 75 per cent healthcare and frontline workers registered for free vaccination either did not turn up at the jab sites or backed out from taking the vaccine in Ranchi district. NHM data highlights that of the 51,831 people registered for vaccination in the district, only 12,158 were inoculated. As a result, Ranchi has achieved only 23 per cent of its vaccination target – the lowest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi has also reported the highest number of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) in Jharkhand. Of the 247 AEFI cases reported in the state so far, at least 169 were reported in Ranchi alone, highlights government data. Last week, a 52-year-old healthcare worker from a private hospital died 33 hours after vaccination here, triggering panic among beneficiaries registered to get free vaccine in the district, sources said. The matter is under investigation. An official from the district administration said that declarations from those who do not want to get the vaccine had been sought for maintaining records related to the immunization programme in the district. No person will be forced to take vaccine shots against his/her wish, he added. A healthcare worker, employed at a private hospital in Ranchi, said that rumours circulated on social media and news about people facing health complications following vaccination were instilling fear among healthcare workers. “I have already taken the first dose of the vaccine, and I did not face any side effect. But some of my colleagues are afraid that they might suffer from severe side effects and are thereby apprehensive about taking the vaccine,” he said, requesting anonymity. Vaccination against Covid-19 virus is not compulsory for every healthcare worker in India. Beneficiaries have the freedom to opt out of the process. However, doctors have requested all healthcare workers to get vaccinated without any fear of adverse effects of the jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI students will get chance to evaluate B-school’s positive impact||XLRI is set to participate in a Positive Impact Rating ( PIR) -2021, thereby giving its students a chance to evaluate the institution on how it is solving societal and sustainable challenges and assessing the positive impact of B-schools. The Positive Impact Rating (PIR) is a rating by students and for students. It addresses the larger role of business schools; the positive impact of business schools going beyond their contribution to business and the economy. XLRI will be participating in the rating for the second consecutive year. XLRI along with IIM Bangalore, had featured in the top 30 Global Business Schools of the first edition of  Positive Impact Rating -2020. The overall PIR score of the business school is used to position the school on one of five levels. The premier B-school  was categorised under the 'Progressing schools' category in the first edition of Positive Impact Rating- 2020, rating it among the top 30 global business schools. This year, XLRI aims to achieve in the ranks of the  'Transforming schools' category. The characterisations of the different levels refer to the developmental stage of the business school. The results of the 2021 edition of the Positive Impact Rating will be announced at the World Economic Forum in Lucerne-Burgenstock, Switzerland in May this year. The collection of data  is organised by SIGMA-oikos, which will  conduct a survey across campus through email campaigns and social media. The results can be used as a tool to drive student-led sustainable development . Prof. Tata Raghuram, convenor, Father Arrupe Centre for Ecology and Sustainability ( FACES), said, “Individual and collective actions are essential to create a greater common good. At Xlri, students, faculty, staff, and alumni strive together to realise this vision. We set out our commitments to make a positive contribution to creating a positive impact on society. Positive Impact Rating guides business schools from being the best in the world to being the best for the world. The PIR rating inspires us to work more diligently towards attaining our vision and mission.” Sunil Varughese, chief brand and sustainability officer at XLRI said, “Once again, business management students across the world are joining hands to assess their business schools on how they perceive their institutional positive impact in the community and society at large. This marks a paradigm shift towards fostering a collaborative ecosystem and making the process of management education more meaningful and purpose-oriented, especially in a world that is still suffering as a consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||Steel City students win Study Australia Video Competition||Ashish Sam and Sayon Ghosh, students of class X of the Carmel Junior College, Jamshedpur, have won the Study Australia Video Competition aimed to find out more about higher studies in the countries, among other things. The competition was organised for school students of classes IX to XII from India, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh by The Australian Trade and Investment Commission. As participating teams had to choose a university theme and make a film on the same, students of Carmel Junior College chose the theme of The University of Western Australia. The University was among the five partner universities for the competition and based their three-minute film on 'Building Circular Cities'. The duo showcased how circular cities can avoid generating waste by reusing and recycling. Apart from knowing more about higher studies in Australia, the objective of the video was to test their English proficiency skills, demonstrate creativity and explore the potential of a global career. Ashish and Sayon worked under the guidance of the principal of Carmel Junior College- Sister M. Natasha and their teacher Prabha Prakash. The applications started in December 2020. "Students came up with a lot of ideas but couldn't implement them due to the pandemic. They thus sent a recorded video for the competition. Unfortunately, they missed the Australia tour but winning the theme among so many students was indeed a success," said Prakash. Each winning team received a prize of three Apple iPad Mini, awarded by the partner Australian university. A total of 348 teams participated in the competition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
09-02-2021||Jharkhand||State achieves 51 per cent of its vaccination target, 1,23,754 vaccinated so far||Jharkhand on Monday achieved 51 per cent of its vaccination target after achieving less around 40 per cent of the daily target for immunization during the past one week, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. However, Jharkhand has achieved only 38 per cent of its vaccination target since the launch of the nationwide immunization programme against Covid-19 on January 16. As many as 16,756 healthcare workers and frontline workers were inoculated on the day across Jharkhand, taking the total count of people vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus in the state to 1,23,754, a report released by the NHM stated. The report further highlighted that at least 8008 of the people vaccinated on Monday were frontline workers, while the remaining 8748 were healthcare workers. As per government data, at least 19,655 healthcare workers and 13,081 frontline workers were registered to get the Covishield jabs at vaccination centres across Jharkhand on the day. However, only 45 per cent of the registered healthcare workers and 61 per cent of the registered frontline workers were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus from 10am to 5pm on Monday. Bokaro achieved 90 per cent of its vaccination target, the highest among all the districts in the state, on Monday by inoculating at least 1500 of the 1664 registered beneficiaries. Dhanbad, on the other hand, inoculated 2320 of 3171 registered beneficiaries, thereby achieving 73 per cent of its target. As many as 1350 people were administered the Covishield shots in Ranchi, which achieved only 47 of its target on the day. Only 892 of the 2111 registered beneficiaries, about 42 per cent, were administered the vaccine jabs in East Singhbhum on Monday. Meanwhile, as many as 38 people, including 12 from Ranchi alone, were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on the day, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. However, the state reported only 31 Covid recoveries, causing a slight rise in the number of active cases to 438, the bulletin added. While East Singhbhum reported 16 cases on the day, the highest among districts in Jharkhand, as many as 15 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on the day, the NHM bulletin stated. East Singhbhum, as well as Ranchi, reported nine recoveries, and the number of active cases witnessed a rise in both the districts. No Covid casualties occurred in any part of Jharkhand on Monday, figures with the NHM highlighted. The growth rate of Covid cases in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.08 per cent. As per government data, it would take more than 2202 days for the number of Covid cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was more than 864 days. As many as 119055 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered, highlights government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-147
