10-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police, security forces engage in hour-long encounter, no casualty||Police and security forces had an hour-long faceoff with CPI-Maoist rebels at the Rolahatu jungle, in the Seraikela-Kharsawan district on Wednesday morning, but no casualty was reported from either side. Confirming the incident, Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi said that the encounter took place between the naxal squad of Pratiram Majhi alias Anal and the paramilitary forces 209 CoBRA battalion. "As the police and paramilitary forces were carrying out a special operation against the rebels in the Roladih jungle, the rebels had started raining shots at the forces at about 11.30 am. The paramilitary forces had also retaliated by firing shots. The encounter lasted for over an hour, causing the naxals to give a retreat as the  paramilitary forces had overpowered them," Arshi told The Telegraph Online. The Seraikela-Kharsawan SP, who was leading the paramilitary forces in the special operation, said that they have started a combing operation after the encounter came to an end at about 12.45 pm. “There is no casualty on the side of the paramilitary forces, but whether the naxals had any casualty or not is yet to be ascertained,” he said. "The Rolahatu jungle where the encounter took place on Wednesday is located under Kuchai Police Station area at the border of West Singhbhum district. It is the same stretch of forest cover where there was an encounter on Sunday morning. However, the spot was about 20 kms away and was coming under the jurisdiction of West Singhbhum district's Toklo Police Station area," said the senior police officer. In the encounter with naxals on Sunday, a CoBRA jawan was injured and is getting treated at RIMS. Rebel leaders Anal and Mahraj Pramanik, are active in West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts.  While Anal carries a bounty of Rs 1 crore on his head, Pramanik carries a reward of Rs 15 lakh According to police sources, as the two encounters took place in the same stretch of forest cover within 72 hours, the paramilitary forces are being reinforced at the border of West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan area for a decisive operation against naxals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad civic body partners with chamber of commerce to collect tax||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, in a bid to mop up revenue through increasing realisation of taxes, has joined hands with Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce. The camps, scheduled to be held from February 12 to February 23, will be processing taxes including trade licence, holding tax and water user charges. The first camp will be organised at Purana Bazar of Commerce on February 12. This will be followed by similar camps at Saraidhela on February 13, Jharia on February 14, Jamadoba on February 15, Kendua on February 16, Rangatand on February 17, Park Market on February 19, Bank More on February 20, Hirapur Hatia on February 21, Phusbunglow on February 22, and City Centre of February 23. DMC city manager Rupesh Kumar, who looks after tax collection, told The Telegraph Online that the camps will be operational from 11 am to 5 pm. Employees of the local units of the chamber of commerce will be present during the time, while the DMC tax offices will also be open during the period. “The team at the camps will be equipped with trade license certificates, holding tax certificates, water user charges receipt and all other necessary items. DMC officials will also keep tab on progress of the tax collection drive at each camp by making rounds at sites,” Kumar said. Srikant Agarwal, Secretary of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce said, “We are fully prepared for the programme and have carried out awareness drives apprising our members about its utility and other details.” He further said that the drive will prove beneficial for people since they will not have to make rounds at the Corporation office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||Covid test drive held across steel city||Civic authorities organised Covid-19 tests across several areas of the steel city on Wednesday, the RT-PCR test drive carrying on for a full three hours from 11am. Officials of the East Singhbhum district health department with the help of police and workers of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) carried out the special drive at Sakchi market, Bistupur-based P&M Hi-Tech City Centre Mall and Golmuri Chowk, in addition to Sitaramdera Bus Terminus, Sonari, Khudiram Bose Chowk and Sankosai (both in Mango), Jugsalai, Baridih, Station Road and Pardih Chowk on NH-33. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon R.N.Jha said , "Each of our teams was  given a target of collecting 200 samples for RT-PCR tests. The test reports will arrive in the next 72-hours." Jha went on to add that the special drive was carried out following a directive from the state health department. "Wednesday’s drive was meant for urban areas. It covered men, women and children. A similar drive was carried out in different rural areas of East Singhbhum district on February 8," he said. Ravi Bharti, an official of JNAC who was deployed at the Sitaramdera Bus Terminus for conducting RT- PCR tests on passengers and bus staff, said, "We completed the target of conducting RT-PCR test on 200 passengers, bus staff and other visitors to the bus terminus. We were targeting those without face masks."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||Decision soon on reopening cinemas, coaching centres||Cinema halls, swimming pools and parks are likely to reopen in Jharkhand after February 19, the day a high-level meeting of decision-makers is scheduled, officials of the state disaster management department said on Wednesday. State minister for disaster management Banna Gupta said that a meeting to decide over the resumption of closed services and institutions was scheduled on February 5 but had to be postponed due to some “unavoidable circumstances”. “The chief minister and I will chair a meeting of the disaster management department on February 19. Many important decisions for the benefit of business groups and students are likely to be taken during the meeting,” said  Gupta, adding that the state will keep safety of residents in mind before taking any decision. Sources said that several closed institutions were likely to get the government’s nod to resume services with immediate effect after the February 19 meeting. Cinema halls, swimming pools and amusement parks were closed in Jharkhand for an indefinite period during the nationwide lockdown enforced in March last year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. While the state government gradually decided to reopen malls, restaurants, bars, gyms and educational institutions, cinema hall owners have been waiting for the longest period to resume their services. Coaching institutes in the state have also remained closed since March last year, forcing students to attend online classes for engineering and medical entrance examinations. A decision on reopening of coaching institutes is also likely on February 19. Jharkhand is among the few states in India where the government is yet to allow cinema halls to open their doors despite the Centre allowing 100 per cent occupancy in movie theaters from February 1. “The Centre has allowed cinema halls to operate, but the final decision has to be taken by the state government. You will be updated about the decisions after the meeting,” said state disaster management secretary Amitabh Kaushal. Cinema hall owners in Jharkhand are hopeful that the government would finally allow them to resume their business. Some said that it may take months to make up for the loss incurred during the 11 months of lockdown, but it will be easier if they start early. “We have been requesting the government to allow cinema halls to resume services, but the government has not taken any decision yet. We were hopeful of getting a decision in our favour in the first week of February itself,” said Sameer Kumar, manager at Fun Cinemas in Ranchi. “The FJCCI (Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries) has also requested the government to reopen cinema halls,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||Rain forecast next week, nights to get warmer||Several parts of Jharkhand are expected to experience rain and thunderstorm on February 16, the Ranchi Met office has forecast, citing Wednesday’s satellite pictures and wind chart analysis. Weathermen pointed to a western disturbance over Pakistan and Jammu and Kashmir extending 3.1km and 5.8km above the mean sea level as the primary reason. "The western disturbance is expected to trigger a cyclonic circulation which would result in rainfall over various parts of Jharkhand around January 16 and 17, " said a duty officer at the Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Met office also hinted at a gradual rise in minimum temperatures from Thursday. "We are expecting a rise in minimum temperature by three to four degree Celsius during the next 72 hours," said the Met official. Both IMD’s Ranchi and Patna Met centres predicted dry weather with mainly clear sky for the next five days. Weathermen also ruled out possibility of fog and mist during the next five days. The Met department's statistics of the past 24 hours suggested that cold wave conditions still prevailed in southern Jharkhand, particularly in Kolhan region. On Wednesday, Chaibasa, the district headquarters of West Singhbhum, recorded a minimum temperature of 9.6 degree Celsius, around six notches below normal. Capital Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 10.6 degree Celsius, two points below normal, while Steel City Jamshedpur recorded a minimum temperature of 11.7 degree Celsius, which was four notches below normal. Sub-10 chill prevailed in several places, including Daltonganj, Kanke on the outskirts of Ranchi, Khunti and Ramgarh. As per Met data, all these places recorded minimum temperatures of around 9 degree Celsius. But minimum temperatures in Pakur, Sahebganj and several other districts in Santhal Pargana region witnessed a rising trend.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||Power woes mount in Sindri, courtesy its stakeholders||Power cuts have become a prevalent phenomenon in Sindri, which used to remain illuminated at all times earlier during the heydays of Fertilizer Corporation of India. The town that faced a power failure caused by a cable puncture on Monday morning got the electricity back on Tuesday night, after 36 hours of outage. On Wednesday morning, residents faced a similar situation before the power was restored at around noon. The problem has its roots in the lack of coordination between stakeholders, including the Fertilizer Corporation of India (FCI), Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL) and Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL). The problem is much deeper than what meets the eye and requires a comprehensive solution involving all the stakeholders. The crisis has thrown life completely out of gear in Sindri,” Deepak Kumar Dipu, President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce, told The Telegraph Online. He added that the town faces cable punctures and resultant power cuts almost everyday. Sewa Singh, former Public Relation Officer of FCI Sindri, said that they had a meeting with the officials of the companies in January, after which HURL had laid some new cables. But more steps needed to be taken in order to solve the issue, he said. “The feeder installed inside the HURL Campus requires to be shifted outside for ensuring its regular maintenance by JBVNL officials. The JBVNL also needs to pump in more manpower and funds to improve the power supply scenario in Sindri ,” Singh added. “The load on the old infrastructure increased manifolds due to installation of ACs, geysers, heaters and other appliances in almost all the houses. The breakers installed in almost every colony of Sindri used to prevent simultaneous power failure of the entire township. Over time, all of them have stopped functioning, resulting in power cuts at the hole town during a cable puncture in any part,” he said The president of FCI VSS Employees Association further said that they will soon meet the concerned officials of HURL to seek their support.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||Table tennis: Huge squad to represent Jharkhand in national meets||A huge team from Jharkhand will represent the state in three separate national table tennis championships, two of which will be held later this month. The team announced on Tuesday  will compete in senior national meet (at Panchkula, Haryana from February 15 to 23), cadet and sub-junior nationals (at Indore, Madhya Pradesh from February 25 to March 6) and junior and youth nationals (schedule yet to be announced). Archita, Aadhya and Anjali, along with Janvi Prasad of East Singhbhum, have also been selected in the girl’s sub-junior side. Pratik Agarwal (Hazaribag), Nitish Kumar Mehta, Anil Kumar Mehta (both from Garhwa) and Soumil from East Singhbhum have got the nod in the boy’s side. The state girls’ junior squad comprises Saniya Banerjee, Samriddhi Shraddha, Khushi Kumari (all from East Singhbhum) and Suhani Sharma (Ranchi). Karan Raj (East Singhbhum), Dinesh Selvam, Satrunjay Chakravarty (both from Ranchi) and Aman Kumar Pal (Garhwa) are among the boys who have been picked. Khushi Kumari, Saniya Banerjee (both from East Singhbhum), Suhani Sharma (Ranchi) have also been included in the state youth team for girls, besides Dhanbad’s Hemlata Sinku. The boys in the youth side comprise Mrinmaya Pradhan, Sudhanshu Ranjan, PL Teja (all from East Singhbhum) and Hazaribag’s Kumar Shresth. Shivaji Roy (West Singhbhum) and Ranchi paddlers Somir Chakraborty, Biswajit Kumar, Devesh Kumar and Sonath Chakraborty have been drafted into the state senior squad for the national meet. Chandni Kumari, Shruti Mahanand (both from East Singhbhum), Snehlata Sinku (Dhanbad) and Manisha Mukherjee have won slots in the women’s side. Jharkhand State Table Tennis Association (JSTTA) general secretary Jay Kumar Sinha said they have tried to pick a balanced side which is expected to perform well in the national meets. “The team was picked after a three-day selection trials held at JSCA International Stadium in Ranchi in December last year,” he said. East Singhbhum District Table Tennis Association (ESDTTA) secretary Ujjal Chatterjee expressed satisfaction at the team selection. “Fifteen paddlers from our district have got the nod. We expect an impressive performance from them,” Chatterjee said. The district association is trying to popularise table tennis in city schools.The Jamshedpur paddlers train at a cradle run by Tata Steel sports wing at JRD Tata Sports Complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
10-02-2021||Jharkhand||40% of the vaccination target achieved as over 15,000 get inoculated in a day ||More than 15000 healthcare workers and frontline workers were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the state’s vaccination rate to 40 per cent of the target, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Of the 15188 people who were administered the Covishield shots on Tuesday, at least 1885 were from Ranchi, 1752 from Dhanbad and 1630 from Bokaro, the NHM stated in a report released on Tuesday evening. Meanwhile, Bokaro achieved 127 per cent of its target on the day by inoculating 1630 people while only 1282 people were registered for the vaccination, the NHM report revealed. Palamu administered the Covishield jabs to 1065 of the 1330 registered beneficiaries, achieving 80 per cent of its target. Ranchi, which has the lowest rate of vaccination among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, achieved 57 per cent of its vaccination target on Tuesday. However, the district has achieved only 26 per cent of its target so far, the lowest in Jharkhand. As per government records, so far, as many as 1,40,114 people have been vaccinated in the state. At least 3,49,819 people were registered for vaccination in Jharkhand since the beginning of the immunization programme on January 16. The state has so far reported 251 cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) and at least 170 of them were reported in Ranchi. Dhanbad has reported 11 AEFI cases, while Koderma has reported 18 such cases so far. As many as 19 such cases occurred in Palamu and 10 in Jamtara, reveals government data. Meanwhile, Ranchi reported 45 of the 61 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection that surfaced in Jharkhand on Tuesday. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the state reported only 35 recoveries against the 61 cases, which caused a rise in the number of active cases. By the end of Tuesday, at least 464 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand. While 15 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on the day, at least eight districts reported a single-digit-spike. As per government data, Ranchi was the only district in Jharkhand with more than 200 active cases. As per government data, as many as 1,19,116 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of cases in the state was 0.03 per cent while the doubling rate was 2084.05 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-146
