11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Body recovered from stone mine in Hazaribagh village||The body of a dead person was recovered from a stone mine at Barkangango village in Barkatha block on Thursday, police confirmed. The dead man was identified as Rakesh Kumar Mahto, resident of Barkangango village. Villagers later claimed that this was a result of a blast carried out at the stone mine, where five people died and 15 others were injured. They said that the other four bodies were taken away by the relatives and now the administration was denying any such incident, as the mine belongs to a person close to a politician. Talking about the incident, superintendent of police Karthik S confirmed one death and said a search operation was on to find others, as claimed by the villagers. However, Barhi sub-divisional officer Srikumar Tarachand said the police found no signs of blast, and brushed off the villagers’ claims as a rumour. “We had checked nursing homes but did not find any injured people there. Right now I am rejecting these reports”, he said. Tarachand added that the dead body was sent for postmortem to Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital. The district mining officer has been summoned to the village to check if the mine was legal or not, the officer added. Sources however claimed that the officials were getting a share of money, and so illegal stone mining using machines were being carried out without any issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Health secretary visits MGM Hospital, flags ambulance issue||Health secretary Kamal Kishore Soan on Thursday inspected the government- run MGM Medical College and Hospital in Jamshedpur for the first time after assuming the position. He was accompanied by East Singhbhum Deputy Commissioner Suraj Kumar, hospital superintendent Dr Sanjay Kumar and East Singhbhum civil surgeon Dr. R N Jha. The health secretary flagged the hospital for not using one of the two ambulances provided by the health department. He later spoke to the hospital superintendent and gave him necessary directives for improving the health care facilities. During his over-two-hour visit in the Sakchi hospital, Soan also inspected the emergency and children’s wards, after which he went to the blood bank on the premises of the hospital and the Out-Patients Department (OPD). “This was my first visit. Every effort will be made to improve infrastructure as well as medical services at the hospital,” he said after the inspection. The paramedical staff and contractual workers  met the health secretary and appraised him about their problems, with the former group handing him a memorandum. The  health secretary also  patiently listened  to the woes of patients, some of whom spoke about  poor cleanliness, upkeep and ill-management at the hospital. Soan had earlier gone to the MGM Medical College in Dimna, where he tried to know about the infrastructure bottlenecks and problems of teaching and non-teaching staff. With over 500- bed the MGM Medical College and Hospital is the biggest government  health care centre in the entire Kolhan region comprising three districts - East Singhbhum,  West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Residents spurn meeting on Ranchi light house project||Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC)’s attempt to hold talks with residents of 26 slums at Jagannathpur in Dhurwa, majority of whom are against the Centre’s ambitious light house project coming up in their area, failed to materialise on Thursday as no one turned up. The civic body, which functions under the state urban development department, is now working out fresh dates for a meeting to convince the residents of the utility of the project that involves construction of low-cost homes out of prefabricated structures. Even after a month since the foundation stone for the project was laid online by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 1, work on the ground is yet to begin. RMC sources said local residents had been staging protests fearing displacement. “In the past, deputy mayor Sanjeev Vijayvargia tried to resolve the impasse by meeting residents personally at least twice. Now, slum dwellers  are gearing up to hit the streets to block the project,” said an RMC official. Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra was,  however, hopeful. She said work would begin soon as attempts were on to dispel “certain myths” surrounding the projects. “Talks can solve all their issues. Today’s meeting got cancelled because there was a local haat and all had gone there. We are trying to hold meetings at a convenient time soon,” she told reporters at RMC office. Explaining their opposition, Mithun Paswan, the convenor of Basti Bachao Sangharsh Samiti that represents residents of all 26 slums, said they were not against the housing project, but wanted the government to change the site. “The project is planned at a three-acre ground behind Yogada College. This is the only ground we have where children play. If this project comes up there, people won’t have any open space at all,” he said, suggesting the department to shift the project to an area next to the old Assembly building. Paswan said many residents fear that once construction starts, the administration would raze their homes to acquire more land for the project. “These slums came up in the 1960s and inhabit around 2 lakh people. For years, we have been demanding that these be regularised. We have been paying all municipal taxes. Hence, we request the government to shift the project,” he said. Under the light house project, a total of 1,008 flats _ built using state-of-the-art prefabricated structures _  are to be constructed with an estimated budget of Rs 133 crore of which the Centre and state will chip in with their shares while a beneficiary will have to shell out a certain percentage after the rates of the dwellings are fixed. The light house project is a part of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) and is meant for beneficiaries of economically weaker sections earning up to Rs 3 lakh per annum. Besides Ranchi, the Centre has rolled out the scheme in Indore, Rajkot, Chennai, Agartala and Lucknow in the first phase setting a target of completing them within 12 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Chamoli: 29 Jharkhand residents stranded, 14 missing ||The count of Jharkhand labourers stranded in avalanche-ravaged Chamoli district of Uttarakhand jumped to 29 on Thursday, while the number of those missing remained 14, according to figures compiled by the state control room set up to coordinate relief and rehabilitation. So far, names of 43 Jharkhand residents, either missing from the site or stranded in Uttarakhand, have been registered with the state control room, managed by Phia Foundation on behalf of the department of labour in Jharkhand. Besides, three labourers from Karnataka, two from Madhya Pradesh, two from Bihar and one from Uttar Pradesh have also contacted the state control room for help. Of the 29 Jharkhand residents stranded in Chamoli, 10 are from Latehar, seven from Jamtara, two from Hazaribagh, three from Bokaro and seven are from Ramgarh. At least nine of the 14 labourers missing from Jharkhand are residents of Lohardaga district. Besides, four Ramgarh residents and one Bokaro resident are missing from Chamoli, where a glacial burst led to an avalanche on Sunday, causing massive floods along the Alaknanda and Dhauliganga rivers. While some media reports stated that a labourer from Lohardaga district was feared dead in the avalanche, Lohardaga deputy commissioner Dilip Kumar Toppo said on Thursday that there was no confirmation whether the man who died in Uttarakhand was a resident of the district. The death toll in the Chamoli incident has jumped to 35, while around 200 people are feared missing. “We are in touch with all the Lohardaga residents stranded in Uttarakhand. Our team is also coordinating with families of those who are missing from Chamoli and so far, no death from our district has been confirmed,” said Toppo. Mithilesh Kumar, a resident of Ramngarh district, informed the state control room on Thursday that he and nine other labourers from Jharkhand were stranded in Chamoli since the avalanche. He told the control room that most of the labourers, working at a National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) project, have not received their wages yet. Most of their belongings got washed away in flood, he said. Rooplal Singh and Santosh Singh from Latehar, who were stranded in Chamoli since the avalanche, were on their way to Dehri-On-Sone via Haridwar on Thursday. “Our contractor gave us the money to travel up to Haridwar. Now, we are on our way to Dehri-On-Sone,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Black Diamond Express back on track from Saturday||Black Diamond Express, one of the most popular trains between Dhanbad and Howrah, will resume services from Saturday, February 13, bookings for which were opened on Thursday. Much to the relief of regular commuters, businessmen and traders, the train will resume operation from Howrah from Sunday. Both the Up and Down trains will run as specials, with different names and numbers. But the halts would be the same, as followed during the pre-lockdown period. However, during its return journey the train will reach Dhanbad at 11.18 am eight minutes behind the previous arrival schedule of 11.10 am despite leaving Howrah as per its previous schedule. “All preparations have been completed for the operation of the train. The rakes are ready at Dhanbad, since the responsibility for the primary maintenance of coach lies with our division,” Akhilesh Kumar Pandey, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager told The Telegraph Online. Chief Reservation Supervisor of Dhanbad Railway Station, Sanjeev Kumar said, “There was a lot of rush at the counters because of the high demand of the Black Diamond Express.” The train was among several that had been suspended since March last year, due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. Expressing happiness over its resumption, former President of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce Md Sohrab said small vendors, who depend on the Calcutta market, will benefit from the move. “Both Coalfield Express and Black Diamond Express are complementary to each and serve as lifelines for Dhanbad traders. We thank the railway administration for the restoration of the trains” said Sohrab. The Coalfield Express started operating from December 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma elephants flee the chill, move to 'warmer' foothills ||The prevailing chill atop the Dalma wildlife sanctuary has prompted elephants to move to the relatively warmer foothills. Even the jumbos who have returned from their annual sojourn to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal are embarking  on a downhill journey. If night temperatures at Dalma top is between 6-7 degree C, it is 11 in the foothills. With the elephants positioned in the foothill, Dalma range office is concerned about the safety of villagers and their farmland. The range office has, therefore, issued an alert, asking  villagers not to venture out of their homes at night. Trackers (village youths recruited as daily wagers to keep a tab on movement of jumbos and other animals) have been instructed to maintain strict vigil. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra confirmed that the elephants were anchored in the foothills. “It is very cold at the top. The elephants would take the uphill journey once the conditions get warmer,” he added. A forester said separate herds of elephants, who are home-bound from Bengal, were stationed in the periphery of the 192 sq km sanctuary. “The prevailing chill seems to have stopped them from entering the sanctuary. They feel warm in the periphery,” he added on condition of anonymity. Foresters believe that elephants would not damage standing crops or homes in the foothills since adequate food and water is available in the jungles. “But one cannot predict mood swings of the jumbos. But we are alert to avoid any  man-animal conflict,” another forester said. Almost all the 154-odd elephants have left Bengal and are yet to slip into the sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur. The jumbos left for Bengal in August-September last year. Usually, they are home by February-March. However, some of the elephants returned home in December. Elephants follow two designated corridors – one from Jhunjka anmd the other from Burudih. The first one leads to Nutandih while the second passes through Narsingpur (Ghatshila range), Dalapani,Suklara and Aamdapahari. Both the corridors merge at Mirjadih from where the elephants cross Haludbani, Bhadodih. Bota and Dimna to reach Dalma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Supporters of Raghubar Das and Saryu Roy clash in steel city||Supporters of arch political rivals, former chief minister Raghubar Das and his one-time bete noire in the BJP who ended up ousting him from the Assembly Saryu Roy, clashed at Burmamines on Thursday morning over the celebration of Pandit Dindayal Upadhyaya's birth anniversary. According to sources, as Roy’s supporters assembled at Raghubar Nagar at 10.30am to begin the function, BJP supporters of Das arrived and started creating a ruckus. A clash ensued in which stones were freely hurled by both groups. But police were quick to intervene and ensure the violence did not escalate. Thursday’s clash occurred in the backdrop of frayed tempers after plaques installed by Roy’s supporters to announce a beautification project at Raghubar Nagar were defiled and damaged, allegedly by Das’s BJP supporters, on Tuesday. Police said that after Thursday morning’s clash supporters of both leaders gathered at Burmamines police satiation to lodge FIRs. OC of Burmamines police station Raju Kumar said the situation was now under control on account of their timely intervention. “But we are keeping a close eye on key men belonging to both groups. Supporters of both the BJP and Roy’s outfit Bhartiya Jan Morcha turned up at the thana to lodge complaints against each other. If they do give us something in writing, we will definitely register cases accordingly," the OC told The Telegraph Online. Das and Roy were rivals even when they were in the BJP. But ever since Roy became MLA from Jamshedpur East, defeating five-time MLA Das in his own pocket borough after contesting as an Independent in the 2019 Assembly elections, the two leaders have been at daggers drawn. So as Roy tries to strengthen his place in the constituency by initiating development projects, Das supporters are trying their best to make life difficult for him and his supporters. Sources claimed that Roy’s supporters retaliated to Tuesday’s incident by defacing a number of plaques set up by Das supporters. A month ago, Das supporters allegedly damaged yet another plaque set up by Roy’s supporters at Bhalubasa in Sitaramdera, also under the Jamshedpur East constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city NGO innovates while training special athletes||Old scooter tyres seem to have effectively replaced the usual medicine balls when it comes to building strength for the intellectually impaired for a newly-introduced sports discipline. Special athletes at the steel city are enjoying the mini-javelin throw training stint being imparted by Jeevika, a Sonari-based NGO working for the promotion of intellectually challenged. "Medicine balls are not easily available in Jamshedpur. So we thought of using scooter tyres to build the back, shoulder and stomach strength of our wards. Training is going on in a hassle-free manner and the athletes are gradually becoming tuned to things," said Avtar Singh, the founder of Jeevika and a former university champion in javelin throw. According to him, the  tyres weigh around 2.60 kg each and are appropriate for the standard of their wards. "We have also prepared mini-javelins (below 400 grams) by using plastic pipes and floor hockey sticks in our effort to comply with international standards. We are a non-profit organisation operating without availing any government assistance whatsoever. So, we have to go for jugaad," Singh, a seven-time national cycling champion, said. While Sukhdeep Kaur, secretary of Jeevika, has been  guiding the Jeevika students for the discipline, Singh is carrying out the main field work and training. Singh said it is essential to build the strength of the athletes so that they can withstand the load of mini-javelin throw. Each javelin weighs between 300 gram to 600 gram and length is between 27 inches to 44 inches. Hard rubbers were inserted on the rear for making javelin travel like an arrow. "The mini-javelins made by us are proving handy,” Singh, who is an NIS (National Institute of Sports, Patiala)-accredited coach, said. The Jeevika students who are undergoing training include Ryan Francis, Aakash Sharma, N. Sai Krishna, Pankaj Kumar, Ankit Mukherjee, S. Umesh, Sunil Gope and Sumit Sahu. The specials train for two hours at Joggers' Park in Sonari. "I have never done such kind of exercise. I am enjoying throwing the old scooter tyres. Training is being conducted without any problems," said Krishna, who won two medals (in athletics) in the Special Olympics International World Summer Games held in Abu Dhabi in 2019. Singh had been to Washington in 2007-08 on his own expenses to gain knowledge under experts involved in introducing mini javelin among special athletes||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Two CRPF jawans injured in shootout with Maoists in Bokaro||Two CRPF personnel were injured in an encounter with Maoists at the Tutijharna jungle situated in the foothills of Luggu under Gomia Block on Wednesday night, police said on Thursday. “The incident occurred late in night when jawans of CRPF, SAT, Jharkhand Jaguar and district police were jointly conducting an anti-naxal search operation in the jungle. As the security personnel reached Tutijharna, Maoists opened fire on them. We are trying to nab them,” Bokaro SP Chandan Kumar Jha said. More than a hundred rounds of bullets were exchanged between two parties, police said. The injured CRPF jawans are in the rank of Hawaldars in 154 battalion. Constable Satyendra Singh sustained major bullet injuries in his stomach and in a critical condition at a Ranchi hospital. Another personnel, Vishnu, sustained minor injuries as bullets brushed past his chest. Both of them are undergoing treatment. The police have recovered  weapons and other items used by the Maoists from the spot, who fled the site after facing backfires. “Massive combing operation has been launched in the forest cover. Security personnel have recovered a weapon, several live cartridges and other items used by naxals at the encounter site,” Jha added. They have also found a tent, where the Maoists were resting before the CRPF personnel found them. Few naxals have also got injured in the firing, sources said. However, the police have not confirmed anything yet, as it is difficult to assess loss on their part at a point when the police are still behind them. The squad that engaged in the gun battle is suspected to be that of Birsen, who has movements in jungles of Jhumra. Sources said Birsen holds the post of Regional Committee Member of CPI (Maoist). Jha along with CRPF officials have reached the spot and are monitoring the combing operation in the jungle. Paramilitary forces are being reinforced in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||More than 1.5 lakh people vaccinated so far, 13,884 inoculated in a day||Three more Ranchi residents died of Covid-19 virus on Wednesday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 1081 and that in Ranchi to 241, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi also reported 24 of the 45 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection that surfaced in Jharkhand on the day, while 21 of the 42 Covid patients who recovered on Wednesday were residents of Ranchi, the bulletin further stated. While the number of active cases rose to 464 on the day, Jharkhand administered the first of two doses of Covishield vaccine to more than 1.5 lakh people by end of Wednesday, achieving 45 per cent of its vaccination target, a separate report from the NHM stated. On Wednesday, as many as 13,884 healthcare workers and frontline workers, taking the total number of people inoculated in the state so far to 1,57,706, stated a report released by the NHM on Wednesday night. The state achieved 56 per cent of its vaccination target on the day, it further stated. Ranchi, which was lagging behind other districts in vaccination rate, achieved 118 per cent of its target on Wednesday by inoculating 1899 people while only 1613 were registered to get Covishield jabs. However, the district has so far achieved only 29 per cent of its target despite vaccinating 15,996 people here. In terms of numbers, the district is the best performer in Jharkhand, but it is the worst performer in terms of vaccination rate. Garhwa was the second-best performer in terms of vaccination rate on Wednesday. At least 1740 of the 1800 beneficiaries registered there were inoculated there, helping the district achieve 97 per cent of its target. Giridih was the worst performer of the day with only 19 per cent of the registered 1865 beneficiaries vaccinated there. At least five more cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) were reported in the state on Wednesday, taking the total count of AEFI cases in Jharkhand to 256, stated the NHM report. At least 170 of the 256 AEFI cases were reported in Ranchi, which did not report any fresh AEFI case on Wednesday. Bokaro and Dhanbad reported two AEFI cases each, while the fifth case occurred in Giridih. As per government data, the state on Wednesday inoculated 12,713 healthcare workers and 8,010 frontline workers, mostly policemen. Around 63 per cent of the registered frontline workers were inoculated, while 48 per cent of healthcare workers were administered shots of Covishield vaccine. More than 1.19 lakh people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, and 98.70 per cent of them have recovered, reveals government data. The growth rate of cases in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.07 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was more than 2187 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Palghar cop team probes seaman murder||A three-member police team from Maharashtra on Wednesday completed their two-day probe at Palamau in Jharkhand into the alleged murder of a 27-year-old seaman, while lawmakers from the state continued to appeal to the Union government for a CBI investigation into the killing. According to Chainpur police station inspector Umesh Kumar Gupta, the team from Palghar had sought their help in reaching out to the family of Suraj Kumar Dubey. “The police team, all of them of sub-inspector rank, had sought our help and we assisted them as per their requirement. They questioned and noted down details yesterday (Tuesday) and also on Wednesday morning after reaching the deceased’s village in Kuldiha panchayat under Chainpur police station of Palamau district. The family members were questioned separately about Dubey and his activities during his stay at his native village,” said Gupta. Sources in the police said the Maharashtra police team spoke to the investigating officers at Chainpur police station on Wednesday morning and also sought mobile call details of Dubey accessed by Palamau police after a missing person’s report was lodged by the parents. According to the dying declaration of Dubey, he was abducted by three unidentified men in an SUV outside the Chennai airport around 11pm on January 30 while he was on his way to Coimbatore. The armed men allegedly demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh and held him captive for three days before setting him ablaze in a forest. Dubey was found semi-conscious with over 90 per cent burns in a forest at Palghar in Maharashtra on February 6 and eventually died on the way to hospital the same day. The sailor’s father, Mithilesh Kumar Dubey, said that his son had returned home to Palamau for a holiday of one month. “He left home to report back for duty on the INS Agrani at Coimbatore on January 30 via the Chennai airport. We failed to contact him in the evening as his mobile was switched off and lodged a missing person’s report at Chainpur police station on February 1. It is impossible that my son was abducted for ransom, otherwise the kidnappers would have demanded money from us. The entire incident appears fishy and only an investigation by the CBI can unearth the truth behind the death of my youngest son. Why did the abductors take my son from Chennai to Palghar in Maharashtra is also puzzling,” said Mithilesh Kumar. He performed the last rites of his son on Monday on the bank of the Koel river in Palamau. Meanwhile, BJP MP from Palamau and former director-general of police V.D. Ram on Tuesday met Union defence minister Rajnath Singh in Delhi seeking a CBI probe into the incident. Ram had also appealed to Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday for a CBI probe to get to the truth behind the intention of abduction as no ransom call was received by Dubey’s parents. Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth on Tuesday also wrote to Shah for a CBI probe into the murder so that the culprits are brought to book at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
11-02-2021||Jharkhand||Latehar workers in Chamoli on return path||A group of 10 workers from Jharkhand’s Latehar district, who survived the ravaging flash flood caused by a glacial lake outburst in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, set out on their journey home on Wednesday. When contacted, one of the workers Rooplal Singh said: “We have lost everything. We are now returning though we are not sure how we will reach home without sufficient money.” They were travelling in a bus that was about to reach Hardwar, he said at around 3.30pm on Wednesday. “The contractor under whom we were working at a construction site there gave us some money that will help us reach Hardwar. But how we will complete the rest of the journey is unknown,” Singh said. He added that they would have to travel in a train without ticket if no help comes from any other source by then. “We have informed about our condition to the control room run by the Jharkhand government but no help has reached us so far,” he said. They were outside when the tragedy struck on Sunday, he said, adding that they started running towards a hill when people started shouting “bhago, bhago (run, run)”, and were thus saved. “Later we found everything we had, including our IDs, had been washed away,” Singh said, adding that they were wearing the same clothes since the flash flood struck on Sunday. They spent two days at a temporary shelter where they were also offered food, Singh further said, adding that they left for home when the contractor gave them some money. “The contractor said he couldn’t arrange anything more for us and advised us to get some money from home,” he said. Our families are also not in a position to help us with money, he added. Asked how they could reach home without enough money, Singh said: “There is no alternative left but to travel in a train without ticket and face whatever comes our way.” Singh and nine other workers from Bariatu panchayat area of Latehar district had gone to work at a construction site at Tapovan village in Chamoli. While the 10 survived, 14 other workers from the state — nine from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh and one from Bokaro — are still missing. Besides, contact was also lost with a group of six tourists from Jamtara district that reached Mussourie on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-145
