12-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand sending teams to Chamoli to help those stranded  ||The Jharkhand government has decided to send teams of officials to flood-ravaged Chamoli district of Uttarakhand to facilitate the safe return of all those who are stranded there, officials said on Friday. Family representatives of all those who are currently missing will also accompany the labour department teams for on-spot identification of the bodies, officials added. State labour commissioner A. Muthukumar told local reporters that a family member or representative of those who are missing would also accompany the labour department teams. “Labour superintendents of all those districts from where we received information about missing persons will start going to the affected site along with the family members of workers. District administrations are making arrangements in this regard and coordinating with authorities in Uttarakhand,” said on Friday. As per the figures issued by the state control room, 14 workers from Jharkhand are missing since Sunday’s glacier break that triggered an avalanche and flash floods, washing away a dam and hydro power plant that was being constructed by the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) in Tapovan. All 14 missing were working at the NTPC project site. Of the 14, nine are from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh and one from Bokaro. As many as 29 are stranded at different places, while some are on the way back. Officials fear that those missing may be dead, but there has been no official confirmation on them. “Even family members are of the view that those missing aren’t alive anymore as most of those who went traceless were working inside the tunnel which got flooded. There were reports from on-spot rescue teams that some may have got swept 150 metre inside the tunnel, from where it is virtually impossible to return,” remarked an official. “Talks are on for DNA sampling of family members of those missing. This apart, the labour department team has been empowered to take a call on the mode of transport to ring back those who are stranded. The government is also ready to airlift anyone if required,” added the official. Family members of missing persons from Ramgarh district reached Tapovan on Friday. They are understood to have poled in funds for the journey. But they couldn’t be contacted as their phones remained out of range.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant calls for national action plan on migration, social security of workers||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has called upon the Centre to form an action plan along with states on issues of migration and social security for workers. "Our workers are the wheels of the country's economy and without ensuring their safety and security we cannot think of development. I would like to appeal to the Central government to take all states into confidence and make an action plan at the earliest on responsible migration, social security and social infrastructure for such workers," he said while delivering the keynote address at “Thinc Migration”, a series of webinars presented jointly by the Omidyar Network India and The Indian Express on Friday. In his address on “Decoding India's internal migration”, Hemant said that while industry and infrastructure are necessary for the nation's growth, equally important was the future of workers and their families. "Jharkhand is working on an action plan for ensuring security and safety of migrant workers. It is an issue which needs to be solved by all governments. After witnessing the pathetic plight of migrant workers during the Covid-19 pandemic it is time for us to wake up and work earnestly in finding a solution along with industrialisation and infrastructure growth," stressed Hemant. Criticising the Union government for overlooking problems pertaining to inter-state migration of labourers while introducing fresh codes in labour laws, Hemant said, "In 2020, the Central government brought four labour codes instead of the 29 labour laws and I have been told that the labour codes have ignored the problems faced by workers during inter-state migration making… “We emulate western policies in labour reforms but while doing so we neglect responsible migration, social security and social infrastructure policies. We should get over the myth that labour friendly policies are not industry friendly policies." Hemant recalled the Jharkhand government’s agreement with Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to ensure that workers from Jharkhand were not exploited while toiling on projects.  "However, I am hearing from districts that once again workers are being taken by middlemen in an unsafe manner. The Central government should frame a pan-India law against exploitation of such workers," said the chief minister. While expressing condolences for the tragedy at Uttarakhand, Hemant said several workers from Jharkhand were still missing and that his government, along with the Uttarakhand government, was trying to trace them. He said the state government had also set up a control room to coordinate relief and rehabilitation. Hemant said that several youths who had returned during the Covid-19 lockdown did not want to return to their workplace, which made his government launch the “CM Employment Generation Project (CMEGP)”. As per the programme, subsidy to youths have been hiked to 40 per cent from the earlier 25 per cent, while the need for a guarantor has been abolished. The chief minister expressed shock that on the annual budget announced by the Centre, the provision for MGNREGS had been reduced by Rs 38,500 crore. He rued that in Jharkhand, the wage rate under MGNREGS was not even Rs 200 per day, which was grossly insufficient for workers in the present context. "I have appealed to the Union government to increase the wage rate from Rs 194 to at least Rs 295," he said. The chief minister said that during the Covid-19 pandemic, Jharkhand scripted history in terms of MGREGS man days. "We created 9 crore man days and are committed to take it to nearly 11 crore man days under MGNREGS. We also topped in terms of timely payments to workers, number of agro-based schemes and personal benefit schemes in the country," he said. The chief minister said that during the lockdown, the state government set up kitchens at highways and remote villages. The state spent Rs 38.75 crore to run 6,595 CM Didi Kitchens across 4,500 panchayats and set up 1,300 dal bhaat centres. Rs 14,00,000 was given to families of deceased migrant workers during. The chief minister also highlighted how Jharkhand led from the front to bring back migrant workers during the lockdown period. "Over 600 migrant workers were airlifted from Leh-Ladakh and Andaman and Nicobar region, 8.50 lakh workers were brought home by 240 special trains and 600 buses were used to ferry workers from neighbouring states and Rs 25 crore was paid to over 2 lakh migrant workers through direct benefit transfer. “We established a Covid-19 migrant control room on March 27 and launched a web portal in which nearly 7.50 lakh migrant workers registered. We have completed skill mapping of 5,30,541 workers. We were the first state to ferry migrants on a train and plane." Hemant said that in the state budget, his government was determined to increase the purchasing capacity of people of Jharkhand with special focus on the rural sector in order to curb migration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand orders audit of Covid testing data||The Jharkhand health department has directed all 24 districts to undertake independent audits of Covid-19 testing data in the wake of a massive testing fraud that has surfaced in neighbouring Bihar, prompting the Nitish Kumar government to launch a probe. Sources in the state health department said on Friday that in order to eliminate any such possibility here, letters, signed by Jharkhand Rural Health Mission Society (JRHMS) director Ravi Shankar Shukla, were dispatched to all deputy commissioners on Thursday night, asking them to maintain strict vigil to prevent forgery. According to the letter, a copy of which is available with The Telegraph Online, Shukla has asked deputy commissioners to set up a district-level team to independently re-verify the authenticity and validity of Covid-19 testing data. “Verify randomly the identity of the patient tested for Covid-19 by matching key fields such as SRF ID (specimen referral form identity number), mobile number, address and the like. Analyse the turnaround time i.e. gap between sample collection, testing and generation of results. Analyse the pendency in data updation in ICMR portal and ensure regular updation besides any other measures deemed fit to retain the authenticity of all the data,” the letter said. The mission director has also asked deputy commissioners to issue necessary instructions for immediate compliance so that findings can be shared with the state health department. Shukla termed the letter as a routine process. But another official in the health department admitted that errors could not be ruled out. “Although we have been alert from the beginning to prevent any data fudging at any level, issues can’t be ruled out since private players have been roped in for Covid testing. So as a heightened precaution, a data audit is required,” he said. The officer added that all districts had been asked to increase the rate of testing as compared to a few months back, Jharkhand’s daily testing rate is less than 10,000 in recent weeks. “Although the positivity rate and overall infection is low of late as per the national trend, but this is also the time when we shouldn’t let our guard down and try to test as many people as possible to ensure that undetected cases don’t exist. In some districts like Pakur, Khunti, fresh cases surfaced again recently, which meant that either people remained undetected or the infection came from outside,” he said. As per government data issued on Thursday night, as many as 119,206 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far. Of them, 98.71 per cent of have recovered. Of the 456 active cases in the state, at least 227 were from Ranchi. Jharkhand orders audit of Covid testing data||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||BJP MP meets minister to seek help for Indian students in Russia ||Ranchi BJP MP Sanjay Seth on Friday met with Union External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, seeking his immediate intervention to address the concerns of around 6,000 Indian students enrolled in Russian institutions. In a letter handed over by Seth to the minister, he said Russian educational institutions and universities are asking overseas students to return to its campuses at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic is far from over, and regular flights are unavailable. “About 6,000 students are currently enrolled in different Russian institutions and educational entities for pursuing research and higher studies. Majority of Indian students annually go to Russia to pursue studies in medicine. From Jharkhand too, 200 students are currently availing education in foreign varsities there. However, I have come across many cases recently, where students have informed that their institutions are asking them to resume offline mode of classes,” Seth said, adding that many are concerned about their academic future. “The institutions are building pressure on students and parents through different agencies to exert pressure on returning back to the campus to resume studies/research work. Many even complained that the online mode of teaching has been halted to build pressure. Some even claimed that they are facing illegitimate threats of backlogs if they don’t rejoin at the earliest. Covid-19 is still not over globally and international travel hasn’t returned to normalcy. How can an institute force students to return in times like these,” he questioned. Seth later said that he is equally concerned for those hailing from Jharkhand. “During the lockdown, the government somehow facilitated the return of Indians stranded abroad. From Jharkhand, there are many tribal students who cracked scholarships and fellowships to pursue higher studies. Now, they are living in fear. Hence, I decided to raise the issue with the Minister of External Affairs. The MEA will be taking up the matter,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||Three Jharkhand players on IPL auction list this year||Three Jharkhand cricketers, including pacer Varun Aaron, will go under the hammer during  the Indian Premier League (IPL) auction, set to be held in Chennai on February 18. Varun is the only capped player while leg spinner Ajay Gopal Sonu and allrounder Utkarsh Singh are uncapped when it comes to the cash-rich tournament which was held in the UAE last year owing to the pandemic. Varun, who has been released by Rajasthan Royals, has a base price of Rs 50 lakh while Jamshedpur’s Sonu and Ranchi-based Utkarsh have Rs 20 lakh each against their name. A total of 292 players have been confirmed to be a part of the IPL auction pool ahead of the 14th edition of the tournament, expected to be played in India from April. Senior spinner Harbhajan Singh and middle-order batsman Kedar Jadhav, along with Australians Steve Smith and Glenn Maxwell, have been bracketed in the highest base price Rs 2 crore. Varun, who has donned Team India colours in 2011, played several matches for Rajasthan Royals. It cannot be said with guarantee whether he would be picked at the auction . Varun has also played for Royal Challengers Bangalore in the past. State players Sourabh Tiwary, Ishan Kishan, Anukul Roy (Mumbai Indians), Shahbaz Nadeem and Virat Singh (Sunrisers Hyderabad) have been retained by their respective franchises. Monu Singh has been released by Chennai Super Kings and is not on the upcoming auction list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||BSNL Jamshedpur hits it big at company awards ceremony||Four employees of the Jamshedpur Secondary Switching Area of the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) bagged the Vishist Sanchar Seva Padak award of the company, sweeping the ceremony on Friday. The awards, Bharat Sanchar Seva Padak at the all India level and Vishist Sanchar Seva Padak at state level, are given by the telecom major  to officials to recognise their hard work at  executive and non-executive levels. The four awardees were  Kanteshwari Das, Prince, Natwal Kumar Singh and B. Laxmi. Das, an office superintendent based in the Jamshedpur area, was selected for her outstanding contribution in timely processing of pension, family pension and compassionate ground appointments. Junior engineer Prince was selected for his outstanding contribution in project Samundra Manthan, wherein scrap and obsolete materials were disposed and sold through  and BSNL earned a revenue of Rs 1.8 crore. Singh, a sub-divisional engineer, got the award for his exemplary contribution in commissioning 228 number of leased circuits out of 231 circuits (the target given), an achievement of 98.7 per cent, which was the highest in the  entire Jharkhand circle. Another official B.Laxmi, a sub- divisional engineer was selected for the coveted award for  acting as a change agent in giving a boost to the enterprise business segment in Jamshedpur SSA. She managed to get significant business from not only government institutions but also private companies and corporate houses. The  enterprise business (EB ) segment revenue increased from Rs 5 crore to Rs 6.7 crore in FY 18-19 because of her hard work. The award for the year 2018 was finalised by the Jharkhand circle and the four employees were selected for the  Vishist Sanchar Seva Padak . The shortlisted employees were chosen based on the nomination received from all the six Secondary Switching Areas of Jharkhand circle. As part of the award, each of them was given a cheque of Rs 21,000,  a 50 gm silver medal along with a citation by K.K.Singh, the new chief general manager of Jharkhand Circle at a ceremony held at the BSNL's Pardih office in Jamshedpur. The chief general manager congratulated the awardees and motivated others to achieve such a feat. "This is a reflection of the importance and the role played by the Jamshedpur Secondary Switching Area in the overall growth of the Jharkhand circle," he said at the felicitation event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||First virtual convocation at XLRI to be held on February 20||Steel city-based premier B-school XLRI will hold its 64th annual Convocation on February 20 in a virtual mode to bid farewell to the 2018-20 batch, the institute announced on Friday. Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director of Hindustan Unilever Ltd will be addressing the first-ever virtual ceremony as the chief guest. The institute will present graduating certificates to a total of 527 students, including  182 and 180 students of Postgraduate Programmes in Management - BM and HRM of 2018-2020 batch; 104  students of 15-months PGDM (General Management) Program; 13 students of Fellow Programme in Management (FPM) and  48 students of  2017 -2020 batch of  PGDM-BM Programme (Evening). “Convocation is the most significant event in the academic journey for every student, as it is the culmination of all the efforts put in by an individual during their time at the XLRI campus. Considering the current Covid-19 pandemic, we have decided to shift the 64th annual convocation to the virtual medium,” XLRI director Fr. P. Christie said. XLRI Board of Governors Chairman T.V. Narendran said that for seven decades, the institute has held on to its mission of proffering world-class education across various management-centric programmes. “XLRI diligently strives to create a value-based and ethics-driven teaching and learning environment while underscoring the need for all-round development. This emphasis on inculcating important core-values is what sets XLRI apart from other B-schools in the country,” he said. XLRI , a premier, private management institute of the country was established in 1949 and has grown into a top-ranking business management school of international repute over the years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
12-02-2021||Jharkhand|| Hemant inaugurates agriculture fair||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||Niraj Sinha takes over as new DGP of Jharkhand||Niraj Sinha, a 1987 batch IPS, has been named Jharkhand's director general of police (DGP) replacing the incumbent M V Rao as per a state home department notification issued late on Thursday night. Sinha was currently ADGP of the anti-corruption bureau. Rao on the other hand will be in-charge of DG Home Guard. As per the notification, Sinha will continue to be in-charge of ACB till any replacement is named. On his appointment, Sinha said that his priority will be to carry forward the good works of his predecessors and continue the campaign against Naxalites in the state. "Maintaining law and order and keep the state free of Naxal incidents will be the top priority of the police. The force will also work towards improving public-police relationship," said Sinha who assumed  charge on Friday. Rao, who was an interim DGP since March 2020, on the other hand, thanked the state government for giving him a chance and all his critics. He tweeted: "I am grateful to all those who encouraged me to do my job as DGP. I am grateful of people who were critical for having kept me alert and do better. I am also grateful to persons who spewed venom for making me stronger." Ever since Rao's appointment on a temporary basis last year replacing former DGP Kamal Nayan Choubey soon after Hemant Soren came to power, Opposition BJP has been critical of the government for ignoring others in  seniority. BJP also kept raking up poor law and order in the state accusing DGP of especially failing to curb the spate of rapes and crimes against women and children. BJP's Godda MP Nishikant Dubey was openly critical of Rao accusing him of working as an agent of the Hemant government by using police to file false cases against him and his family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||Eight accused granted bail in case on CM’s convoy attack ||Eight persons out of about four dozen who were arrested in connection with the attack on chief minister Hemant Soren’s carcade last month were on Thursday granted bail by the court of additional judicial commissioner Diwakar Pandey, close to a month after a police crackdown. The court has asked each of them to furnish two bonds worth Rs 10,000 each. Speaking with reporters after the hearing at a civil court, advocate Kirti Nayan appearing on behalf of the eight accused said, “We claimed that the arrests were based on political grounds and there were no specific proven allegations against our clients. Court agreed for bail on sureties.” An unruly mob attacked the pilot vehicle of CM’s carcade at Ranchi’s Kishoreganj on January 4 during protests against the beheading of a young girl whose body was found from city outskirts in Ormanjhi on January 2. Ranchi police slapped FIRs against 72 named and several unnamed persons for the violent protests. While the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government had blamed opposition BJP for orchestrating the attack on Soren, the saffron outfit had denied the allegations, terming the protests as a spontaneous reaction by angry residents over falling law and order in the state. On January 7, Bhairav Singh, who was named as prime accused in connection to the carcade attack surrendered in Ranchi civil court while police arrested about 40 people following subsequent raids. On January 14, police finally cracked the beheading case by arresting one Bilal Sheikh and his wife in connection to the murder which turned out to be an incident of an extramarital relationship.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||More than 50 per cent vaccinated across the state||Jharkhand achieved 52 per cent of its vaccination target on Thursday by inoculating at least 13,558 of the 26,239 registered beneficiaries on the day, thereby helping the state achieve 50 per cent of its total vaccination target so far, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. So far, as many as 174501 of the 349819 people registered to get the Covishield jab have been inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand, stated a report released by the NHM. As per the report, Ranchi achieved 67 per cent of its vaccination target on the day, but remained the worst performer in terms of vaccination rate among Jharkhand districts so far. As many as 1128 people were vaccinated here. Pakur, on the other hand, achieved only 15 per cent of its target, the lowest among districts in the state. Only 206 people were vaccinated there. Dhanbad and Deoghar emerged as top performers on the day by achieving 89 per cent of their respective vaccination targets. As per government data, no fresh case of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) were reported in any part of Jharkhand on Thursday. Since the launch of the immunization programme on January 16, Ranchi has achieved only 31 per cent of its vaccination target – the lowest in Jharkhand. However, Ranchi has vaccinated 16758 people, the highest among districts in the state. Giridih has achieved 67 per cent of its target, which is the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, as many as 45 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Thursday, while 53 patients recovered, a separate bulletin released by the NHM on Thursday night stated. Ranchi reported 24 of the 45 cases and 29 of the 53 recoveries on the day. The number of active cases dropped to zero in four districts – Giridih, Godda, Jamtara and Pakur. As per government data, at least 18 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on the day. As per government data, as many as 119206 people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand so far and 98.71 per cent of them have recovered. Of the 456 active cases in the state, at least 227 were from Ranchi. As many as 59 people were battling the infection in East Singhbhum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
12-02-2021||Jharkhand||Three children killed as sand mound caves in ||Three children were buried alive after a mound of mud caved in at Koiritola in Sharda village in Jharkhand’s Garhwa district, around 220 km from state capital Ranchi on Wednesday evening. The dead children included Supriya Kumari, 11, and Pritiya Kumari, 10, — both daughters of Rajesh Ram —and the 13-year-old son Ramashish Ram, grandson of Sitaram Ravidas, all residents of Sharda village. According to Sagma block development officer Dipak Minz, the three children had come out of their house at around 7 pm to play in the field on the banks of the Turi rivulet. At night, when they did not return the family members started searching. “It was then that they got information that few children had got into the mud mound and during the course of searching using excavators they found the bodies of the three children. We have come to know that few persons had used JCB excavators to dig sands for construction purposes and later on even some villagers also had dug sands for construction purposes and this had led to a shallow pit of sand which caved in on Wednesday,” said Dipak Minz. The BDO who had to face locals’ wrath on  Wednesday night while recovering the bodies said that the administration will carry out a detailed probe into the incident. “We will start a probe to identify the persons who had started digging sands from the pit and only after probing we can ascertain what action should be taken against those persons who had dug sands leading to such shallow structure causing death of minors,” added Minz. The bodies of the three children were sent to Garhwa Sadara Hospital for post-mortem and handed over to relatives on Thursday for the last rites. The BDO who was present during the last rites of the three children gave an amount of Rs 3000 each to the families whose kids have died in the mishap and also 1.5 quintals of rice to each of the families,” said Dipak Minz.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-144
