13-02-2021||Jharkhand||163-feet long chain installed around Lodh Falls for tourist safety||Authorities at the wolf sanctuary of the Mahuadanr range of the Palamau Tiger Reserve have installed a 163-feet long iron chain barricading the Lodh Falls, meant for the safety of visitors. Deputy Director (south) of the Palamu Tiger Reserve Mukesh Kumar said that the Lodh Eco Development Committee has installed the chain to safeguard tourists who tend to go too near the falls, which has pockets of deep waters, giving rise to accidents. President of the committee Sunil Nagesia said, “Our committee spent around Rs 65,000 on chaining the dangerous portion of the Lodh Falls for the safety and security of the tourists here.” He said that the funds were generated from the parking fees that the authorities charge from tourists visiting the spot. The Lodh Falls is also infamous for its sloth bears, against which the authorities keep alerting the tourists. The bears come in search of food near the water body, officials said. The Lodh Falls attract more than 300 students on an average everyday, Mukesh Kumar said. “The footfall peaks during Christmas,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
13-02-2021||Jharkhand||Chatra Police nab five eve teasers after video goes viral||Chatra Police on Saturday arrested five members of a gang, involved in beating up two minor girls, within 24 hours of the video of the incident going viral on Thursday. Confirming the arrest, superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha said they will file the chargesheet against the five in a week to ensure speedy procedure in getting punishment. The police also recovered a country made pistol, live bullets from the accused and two bikes. Days ago, a video showing the men punching the girls’ faces and kicking them mercilessly went viral. According to the police, the girls were going to their coaching classes when members of the gang started misbehaving with them, after which the duo opposed. The accused were even seen threatening the minors with them if they opened their mouths. However, they walked to the local police station, lodging an FIR against five -- Uttam Yadav, Amit Kumar Yadav, Gautam Kumar Singh, Pintu Yadav and Ritesh Yadav. They said Uttam and his associates were creating trouble for long, passing lewd remarks and misbehaving with them. Upon receiving the complaint, Jha immediately formed a team to nab the accused as soon as possible. “We will not spare anyone involved in crime against women,” he said. Locals said it became tough for the girls to go to school or college after the video went viral.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
13-02-2021||Jharkhand||Three seal place in Tokyo Olympics race walking squad ||Two men from Haryana and an Uttar Pradesh woman qualified for this year’s Tokyo Olympics in the race walking event on Saturday after they sealed top slots in the 20km category. They sealed the spots on Day 1 of the two-day 8th National Open and 4th International Race Walking Championship at Ranchi’s Morabadi ground. Two out of the three athletes also set new national records with their unmatched timing. Jharkhand Athletics Association president Madhukant Pathak also said that the trio — Sandeep Kumar and Rahul Kumar of Haryana, and Priyanka Goswami of Uttar Pradesh have also qualified for the 2022 World Athletics Championship slated to be held in the US. “Both male athletes are from the Army Sports Institute. They took the number of Indian race walkers who have made the grade to five, joining top notch KT Irfan and Bhawana Jat,” informed a statement from Athletics Federation of India (AFI). Sandeep Kumar (34), who had competed in the 50km Race Walk in the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, also set a new national record in 20km walk on Saturday by clinching the walk in 1:20:16. The old national record was held by KT Irfan in London, 2012. Rahul Kumar finished second in the 20km category by striking a timing of 1:24:41. “I am happy to have succeeded this time for the Olympics after missing the chance last year. I was also the champion in the meet held in Ranchi last time by clocking 1:21:34 but fell short of the Olympic qualifying standard of 1:21:00. Now, I am tension free and can concentrate to improve my timing to win medals for the country,” said Sandeep. Priyanka Goswami (24), who came second to top seeder Bhawana Jat last year, came first with her timing of 1:28:45, also breaking the 2018 national record of 1:31:29 by Baby Sowmya in Delhi. “I was determined this time to register my berth for the Olympics. I am happy to have succeeded this time,” said the Meerut-based athlete, who is a railway employee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
13-02-2021||Jharkhand||Ishan Kishan to lead Jharkhand in Vijay Hazare Trophy||Dashing southpaw Ishan Kishan will lead an 18-member Jharkhand squad for the 50-over Vijay Hazare Trophy, to be held at different venues from February 20 to March 14. Ishan, who also led the state in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy and had donned Mumbai Indians jerseys in the Indian Premier League at UAE last year, is in an ominous form and is expected to let his bat do the talking. Besides the wicket-keeper, the other members comprise Varun Aaron, Anand Singh, Ashish Kumar, Kumar Deobrat, Kaushal Singh, Pankaj Kishor Kumar, Monu Kumar, Shahbaz Nadeem, Anukul Roy, Rahul Shukla, Sonu Singh, Vivekanand Tiwari, Saurabh Tiwary, Utkarsh Singh, Vikash Singh, Virat Singh and Satya Setu. Just like the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, the 38 participating teams in the Vijay Hazare Trophy have been divided into Elite Groups -- A, B, C, D and E -- and one Plate Group. While the Elite groups have six teams each, the Plate Group consists of eight teams. The Elite Groups will play all their matches at one venue. The league matches for Groups A, B, C, D and E will be held in Surat, Indore, Bangalore, Jaipur and Calcutta respectively, with the Plate Group's matches set to be hosted across multiple venues in Tamil Nadu. Jharkhand, along with Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Andhra Pradesh, is clubbed in Elite Group B. Matches of this group will be played in Indore. Jharkhand will open their campaign against hosts Madhya Pradesh on February 20. All players and support staff will then undergo Covid-19 tests. The league stage will run till March 1. The qualifying teams will then head to the venues for the knockout matches (yet to be finalised) where they will undergo two further Covid-19 tests, on March 2 and 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
13-02-2021||Jharkhand||Four Jharkhand districts are Covid-free, 8 have less than five patients||At least four Jharkhand districts – Pakur, Jamtara, Giridih and Godda – have become Covid-free with zero active cases, while eight other districts are close to achieving the tag with each reporting less than five Covid-19 patients, government data released on Saturday morning highlighted. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), West Singhbhum, Sahebganj, Ramgarh, Palamau, Khunti, Garhwa, Deoghar and Simdega reported less than five active cases of Covid-19 on Saturday morning, indicating a downward trend of infections in primarily rural areas, say experts. Urban areas, however, still account for more than 70 per cent of active cases in Jharkhand. As per a bulletin released by the NHM on Saturday morning, Ranchi accounted for 221 of the 441 active cases in Jharkhand, while 60 patients were battling the viral infection in East Singhbhum. There were 17 active cases in Dhanbad and 18 in Bokaro. The four districts that have zero active cases of infection are mostly rural and have limited urban clusters. The state coordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, said that a stronger immune system of people living in villages as compared to city residents could be one of the reasons for the rapid fall in active cases in some districts. “People living in the rural areas have a stronger immune system. Also, they do not socialise as much as city residents, so the chance of transmission from one person to another is less,” said Singh. On Friday, as many as 36 people were found infected by the virus in Jharkhand while at least 51 patients recovered, stated an NHM bulletin. Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported 13 and eight fresh cases respectively on the day. At least 14 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection, the bulletin further stated. The government on Friday tested swab samples of 12,549 people and not even 1 per cent of them were found infected. Almost 1,400 people were tested in the four Covid-free districts on Friday, but none of them was found infected. Swab samples of 241 people were tested in Giridih, 447 in Jamtara, 540 in Pakur and 145 in Godda, highlights government data. As per government data, as many as 1,19,242 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, and 98.72 per cent of them have recovered. The virus has claimed 1,081 lives in Jharkhand, but the state’s Covid mortality rate was still lower than the national average. As per government records, it would take more than 2197 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand at the current pace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
13-02-2021||Jharkhand||JPSC slashes exam fees, CM says poll promise fulfilled||Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) reduced examination fees on Saturday for both general and reserved category students ahead of the upcoming civil services examination. As per the notification issued by the commission around noon, general category students will now have to pay Rs 100 for an application form vis-à-vis Rs 600. Similarly, the fee for reserved category applicants has been fixed at Rs 50, a reduction of Rs 100 from the existing Rs 150. Announcing the decision, chief minister Hemant Soren said that by reducing the price of JPSC examination forms he was fulfilling an election promise he had made to youths of the state. “We are keeping our promises made in the election manifesto. Therefore, we have finally brought down the application fees of JPSC exams in the interest of thousands of youths and students, who hail from poor families. One by one, all other promises made by us during the elections will be fulfilled too,” he said. On February 8, JPSC announced combined vacancies for civil service examinations of 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 batches. In all, there are 252 vacant posts, including 44 for Jharkhand administrative service, 40 for deputy superintendent of police, 65 for assistant town commissioner and 41 for Jharkhand education services. Out of the total vacancies, 114 are unreserved while others are reserved for scheduled tribes, scheduled caste, backward caste, economically weaker sections and others. Aspirants will be able to submit forms from February 15 till March. Prelims are slated for May 2 while the schedule for mains is yet to be announced. Aspirants welcomed the reduction in fees but said the number of vacancies was too few. “The reduction in exam fees is surely in favour of students who are mostly from economically challenged backgrounds. Especially in times of Covid-19 where many lost their earnings and jobs due to the lockdown, the reduction in fees is a welcome move,” said Suraj Kumar, an aspirant. He, however, noted that there were too few vacancies for which the exams were being held. “After lots of litigation and controversies, JPSC exams are finally happening this year together for the last four year. Hence, one thought that the number of vacancies will increase. On the contrary, 252 posts for which notifications have been issued, are even less than the previous exam,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
13-02-2021||Jharkhand||Kisan mahapanchayat in Ranchi ||The Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvay Samity, an outfit coordinating the agitation against the Centre’s three agriculture laws in the state, has decided to reach out to over 34 lakh farmers to make them aware about the demerits of the acts by organising kisan mahapanchayats at district and block levels, as the movement touches 79 days. Such mahapanchayats have already been organised in Uttar Pradesh with huge participation. The first such kisan mahapanchayat in the state would be held at Rahe in Bundu block of Ranchi district on Saturday and would be followed with similar mahapanchayats in the remaining 23 districts of Jharkhand later this month. This would be followed by panchayats organised across all the 260 blocks in Jharkhand. “We have come to know that people from the ruling party (read BJP) are trying to use social media to spread rumours against the farmers’ agitation at Delhi’s borders. Through the mahapanchayats and farmers, as part of the directive of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions spearheading the movement), we would try to reach out to all the farmers in the state and make them aware that the new laws would prove to be their death knell and there is a need to protest for their repeal,” said the Samity’s state convener, Sufal Mahato, a farmer from Tamar area in Ranchi. The farmers will also be informed about the February 18 rail roko agitation. “During the mahapanchayats and panchayats, the farmers would be asked to come out in large numbers for the February 18 rail roko agitation which would be held across the country against the Union government. We would be inviting farmers, those who would be willing, to be part of our delegation to go to Delhi and sit in agitation along with our fellow farmers,” said Mahato. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been camping at Delhi’s borders seeking the repeal of the three agriculture laws. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. The government, however, has rejected these claims stating that the laws will only give farmers more options to sell their produce. Several kisan panchayats have already been held since February 11 in different blocks of the state to garner support for the mahapanchayats. “We have a target to reach out to nearly 30 lakh farmers in the state by the end of this month and prove those wrong who claim that Jharkhand farmers are not supporting the agitation by coming out and showing that all of us are against the new laws,” said Mahato. During the panchayats, small rallies would also be taken out at district and block levels by the farmers. During the recent chakka jam (road blockade) agitation against the farm laws, more than 20,000 farmers and supporters of the Congress, the JMM, Left parties and the RJD had come out on the streets across Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-143
