14-02-2021||Jharkhand||Uttarakhand Olympian wins, but fails to find a spot for world meet||Olympian Manish Rawat from Uttarakhand won the inaugural men’s 35km race on the  final day of two-day 8th National Open and 4th International Race Walking Championship in Ranchi’s Morabadi ground on Sunday. He beat Tamil Nadu’s Ganapati Krishnan by a comfortable nine-minute margin but was outside the qualifying standard for next year’s World Athletics Championships in Oregon. The qualifying standard for the 2022 world championship was 2:35:00, which Rawat failed to achieve. Rawat clinched gold with his timing of 2:49:12. Krishnan won silver by finishing the race in 2:58:23 while Delhi’s Vikash settled with bronze clinching the race in 3:08:43. Women’s 35-km event on the other hand couldn’t take place due lack of entries. Against a minimum of three enrolments, only two entries had come, forcing organisers to cancel the event. In the 50km men category, Punjab’s 36-year-old Gurpreet Singh claimed the top spot with a personal best effort over 3:59:42 seconds, becoming the fifth Indian to break the four-hour mark over the distance, read the statement from Athletics Federation of India (AFI). Ram Baboo (Uttar Pradesh) on the other hand won silver clocking the race in 4:05:10 and Sagar Joshi (Gujarat) with his timing of 4:12:06 pocketed bronze. In 10km men under-20, Madhya Pradesh’s Vishvendra Singh (42:14) won gold followed by Uttarakhand's Paramjeet Singh Bishy (42:16) silver and Madhya Pradesh’s Bajrangi Prajapati (44:16) bronze. In the girl’s event in the same category, Uttarakhand's Reshma Patel (49:28) was adjudged first followed by Rajasthan’s Geeta Lohar (49:57) in second spot and Uttar Pradesh’s Munita Prajapati (51:30) in the third. On day one of the event, three athletes — two men hailing from Haryana and a female from Uttar Pradesh have qualified for this year’s Tokyo Olympics in the race walking event after they sealed top slots in the 20km category. Two out of the three athletes had also set new national records with their unmatched timing. The trio—Sandeep Kumar and Rahul Kumar of Haryana and Priyanka Goswami of Uttar Pradesh have also qualified for the 2022 World Athletics Championship slated to be held in the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
14-02-2021||Jharkhand||Little magazine publisher organises contest on lockdown stories||At a time, when the independence of the mainstream media is under question from several quarters, the little magazines -- small periodicals of serious, non commercial literary writing -- are emerging as the flag bearer of independent thoughts, simmering among the common masses. Going with the flow, Dipak Kumar Sen, a retired mathematics professor, had established the oldest little magazine of Dhanbad Aami Ananya in 1977. The magazine recently organised a competition on stories based on the lockdown, highlighting issues like literacy environment, disparity, national integrity, science, human index, and economics. Sen on Sunday told The Telegraph Online that they had selected 21 entries out of the 127, and would be sending honorary letters to the winners by the first week of March. “We have received some magnificent and thought provoking  compositions as part of the competition, one of which emotionally portrays the love between humans and animals. We have already started publishing the stories, and three to four award-winning pieces will be published in subsequent editions,” he said. Sen has also been conducting a little magazine fair in Dhanbad since 2016, to promote them. “In 2016, 56 little magazines from across the country and abroad took part in the fair,” he added. “The variety and quality of stories points out the fact that the society is full of independent thinkers and writers who need to be promoted,” he said. “Through their thought provoking articles, little magazines act as agents stirring society out of its inertia,” said Sen. The retired professor however complained about the lack of financial aid that little magazine publishers face.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
14-02-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren govt activates plan for model schools in each district||The Hemant Soren government has already taken definitive steps towards providing quality education and converting government schools into model schools in keeping with the promise made by the chief minister. The state government has already floated tenders for infrastructure upgradation of 27 identified model schools in each district. The upgrade work is scheduled to be completed by the first quarter of 2022 while refurbishing work of existing structures would be completed in the next few months. "We have identified 27 district schools from across the state that will be developed as model schools in the first phase. All these schools will be affiliated to CBSE after refurbishing the infrastructure within a few months. Moving forward, infrastructure development in 53 more schools will be done and these will also be affiliated to CBSE by the first quarter of 2022,” director of higher education Shailesh Kumar Chourasia told The Telegraph Online. He said in the second phase, 500 schools would be developed as a school of excellence under the Adarsh Vidyalaya Scheme’. “In the third phase, the state government plans to have model schools in each panchayat," added Chourasia, who is also director of Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC). The target was to benefit lakhs of children in the coming future, he explained. The state government wants to make Adarsh Vidyalaya Scheme to be its flagship endeavour so that government schools are at par with national and international standards in terms of accessibility, equality and quality education. "Model Schools will cater to students from the pre-primary level to class 12. There is a plan to admit 1,000 to 1,200 students to the proposed schools. Admission into these schools will be on merit through tests. For admission into the initial classes, the government plans to give priority to the children living near the school area," said an official in the chief minister's office. The state government has plans to start “Aao Padhein Khoob Padhein”, a campaign to motivate students to read textbooks. Textbooks, story books, articles, etc, will be used as reading material for students to practice pronunciation and improve reading ability. The state will also seek the help of various organisations working in the field of education, like NCERT, NEIP, to improve the English speaking ability of students. A dedicated language lab will also be operated in model schools to improve learning outcomes and it will also be used as a review mechanism tool. "With the help of premier institutes of the country such as IIM, XLRI, NCERT, NEIP, principals and teachers deputed in model schools will be given focused training as per the national and international standards. We are looking to hone their administration skills. We have already started training the trainer exercise of selected teachers from February," Chourasia added. To ensure student-centered teaching, subject-wise training will be provided to teachers. NCERT and DIETs will be made effective for training teachers. Besides, capacity development will be done through a continuous system of evaluation of teachers, improvement in the quality of schools through Rajya Shikshak Parivartan Dal (State Teacher Transformation Team), motivation camps and other programmes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
14-02-2021||Jharkhand||Flights may double by April with focus on tier-2 cities||The number of flights taking off from Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi is likely to double by April with focus on connecting the Jharkhand capital to tier-2 cities like Lucknow, Guwahati and Trivandrum, officials from the transport department said on Sunday. “We want to add new flights to tier two cities in the summer schedule. We are in talks with some airlines and hopeful that air connectivity will increase in the summer,” said state transport secretary K. Ravi Kumar, who recently met Airports Authority of India officials and Ranchi airport director. Currently, around 17 flights take off from and land in Ranchi every day. The number, airport officials said, is likely to go up at 32 in April once new flights are added. An official, talking on behalf of the airport director Vinod Sharma, who was not on duty on Sunday, said that Ranchi is likely to get direct flights to Jaipur, Lucknow, Trivandrum and some other tier-2 cities from April. The state government recently lifted flight restrictions on the Birsa Munda Airport and gave its nod to increase the number of flights to and from Ranchi. The only operational airport in Jharkhand is well connected to metro cities across India. Ranchi already has direct flights to New Delhi, Kolkata, Bangalore, Mumbai and Hyderabad. In the past couple of months, Indigo Airlines also started flights to Pune and Ahmedabad from the city. The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) has also been pressing for new flight services from Ranchi. The trade body had also expressed displeasure over the delay in construction of the Deoghar airport, which once ready, will be the second largest airport in Jharkhand after Ranchi. The airport in Deoghar is likely to be ready by March and flight services from there may begin in April, the transport secretary said. However, travelers to Bihar are yet to get direct flights to Patna. Also, there are no flights to Raipur and Bhubaneswar from Ranchi. Passenger footfall at the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi has tripled since June, the AAI stated in December. However, the passenger footfall here was still less than half of what it used to be in pre-Covid times, local airport officials said. The AAI stated that the passenger traffic at the Ranchi airport had dropped to 57,749 in June 2020, when travel restrictions were relaxed. The passenger traffic shot up to 1,41,268 in November when more flights were allowed to ply, the AAI stated, lauding the airport staff here for their dedication.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
14-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jeweller sustains grievous injuries after bikers fire at him||A jewellery shop owner was grievously injured when two bike-riding persons shot at him at Uliyan in the Kadma Police Station area late on Saturday night when he was closing the store. Ganesh Chandra (38) was rescued by some local residents and was rushed to Tata Main Hospital. He has sustained injury in the abdomen and the single pellet which trapped inside was taken out after he was operated upon early on Sunday morning. Chandra was turned around when the two accused fired two shots from close range, one of which hit his abdomen. The other was a misfire. The attackers had shawls wrapped around themselves, while also covering their faces.They had sped away towards Anil Sure Path after the attack. A police team reached the spot within 10 minutes of the incident. Kadma Police Station OC Manoj Thakur said that the reason behind the attack was not clear yet. "Though the victim is out of danger now, he is not in a condition to speak. We will be able to get an idea behind the gun-shot attack on him after getting a statement from him,” he told The Telegraph Online on Sunday. He said the reason behind the attack might be extortion or a family affair. "We tried to get CCTV footage of the incident, but there were no surveillance cameras nearby. We could not get clear footage from a camera which is installed at a little distance away from the spot," said the OC, adding that they are hopeful of detecting the case soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
14-02-2021||Jharkhand||15 injured as bus collides head-on with truck in Koderma||A Hazaribagh bound bus collided head-on with a truck on Ranchi-Patna Highway near Koderma Bazar injuring 15 passengers on early Sunday morning. The bus named Hemkunt was going to Hazaribagh from Patna when the accident took place. One passenger was referred to RIMS, Ranchi and the rest of the injured were provided treatment at Koderma Sadar hospital. Police officials said the bus with the registration number-JH02Q/6862 was on the way to Hazaribagh when it hit a truck (CG04JO/8494) at around 4 am. Police informed the accident occurred due to high speed. “But we have to find out whether the bus driver or the truck driver was responsible for this mishap,” added the officials. Koderma police station officer-in-charge Dwarika Ram reached the spot and started the relief work after being informed about the accident. The injured were pulled out from the mangled bus and were sent to hospitals. One Chandrakant Prasad, resident of Nawada in Bihar, sustained grievous injures and was rushed to RIMS, Ranchi. A 24-year-old Ankit Kumar of Rohtas district said all passengers were sleeping when the collision took place. As the crash happened, the injured passengers started shouting for help. There were many who escaped unhurt or with minor injuries. Ram said they had seized both the truck and the bus and lodged an FIR against the drivers for negligent driving.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
14-02-2021||Jharkhand||1,960 health workers get second Covishield jab in state||As many as 1,960 healthcare workers were administered the second dose of the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Saturday, 28 days after they were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus for the first time, the National Health Mission (NHM) stated in a report. West Singhbhum, Latehar, Koderma and Jamtara achieved more than 100 per cent of its vaccination target for the second dose on Saturday. While West Singhbhum 73 people against 60 registered beneficiaries, at least 128 people were administered the second jab of Covishield in Latehar against the 119 registered beneficiaries. As many as 57 people were administered the jab in Jamtara, while 43 healthcare workers got the shots in Koderma. Palamu administered the second dose of Covishield vaccine to 133 beneficiaries on the day – the highest among all 24 districts in Jharkhand. Only 54 of the 100 registered beneficiaries were administered the second dose of vaccine jabs in Ranchi. The state achieved 77 per cent of the vaccination target for the second dose of immunisation on Saturday as only 1,960 of the 2555 registered beneficiaries turned up at the vaccination centres, government data highlighted. Meanwhile, the number of beneficiaries inoculated against Covid-19 in the state crossed the 2 lakh mark on Saturday. Jharkhand achieved only 46 per cent of its vaccination target for beneficiaries who got the first dose of the vaccine on the day. As per government data, as many as 14,111 of the 30,576 registered healthcare workers and frontline workers were inoculated in Jharkhand on Saturday. While 2,279 people were vaccinated in Ranchi, the district achieved only 53 per cent of its target for the day. Jamtara achieved 89 per cent of its target on the day – the highest among Jharkhand districts. As many as 432 beneficiaries were inoculated there. So far, 216970 people have been vaccinated in Jharkhand and the state has achieved 56 per cent of its vaccination target, reveals government data. As many as three Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) cases were reported in the state on Saturday, taking the total AEFI cases reported in Jharkhand so far to 264. Two cases were reported in Koderma and one in Bokaro district. Meanwhile, Jharkhand reported 41 fresh cases of Covid-19 against 29 recoveries on Saturday, which took the number of active cases in the state to 452, stated a bulletin released by NHM. A resident of Dhanbad died of the infection on the day, taking the toll to 1,082, the bulletin further stated. As per government data, as many as 1,19,283 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, and 98.71 per cent of them have recovered. At the current rate, it would take more than 2,173 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-142
