15-02-2021||Jharkhand||Tata adventure foundation plans Everest expedition in 2022||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) has planned to send candidates for Mount Everest expedition next year after a three-year hiatus. The premier Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit could not find a suitable candidate for the expedition in 2019 while the Covid-19 pandemic did not allow the journey to go ahead the following year. TSAF is not keen to send any climbers this year too as it needs adequate time for training and preparing them. Sources revealed that the authorities have already zeroed in on Asmita Dorjee for the Everest trip. The 37-year-old is a senior instructor with the TSAF. TSAF's senior manager Hemant Gupta confirmed that the expedition to the 29,029 ft peak has been planned for 2022. "We have already selected Dorjee for the expedition. We have planned the Everest expedition next year. We may select one or two more candidates for the same," he added. Gupta, who scaled the Everest in 2017, added the expedition would not be possible this year since adequate time would be needed to train and prepare the climbers. "The Everest expedition usually takes place in May and we have very less time to train the candidates now. Though Dorjee is there on the expedition list, we have to scout for one or two suitable candidates also. But we would be having ample time at our disposal if we organise the trip next year. We would start training the candidates in due course of time as things have now started opening after the pandemic," he added. According to him, plans are also afoot to organise a Trans-Himalayan expedition later this year. "This expedition would be led by Bachendri Pal. We have plans to conduct the same sometime this year," Gupta added. A TSAF official said on condition of anonymity that Everest-bound candidate (read Dorjee) would also be a part of the Trans-Himalayan expedition. "The Trans-Himalayan expedition would keep Dorjee in good stead from a training point of view. Moreover, she would be under the guidance of Bachendri Pal, who has mentored candidates like Hemant Gupta, amputee Arunima Singh, Swarnalata Dalai, Sandeep Tolia and Poonam Rana to name a few from the TSAF stable," he added. Bachendri Pal, a Padma Bhushan and the first Indian woman to annex the Everest in 1984, scouts, selects and trains the Everest-bound candidates. Expedition to the Everest requires lots of logistical issues and one needs proper preparations for the same. "Usually, we send two-three candidates for the expedition. So far, only one (Dorjee) has been picked. We are looking for suitable candidates to add to the number. So time becomes a vital factor. The Everest expedition has been planned for next year keeping the time factor in mind," another TSAF official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||Woman's body recovered in trolley bag  in Mango||The police on Monday morning recovered a decomposed body of a woman from a trolley bag at the post-mortem house in the Seraikela Sadar Hospital. The police had found the trolley bag from a ditch along NH-33 in Pardih under Chandil thana area in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district near Jamshedpur on Sunday night, confirming a human corpse inside following a rag-picker had discovered it. The Chandil police had recovered the bag and had shifted the trolley bag to the Seraikela Sadar Hospital morgue on Sunday night. On Monday morning, a police party led by Chandil thana OC, Sumesh Kumar Chaudhury had reached the Sadar Hospital morgue to unravel the mystery. "It was the body of a woman stuffed into the trolley bag. We could not determine her age as the body was about 20 days old and badly decomposed. But from a pair of sandals that was inside the bag, we can say the deceased was a young woman," said the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online. Chaudhury said this to be a case of murder. "Someone might have stuffed the body in the bag and dropped it in the ditch at this lonely stretch of NH-33. Moreover, the spot where the trolley bag was found is located just 10 metres away from the Mango thana border which suggests that the assailants must be local having complete knowledge about the jurisdiction of the police stations in East Singhbhum and adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan districts," said Chaudhury. Chaudhury pointed out the stretch of NH-33 along which the trolley bag was found has no CCTV camera, something the assailants must have seen before dropping the bag there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||29 workers stranded at Chamoli back home||All 29 Jharkhand labourers, who were stranded in Chamoli after the glacial burst that triggered an avalanche on February 7, have returned home safely, officials manning the state control room said on Monday, adding that the workers faced financial crisis and logistical challenges during their journey from Uttarakhand. However, none of the 14 state migrants reported missing from the site of the disaster has been found or identified so far. At least nine migrants from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh and one from Bokaro have been untraceable since the incident in Chamoli. While respective district administrations are coordinating with families of the missing labourers, none of the districts have officially reported any casualty in the Chamoli incident so far. Among the over two dozen labourers who returned from Uttarakhand, as many as 10 are from Latehar, seven from Ramgarh, three from Bokaro, seven from Jamtara and two from Hazaribagh, as per the state control room, which has been receiving calls from stranded labourers and coordinating with authorities to ensure the safety of Jharkhand migrants in Uttarakhand since February 8. Officials from concerned district administrations have also contacted employers and contractors who had taken labourers for work to Uttarakhand. Document verification work was still in process and employment agencies have been asked to cooperate with the state in providing information related to the missing labourers. The state control room has also registered eight migrant labourers from other states and has informed the authorities of those states. Two labourers each from Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, one from Uttar Pradesh and three from Karnataka had contacted the state control room for help. All these labourers were stranded in Chamoli and could not contact authorities in their respective states, officials said. Santosh Singh, a Latehar labourer, who was working at a National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) site in Chamoli, reached home on Sunday. He said his employer had booked bus tickets for him and his nine fellow labourers from Chamoli to Haridwar, from where they took a train to Dehri-On-Sone and eventually crossed into Jharkhand on Saturday. “The journey was difficult as we did not have cash in hand, but we managed to reach home. We travelled for more than 48 hours at a stretch to reach Jharkhand from Chamoli,” said Singh. At least 54 people are feared dead and several others missing following a glacial burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district which triggered an avalanche and massive flooding alongside the Alaknanda and Dhauliganga rivers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||Demand for FASTag grows in view of hefty penalty||The demand for FASTag at local stores in the city grew on Monday owing to the Centre’s decision to implement the system of cashless toll tax payment from midnight Monday even though the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has set up on-the-spot FASTag counters at all the toll plazas across Jharkhand., NHAI has ruled that those without FASTag, the electronic system of collecting toll tax based on barcode-embedded stickers that need to be pasted on the windshield of a vehicle, would be charged double as penalty. NHAI’s regional officer (RO) S.K. Mishra said they have been running extensive campaigns to encourage people to use FASTag for the past three months in Jharkhand. But despite the efforts many vehicles were still running without FASTag. “You can still get a FASTag on-the-spot from any of the counters set up at all the toll booths in Jharkhand,” said Mishra, adding that, vehicle owners will now have a choice to either get a FASTag on the spot or pay double toll tax. Local shops offering FASTag services in Ranchi were flooded with applications on Monday. Most of the applicants were local residents who travel to neighbouring districts regularly, shop owners said. Devi Kumar, owner of a FASTag service shop in Kokar, said the demand for FASTag almost doubled on Monday. He had nearly 100 customers at his shop. Besides, there were several enquiries over phone from people who wanted to get a FASTag immediately before leaving for another city by road. “The sale of FASTag had picked up pace in December when the government decided not to allow vehicles to pass toll booths without FASTag. Then the demand dropped once the government decided to allow cash transactions for a few more weeks,” said Devi, adding that the demand has again gone up after the government’s decision of sticking to the deadline of February 15. However, those who can afford to wait for a week to get a FASTag for their vehicle can apply online from the convenience of their home and get the tag delivered to their doorstep, said Rajan Kumar, an employee at HDFC Bank, Ratu Road. “It is a simple process. You can visit our website and apply for FASTag. The tag will be delivered to your registered address within five days,” he said. Other private banks and nationalized banks are also offering FASTag services in Ranchi. However, most private banks are only providing online services in a bid to avoid crowding at branches. “We also have to ensure that people do not overcrowd banks to get FASTag since we are still following Covid-19 precautions,” said an employee at ICICI Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||Brace for rain, thunderstorm across the state from Tuesday||Ranchi Met centre has forecast rain and thunderstorm, accompanied by lightning in isolated pockets of Jharkhand, for the next 72 hours due to an induced cyclonic circulation caused by the impact of a western disturbance. "The cyclonic circulation coupled with a low-pressure trough at the mid-tropospheric level hovering around 5.8km above the mean sea level would result in rain and thunderstorm in Jharkhand between February 16 and 18 (Tuesday to Thursday). An alert has been issued for central, western and southern Jharkhand," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Dry weather prevailed over Jharkhand on Monday with a rising trend in both maximum and minimum temperatures. The lowest minimum temperature of 11.1°C was recorded at Bokaro on Monday, while capital Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 12.8°C. Steel city Jamshedpur was warmer at 14.8 °C while Daltonganj notched a minimum of 12.2 °C. Pakur and Sahibganj experienced minimum readings of around 15 °C. Weather data available from Ranchi Meteorological Centre revealed a rising trend in minimum readings in other districts too. In its forecast issued on Monday afternoon, the Met office predicted a rise in minimum temperatures by two to three degree Celsius in the next three days. The day reading also witnessed a rise across the state for the last two days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand toll plazas ready for FASTag||Toll gates across national highways in Jharkhand are ready to implement FASTag, the electronic toll collection system, from Monday midnight following directives from National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to phase out manual cash transactions across the country. NHAI regional director S.K. Mishra said that all fee lanes at eight toll plazas in the state have been converted into FASTag lanes for seamless movement of vehicles. “As per directives from NHAI, manual toll tickets will be phased out from 12am on Tuesday. If anyone still doesn’t have FASTag or face other technical glitches, they will have to shell out double the earmarked rate of toll tax. But it is advisable to get FASTag at the earliest,” said Mishra. He said all private operators managing toll gates at various locations have been briefed on their roles while district administrations were expected to deploy sufficient security cover at toll plazas for a few days till the entire process was streamlined. Currently, there are eight functional toll plazas of NHAI. They are in Pundag, Ramgarh, Kandra, Adityapur, Giridih, Dumka, Bokaro and GT Road. An official of NHAI said that while vehicles sold from January 2021 come with mandatory FASTag in them, owners of older vehicles would have to install them on their own. “At the toll plazas, we are setting up enough counters where people can now buy FASTag and install them in their windscreens. Simultaneously, one can also procure them from Paytm,” he said, adding that about 65 per cent vehicles in the state had availed of FASTag. “We are trying to create awareness through different modes such as media advisories, billboards and hoardings near toll gates. After it is formally introduced from Monday midnight, those left out will have to come on board to prevent paying double the fixed charges as penalty,” he said. Implementation of FASTag was postponed at least twice in the past. It was to come into force from January 1 this year but was later extended till February 15. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday maintained that the deadline for the implementation of FASTag would not be extended any further. FASTag was first introduced in 2016 to push electronic payment of fees at toll plazas, reduce waiting time and fuel consumption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||One killed in road accident on unlit Tata-Kandra Road ||The Tata-Kandra road, which is devoid of any street lights, claimed the life of a 50-year-old man late on Sunday night, leading the local residents to set up a blockade on the road which was cleared in the wee hours on Monday. The mishap took place near a petrol station in Chhota Gamharia under Gamharia thana area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district about seven km away from here. The victim identified as Salki Tuddu was crossing the road on foot while returning home at around 9.30 pm when he fell victim to two speeding cars. A resident of adjoining Balrampur village in Gamharia said that Tuddu was first hit by a speeding car that was coming from the Kandra end, causing him to get flung apart on the road. As he fell down, another speeding car which was coming from the same direction hit him once again causing him to die on the spot. Both the killer cars had sped away towards Jamshedpur. Soon after the mishap, the family members of the victim and local residents set up the blockade with the body at the mishap spot demanding compensation. The blockade which was set up at about 10 pm on Sunday, was cleared at about 1 am on Sunday after the Gamharia Circle Officer, Dhananjay Rai paid the victim's family members Rs 10,000 as ex-gracia amount. OC, Gamharia thana, Krishna Murari confirmed the man was killed after being dashed by two cars. "The road is unlit. The victim's vision might have got blurred due to the beams of the speeding car while he was crossing the road. We are trying to trace the cars involved in the mishap," said Murari while talking to The Telegraph Online. Father of two sons and as many daughters, Tuddu was busy arranging for the marriage of his elder daughter scheduled to be held on February 17. He was returning home from a relative's house in a sequel to his daughter's marriage as the mishap took place. The 15-km-long Tata-Kandra Road which links Adityapur with the steel city at Bistupur is considered to be the lifelines for the Adityapur industrial area. But this important road, which also links to Seraikela on one side and NH-33 through Kandra-Chowka road on the other hand, remains unlit. As a result of the dark road, the pedestrians and two-wheeler riders find it very difficult to negotiate the unlit road in the face of cars and heavy vehicles' headlight beams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||BJP charges Hemant govt of deceiving farmers||BJP charged the Hemant Soren led-state government of deceiving farmers of Jharkhand by not fulfilling the promises on loan waiver made during assembly elections. Talking to media at Dhanbad on Monday, Pawan Sahu, state president of Bhartiya Janata Party Kisan Morcha, the BJP state unit of farmers also charged the state government with discontinuing the Mukhyamantri Krishi Aashirwad Yojna of the previous BJP government of the state under which grants in aid were provided to small and marginal farmers having maximum of five acres of arable land. Sahu also accused the present state government of failing to provide Rs 182 per quintal as a bonus upon the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1868 per quintal on food grains of the central government, despite making tall claims in this regard. He also announced plans to launch a state-wide agitation against the state government’s anti-farmer approach from the villages to the assembly. “The state government promised Rs 2 lakh loan waiver to each farmer, but in contrast announced Rs 50,000 loan waiver, which is an example of complete falsehood and none of the farmers have received the benefit of loan waiver so far,” charged Sahu. “While the leaders of the ruling government are staging protests in Delhi claiming to be the supporters of farmer’s right they are implementing the anti-farmer agenda in the state. They are even denying the Yellow Card, Pink Card and Green Card to the farmer’s compelling them to make rounds of the Common Service Centres (CSE) without any advantage,” attacked Sahu. Though, Rahul Gandhi made tall promises during assembly election rallies in Jharkhand about the poor and marginalized but the state government failed to fulfil all such promises leading to the loss of jobs of youth in the state. Regarding grants in aid scheme Mukhyamanti Krishi Aashirwad Yojna, Sahu said that the scheme grants an aid worth Rs 5,000 per acres were provided to small and marginal farmers by the Raghubar Das led-previous government but the present state government is not providing the same to farmers. Sahu, however, also termed the farmer’s protest in Delhi as an orchestra by brokers and agents led by Congress leaders. “The Congress ministers, MPs and MLAs are participating in the rallies being staged in Delhi then how can it be a farmer’s protest because the farmers are with the BJP,” claimed Sahu. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi led government is working for the benefit and progress of the farmers and trying to improve the condition of our Anndata. Through the farm laws, the government is trying to make farmer’s free from the shackles of market,” said Sahu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||BIT-Sindri students land plum job offers during placement drives||The lone state-run engineering institute of Jharkhand, BIT-Sindri witnessed a flurry of campus selection drive as the overall placement figure touched 133 out of a total of 750 students. All this, as students across 10 different engineering branches including Electrical, Mechanical, Production, Mechanical, Metallurgical, Chemical, Civil, Electronics, Mining and IT received full-time employment offers from different recruiters, including Schlumberger PITC, Vedanta Resources Limited, Jai Balaji Industries and Deloitte India. Some of the companies visited the campus for the first time. The renowned name in the oil and gas industry, Schlumberger PITC based at Pune conducted its recruitment last week and two B Tech students from BIT were offered the role of software developer after multitudinous rounds of technical and interpersonal interviews. The results of the interviews were announced on Monday. Namrata Kumari of electronics and communication engineering and Shantanu Shubham of information technology bagged the offer for a CTC of 9 lakh per annum. They underwent a written test based on aptitude and coding abilities followed by two technical and two personality and behavioural adaptability rounds. Vedanta Resources Limited - Mumbai, world's leading mining based company, lapped up three final year B Tech students of mining engineering. While conducting recruitment last week, specifically for students of mining engineering, during the second round of selection, after hiring students of the core branches earlier, the firm organised a comprehensive skill assessment process comprising of comprehensive, written aptitude test followed by group discussion and personal interview. After successfully clearing these rounds, the selected candidates were offered the role of a graduate engineer trainee for CTC package of Rs 8 lakh per annum. The selected candidates were Paresh Rathour, Utkarsh Shrivastava and Mrinal Kumar. Additionally, a recruitment drive was organised by Jai Balaji Industries, Durgapur for the passed out batch of 2020 for the position of graduate engineer trainee during which 15 students of different core branches were given job offers with a package of Rs 3.6 lakh per annum. Earlier on February 10, Deloitte (US office) conducted the placement process for the first time in BIT-Sindri and selected altogether 18 students from different circuit branches including information technology, computer science engineering, electrical engineering, and electronics & communication for a pay package of Rs 7.6 lakh per annum. The selected students for Deloitte included five of computer science engineering namely Bablu Kumar, Nutan Sinku, Shivam Ghatak Haarish Khan and Rajesh; six students of information technology namely Shantanu Shubham, Prakhar Srivastava, Shubham Jha, Manpreet Singh, Chandan Pandey and Abhay Kumar; four students of electrical engineering namely Komal Shruti, Pallav Tiriya, Ankita Kumari, Sayan Chaudhary and three students of electronics and communication namely Gaurav Kumar, Priya Mandal and Nidhi. Giving details, head of the Department of Physics of BIT-Sindri, Ghanshyam Rai who is also the training and placement in-charge of BIT-Sindri said, “With the latest placement round, the overall placement figure of 2021 B Tech pass out has crossed 130 and considering the pandemic situation the figure seems to be quite satisfactory as more than a dozen IT as well core sector recruiters are still lined for campus selection for our students.” The selected students in different companies included 16 by Tata Steel for Rs 10.54 LPA, two Hindustan Unilever for Rs 8 LPA, 75 by Tata Consultancy Service for Rs 7 LPA, three by Tata Steel Long products for Rs 3.75 LPA, 16 students by Vedanta Resources Limited for Rs 8 LPA, two students of Schlumberger PITC for Rs 9 LPA, 18 students by Deloitte for Rs 7.6 LPA and one student by Multicoreware for a package of Rs 6.6 LPA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
15-02-2021||Jharkhand||Fresh Covid cases outnumber recoveries in Jharkhand||Jharkhand achieved only 35 per cent of its vaccination target on Sunday by administering the first dose of Covishield vaccine to 7679 of over 21,000 beneficiaries registered to get the jab on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. Meanwhile, nearly 500 people were administered the second dose of the vaccine in the state, taking the total count of those who have completed their course of vaccination to 2405 beneficiaries. The state has achieved 78 per cent of its target in administering the second dose of Covishield to registered beneficiaries. So far, as many as 2,24,828 healthcare workers and frontline workers have been administered the first dose of vaccine jab in Jharkhand, stated a report released by NHM. More than 25,000 of the beneficiaries were residents of Ranchi, while more than 21,000 were from Dhanbad. On Sunday, as many as 902 people were inoculated in Ranchi, while 601 were vaccinated in East Singhbhum. As per government data, the state has achieved 58 per cent of its vaccination target so far and Ranchi has achieved 43 per cent of its target – the lowest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Only one Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) case was reported in Jharkhand on Sunday from Hazaribag, taking the total count of AEFI cases in the state to 265, the NHM stated in the report. As many as 33 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Sunday, while 24 patients recovered, stated a separate bulletin released by NHM. Ranchi reported 14 of the 33 cases and accounted for nine of the 24 recoveries on the day. The number of active cases jumped to 461 on the day despite at least 19 of 24 districts not reporting fresh cases of infection. At least 236 of the 461 patients were residents of Ranchi, while 58 were from East Singhbhum, the bulletin highlighted. The three Covid-free districts – Godda, Giridih and Pakur – did not report fresh cases on the day. As per government data, the growth rate of cases in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.07 per cent. At the current pace, it would take more than 2215 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand, government data reveals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-141
