16-02-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI set to host TED Talk event virtually||XLRI is scheduled to hold the eighth edition of TEDxXLRI- 2021 themed “Surviving the Storm” virtually on February 19. This year, the event looks forward to witnessing eminent speakers from different walks of life coming together on a single platform to uncover new ideas, provide an authentic and intelligent perspective of an unexplored topic and inspire inquisitive minds through stories of path makers who defied all odds and emerged victorious. One of the eminent speakers for TEDxXLRI 2021 is Deepika Kumari, one of the finest archers of the country who started her professional journey at the Tata Archery Academy in Jamshedpur. She won two gold medals at the Delhi Commonwealth Games 2010. Deepika has been conferred with the Arjuna Award, India's second-highest sports award, in the year 2012 by the then President Pranab Mukherjee .She was awarded the coveted Padma Shri in 2016. The second speaker will be Dhaval Jain, a 2014 batch Indian Administrative Service ( IAS) and an MBA from IIM -Ahmedabad. He is currently the managing director at Paschim Banga Agri Marketing Corporation Limited. The third speaker -Amit Behl - is an Indian theatre, television, and film actor who has worked in over almost 100 TV serials, broadcasted over a variety of channels spanning across the Hindi, English, Marathi, Punjabi, and Urdu television industry.  A senior joint secretary of Cine and TV Artistes Association ( CINTAA) since 2015, he is also a member of the governing council of Media and Entertainment Skill Council ( MESC). Sarah Hussain, who runs food blogs by the name zingyzest will also address the online event. She is  one the youngest and most successful bloggers in India. She has numerous followers on Instagram, where she strikes a balance between street food and fine dining. Aditya Gupta, an entrepreneur and ace mountaineer who successfully summited Mt Everest at the age of 50 will also address the event. Aditya is the owner of successful brands like Sharda Exports, India, The Rug Republic, and The Furniture Republic. Tanmay Jain,  founder and CEO of Infeedo will be the other eminent speaker. He is also known as the youngest millennial speaker to address HR leadership in organisations like Fidelity, PwC, Schneider and Microsoft. Commenting on the theme, XLRI director Fr. P Christie said, “The pandemic has shown the need for making the process of management education more meaningful and purpose-oriented. We as a part of TEDxXLRI want to encourage people to uncover new ideas, provide the authentic and intelligent perspective of unexplored topics, challenge students to think about complex ideas and to share the latest research in their local areas that spark conversations in our community. We aim to provide a platform for people that have big ideas or are doing remarkable work that would never be recognised in any other way.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Robbers loot cash, jewellery worth Rs 8 lakh from villager’s house||More than a dozen criminals, wielding iron rods and daggers, looted cash and jewellery worth Rs 8 lakh and even manhandled women of a family at Paharbad village in Dhanbad’s Madandih Panchayat, during the wee hours of Tuesday. The incident took place in the house of Saifur Sheikh, a contractual employee of Maithon Power Limited, at a time when there were no male members in the house, where a wedding ceremony was to take place. “I woke up after hearing some sound at around 1 am and went to the other room and switched on the light. Suddenly one of the criminals grabbed me and pressed my mouth with his palm. Another man with a dagger tied me up with a gamcha (towel),” narrated a woman from the family. The criminals took away Rs 3 lakh in cash and jewellery worth Rs 5 lakh, the woman added. Another family member mentioned that they were suspecting someone close to the family being involved in the case, as the burglars had information about where keys to the locker were hidden. A team of MPL police led by OC Wasim Ahmad reached the site upon receiving information from Madandih Panchayat leader Sheikh Taimur. They took details regarding the incident and even collected forensic evidence. A probe has been initiated after lodging an FIR against unidentified people. “We received information on the phone about the incident during the morning hours from the mukhiya. We immediately rushed to the spot and found that jewelleries and cash meant for an upcoming marriage ceremony had been looted. We have initiated an investigation into the incident. Criminals will soon be nabbed,” Ahmad said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||‘Brown sugar’ worth Rs 30 lakh recovered in Jamshedpur||In a breakthrough, police seized “brown sugar” worth Rs 30 lakh from two drug peddlers. The duo was transacting when the police nabbed them near Garib Nawaz Colony, which falls under the Jugsalai police station area on Monday night. According to police, they have confiscated around 400 grams of the above-mentioned drug from the duo. They have been identified as Sadique Ansari (32), a resident of Muslim Bustee in Adityapur, and Hasiqur Rahman (40), a resident of Bansgara in Murshidabad district of West Bengal. Revealing details of the arrest, senior SP, M Tamil Vanan said that they had been informed about “two men meeting near the Railway Over-bridge close to Garib Nawaz Colony to peddle drugs around 10.30 pm”. “Acting on the tip-off, we set up a team of police officials, which was headed by deputy superintendent of police (law and order) Alok Ranjan. As the information was specific, the police team dressed in plainclothes surrounded the locality. On being spotted, they were nabbed by the police. On searching, we found two packets of ‘brown sugar’, weighing 200 grams in possession of each. We immediately brought them to Jugsalai police station where they were interrogated,” said Vanan while addressing a press conference on Tuesday afternoon. Vanan added Rahman, used to supply drugs sourced from Murshidabad to bootleggers in Jamshedpur and Adityapur in adjoining Seaikela-Kharsawan district. “Rahman had brought two packets of the brown sugar, containing 200 grams each. He had handed over one of the packets to Sadique and had kept the other with himself, which would be passed on to some other person. However, before they could get away, the police nabbed the two red-handed,” said the senior police officer. Vanan mentioned that recently three women had been arrested for selling drugs in small packets in the Jugsalai area. During interrogation, one of the accused, Rashida Khatoon, had tipped them about “a man coming from Murshidabad to hand over drugs to his local contacts”. Following this information, the police worked hard to arrest the man from Murshidabad. According to the senior SP, Sadique would have made 20,000 packets, each containing one milligram of the ‘brown sugar’ for his customers. Each packet would have been sold at Rs 100. “We will try to trace the drug traffickers in Murshidabad based on the information gathered from Rahman. If we fail to reach the main supplier, then we will take Rahman into police remand for further investigation. We might even take him to Murshidabad to nab the dealers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police nabs son-in-law and aide for gun attack on jeweller||Jamshedpur Police arrested two persons on Tuesday involved in the gun attack  on the owner of Chandra Jewellers Ganesh Chandra, one of them being the victim’s son-in-law. Those arrested were identified as Rajkumar Patro (25) and Raghunath Manna (19), both residents of Uliyan in Kadma, where the attack took place on February 13 night. Rajkumar is the son-in-law of Chandra. Senior SP M Tamil Vanan said Rajkumar and Raghunath were nabbed from near the Tatanagar station area, while they were riding a bike on Tuesday morning. Revealing details, Vanan said that Rajkumar, who worked as an electrician, married the jeweller’s 19-year-old daughter Ayushi Chandra following an affair between them a year ago. “Within a few months of the marriage, Ayushi came to know about her husband’s dubious background. Eventually, there was a marital dispute between the two as she had tried to bring her husband's wrongful activities to an end,” Vanan said at a press conference. As the dispute deepened further, Ayushi returned to her parents’ house at Bipasha Path in Uliyan last November. As Ayushi realised that she had done wrong by marrying Rajkumar, Ganesh Chandra, convinced her to seek a divorce from her husband. She then filed her divorce petition with the Jamshedpur court,” the senior SP detailed. Vanan said on coming to know about the divorce petition filed in the court, Rajkumar thought that Ayushi must have been forced by her father. He contacted Chandra and pressed him to withdraw the divorce petition from the court. Rajkumar had also threatened Chandra with dire consequences if the divorce petition was not withdrawn shortly, the police officer said. Vanan said as Chandra did not pay any heed to his son-in-law’s request, the latter had conspired the attack on the former on February 13 night. Chandra (38) was seriously injured as two bike-borne criminals had opened fire at him near his jewellery shop at about 9.30 pm when the victim was returning home, having closed the shop.  The criminals had fired two shots, one of which had hit the victim's abdomen whereas the other one was a misfire. The injured jeweller had been rushed to Tata Main Hospital, where he had given a statement to the police on February 14. The victim had in his statement made it clear that his son-in-law must have conspired the attack, given the background of his marital life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||JMM slams Centre over Disha Ravi’s arrest||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), which is leading an alliance government in the state, on Tuesday joined the chorus against the arrest of Disha Ravi, the 21-year-old Bangalore-based climate change activist. She was arrested by Delhi police two days ago for allegedly editing and sharing a ‘toolkit’ related to the farmers’ protest on social media. The tribal outfit has termed her detention as yet another instance of the brutal assault on the right to dissent by targeting a youth this time. Addressing a press conference in Ranchi on Tuesday, JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “We are heading towards very-very dangerous times under the current regime led by the BJP at the centre. In the last three years, there has been a jump of 200 percent in the number of sedition cases being filed. Activists, social workers, youths, and all those who speak for the public and burning issues in this country are called anti-nationals. Sedition charges are being slapped on them. This time a young climate activist is being targeted. Ironically, they fail to prove charges in the court, however for the cases to be over and the victims to be released it takes months.” He added that BJP’s modus operandi has been to terrorise people to divert attention from core issues. “The current arrest is to deflect the attention from the farmers’ protest against the three black laws brought by them which aims at privatising farmlands. However, the country’s farmers aren’t going to fall prey to it this time,” said Supriyo. He even appealed to the masses to start raising their voice against the saffron camp. “JMM has decided to not sit silent anymore against the atrocities unleashed by the BJP government,” he said. He added that they are planning to launch a massive campaign against the rising fuel and LPG prices. “BJP’s slogan for 2021 is abki baar, petrol-diesel 100 ke paar. Agle saal, 200 paar. LPG prices has also witnessed a steep rise. BJP claims having distributed crores of LPG connections to the poor under the ujwala yojana, but they should tell how many have refueled it. With unplanned lockdown breaking everyone’s backbone and derailing the economy, how can people afford such hefty prices?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||In Ranchi, goddess of knowledge slays the virus and how||This Saraswati Puja, the goddess of knowledge was worshipped in various avatars in the state capital of Ranchi. Themed primarily on Covid, she embraced the role of a medical practitioner, holding a syringe in one hand and inoculating her disciples, treating patients a doctor, and holding placards, in addition to her veena, to propagate Covid safety guidelines. With Covid-19 cases on decline in the state, Basant panchami, which marks the first public puja of 2021, was celebrated with enthusiasm across the state capital on Tuesday after a long lull in festivities due to the pandemic induced lockdown. At the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), the biggest state-run hospital, a Covid themed goddess was housed in a modest pandal near the hostel. RIMS director Kameshwar Prasad said they all prayed for the end of the pandemic. “Since the outbreak of the virus, RIMS has had a huge role to play to contain the virus and treat patients. All medical professionals walked the extra mile to serve humanity. Hence, our theme for the puja was Covid. The idea was to pray for the wellbeing of everyone in Jharkhand,” said a RIMS official. Many coaching centres opened for the day to hold Saraswati Puja. Manish Kumar, head of Manish Tutorials in Bariatu, said coaching centres like his were still waiting for a government nod to reopen. Hence, Saraswati Puja was a good occasion to reconnect with their students. Their idol had the goddess holding a syringe. “We had specially ordered the idol,” said Kumar, adding that they also organised a low-key feast and a cultural programme for students. “Everyone was told to follow Covid norms. We all wore masks and provisioned sanitisers at the venue,” he said. Notably, the state government has allowed gatherings of about 200 people at indoor venues and 300 people at outdoor venues. Use of loudspeakers and DJs are permitted during the day. Ajay Pal, one of the more famous idol makers in Ranchi with a workshop at Peace Road, said all his idols had Covid as a theme. “I prepared around 150 big and small idols. The big idols depicted the entire pandemic — right from the virus outbreak to the vaccination process _ with Saraswati shown as a doctor treating or inoculating patients,” he said. Pal was happy to see some business after the lockdown. “I had incurred losses if over Rs 3 lakh due to the lockdown last year as all major pujas  _ Ganesh, Durga Puja, Vishwakarma and Kali _ were literally washed out due to lockdown guidelines,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Rural life depicted in coal town Saraswati Puja pandal||Cow dung cakes, bamboo baskets, canal, culvert, spades, huts and models of several other rural articles were put up as decorations at the Saraswati Puja pandal organised by a group of students at Jharkhand Maidan in Dhanbad, in a bid to highlight the importance of rural life. Visitors thronged at the site on Tuesday to take a look at this unusual display meant to show the significance of villages in our life, which provided refuge, bread and butter to the vast majority of migrant workers who had to go back to their native places during the lockdown. Santosh yadav, one of the organisers of the puja, said they tried to create an entire traditional village scene in the 30x30 feet pandal. “The basic aim behind highlighting rural life is to drive the message of maintaining a balance between rural and urban life as the rural economy is the backbone of our country, which has been proved during the lockdown.,” Yadav, a member of the Satyam Shivam Sundaram Committee that organised the puja, said. Nitish Kumar, another organiser, said that the spade, furrow and canal have been made to show that there is no need to rush to urban areas, which are already congested. “The worst hit  section of society due to the economic slowdown is the youth working in the corporate sector. Many have lost jobs all of a sudden and burdens like paying EMIs of loans have been increased,” he added. Vikas Sao, a member of the committee, said that they have been organising Saraswati Puja every year since 2002 but their primary aim was to organise Durga Puja. “We have provided an opportunity to the students to create the scene of our theme and have also constructed a five-feet high idol,” Sao said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police jawan dies in anti-Naxal operation at Lohardaga||A 30-year-old police jawan from Gumla died on way to a hospital in Ranchi on Tuesday after sustaining severe injuries in an IED blast triggered by the outlawed CPI (Maoist) group at a dense jungle at Serengdag in Lohardaga district. Police said said Duleshwar Paras, who was airlifted by an Indian Air Force chopper from the jungle in Lohardaga and brought to Ranchi for treatment, succumbed to his injuries after landing at the state helipad at Khelgaon, from where he was taken to Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital by road. Doctors there declared him “brought dead”. The martyr’s mortal remains have been sent to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for post-mortem. His last rites will be performed with state honours at his native place in Gumla, police sources said. Duleshwar belonged to a small action team of the district police. He was part of a joint operation of SAP 3 and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) against CPI (Maoist) rebels, who are said to be active in suburban Lohardaga and neighbouring Gumla. No other casualty has been reported from the site of the operation. Sources said the IED (improvised explosive device) got triggered after Duleshwar stepped on it during the operation. He lost one of his legs in the explosion. His fellow soldiers, sources said, took a profusely bleeding Duleshwar to a safe place in the encounter site to tray and save his life. Later, he was airlifted to Ranchi. “The IED was a pressure bomb, which got triggered with the jawan stepped on it. He was conscious but he had lost a lot of blood because of the injuries in his legs,” said a CRPF official not authorities to give official statements to the media. SAT are small teams of district police personnel formed in each district to fight Left Wing Extremism (LWE) and run special operations against the rebel outfits. CRPF officials said that the combing operations were on at the neighbouring areas of Lohardaga and Gumla from Sunday. The security forces had received intelligence inputs that dreaded Maoist leader Ravinder Ganju, who has a bounty of Rs 10 lakh on his head, and other members of his team were active in the region. As per figures with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), at least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand are LWE-affected. Besides the CPI (Maoist), there are more than 17 splinter outfits operating in various districts of Jharkhand, say police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro entrepreneurs make the most out of lockdown||Amid the difficulties of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, young Bokaro entrepreneurs Tanvi Priya, Kundan Mishra, Abhishek Mishra, Madhulika Nayak and a few others have been smart enough to perceive the situation as an opportunity. Kundan and Amit, who are two siblings, have launched their company, Custkart Merchandise Private Limited, which supplies quality printed T-Shirts, hoodies, sweatshirts, bags, caps and other items to corporate houses and colleges. Launched in June 2020, the company, based in the brothers’ native village situated outside the town, has achieved a turnover of Rs 18 lakh. “We are now getting orders online from other states outside apart from here. All the things start from printing, stitching, ironing, packaging, and dispatch is being done from our small factory outlet in our village Pupunki. We are receiving good responses from the market and our clients are increasing,” Kundan, the younger one, said. It was his idea to launch the start-up, while Abhishek left his job to join him later. Kundan handles the technical part of the business, while the latter is invested in the management part. On the other hand, 23-year-old Tanvi Priya has made her startup Kanak Krea OPC Private Limited popular through her dedication. Tanvi’s company deals in teaching coding to children and youths. However, the business boomed when Tanvi could provide placements to more than a dozen of her trained aspirants. A National Law University graduate working at a reputed firm, Tanvi says that one day she thought of achieving something bigger in life. “I moved back to Bokaro and  I shared ideas with my father, who motivated me. Thereafter, I opened Kanak, named after my mother. I had to work hard but now I am in a comfortable zone getting a good market response.” Tanvi has also opened a wing of her company, which teaches coding to underprivileged people and provides them with jobs. Madhulika Nayak is another entrepreneur who started her business of soaps, lotions and other skincare products in December 2019. But just when her company ‘Arnaved’ got introduced, the lockdown kicked in. However, that did not stop her from carrying on, and after things started to open up, she started making profits. Madhulika says she manages to earn Rs 40,000 a month now, and wants to provide employment to a good number of women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Over 11,000 vaccinated in the state in a day, 1,777 get second shot||Over 11,000 beneficiaries were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Monday, while more than 1700 healthcare workers were given the second shot of the vaccine, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per NHM data, the state has so far administered the first dose of the vaccine to 2,35,732 beneficiaries, achieving 61 per cent of its target. On the other hand, as many as 4108 of the over 2.3 lakh vaccinated people have been given the second jab as well. On Monday, the state achieved 39 per cent of its target by administering the first dose of the vaccine to 11,136 beneficiaries. As many as 1777 beneficiaries got the second dose of the virus on the day, at least 28 days after getting the first jab. While Bokaro achieved 100 per cent of its vaccination target on the day by inoculating 637 people, only 11 per cent of the 1136 registered beneficiaries were inoculated in Chatra – the lowest among all districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi achieved 45 per cent of its target on the day by administering the first dose of Covishield vaccine to 1826 people. As per NHM data, only one case of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) was reported in Jharkhand from Dhanbad, taking the total count of AEFI cases in the state to 266. At least 170 of the 266 AEFI cases have been reported in Ranchi so far. Meanwhile, two more Covid patients, one each from Ranchi and Bokaro, died during treatment on Monday, taking the Covid-19 toll in the state to 1084, a separate bulletin released by NHM stated. The state reported 33 Covid recoveries against 38 fresh cases on the day, which took the number of active cases up at 464 in Jharkhand. Ranchi reported 22 fresh cases against 13 recoveries, triggering a rise in active cases here. As many as 245 people were battling the viral infection in Ranchi by the end of Monday. As many as 16 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases on the day. Barring Ranchi, none of the districts reported a double-digit-spike. As per government data, as many as 119354 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far and 98.70 per cent of them have recovered. At the current pace, it would take more than 2400 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand, the NHM bulletin stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress plans tractor rally in Hazaribagh||The Jharkhand unit of the Congress is gearing up for holding another tractor rally, this time in Hazaribagh on February 20, for expressing solidarity with protesting farmers and demanding withdrawal of the farm laws. The party had organised the first rally in Santhal Pargana on January 31 when party supporters along with farmers moved from Godda to Deoghar, a distance of about 80 km, with about 200 tractors, mobilising public opinion against the farm laws. If the first really was focused mainly on the northern part of the state, this one will concentrate mainly on the southern part, informed party sources, adding the leaders were already travelling in the districts for mobilising support for making the proposed rally successful. The party is planning to hold a massive rally in Hazaribagh that day after farmers and supporters converge there from various districts. “We are also simultaneously holding meetings in the districts for enrolment of new members,” informed Congress’ state spokesperson Alok Dubey, adding they wanted to induct people from various sections of the society into the party. They had already held march at block headquarters across the state on Saturday, he further informed,  adding a bike rally was also brought out in Hazaribagh that day. The bike really drew attention as Amba Prasad, state’s youngest MLA from Barkagaon, drove a Royal Enfield motor cycle with state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh riding the pillion while holding the party falling flag on both hands. Patralekh, who worked hard to make the earlier rally in Santhal Pargana successful, was now touring Ramgarh-Hazaribagh-Koderma belt for garnering support for the proposed rally in Hazaribagh. Congress state unit chief Rameshwar Oraon who is also the state’s finance and food minister is also touring the districts. Besides addressing meetings meant for membership drive, he is also mobilising support for the rally. Oraon was in Lohardaga on Sunday, reached Latehar on Monday and will go to Hazaribagh on Tuesday, Dubey who was accompanying him informed from Latehar. Many party leaders had earlier said they would continue their protest against the farm laws until those are scrapped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
16-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand plans shift to practical learning||Elementary education in government schools in Jharkhand is going to shift from rote learning methods and embrace the next generation STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) system aimed at creating critical thinkers, problem solvers and innovators. STEM is a curriculum based on the idea of educating students in four specific disciplines — science, technology, engineering and mathematics — through an interdisciplinary and applied approach. Rather than teaching the four disciplines as a separate module, STEM integrates them into a cohesive learning paradigm based on real-world applications. In many developed countries and developing countries around the world, STEM labs have become a norm. However, such a system of learning is yet to become a regular practice in Indian schools. “We would set up STEM labs along with science labs in all model schools. Initially, in the first phase all the 27 model schools at the district level will be having STEM labs. We are planning to roll it out in a few selected schools from this academic session itself,” said Shailesh Kumar Chourasia state project director, Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC). He is also the director, higher education. On completion of one year in office on December 29 last year, chief minister Hemant Soren had announced about Adarsh Vidyalaya (model school) scheme. In the first phase of the scheme, 27 existing government schools will be transformed into model schools. “As a pilot project, STEM labs are being installed in five blocks in capital Ranchi. Focussing on students who have a knack for maths, science and technology related subjects, the labs will impart practical learning and improve problem-solving ability based on the theories taught in regular classes,” added Chourasia. Major underlying issues prevalent in the government schools include student attendance and overall learning outcomes. The government believes that such a project will help in terms of value addition and in creating an interactive atmosphere for students. The project is being implemented through the innovation fund of the state government and has been adopted in Ranchi district. According to an administration official, the labs will be open to students from all the government schools in the respective block. After evaluating the impact of this project, similar labs will be set up in all the blocks. “Traditional education pedagogy in India is still focused on books and numbers while very little importance is given to the practical implementation of these theories. This scenario changes with STEM education. The labs will give students the space to think freely and create something on their own,” a source in the chief minister’s office said. A STEM lab would be equipped with different exhibits related to the subject module taught in the curriculum of the schools, such as pinhole camera, LED-based heart, eye model, ear model, infinity wall, sound in different mediums, layers of soils, solar system, hand pump, solar-power system, hydro turbine, motor model, sensor setup, telescope, generator, skeleton system, Newton’s law of motion setup, biodiversity setup, different types of robots, projector, tab and interactive computing device. All the teachers deputed in these schools will be given hands-on training before the final handover of the labs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-140
