17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau Tiger Reserve gears up to tackle surface fire||Palamau tiger reserve (PTR) is gearing up to fight surface fire as the time for such mishap inches closer. The period between February and June is termed as the fire months for the reserve. According to sources, during this time span the forest witness instances of surface fire, which is quite unlike the ones that take place in American or Canadian jungles Deputy director south division of PTR Mukesh Kumar said, “We are right on the alert.” He added, “Early onset of summer lengthens the fire months in the tiger reserve.” Explaining the reason behind the fire, stated, “It’s a dry deciduous forest. So, at the onset of summer it witnesses a huge leaf fall. The more the leaves fall, the more are the chances of forest fire taking place.” According to Kumar most of these fires are caused by man. “This forest area has mahua trees in abundance. The villagers collect its fallen fruits day and night, to make country liquor. To reap a clean harvest, they burn the dry leaves. At times these fires go out of control,” said Kumar. According to sources at times villagers have caused fire simply out of revenge. “Often the ground staff bar them from stealing timber or chopping trees. So, villagers at times cause fire at the forest area out of revenge,” said a source. Talking about tackling fires at PTR, Kumar mentioned that the tiger reserve is equipped with thirty fire blowers. The ground staff have been trained to use the fire blower to fight fire. Kumar, “All the 30 fire blowers are in order.” On being asked why water is not used to fight forest fire, he said, “Fire in the tiger reserve is not extinguished with water. It is just not possible at all. Fire line is used to stop surface fire from further spreading.” He added that they have men patrolling the jungle to spot fire. He added, “ Our men work hard. Remember extinguishing forest fire is not an easy task.” “Significantly, there has been no loss of wild life by such fire. Eggs of birds, peacocks, worms, insects and snakes are harmed. Needless, it is the bio diversity that gets a jolt during the fires,” noted environmentalist D S Srivastava. He said, “Various eco development committees need to be activated by the tiger reserve officials for better fire fighting measures.” Srivastava warned the official to be on red alert. He said, “We expect a hard summer and that means more vulnerability to fire.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Man arrested for duping half a dozen unemployed youths of lakhs||A 45-year-old man was on Wednesday arrested by the Sonari Police for allegedly duping lakhs of rupees from two unemployed youths in the name of providing them railway jobs. The accused, identified as Kumardeep Gupta, was arrested from his house at Vastu Vihar in RIT police station area of Adityapur at about 4 am.  Sonari Police Station OC Renu Gupta confirmed the arrest on Wednesday. “We arrested the accused from his house early in the morning. He had been evading it,” the OC told The Telegraph Online. One of the victims, Umesh Chandra Mahto, a resident of Sankosai in Mango, had first approached the police to get a case registered. However, he had to approach a court as the police refused to take up his case. Thereafter, the court had asked the police to register a case, which they did following the order. According to the police, the accused had duped over half a dozen youths, including Umesh Chandra Mahto. Another youth, Surjeet Sarkar had also approached the court with the same complaint. Kumardeep had promised Mahto a Group-D railway job and took Rs 2.5 lakh from him in 2016. He had later promised a job at the IRCTC and made the victim run from pillar to post for the next three years. When Mahto realised that he was being fooled, he wanted his money back. But this time the accused became non-responsive, prompting Mahto to file a case against him at the Jamshedpur court in 2020. The police sources said as the transaction between Mahto and the accused was done in Sonari, the case was finally registered with the Sonari Police. Kumardeep was sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail after he being produced before a judicial magistrate in the afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Athawale invites Sorens to join NDA, envisages a BJP-JMM govt in Jharkhand||Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale has invited Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), which is heading a coalition government in the state, to join National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to reap benefits of double engine government. He mentioned that the tribal outfit could also seek portfolios in the centre. Athawale’s comments came on a day when chief minister Hemant Soren’s party launched a scathing attack at the central government for stifling the voice of dissent and burdening the common man with price hikes. The union minister was on a day long tour of the state during which he also visited Ramgarh and spoke also to the media in Ranchi. During his interaction he said, “I have appealed to Shibu Soren and Hemant Soren to join NDA. We can have a BJP-JMM government here. They (JMM) will also get strengthened in Delhi, which will help in overall development of the state.” The minister, who is also the president of Republican Party of India, attacked AICC leader Rahul Gandhi over his recent jibe of “Hum do humare do”. Speaking in the Parliament last week during the budget session, Gandhi mocked how the central government being run by two is working for two people only, indirectly taking a dig at two most influential corporate giants (Adanis and Ambanis). Athawale said, “If Rahul Gandhi believes so much in the slogan, he should do his bit to promote it further by marrying a Dalit girl and set an example against casteism to fulfill Mahatma Gandhi’s vision.” Significantly, JMM was part of the NDA government between 2009 and 2013. During this period present chief minister Hemant Soren has served the state as its deputy chief minister. However, the alliance broke in January 2013, leading to the fall of Arjun Munda government.. Following which, JMM returned back to UPA fold in 2019 by contesting Lok Sabha and state elections under the ‘mahagatbandhan’ banner. Despite the UPA alliance managing to win only 2 out of 14 parliamentary seats in Jharkhand, it later booted out the BJP government in assembly elections under Hemant Soren’s leadership. Athawale’s statement invited strong reaction from Congress, which is part of the incumbent regime. In a formal statement, Congress spokesperson and co-working president Rajesh Thakur maintained that the minister’s statement should be seen as indirect confession of the Union government harassing non-BJP ruled states. He said, “We have been crying about funds crunch and step brotherly treatment being met out by the Modi government towards Jharkhand. His statements confirm the fact. A minister should first advise PM and his Sanghi friends on marriage to end casteism.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Brace for rain, thunderstorm across the state in next 24 hours||Ranchi and its adjoining areas have been experiencing rain since Tuesday evening as two induced cyclonic circulations, which triggered unseasonal showers and thunderstorms in several parts of the state. “Jharkhand is under the influence of two induced cyclonic circulations triggered by a western disturbance passing through higher latitudes. One cyclonic circulation over eastern Rajasthan was hovering up to 0.9 km above mean sea level while the other cyclonic circulation over Vidarbha was existing 1.5 km above mean sea level. The twin cyclonic circulation was resulting in rainfall activity over several districts across Jharkhand,” said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Several places across the state including Ranchi and Jamshedpur on Wednesday woke up to overcast conditions with intermittent rains. Weathermen issued a forecast of generally cloudy sky with possibility of light rain accompanied by thunderstorms at a few places over northern, central and southern Jharkhand during the next two days. Both IMD’s Ranchi and Patna Met Centres have issued an alert on possibility of thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and hail in several districts - Chatra, Palamu Lohardaga, Hazaribagh , Ranchi Khunti, Seraikela-Kharsawan, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum in the next 24 hours. An alert on thunderstorms accompanied with lightning was also issued for isolated places over central and southern Jharkhand over the next 24 hours. Kuru in Lohardaga district located in north western Jharkhand topped the rain chart with 6.5 mm of rain while Nimdih in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district followed close with 5.5 mm of rain. The local IMD observatory in Ranchi recorded 2.6 mm of rain since Tuesday. Kuru in Lohardaga district located in north western Jharkhand topped the rain chart with 6.5 mm of rain while Nimdih in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district followed close with 5.5 mm of rain. Several places in Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas on Wednesday morning recorded around 1.5 mm of rain while some places recorded rainfall in traces. Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum district recorded 1.3 mm of rain while Khunti recorded 1 mm. Mandar in Ranchi district recorded 4.2 mm of rain while Bokaro experienced 2 mm of rain. Ghatshila in East singhbhum district recorded 1.2 of rain. Reports of light rain also poured in from several other districts. The adverse weather resulted in an abrupt rise in night reading across Jharkhand. Ranchi on Wednesday recorded a minimum temperature of 15.2 degree Celsius while Jamshedpur recorded 18.2 degree Celsius. Pakur too was warmer at 17.5 degree Celsius while Sahibganj and several other districts in Santhal Pargana region recorded over 16 degree Celsius. Met data revealed that in most places the minimum reading on Wednesday was three to four degrees Celsius above normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri residents demand resumption of Dhanbad-Sindri passenger train||The Sindri-Dhanbad passenger train, lying suspended since March last year, will be restored soon, said General Manager of East Central Railway Lalit Chandra Trivedi on Wednesday during his trip to Dhanbad. The suspension of the train service has caused a lot of inconvenience to the residents of Sindri. During his interaction with a group of retired employees of Sindri fertilizer factory some representative, while inspecting Patherdih Railway station of Dhanbad, he instructed them to send a letter regarding the matter to the railway board through Dhanbad MP PN Singh. The group led by former public relation officer of Fertilizer Corporation of India also apprised Trivedi about the plight of the senior citizens of Sindri due to lack of other transport facilities. Singh, after a meeting with the GM, said they had been told that the matter could be only handled by the Railway board. However, sending a letter through an MP could help. DN Singh, another representative, said that the group will be meeting the MP soon, and would request him to write a letter to the railway board for restoration of the Dhanbad Sindri passenger train. “We also apprised the GM about our previous meeting with the Additional Divisional Railway Manager of Dhanbad, Ashish Kumar Jha, held on the same grounds on December 16 during which he assured to forward our request to East Central Railway Hajipur. However, no action is in sight on ground as we are still compelled to carry out tiresome and costlier journeys on auto rickshaws to Dhanbad for minor work,” said another member of the delegation Uma Shankar Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Chamoli Tragedy: Identifying decomposed bodies traumatise kin||Kin of Jharkhand labourers missing in the Chamoli disaster are dealing with much more than the trauma of losing a family member – the sole bread earner in most of the cases. They now have the task of identifying their dear ones as partially-decomposed bodies are being fished out of the muck – a sight that can shake the strongest. The sight is mortifying for the kin of the missing labourers, who have been camping in Uttarakhand with the sole purpose of recognising the corpses being recovered. So far, 58 bodies have been found from the site of the disaster of which only 31 have been identified. The bodies of the 14 labourers missing from Jharkhand are yet to be identified. The family is hoping against hope to meet their missing family member alive, despite knowing that the chances are slim. Jaman Mahto, a resident of Gola Block in Ramgarh, was at Chamoli on Wednesday to identify his son-in-law, Kuldip Kumar Mahto, who was working at a National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) site in Tapovan. He has been staying there for nearly a week now, and the experience of dealing with the trauma of identifying his son-in-law among defaced and decomposed bodies has left him scarred for life, he said. “I know there is no chance for his (Kuldip) survival. I want this process to end as soon as possible, so I can take his body and go home,” said Jaman. His voice quivered as he added, “Kuldip is survived by his widow and two daughters, who are too young to take on the responsibility of the family. All of them are emotionally shattered, and I don’t know how they will cope with this loss. He was only 30-year-old.” Similar is the experience of the 13 other families since the Chamoli tragedy struck. An NTPC contractor, Ajay Kumar Singh, who was making travel arrangements for the kin of missing labourers in Chamoli admitted that the chance of survival of the missing labourers was bleak. But he was still cooperating with the families of missing labourers and trying to ensure that the bodies are identified. “The bodies are so badly decomposed after being trapped under the debris for several days that it is almost impossible to identify them. Six more people from Ramgarh district of Jharkhand were here to identify bodies. They left yesterday,” said Singh. Another NTPC contractor Vinod Singh while explaining the process for identification said, “Once a body is found, it is cleaned and shown to the family members for identification. Following which DNA samples of family members are collected and matched with the recovered bodies.” As per records with the state control room, as many as nine persons from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh, and one from Bokaro are missing from Chamoli since the tragedy struck. Besides Kuldeep, Birsai Mahto, Madan Mahto, and Jitendra Mahto are Ramgarh labourers missing from Chamoli. Birsai’s nephew Vikrant Mahto mentioned that the bereaved family is only hoping for the formalities to get over soon, so they can get the compensation and the time to overcome their loss. “The family members of all the four missing labourers have given their DNA samples for identification of the bodies,” added Vikrant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Defunct fogging machines add to sting woes in Dhanbad ||Over 250 fogging machines of Dhanbad Municipal corporation are lying unused at a time when its residents are facing the outbreak of various mosquito-borne diseases like dengue and malaria. Concerned over the issue, Madhurendra Singh, former president of Bartand Chamber of Commerce and a civil rights activist, on Tuesday wrote to municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar, demanding immediate resumption of fogging services in all 55 wards of the district. Around 12 bike-mounted and over 225 portable machines are lying defunct due to the lack of use and proper maintenance, Singh told The Telegraph Online. “I have also drawn the attention of the Municipal Commissioner towards the fact that during the pandemic expired chemicals were used for fogging. As a consequence the grind was ineffective in yielding the desired result. It merely generated smoke,” he added. Jay Kumar, councilor of ward number 38 of the Jharia circle of DMC said fogging has not been carried out in any ward since the last six months. “This leads to a strong possibility of an outbreak of mosquito-borne diseases,” he said. Kumar also said that along with the fogging machines, a lot of other equipment like garbage collecting tractors are lying unused. “This gives rise to diseases like malaria and dengue, and also puts pressure on sanitation workers,” he added. Sanitary inspector of the DMC Arjun Ram said operation of the truck-mounted fogging machines is too high. “It consumes 200 litres of diesel, five litre of petrol and 20 litres of chemical for two-hour operation and thus are lying unused due to lack of funds for managing such huge expenses. We have been carrying out fogging operations with portable machines since the last four days,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Man charred to death as SUV catches fire in steel city||A 40-year-old was charred to death on Tuesday night when his SUV caught fire on the Marine Drive in Jamshedpur, while he was driving towards Sakchi to Sonari. Ajay Pal was driving his Scorpio when at around 10 pm it caught fire as it was crossing Tilo Bhatta, a slum along the Marine Drive under the Sonari police station area. A fire brigade rushed to the spot soon but by that time, both Pal and his car were gutted to fire. Seeing the vehicle up in flames residents of the slum rushed to the spot carrying  buckets of water, but to no avail. According to an eye-witness, after catching fire the vehicle was gutted in less than 10 minutes. He said the vehicle caught fire from the rear side and spread fast. On getting the news a mobile PCR (Police Control Room) van reached the spot. Deputy superintendent of police ( DSP ) Arvind Kumar too reached the spot. "The cause of the fire is being probed. The victim could not come out of  the vehicle as the door locks were not working. No one also heard his shriek as the doors remained closed," said the DSP. Eye-witnesses said local residents with the help of police broke open the doors of the SUV to find the charred body. According to police, the  victim, who has a son and a daughter, used to run a poultry business at Kagalnagar in Sonari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Farmers to hold rail blockade against agri laws on Thursday||Farmers’ groups in the state are gearing up for a four-hour rail blockade on February 18, in support of the nationwide call to press for repeal of the three contentious farm laws. Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanway Samiti (JRKSSS), a joint union of different farmers groups on Wednesday said that a decision in this regard was taken in a joint meeting among different stakeholders on Tuesday. Sufal Mahato, convenor of the umbrella union said that they have also appealed to all non-NDA constituents to join the movement. "We have decided to hit on the tracks with full force on February 18 to block rail movements from 12 noon to 4 pm. Besides farmers, workers, daily wagers and people from all such depressed and marginalised sections will be part of the rail protest," he told The Telegraph Online. Mahato added that the protest is to press for rollback of the controversial farm legislations, law on minimum support price (MSP) and the revival of shoddy procurement process at government mandis. "The situation of paddy procurement process in Jharkhand and elsewhere in the state is still such that it favours middlemen more than the real farmers. Legitimate farmers aren't even able to register themselves for the procurement process. On the contrary, middlemen have managed to enrol bribing officials to buy food grains at throwaway prices from farmers and sell them at exorbitant prices in open markets or at procurement centres," he said, adding that there are several such cases from his village in Tamar (Ranchi). "We demand the government to set up procurement centres at panchayat levels," he said. Notably, the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangharsh Samanway Samiti, which is a conglomeration of Left-backed farmers’ organisations and other independent groups, on February 13 held its first mahapanchayat in Rahe block on Ranchi outskirts. It now plans to hold a series of such mahapanchayats across the state in coming weeks. "It's high time that farmers across the country are mobilised and united to take on the anti-farm policies of the government," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand reports 40 new Covid cases, achieves 28 per cent of its vaccination target||Less than 0.5 per cent of the over 11,000 people tested for Covid-19 infection on Tuesday were found infected in Jharkhand, while Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on the day, bringing the number of active cases down at 460, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The three Covid-free districts – Godda, Giridih and Pakur – remained Covid-free on the day despite more than 1600 people tested for the infection in the three districts, NHM stated in a bulletin released on Tuesday night. As per government data, the state reported 40 cases against 44 recoveries on the day. Ranchi reported at least 28 of the 40 cases and 25 of the 44 recoveries. The number of active cases rose to 247 here on Tuesday, which is more than 50 per cent of the total active cases in Jharkhand. Besides Ranchi, no other district reported a double-digit-spike in cases. At least 17 of the 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on the day, government data highlighted. So far, as many as 119394 people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand and 98.70 per cent of them have recovered, the NHM bulletin stated. At the current pace, it would take more than 2483 days for the cases to double in the state. Meanwhile, Jharkhand achieved only 28 per cent of its vaccination target on Tuesday by administering the first dose of Covishield vaccine to 6154 of 22360 registered beneficiaries. The state has so far achieved 63 per cent of its vaccination target by inoculating 2,43,636 people, stated a separate report released by NHM. The state on Tuesday also administered the second dose of the vaccine to 1424 registered beneficiaries, achieving 55 per cent of the target. As per NHM data, Jharkhand has administered the second dose of Covishield vaccine to 5563 people, thereby achieving 63 per cent of the target. No fresh cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) were reported in Jharkhand on the day. So far, as many as 266 AEFI cases have been reported in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
17-02-2021||Jharkhand||New address for footpath vendors of Sakchi market  ||The 400-odd footpath vendors of Sakchi market have finally been shifted to a new address from Tuesday - the sprawling Aambagan ground. The popular 'Mangala Haat', organised every Tuesday inside the market has been shifted to the new venue too. " All footpath vendors have agreed to transact business from the new venue. We, therefore decked up the ground with colourful balloons on Tuesday to attract customers, " said Md. Shamim, a footwear vendor who has been running a makeshift shop inside the Sakchi market for the last 12 years. Another garment vendor Arun Kumar said, " We are happy to shift to the new venue though many customers are not aware of the change. Gradually, they will come to know and we hope it will be business as usual in the days to come." Notably, a Quick Response Team ( QRT ) had to be deployed in Sakchi market last month to remove the footpath vendors. Dhalbhum sub-divisional officer (SDO) Nitish Kumar Singh had earlier issued a directive to make Sakchi market free from vendors. The police had launched a crackdown last month and had removed over 100 makeshift shops from Sakchi market after recieving regular complaints from permanent shopkeepers against footpath vendors. After the makeshift shops were cleared, the aggrieved vendors came to the Sakchi police station and demanded an alternative place to run their business from. They police asked them to move to the nearby Aambagan ground but they were initially reluctant to follow the order. A senior official of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee ( JNAC ), Ravi Bharti said, " We could finally convince the vendors to shift to the new venue. This will help Sakchi market visitors move around freely without any hassles. The footpath vendors were creating commotion as well as hygiene problems."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-139
