18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Parks, cinema halls, coaching centres to reopen on March 1||Coaching centres, cinema halls with 50 percent capacity and public parks will reopen in Jharkhand from March 1 after remaining shut for about a year due to covid-19 pandemic. Also, all government offices will function with 100 percent capacity from next month onwards. State disaster management authority (SDMA) chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday has also paved the way for the reopening of schools for classes VII, IX and XI. All colleges, ITI institutes and the likes are to resume classes in accordance with the Covid-19 safety norms set by the governing bodies. Swimming pools will however continue to remain shut for the public, but it will be utilised for training players preparing for different tournaments. Sporting events have been allowed to have spectators up to 1000 people. Government has also upped the gathering limit for outdoor events to 1000 from existing cap of 300 while indoor cap for 200 has removed. For indoor events, 50 percent capacity of any specific location has been allowed. All fresh relaxations will come into force from March 1, notification released by the state IPRD department has informed. Anganwadi centres across the state however will be allowed to function from April 1 and before that women and child welfare department, which runs them, must ensure vaccination of the staffs running those them. On schools, the notification read, “Attendance is not made mandatory if parents don’t wish to send their kids. Before calling any student, schools are directed to take due consent from their parents.” Jharkhand Coaching Association secretary SD Mishra in a statement welcomed the decision. “We will follow all the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to prevent spread of any fresh infection,” he said. Cinema operators too were elated. A manager of Eylex cinemas said, “We had recently met with CM demanding reopening with 50% capacity citing the unbearable losses. We are happy that the government has finally agreed to our demands. Many may however not immediately resume as lots of maintenance works have to be undertaken to make halls public friendly again.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city ticket inspector dies under mysterious circumstances||The dead body of a 50-year-old deputy chief ticket inspector (CTI), identified as A. Karunakaran Rao, was found along the railway tracks near Rourkela station, about 280 kms away from Jamshedpur, early on Thursday morning. Rao, a resident of Kadma, was posted at Chakradharpur in the West Singhbhum district. Manish Pathak, senior divisional commercial manager of Chakradharpur, said Rao was killed under “mysterious circumstances”. “A. Karunakaran Rao who was deputy CTI posted at Chakradharpur was found lying dead along the railway track between Darposh and Sogra flag station, about 50 kms away from Rourkela station at about 4 am on Thursday, “ Pathak told The Telegraph Online. Initial investigation suggests that Rao might have fallen down from the Howrah-Pune Azad Express in which he was travelling, but he might have been victim to a foul play as well, Pathak said. He pointed out Rao had worked as a train ticket examiner (TTE) also and was an experienced person, and his falling down from a running train is near impossible. “The GRP, Rourkela is investigating the incident. The body has been sent to a morgue in Rourkela. An autopsy report may unfold the mystery,” Pathak said. However, sources in the railway said that Rao was pushed from the running train by some co-passengers. They further said that the deceased had attended his duty till Wednesday evening and had boarded the Azad Hind Express from Tatanagar at about 1.30 am on Thursday to reach Villashpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||State reports first confirmed death in Chamoli||Jharkhand reported its first confirmed death in the Chamoli tragedy after a body fished out from the muck during the search operations in Uttarakhand was identified as that of Vicky Bhagat. The 26-year-old migrant labourer from Lohardaga, was working at a National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) project in Chamoli. Vicky’s father, Karamdas Oraon identified his son’s body in Uttarakhand on Wednesday following which the mortal remains were handed over to the family, officials from the state control room in Ranchi said. An NTPC contractor conveyed the information to the state control room on Thursday and also shared evidence to confirm Jharkhand’s first casualty in the Uttrakhand disaster. “Evidence has been received in this matter,” a press communiqué from the state control room stated. Vicky was among the nine Lohardaga labourers who went missing from Chamoli when the glacial burst tragedy took place on February 7. At least four labourers from Ramgarh and one from Bokaro are also missing. So far, as many as 58 bodies have been found during the ongoing search operation in Chamoli. As per records with the state control room, all the 29 Jharkhand residents stranded in Chamoli since the disaster have returned home safely. Some of the labourers working at NTPC projects were provided financial aid by their respective contractors to return home. Meanwhile, kin of several other missing Jharkhand residents were camping in Uttarkhand to identify the bodies that are found during the search operations. The family members of all the 13 missing labourers from Jharkhand have also provided their DNA samples to the search teams in Uttarkhand to help identify the defaced and decomposed bodies. Ajay Singh, an NTPC contractor said that the migrant labourers earned around Rs.15,000 to Rs.20,000 per month for their work at the NTPC projects. Besides, they were also provided benefits of Provident Fund and other privileges. The NTPC, he said, has decided to pay a respectable compensation to the bereaved families and also offer contractual job to eligible family members of the labourers who lost their lives in the tragedy. The state control room, run by Phia Foundation on behalf of the state government, is providing mental health assistance to kin of missing labourers. “The family members of those missing from Chamoli are suffering from depression and panic attacks. A five-member team is providing psychological support to them,” said a member of the state control room.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Rail-roko: Protesters peacefully demonstrate at railway track||The four hour rail-roko stir called by farm unions under the banner of Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Samanway Samiti (JRKSS) demanding the rolling back of the three contentious farm laws went off peacefully on Thursday. There was no major impact on the movement of trains, except some minor delay in the running of a few local passenger trains. The stir was staged between 12pm-4pm, in sync with the nationwide call of farmers union, many of whom are still protesting at the Delhi borders for over three months now. Hours ahead of the stir to begin, heavy deployment of railway protection force (RPF) and other agencies was noticed at different junctions and rail tracks in and around Ranchi. At Tatisilwai station in Namkum, protesters briefly blocked the Howrah-Ranchi Shatabdi express train, however, passenger trains plying from Ranchi were on schedule, said officials at Ranchi station. In Koderma, Delhi- Howrah Poorva express was halted for 10 minutes due to the sit-in along the railway track. A senior official of Ranchi railway station unwilling to be named claimed that ‘all was well’. “The protest didn’t have much impact in Jharkhand. All trains were on time. Enough deployment of security forces ensured that the protesters didn’t hold up tracks for long during their symbolic protest,” he said. Sufal Mahato, convenor of JRKSS however termed the rail-roko as a grand success. Talking to The Telegraph Online, he said, “Protesters blocked tracks in numerous places such as Namkum, Nagri, Lohardaga, Jamshedpur, Bahragora, Chakulia, Gumani, Dumka, Gomia, Latehar among others across different railway divisions. Thousands of protestors comprising farmers, labourers, workers joined the movement against union government’s anti-farmer, anti-worker, anti-poor policies.” He added that based on the reports from different parts of the state, the agitation remained a grand success. “From here, the protests will also be intensified till the time farm laws are taken back,” said Mahto. Agreed Sushanto Mukherjee of Kisan Sangram Samiti, a Left back outfit, which was part of the protest stating that the farmers movement will only grow due to sustained indifference of the union government. “Wrong policies of the government are only forcing people across different strata of the society to wage war against it. Not just the farmers, every section of the society—common man, working class, labourers, and other marginalised are today staring at a bleak future. One by one, everyone is starting to raise voice against this government which they brought with thumping majority in 2019,” he said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi transporters decide on freight charge hike amid rising fuel prices||Concerned over the spiraling hike in petrol and diesel prices, Ranchi Goods Transporters Association (RGTA) after a meeting on Thursday decided to increase their freight charges from next week by about 30 per cent, which is likely to have ripple effects on the prices of essentials and other items. Sunil Chauhan, spokesperson of the association said that they were forced to go for increase in freight charges due to the uncontrolled rise in fuel prices in recent months. “Final rate charts will be issued soon but in-principle, we have decided to go for a 30 per cent hike from next Monday to sustain businesses. The entire 2020 remained damp squib for the business due to lockdown related restrictions. Even though essentials were kept out of the ambit of lockdown, with other markets closed for several months, good transportation has been badly hit. The ongoing fuel hikes are only making matters worse for us,” he said. The Ranchi Goods Transporters Association represents over 3,000 transporting firms that are operational in Ranchi, Lohardaga, Ramgarh, Hazaribag and adjoining districts. Currently, petrol and diesel prices in Ranchi are Rs 87.55 and Rs 84.87 respectively per litre. Of the total rate, the state government imposes Rs 17 VAT on petrol and Rs 12 on diesel. President of the outfit, S B Singh said that the rate with which fuel prices are going up, they fear that many transporters with low capital will have to ground their fleet of vehicles. He urged the state government to consider extending relief. “In some places, petrol has already touched Rs 100 while diesel too may follow suit soon. In Jharkhand, prices of petrol and diesel are inching close to Rs 90. It is high time that the state government chips in to provide some relief to lessen the burden,” Singh appealed. Bus operators too are equally concerned for the tentative hike in the fares for long distance routes. “Fare hike is imminent sooner or later unless prices come down at satisfactory levels. After the covid-19 lockdown, we didn’t hike fares to make up for the losses despite running on half the capacity in view of Covid safety guidelines from the state government and in the interest of the public. However, we can’t do it for a long time at our own losses,” remarked a bus operator between the Ranchi-Tata route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Coming soon: information kiosk at Dalmia wildlife sanctuary||With the information kiosk coming up in the next couple of months, tourists visiting the Dalma wildlife sanctuary can expect a better informed excursion. The centre will be set up at Makulakocha, the main entrance of the sanctuary, which is only 30 kilometres away from Jamshedpur. Funds for the Rs 40 lakh project have already been sanctioned and preliminary work has already been initiated at the jumbo abode. This kiosk is part of the eco development project. Talking about the information centre, Dalma divisional forest officer (DFO) Abhishek Kumar mentioned about it being a wooden structure with a resting hall for the visitors. “Entry tickets will also be sold from the kiosk. The hall will be furnished and will also have toilets. So, the visitors while buying the tickets can also take some rest,” he added. He mentioned that the kiosk will be complimenting the museum. “Visitors can also visit the museum which will be refurbished once the funds are made available. The museum is adjacent to the kiosk,” headded. “Brochures having details of flora and fauna, animals, water bodies etc found within the sanctuary would be made available to the tourists. The idea is to make information available for visitors, coming from Bengal, mostly Calcutta, Odisha, Chhatisgarh and Bihar,” said a forester on condition of anonymity. An official at the Dalma range office in Mango said that wooden planks would be used to build the entire structure. “It will be a very beautiful facility. We have the model of the kiosk with us,” he added. With air-conditioned and non-AC cottages at Makulakocha and quarters at Pinderbera the sanctuary has a lot on offer and hence witness a healthy footfall too, during the winters. However, since the pandemic broke, the sanctuary has closed its doors for the visitors. Officials are hopeful about its re-opening. “The government has to take a call in this regard,” the DFO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Two villagers killed by wild elephants in 24 hours in Hazaribagh||A herd of 24 wild elephants killed an elderly man and a woman in two separate incidents in the Daru and Tatijharia blocks of Hazaribagh, over Wednesday night and Thursday afternoon. The first incident took place when the herd killed a 70-year-old Mahavir Saw in Chirwa village when he went out to see if his crops were damaged by the elephants. According to villagers, the herd had created a reign of terror among them over the last four days, damaging houses and crops. On Wednesday, it ventured into Chirwa when Saw went to check on his crops, unaware about the elephants’ presence. His body was later sent to the Hazaribagh Medical College for postmortem. According to foresters, the herd moved to neighbouring Tatijharia block after killing Saw. “We are keeping eyes on their movement and working on the plan to push them deep into the forest,” they said. However, on Thursday afternoon, a woman Sarswati Mosomat was killed in Amnari Karmatand forest by the same herd. Mosomat had rushed to the spot near her field where the elephants were roaming to take ‘blessings’ from them, considering the animals as avatars of Lord Ganesha. Locals said she rushed to the field despite warnings, and as she neared the herd, one of the elephants caught her with its trunk, crushing her to death. A team of foresters reached Saw’s village following his death and provided Rs.50,000 cash to the family. Daru BDO  Ramratan Burnwal said his family will get additional  Rs.3.5lakh as per provisions. Saw's three sons--two in Mumbai and one in Dubai have been informed about his death. Sadar MLA of BJP, Manish Jaiswal expressed his grief over both the incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Street vendors protest anti-encroachment drive of Dhanbad civic body||Over a hundred street vendors from across the district held a mass demonstration at the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) headquarters on Wednesday against various issues, including their eviction and the civic unit’s move to charge exorbitant fees from them for garbage disposal. The protesters, who congregated at Luby Circular Road, said they had been evicted without any arrangement for rehabilitation as no vending zones were constructed as per the provisions of National Urban Livelihood. “Many of the evicted street vendors are on the verge of starvation, losing their source of income. They are also facing the burden of repayment of loans provided to them under the PM Street Vendor Atma Nirbhar Nidhi Yojna,” Shyamal Mazumder, leader of the protest told The Telegraph Online. Umesh Prasad, one of the agitators said they have been facing constant threats of eviction. “We are ready to move but no vending zone has been constructed in the district despite tall claims made by the DMC in this regard,” Prasad, who supports a family of seven, said. He also protested the civic body’s move of levying an exorbitant user charge of Rs 200 per month in lieu of garbage disposal. “We had requested the Municipal Commissioner, Satyendra Kumar during the Town Vending Committee (TVC) meet to reduce the user charges to Rs 30 per month but despite assurance no action has been taken,” Prasad said. He also raised objections over the delay in providing smart cards to the vendors, alleging that their previous identity cards were full of errors. Dilip Chaurasia, a betel shop owner said he has been spending sleepless nights of late fearing the loss of a source of livelihood due to the anti-encroachment drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI HR meet to focus on aftermath of Covid-19, power of digitisation||XLRI’s Students Association for Promotion of Personnel Management, Human Resources, and Industrial Relations (SAPPHIRE), in a bid to celebrate the institute’s long-standing culture of integrity and professionalism, is set to hold the 10th National HR Conference virtually on February 20 and 21. The conference will provide a platform for corporate leaders from various industries, academicians and legal practitioners to discuss and debate on the various challenges in India's changing HR landscape, on the lines of this year's theme " Driving Agility in the Evolving Post-Covid World." On its inaugural day, professor Wayne Brockbank from Ross Business School, Michigan, will deliver an hour-long special address on the topic “The Way Forward For The Industries In the Aftermath of Covid-19”. Two panel discussions have been scheduled as a part of the two-day event . The first panel discussion will be on “Rethinking Employer Branding and Employee Experience in Dispersed Workplace and People Analytics”,  while the second one will focus on “The Power of Digital in Driving Organisational Competitiveness”. The deliberations in two-panel discussions will be participated  by several  HR experts including R.P. Srivastava, director (Personnel & IR) Coal India;  Ira Gupa, head HR, Microsoft India; Rohit Thakur, chief human resources officer, Paytm;  Prakash Singh, chief- Capability Development, Tata Steel; Amit Vaish, director-HR, Barclays;  Krish Shankar, Group Head (HR), Infosys and  Prriti Narain, Market HR Leader, Google India. On the first day the  panel discussion will be followed by a workshop by Sidharath Tuli, CEO and founder of People Sculptors and on the second and concluding  day of the conference on February 21 there will be a guest address by Anuradha Razdan, executive director-HR, Hindustan Unilever Limited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Opportunity for East Singhbhum cagers to slot into district team||East Singhbhum Basketball Association (ESBA) wants its cagers to put up a solid show in next month’s 2nd State Games in Ranchi. After conducting a coaching camp under experienced coaches last month, the district association has switched gears to organise a senior district basketball championship (men and women) at the Dhatkidih Community Centre courts between February 19 and 21. “We are keen to put up an impression at the State Games. Our women’s team had finished runners-up in the inaugural State Games. However, our men’s outfit did not participate since we could not qualify for the event. This time we are expecting a solid show from both sides,” said ESBA general secretary  Pradip Mukerjee. According to him, the tournament is being organised under the aegis of Jharkhand Basketball Association (JBA). “ Cagers from clubs and institutions, mostly from Jamshedpur, will be part of the championship which will be conducted under the watchful eyes of selectors and coaches,” the ESBA general secretary secretary said and added they were looking forward to a hassle-free tournament. There is no dearth of talented hoopsters in the district who would leave no stone unturned to give their best and get the nod in the district squad for State Games. “Performance of cagers during the three-day district championship will be the yardstick for their selection in the district team. So we can see some exciting games. The participating players from clubs and institutions will be giving their best,” an office bearer of ESBA said. The district association, along with JBA, is on the lookout for tall cagers. “Tall players stand a chance to excel in basketball. But sadly, there are not many tall cagers in the district. We are on the look out. We will bring them under our training umbrella if we find atleast one or two in the taller category,” the district association office bearer added. In fact, the JBA is looking for tall cagers across different districts of Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Search on for permanent protest site in Ranchi||The Ranchi district administration is looking for a permanent protest venue within the periphery of the capital city, on the lines of Ramleela Ground in New Delhi, to ensure that protestors can raise their concerns and be heard without disrupting traffic or causing inconvenience to people, officials said on Thursday. A special team of officials has been constituted to search for this protest site, which would ideally be a place from where th protestors can be visible to ministers and authorities, but not be able to disrupt daily activities in the city, Ranchi SPSaurav said. “We have shortlisted a few locations. One is close to the new Vidhan Sabha building and the other one is near Dhurwa Chowk,” said Saurav, a part of the team that is conducting the search. “We are trying to finalise a site before the upcoming Vidhan Sabha session. A report will be submitted to the Ranchi Deputy Commissioner and he will take the final call,” added the city SP. As of now, there is no fixed venue for protests in Ranchi. Protestors here usually stage demonstrations either close to the Raj Bhawan or outside the old Vidhan Sabha building. Some protest rallies are also held at Morabadi at the heart of the city. However, these protests often lead to traffic congestion, disrupting normal life in the state capital. Another member of the team said that protests played an important role in any democratic structure and people have the right to protest. However, it was the administration’s responsibility to ensure that the protests are held at a strategic location so that the demands of the protestors are heard but people do not face any difficulty, he added. The month-long budget session in Jharkhand is set to begin on February 26, and several groups have already announced plans to stage protests during the time. While the 65,000-odd para teachers have threatened to demonstrate during the session demanding regularization of services, some tribal outfits are also likely to stage protests demanding the inclusion of a separate Sarna code in the upcoming Census, sources said. In 2017, the Delhi administration had also changed the official protest site from historic Jantar Mantar to Ramleela Ground at Ajmeri Gate – away from Lutyens Delhi – following a National Green Tribunal (NGT) directive which stated that protests at Jantar Mantar caused sound pollution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand achieves 64 per cent of its vaccination target, over 2.5 lakh inoculated||More than 2.5 lakh people were inoculated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand by the end of Wednesday, helping the state achieve 64 per cent of its vaccination target since the beginning of the immunization programme on January 16, data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. On Wednesday, as many as 8340 people – only 35 per cent of the total registered beneficiaries – were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand, while 2148 of the registered 3029 beneficiaries were administered the second dose of the vaccine, the NHM stated in a report. The state has so far administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine to almost 30,000 people in Ranchi and over 22,000 in Dhanbad. Ranchi, however, has achieved only 50 per cent of its vaccination target, which is the lowest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, highlighted the NHM report. At least three districts – Bokaro, Palamu and Hazaribag – achieved 100 per cent target in administering the second dose of vaccine, while Ranchi achieved 94 per cent target by administering the second jab to 103 people. As many as 80 people were inoculated for the second time in Bokaro, 144 people in Palamu and 118 in Hazaribag. Meanwhile, the first Covishield jab was administered to 466 people in Ranchi, which achieved 30 per cent of its target. As many as 400 people were also inoculated for the first time in East Singhbhum on the day. However, the district achieved only 23 per cent of its vaccination target. Two cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI), both from Bokaro, were reported on Wednesday, taking the total AEFI cases in the state to 268. However, no severe symptoms were found in any of the beneficiaries that complained of adverse events, doctors said. Meanwhile, fresh cases of Covid-19 infection outnumbered recoveries on the day, taking the total count of active cases to 466, a separate bulletin released by NHM stated. The state reported 45 cases against 39 recoveries on the day. However, the number of patients dropped in Ranchi as it reported 28 Covid recoveries against 23 cases, the bulletin further stated. As per the bulletin, Godda reported one case of Covid-19 infection on the day, losing its Covid-free tag. However, Giridih and Pakur remained Covid free despite around 1000 people tested in the two districts on the day. So far, as many as 1,19,439 people have been infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand and 98.70 per cent of them have recovered. At the current pace, it would take more than 2,484 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. No fresh Covid casualties were reported in the state on Wednesday, highlights government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Flak for Athawale’s statement inviting JMM to join NDA||Members of the ruling UPA in Jharkhand have criticised Union minister Ramdas Athawale’s statement inviting the JMM to join the BJP-led NDA to ensure the development of the state. Athawale, the Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment, had come to Ranchi on Tuesday to meet the relatives of the deceased national general secretary of his Republican Party of India, K.R. Nayak, at Ramgarh. While addressing the media in Ranchi on Tuesday, Athawale said: “I appeal to Shibu Soren (JMM national president) and Hemant Soren (chief minister and JMM working president) to join the NDA. Then there will be a BJP and JMM government in the state. The JMM can also get access to power in Delhi, which can be used for the state’s development. They must think about it.” “The statement by a cabinet minister in the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre shows the desperation of the party to form a government in the state. It seems they are not able to digest the smooth functioning of the Jharkhand government. We know that no minister speaks about anything without the permission of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. We can assume that this statement also has their support,” said Jharkhand Congress executive committee member and party spokesperson Kishore Sahdeo. The Congress leader brushed aside Athawale’s statement as “childish”. “Ramdas Athawaleji should at least maintain the dignity of a MP and a minister and not utter such childish and baseless statements. We had earlier heard such statements made by BJP MP and party’s state president Dipak Prakash during the Assembly bypolls which they lost badly,” added Sahdeo. JMM central general secretary and party spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya called Athawale a “political clown”. “The minister is nothing but a political clown without any ideology who has himself said in Parliament to support that party which is in power. One should not take such statements seriously as the UPA alliance in Jharkhand is rock solid and performing well as can be seen in the last year’s performance despite the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Bhattacharya. The JMM was a partner in the NDA government in the state between 2009 and 2013, when chief minister Soren served as the deputy chief minister. The alliance broke in January 2013 leading to the fall of the Arjun Munda government. In March last year, Athawale was in the news when a video in which he along with Chinese consul-general in Mumbai Tang Guocai and Buddhist monks were seen chanting “Go corona, go corona” at a prayer meet surfaced on social media. The video was reportedly shot at Gateway of India on February 20, 2020, during a prayer session to stop the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
18-02-2021||Jharkhand||Lethal blast makes CRPF sanitise routes||A day after a Special Action Team jawan of Jharkhand police died in a blast in rebel-hit Lohardaga district, the director-general of police said trained personnel from the Central Reserve Police Force will be sanitising frequently used routes and nearby areas for pressure-sensitive improvised explosive devices before a combing operation. The jawan identified as Duleshwar Prass, 29, died after a pressure-triggered landmine exploded at around 10am in Dundru forest area under Serendag police station of Lohardaga district, around 75km from state capital Ranchi, on Tuesday. Jharkhand DGP Niraj Sinha on Wednesday termed the incident as a “cowardly act” by the rebels. “It is a cowardly act on the part of the rebels to plant pressure IEDs along the roads on hilly terrains as it could not only lead to casualties for forces but also civilians. It shows their desperation level. We have trained CRPF bomb disposal experts whose services will be used to sanitise the roads and the nearby areas frequently used by forces and civilians on hilly terrains along with the latest bomb disposal equipment before movement for combing operations to avoid casualty,” said Sinha. The DGP had on Tuesday rejected claims that standard operating procedures were not followed during the combing operation which led to the casualty. “It was a joint operation and all the SOPs were being followed. The bomb disposal squad was moving ahead of the team to defuse any such bombs,” he had said. The DGP along with additional director-general (operations) Navin Kumar and inspector-general (operations) Saket Kumar on Wednesday visited the Maoist-hit Serendag police station area and the site of the blast. For nearly two hours, the senior police officials and Lohardaga superintendent of police Priyanka Meena discussed the strategy to flush out rebels and plug their escape routes through bordering districts during future combing operations. The DGP further said that Tuesday’s incident will only motivate the forces to strike against the Maoists with more earnestness. “We are going to organise combing operations with more aggression and intent after the incident. We want them to surrender or perish and a befitting reply would be given to the Maoists soon. We have discussed with the police forces of neighbouring Gumla district too and a joint strategy has been made for combing operations against rebels with CRPF units,” added Sinha. The Special Action Team was set up in 2013 in Jharkhand to counter Maoist insurgency. Prass was part of a joint combing operation by Gumla and Lohardaga police and CRPF’s 158 Battalion. While conducting the search operation, a pressure-triggered landmine exploded on the side of the road causing grievous injuries to both his legs. Prass was airlifted to a private hospital in Ranchi where he died during treatment. His body was laid to rest at his native village in Dumri area of Gumla district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-138
