19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand on alert as Covid-19 cases resurge in Kerala and Maha||Fear of another wave in the wake of the UK, Brazilian, and South African strain of the contagious virus, is making the Hemant Soren government take the best precaution to contain the virus. The state health department issued an alert for all its 24 districts, to step up covid-19 surveillance and testing capacities amid concerns of Covid-19 cases resurging in Kerala and Maharashtra. Buoyed by a steady decline in Covid cases in recent months, the Jharkhand government on Thursday announced the reopening of coaching centres, parks, cinema halls, schools for classes VII, IX, and XI. It also provided a host of other relaxations to simplify lives and bolster economic activities. The health department, however, is being cautious and working out fresh plans to curb the hike in the number of Covid cases that have flattened over the weeks now. A senior official in the state chapter of the National Health Mission on Friday said, “Unlocking is okay, but going by the trends of a few highly populated states of India, we can’t afford to put down our guard at this stage. During the start of 2020, when the virus broke, there was a similar pattern— began spreading from Kerala to other big states and town and eventually it spread to other parts of the country including Jharkhand by March. We have to break that chain.” Amravati in Maharashtra was has been put under lockdown over the weekend from Saturday till Monday. Yavatmal another Marathi district has also announced a host of fresh curbs. “Sustained curbs or lockdown in big cities will force migrant workers from Jharkhand to return. In such a situation, we have to be more vigilant in scanning the returning workers. All districts have been asked to ensure proper testing, special those coming from vulnerable areas,” said the official. In the wake of fresh guidelines issued by the Union ministry on Covid-19 testing being made mandatory at airports from February 22 onwards, Jharkhand too will resume Covid-19 testing at Ranchi airport and other major transit points. “Securing transit points — roads, rail, and airports — will be the key since there aren’t any more travel restrictions within the country. Our efforts are getting channelized towards that direction,” he said. The recent advisory issued by the union health ministry to all states has made it mandatory for incoming visitors directly or via transit from UK, Middle East, or Europe to undergo ‘self-paid covid-19 testing at airports’ from February 22. Significantly, Ranchi’s Birsa Munda airport doesn’t have any direct connection with international destinations but it is well connected with key cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, and Bangalore that are international transit points. NHM mission director Ravi Shankar Shukla on the other hand maintained that the health department is combating with Covid on two fronts — meeting inoculation targets and detecting infected persons. “All the districts have again been asked to strengthen its surveillance units to maintain the declining trend of the infected cases in the state,” he maintained. Notably, chief minister Hemant Soren last night has asked the general public to follow the basic Covid safety norms while announcing fresh unlock. He said, “With Covid-19 cases drastically declining in our state, we felt it was right time to reopen those which remained closed but the virus threat is still not over. Hence, I appeal to everyone to continue wearing masks, washing hands, and following all the protocols prescribed by the governments. I have also directed officials to start collecting Covid-19 samples at the airport again.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police identify woman’s body dumped in trolley along NH-33||Decomposed body recovered from a trolley bag dumped in a ditch along NH-33 near Jamshedpur on February 14 night, has been identified as that of one Kajal Kumari hailing from Telco locality of steel city. The Seraikela-Kharsawan police solved the mystery behind the murder. On Friday, they arrested two men and a woman for having professionally murdered the victim. Those arrested in the murder case have been identified as Muhammad Mansur Alam alias Badshah (34), Kaushik Dutta (28), and Salma Bibi, all are residents of Kitadih locality which falls under the suburban Parsudih police station area. While arresting the trio, police recovered three cell phones, a stick, a ‘duppata’, and a motorcycle that had been used to murder Kumari. Elaborating on the breakthrough, Seraikela-Kharsawan district superintendent of police, Mohammed Arshi said, “The accused Badshah, a married man was in a live-in relationship with Kajal Kumari for the past two years. “Similarly, Badshah’s wife Salma was in a relationship with Kaushik for the past six months. She also was aware of her husband being in a live-in relationship with Kajal. She wanted to teach her a lesson and had pressed her lover Kaushik to help her in eliminating Kajal,” said Arshi while addressing newsmen at Seraikela police office on Friday. He added that while Salma and Kaushik were hatching a conspiracy to kill Kajal, Badshah joined them to eliminate her.
According to Arshi, the trio ‑ Badshah, Kaushik, and Salma strangulated Kajal at her rented house in Telco on January 22 night. The following morning Badshah and Kaushik stuffed the body in a trolley bag and dumped it in a ditch behind Pardih Kali temple along NH-33. According to the senior police officer, the trolley had been dumped at a secluded place and hence it stayed undetected for 21 days. “A rag-picker had spotted the trolley while scavenging. The stink made him alert the police. His lead made Chandil police recover the body on February 14,” he said. All the three accused have been sent to Seraikela divisional jail after being produced before a judicial magistrate on Friday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Plantation drive to counter air pollution in coal city||As per the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), Dhanbad gears up to control air pollution with a plantation drive planned by the forest department. The district forest department is carrying out intensive plantation drives of more than 4000 saplings in different parts of the district including the worst affected areas of Jharia coalfield region. Apart from this, the tendering process for procuring a continuous ambient air quality monitoring station (CAAQMS) has also been initiated by pollution regulator Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB). Notably, as per the NCAP under which Dhanbad has been selected among 102 cities or towns of the state pollution has to reduce by 20-30% by 2024 in comparison to the pollution level of 2017 through various interventional measures. Jharkhand State Pollution Control has also provided Rs 3 crore during January last year out of Rs 10 crore approved for the purpose of various interventional measures to reduce pollution including intensive roadside plantation, installation of paver blocks on roads, installation of Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring station, etc. Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) has purchased two trucks with a water sprinkler of Qualitative Enviro Engineers last month at a cumulative cost of Rs 50 lakh which sprays atomized water up to 50 feet in air developing mist which in turn sticks with the pollutant and brings it down on the ground. Giving details of the plantation drive being carried out by the district forest department, division forest officer of Dhanbad, Bimal Lakra said, “An amount of Rs 1.35 crore out of a Rs 3 crore fund has been approved for step by step plantation work and we have spent around Rs 1.27 crore for the purpose.” “We have planted saplings of fruit plants as well as flowering plants and timber,” he said and added that they have been provided with the fund in October last year for preparing the iron made sapling guard. He also added that the majority of plantation work has been carried out on both sides of Phusbunglow Putki Road which is around 9 km in length. “The first year of sapling plantation exercise will be completed by March-end and for the next two years protection of those plants would be ensured,” said Lakra and added that the other activities planned at the district level included the installation of paver blocks on the roadside to be carried out by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation while installation CAAQMS will be carried out by JSPCB. Echoing sentiments regional officer of JSPCB, Ram Narayan Chaudhary said, “We have already initiated the tendering process for installation of two CAAQMS for ensuring regular monitoring of the air pollution level in different areas. One CAAQMS is already in operation at Digwadih in Dhanbad.” Due to high PM10 level, Dhanbad has been ranked among the worst polluted cities or towns of the country for the last several years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation carries out an anti-encroachment drive in a high-security zone||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation along with the district administration on Friday carried out an anti-encroachment drive in the high-security zone of Luby Circular Road, a day after several traders carried out a protest in the same area for evicting them without proper rehabilitation. Led by City Manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation Md Anis and supervised by Sub Divisional Officer Surendra Prasad, the two-hour drive was carried out on the basis of complaints received from the management of SSLNT Women’s College and BSS Women’s College. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Anis said, “We have received complaints earlier from several persons about the assembly of unwanted youths outside the women’s colleges because of these shops, posing difficulty to the students.” Besides housing the two women’s colleges, Luby Circular Road is home to the regional centre of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University, several girl’s hostels, the official residence of top officials, the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Senior Superintendent of Police, Deputy Development Commissioner, and the Chairman of the District Board. The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation had carried out a comprehensive beautification work on the road a couple of years ago, which had cost around Rs 2 crore. Several green zones were made, and seating areas were constructed for residents. However, the cropping up of more than a hundred shops like roadside eateries, old book shops, clothing stores, cosmetic shops on the road during the last two years gave it a clumsy look. Anis further said that the civic body had carried out announcements in the area multiple times, asking encroachers to go away but there was no response from them. “The whole stretch of footpath laid on the roadside had been encroached, leaving no space for pedestrians to walk thereby posing a safety risk for them,” he added. Raju Kumar, a cosmetic shop owner said that the drive has snatched the source of income from his family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to experience extended winter||Winter in Jharkhand to is likely to get an extension, said weatherman on Friday. The season of chill usually lasts till the second week of February. But, the frequent western disturbances are likely to extend the winter season for the state. The chill is here to stay till February end. “Another western disturbance is brewing in the northern part of the country and it is likely to impact the weather condition of Jharkhand and Bihar around February 24. Therefore, this year we are expecting winter's stay in Jharkhand as well as in Bihar till February end,” said a climate analyst at IMD’s Patna Meteorological Centre. Meanwhile, weathermen at IMD’s Ranchi Meteorological Centre today said that the minimum temperature during the next 24 hours would experience no change but thereafter it is expected to witness a fall by three to four degrees Celsius across the state. Both IMD’s Ranchi and Patna Met Centres on Friday also issued an alert about rain and thunderstorm occurring in isolated pockets of the state especially in the north-western, central, and southern parts of Jharkhand during the next 24 hours. This has been triggered by the passing western disturbance at higher altitudes. Several parts of the state including Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Bokaro, and Hazaribagh on Friday woke up to overcast conditions with haze and moderate fog. Weathermen said the cyclonic circulation prevailing over southern Uttar Pradesh between 5.8 Km and 7.6 Km above the mean sea level was responsible. Meanwhile, the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore, Calcutta, also confirmed a long winter for Jharkhand. “Such western disturbances have impacted Jharkhand’s weather in February, thereby prolonging the winter season,” explained a weather official at the Calcutta-based Regional Meteorological Centre. Meanwhile, the Indian Meteorological Department has officially bid adieu to winter with minimum readings rising over 13°C for a consistent number of days, across India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||India’s top archers to compete at state recurve archery championship||The SAIL stadium in Kasmar block of Bokaro district is geared up to host the state archery championship, which kick-starts on Saturday. The two-day event has been organised by Bokaro District Archery Association (BDAA) under the aegis of the Jharkhand Archery Association (JAA). Over 150 archers from different districts will be participating in the event. JAA vice-president SC Mohanty, during a telephonic conversation with this correspondent, mentioned that some top senior archers including the likes of Arjuna awardees Mangal Singh Champia, Jayanta Talukdar, Olympian Laxmirani Majhi, national medalists Gurucharan Besra, Binod Swansi, and Dilip Swansi will also be participating in the championship. “The state meet will be conducted in under-9, mini, sub-junior, junior, and senior categories. We are looking forward to a hassle-free event in Bokaro,” said Mohanty, who is also the joint secretary of Archery Association of India (AAI). Karan Karmakar, who is looking after the technical aspects of the state meet, said that archers have started arriving for the meet. “Most of the archers have arrived, the remaining participants are expected to reach by tomorrow morning,” he added. Mohanty said, “We already have had the state meet for the compound and Indian round (read shooting with traditional bows and arrows). We will be announcing the state squads for the Indian round, compound, recurve, and national meet in due course of time. We have some very good archers who stand a chance of bagging medals at the national meet,” he added. The junior national meet is scheduled in Dehradun between March 8 and 15, dates for the sub-junior and senior events are yet to be announced. According to JAA officials the state squad for the junior national is likely to be announced by next week, while the ones for sub-junior and senior national events by early next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand High Court denies bail to Lalu in fodder scam case||Jharkhand High Court denied bail to fodder scam convict and former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad in connection to Dumka treasury case on Friday, rejecting his counsel’s argument seeking respite on the grounds that he has served half of the total sentence. The RJD supremo’s conviction in Dumka treasury scam involves illegal withdrawals of Rs 3.13 crore. Other financial irregularities against him are related with Ranchi, Chaibasa and Deoghar treasuries, in which he had secured bails. In Dumka treasury, he was awarded a total of 14 years jail term—seven years each under two different sections — by a CBI court. While hearing Lalu’s petition on Friday, court of justice Apresh Kumar denied the bail stating that there was still time left for him to finish half the jail term. Lalu’s lawyer Prabhat Kumar told reporters that they can move a fresh petition after two months. “Court is of the view that two months are left for half of the jail term of Lalu to get over. In that case, a fresh petition will have to be moved in high court for the grant of bail,” he said. Lalu also has the option of approaching the Supreme Court but his lawyers didn’t say anything concrete on this immediately. Currently, he is in All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi for age-related ailments after being referred to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi on January 23. He was detected with pneumonia. The entire fodder scam case, in which Lalu got convicted involves embezzlement of Rs 970 crore. However, since January 2018, Lalu had been in hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||L&T officer dies after unidentified men fire at moving SUV||Unidentified men gunned down Satyendra Singh(46), equipment in-charge of Larsen and Toubro company at Pundri Mor on Hazaribagh-Barkagaon road on Friday. Out of the four rounds of bullets fired, one hit Singh’s back, which turned fatal for him. He was brought to Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. The criminals fled the spot after the bullet hit Singh when he was travelling to the L&T office at Patra village in the Keredari block, his driver Pankaj Kumar said. According to police, Singh was going to Patra when two bike riding criminals opened fire on his moving SUV at 9:45AM on Friday. SP Karthik S said a probe was launched to nab the accused. A police team, comprising Karthik, sub-divisional police officer Kamal Kishore, officers-in-charge, Ganesh Singh and Vipin Yadav reached the hospital upon getting the news. Barkagaon DSP Bhupendra Prasad reached the crime and started the investigation after the incident. Raut and Karthik said it was not clear as to who was behind this killing. A team of three doctors has been constituted at the hospital to perform an autopsy of the dead body. Singh was a resident of Vaishali district in Bihar and was living in Hazaribagh town in a rented house for work. Sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal termed the incident unfortunate and termed this as an example of deteriorating law and order of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad theatres unlikely to open from March 1 due to losses||Several single screen cinema hall operators of coal town are not willing to resume operations owing to acute losses suffered last year after the lockdown, despite the government’s nod to open theatres from March 1. Already facing issues like decreased occupancy and stiff competition from multiplexes, the lockdown has completely broken the backbone of these operators. Operators are thus demanding a 6 per cent GST relief from the state government, in line with Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. They have also asked for a on the electricity bill for the three months of lockdown and moratorium for the remaining period of closure, as has been provided by Andhra Pradesh government. “We have sent the authorities a copy of the notification of the Andhra Pradesh government where it has  provided a moratorium of six months on loan repayment and further decided to bear 4.5% subsidy on loan interest. We demand incentives on similar lines,” Puja Talkies owner Prashant Singh told The Telegraph Online. “The government has allowed us to operate with 50% capacity but is not providing any relaxation. On the top of that, we are also receiving daily calls from the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation to pay our holding tax,” he added. Singh further said that the situation in neighbouring Bihar is relatively better as Bhojpuri movies draw good viewers but in Jharkhand there is no traffic for such films. “A year-long waiver of the state share of 6 per cent GST could have helped the cinema hall operators to stand on their own feet amid the stiff competition from television and multiplexes,” Nitesh Shahabadi, owner of Ray Talkies said. Dhanbad had six operational cinema halls during the pre-lockdown period, out of which Usha Talkies in Jharia is not likely to resume operation from March 1. Till early nineties there were 30 cinema halls in Dhanbad, majority of which had closed down due to losses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Traders demand rebate on delayed payment surcharge of electricity bills||Coal town traders are upset with Jharkhand Bijli Nigam Limited (JBVNL) for imposing delayed payment surcharge (DPS) for nonpayment of electricity bills for the lockdown period. They are also miffed over the non-waiver of fixed electricity charges from April to June 2020 despite Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC) issuing an order in this regard on September 21, 2020. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Amit Sahu, President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce who also runs Sahu Lodge said, “All the shops, business, establishments, and industries remained closed during the lockdown period as per the government order. We made no income during that period.” “Those running rental accommodation face the additional burden of paying the rent and the staff payment despite having zero income. As a consequence, many of them couldn’t pay the electricity bills. And now, when they are trying to pay, they are being compelled to pay the exorbitant late payment surcharge. This is putting an extra financial burden on them,” said Sahu. He added that they have decided to raise the issue before the Managing Director of JBVNL Rahul Kumar Purwar and General Manager of Dhanbad supply area of JBVNL, Ajit Kumar, soon. “At a time when the trade industry is struggling to recuperate from the losses it suffered during the lockdown period, government-owned power company seeking high late fees will only affect trading bodies,” said Sahu. Ajay Narayan Lal, Vice president of the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce said, “The brief wedding season (November 25 to December 15) was the only time that we did little business. The profit made back then is insufficient to pay the exorbitant delayed payment surcharge. The government needs to waive off a portion of it soon.” Rajiv Sharma, general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association (JITA), said, “Not just DPC, the government should also consider waiving off of fixed charges for the three months of April to June as per JSERC order, for industries like hard coke factories. Many of the factories are still non-operational due to lack of proper supply of coal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
19-02-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi may soon have its traffic park to create awareness||Ranchi may soon come up with a Traffic Park, a first of its kind arena in the country, to create awareness about road safety rules, provide training on different modules of road discipline and serve as a one stop destination for all kinds of exposure related to responsible conduct of commuters while being on the move. Chief minister Hemant Soren gave his nod to the concerned departments while chairing a meeting of the state road safety council at Project Building on Thursday night. In the first phase, traffic park is conceptualised in Ranchi and will later be set up gradually in other districts to promote traffic sense among the public. The move, officials said, is among several measures which is being undertaken by the state government to curb road accidents besides routine works of vehicular checking drives, identification of black spots among others. Soren said that the idea is to instil road sense among people. "The Traffic Park should be a place of attraction for people so that they can throng here to seek tips on do’s and don'ts about traffic rules. The park should also have provisions for on-spot training facilities," he said. Soren has directed the traffic department to begin work on the park on priority basis, a communique from state IPRD department added. A senior official of Ranchi police said that they will soon identify the place for the project. "Place for setting up a traffic park will not be a problem. It can be planned at unused lands at any of the four traffic police stations in the city. We will soon hold a meeting to draw up a plan and prepare budget estimates," he said. To minimise casualties of road accidents, Soren also directed police to make police stations equipped with basic life saving gadgets like an oxygen cylinder, two stretchers and mandatory first aid kits kept at every station. He also directed police for strict implementation of the “Good Samaritan'' policy introduced by the state government recently. As per the policy, the police would not force anyone who is injured to hospital to reveal their identity if they are not willing to disclose it or detain them for interrogation. The policy also prescribes reward for such good samaritans. If two persons help in hospitalising road accident victims, they will get Rs 2,000 as incentive. An amount of Rs 5,000 would be given if more than two persons help in the hospitalisation so that the amount could be equally distributed among them. In case the police need to contact such persons in the course of enquiry or name them as witnesses under special circumstances, they should be called a minimum number of times only and the police must also deposit Rs 1,000 in their bank account every time they are called, the policy says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-137
