20-02-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI conducts annual convocation virtually||XLRI hosted its 64th annual convocation on Saturday evening, the first-ever virtual degree day, to bid farewell to the 2018-20 batch. Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director of Hindustan Unilever, graced the convocation ceremony as chief guest. T. V. Narendran, chairman, Board of Governors at XLRI and managing director of Tata Steel, Fr. P. Christie, director of XLRI,  Ashis K. Pani, Dean (Academics) at XLRI, graduating students and their parents all connected virtually. In all, 527 XLRI students received their graduating certificates and medals, including  182 and 180 students of Postgraduate Programmes in Management - BM, and HRM; 104  students of 15-months PGDM (General Management) Programme; 13 students of Fellow Program in Management (FPM) and  48 students of  2017-2020 batch of  PGDM-BM Programme (Evening). The first five rank holders in the two-year postgraduate diploma in Human Resource Management (HRM) 2018-20 batch were Abhishek Goyal, Subham Agarwal, Urmi Arora, Aditya Kompella and Sana Azeem, respectively. The first five rank holders in the two-year postgraduate diploma in Business Management (BM) 2018-20 batch were Utkarsh Bahuguna, B Raja Reddy, Madhavi Gupta, Srenevasan M N, and  Geetanshu Sethi, respectively. The first five rank holders in the postgraduate diploma in General Management (GM)  15 -months programme 2018-19 batch were Arijit Kar, Aditi Raina, Satish Kumar, Manav Bhargava, and Zafar Ali Kanchwala, respectively. The first five rank holders in the Three-Year Postgraduate Diploma in Business Management  Evening Programme 2017 - 20 batch were Korivi Sravan Kumar, Poornima Radhakrishnan, Randeep Singh, Rahul Sharma, and Anubha Priya respectively. Congratulating the students, T. V. Narendran, chairman, Board of Governors, XLRI said, "As you join the remarkable network of XLRI alumni let the valuable education that has been imparted to you in the preceding two years be a guiding force to help enable you to make this world more sustainable and livable for future generations. I urge you to espouse a professional and ethical attitude in your work-life journey and try to give back to society to the extent possible." Fr. P Christie, director, XLRI, advised the graduating students to uphold the values they have imbibed at XLRI  to be responsible leaders who are extraordinary professionals with a sensitive conscience. This year,  XLRI conferred the prestigious Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Social and Industrial Peace on Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director of Hindustan Unilever. Accepting the medal, Mehta said, "I would like to express my gratitude to the governing board of XLRI for bestowing on me the prestigious Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Social and Industrial Peace. It is a big honour and a great privilege to receive this medal." Delivering the convocation speech to the graduating students, he said, “I am delighted and deeply honoured to be with you today. My heartiest congratulations to the graduating class. This is a day of celebration; this is a moment of pride and high emotion and joy for all of you, who are at the threshold of realizing your aspiration and potential. Today marks a new beginning when you are moving out to face the real world's ups and downs." The medal, instituted by XLRI in 1966, in honour of the Late Sir Jehangir Ghandy, former chairman of the Board of Governors - XLRI is awarded to those business leaders who have contributed towards the growth of their respective organizations and also impacted the growth of the nation in a significant way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
20-02-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant calls for Sarna Adivasi Dharma code in Census 2021||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren reiterated the state’s demand for a separate category for tribals in the national census data during the sixth meeting of the governing council of NITI Aayog on Saturday via video conferencing. The JMM national executive president, who is heading the JMM-led coalition government of Congress and RJD in Jharkhand, had played a pivotal role in November last year when the state Assembly passed a unanimous resolution for a “Sarna Adivasi” religion code in the 2021 Census at a special one-day session. The resolution was then sent to the Union government for consideration for inclusion in the 2021 Census. The tribals’ demand for a separate column in the Census was also raised on Saturday during the interaction with Prime Minister Modi and chief ministers of states and Union Territories (UTs). “Adivasi society is a society whose civilization, culture and systems are completely different. The demand has been in existence for years to establish a place for tribals in the census. We have sent a proposal related to the demand for a Sarna Adivasi Dharma code duly passed by our Assembly. We believe that the Government of India will consider it sympathetically. Separate columns should be arranged for them in the census as well,” said Hemant. The Sarna code has been a demand for the tribal populace of Jharkhand ever since it was created in 2000. Saturday’s meeting, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and attended by chief ministers of states and Union Territories (UTs), also saw the participation of Sikkim and Kashmir for the first time as UTs. Hemant also pressed for a universal pension scheme which the state had announced while commemorating one year of his government in December last year. “During my field visits, senior citizens complain about not getting pensions. When we enquire with the concerned department officials we are told that the target has been completed. Can we not benefit this population by giving them a universal pension?” asked Hemant. The chief minister said the pension had not been increased by the Union government since 2007, although the state government had increased its share of the scheme. Hemant also stressed on increasing the daily wage rate of MGNREGA workers.  “The central government has marked the wage rate of Rs 202 in Jharkhand which is lower than other states of the country. At present, Jharkhand workers are not able to reap optimum benefits from the MGNREGA. The central government should increase the minimum wage rate and also rethink the law made for workers. In the absence of strong legislation, middlemen and central government undertakings also ignore interests of workers, the latest instance being workers facing harassment at NTPC site in Uttarakhand and Border Roads Organisation along Indo-Chinese borders,” Hemant said. Hemant also raised the issue of fund cuts by the Union government during the time of the pandemic. “The share given by the central government to Jharkhand is Rs 1750 crore but it has been reduced to Rs 1200 crore and during the Covid-19 pandemic, DVC deducted Rs 2131 crore from the state government. This was the first time this has happened with any state in the country. This fund was necessary for the state to control the spread of the pandemic,” he said. The chief minister also suggested flexible forest clearance. “It is difficult to get forest clearance for state government industries and entrepreneurs whereas central government undertakings easily get forest clearance. The Central government should work towards making forest clearance flexible which would help Jharkhand in establishing industries,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
20-02-2021||Jharkhand||Special Olympics Jharkhand organises final floorball camp from Feb 25||After participating in the first floorball preparatory camp last month, three special athletes are geared up for the second and final training stint before they proceed to try their luck in Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh in March. Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) has lined up the second preparatory camp at JRD Tata Sports Complex from February 25 to March 3. The intellectually impaired players Sital Sikka, Rakesh Bagh (both from East Singhbhum) and Rahul Kumar Sharma (Giridih) will be working under coach Abhiranjan Kumar (Ranchi) during the camp. The camp in Bilaspur will start on March 6. SOJ assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota said, “It will be the final camp before the special athletes and coach leave for Bilaspur to attend the national floorball preparatory camp for the Special Olympics World Winter Games to be held at Kaza, Russia from January 22 to 28 next year.” "The special athletes had worked hard at the first camp organised by us in January. The upcoming training stint is important as the special athletes will be off to Bilaspur on March 5. Rakesh Baug, who injured his leg after a road accident, has recovered quite well. Though he (Rakesh) is still limping a little, we will send him to the national camp since we want all three to attend the exercise. After all, the Indian floorball team for the World Winter Games will be selected after the Bilaspur camp," Sahota, a former international cyclist added. On the prospects of the three special athletes, the SOJ assistant area director said they were hopeful of a selection of two athletes. "Rahul Sharma is a promising floorball player and stands a chance of getting selected in the national squad. He is doing stretching exercise in Giridih and also working out with the hockey stick we presented to him when Rahul was in Jamshedpur for the first training camp. Rakesh has also shown promise but his injury has played spoilsport. Sital is also promising. It all depends on how our players perform during the national camp," said Sahota, a resource person (in cycling) with Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national organisation which promotes the intellectually impaired. According to him, the SOB will organise more training camps for the selected players after the completion of the one in Bilaspur. "These camps will be held in different cities across the country. The effort is aimed at keeping the special athletes well-tuned before they leave for the World Winter Games," Sahota said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
20-02-2021||Jharkhand||JMM takes out rally supporting farmers’ protest in Jamshedpur||The JMM on Saturday took out a huge tractor rally supporting the demands made by the farmers — to roll back the farm bills and to not leave farmers at the mercy of capitalists. Party activists led by JMM legislator Ramdas Soren first assembled at the Gandhi Maidan in Mango where they participated at a meeting condemning the Centre for the new farm laws. Around 1,000 activists who had come from different parts of the district later took part in the rally, which began around noon. Some activists preferred to travel on tractors while others walked all the way from Gandhi Maidan to the  district collectorate in Sakchi, a distance of around four kilometres. On reaching the district collectorate the rally later transformed into a sit-in demonstration. JMM's Jugsalai legislator Mangal Kalindi and  Ichagarg Savita Mahto also participated in the dharna. Later, a party delegation handed over a memorandum to the deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum  Suraj Kumar, addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind .JMM leader Ramdas  Soren said the rally was a way to express solidarity with the protesting farmers, who have hit the street in a bid to compel the government to roll back - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, that were passed by both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, last year. The huge turnout at the rally resulted in the disruption of traffic on the busy Mango bridge and the two connecting roads - Old Purulia Road and Subernarekha Link Road, for about two hours from noon to 2 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
20-02-2021||Jharkhand||Worst-hit by Covid, Ranchi among districts with lowest vaccine recipients||Ranchi, the  Jharkhand district with the highest number of Covid-19 cases,  is also one of the poorest performers in terms of vaccination turnout, reveals data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM). By Saturday morning, the district had 263 active cases of Covid-19, which is more than 56 per cent of the total 467 cases in the state. On the other hand, Ranchi has achieved only 55 per cent of its vaccination target so far, which is only better than Dumka’s 51 per cent and lower than all the remaining 22 districts in the state. Ranchi, however, has administered the first jab of Covishield vaccine to 32,507 people – the highest among districts in Jharkhand. But almost 30,000 registered beneficiaries in the state capital have given the first dose of the vaccine a miss. The number of defaulters in Ranchi was higher than the total number of registered beneficiaries in each of the remaining 23 districts in Jharkhand, NHM data reveals. While officials say that efforts made by the district administration here to improve the vaccination turnout have shown results, the district was still lagging when compared to the pan-Jharkhand vaccination rate of 68 per cent. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chavi Ranjan had recently directed that beneficiaries opting out of the free vaccination will have to submit a declaration specifying that they have voluntarily opted out the immunization programme. The order was passed on February 9 when Ranchi had achieved only 26 per cent of its vaccination target. “The turnout is improving in Ranchi. We are taking the necessary steps to encourage people not to miss the jab on the day they are called to the vaccination centre. Our teams are also in touch with beneficiaries who get the first jab to ensure that they get the second dose as well on time,” said Dr. Ajit Prasad, the immunization officer of Jharkhand. On an average, Ranchi has accounted for more than half of the fresh Covid cases in the state every day in February. On Friday, the district reported 29 of the 51 cases in Jharkhand, and the fresh cases outnumbered recoveries here on the day. As per government data, of the total 1,19,528 people infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand, almost 33,000 were residents of Ranchi. The district has also reported 242 Covid fatalities, only second to East Singhbhum with 356 Covid deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
20-02-2021||Jharkhand||NDRF team to remove dead body found in water tank in Adityapur||A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been called to recover a human corpse from a water tank found in Adityapur industrial area under RIT thana area of Adityapur on Saturday. The body has decomposed and is yet to be determined whether it is that of a male or a female. Only the legs of the deceased can be seen and the rest of the body is trapped inside the pipe that is linked to the supply line from the water tank. Rajesh Kumar Bhokta, OC of RIT thana said, “The water supply from the tank was affected for the past four days. This lead to the inspection of the tank by the officials of the Drinking Water & Sanitation Department (DW&SD) and they discovered the body. DW&SD looks after the drinking water in the area including the residential area.” “As the body was trapped in a pipe, DW&SD had asked the private pipe laying agency to remove the boy immediately but they failed to do so. We had to decide for intimating the NDRF through the Seraikela-Kharsawan district administration,” informed the OC while talking to The Telegraph Online on Saturday. Bhokta also informed that the NDRF team has left Ranchi in the noon and they are expected to reach the spot by 3 pm. The body has reduced to almost a skeleton as it had been there in the water tank for a long time. As the residents of the locality, including the students of NIT, would consume water supplied from the same tank, the discovery of the human corpse in the water tank has triggered a sensation there. “We are wearing masks and getting our hands sanitized regularly in fear of getting infected with coronavirus but unfortunately we had been consuming highly contaminated water supplied from a tank containing a decomposed human corpse,” said Himanshu Shekhar, a resident of NIT Colony, while talking to this website. Shekhar, who is a high school teacher said all the residents, including children who reside in the water supply ambit of the tank in question should contact medical consultants immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
20-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Students from Class VIII can attend offline regular classes from March 1||Students from Class VIII can attend offline regular classes across Jharkhand from March 1, almost a year after Covid-19 induced lockdown led to closure of schools in March last year. Significantly, the state government had allowed classes for 10 and 12 students from December 21, 2020, because of the board examinations. The state government took the decision at a meeting of the state disaster management authority, chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren at Ranchi on Thursday late evening. According to a circular issued by the state public relation department of the Chief Minister’s office, schools can restart classes for eighth, ninth and eleventh grades from March 1. Besides, colleges, coaching institutions, cinema halls, multiplexes, swimming pools, parks, sports events and training institutions can also resume their services from March with certain restrictions. “Cinema halls have been allowed to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity while gatherings for fairs and sporting events have been restricted to a maximum of 1,000 people. Schools have been permitted to re-start classes for Class VIII, IX and XI with certain Covid-19 precautions. Students would be allowed in the schools with written consents from their parents and detailed guidelines will be issued by the state department of school education and literacy unit soon,” said a senior official at the chief minister’s office. Sources said that the existing guidelines of ensuring hand sanitisation before entering school premises, written declaration by students to abide by Covid-19 protocols and maintaining social distance at classes which is being done for class 10 and 12 will continue to be adhered for other classes. Higher education institutions, colleges, polytechnic would be reopened under the prescribed guideline from the University Grant Commission (UGC). However, state Covid-19 guidelines, such as wearing masks and social distancing would be mandatory for all the operations. Jharkhand Cine Exhibitor Association (JCEA) also expressed happiness. JCEA secretary Prashant Singh said, “Almost all the states in the country had allowed cinema halls to operate with 50 per cent capacity in October and November last year but it was pending in our state. We are happy to be given a new start.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-136
