21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Bengali rights activists felicitated on International Mother Language Day||On the occasion of International Mother Language Day, 25 Dhanbad language rights activists were felicitated during a programme organised by the Bengali Association, Jharkhand on Sunday. All the activists who were felicitated fought a protracted battle for second language status to Bengali language in Jharkhand. A seminar on the further popularisation and development of Bengali was also conducted during the event, where participants agreed that the language should be used more in official spaces and should be taught in schools and colleges. “We had high hopes for the betterment of Bengali language usage following the creation of Jharkhand in 2000, but all our expectations were crushed. We feel that the situation was better during the united Bihar era prior to 2000,” general secretary of the association Sisir Kumar Roy said. “Despite being granted the second language status in 2015 in Jharkhand following our protracted battle, nothing has changed on ground as Bengali is not being used  either for administrative, judicial, or any other official work,” he added. Roy, who was also felicitated during the function along with others, further said as per the provisions of Right to Education Act, 2009 and New Education Policy, 2020, arrangements for teaching in Bengali as minority language must be ensured. Manas Acharya, who was also felicitated during the event, appraised regarding the difficulties that Bengali-speaking teachers and students face. Bengu Thakur, founder of the Bangla Bhasa Unnayan Samiti also raised questions regarding the government’s reluctance to promote the language.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia MLA shifted to Dumka jail from Dhanbad prison for security reasons||Jharia BJP MLA Sanjeev Singh, lodged in the Dhanbad Divisional jail in connection with a murder case since 2017, was moved to the Dumka prison on Sunday for security reasons. Singh, who was accused in connection with murder case of former deputy mayor Niraj Singh on March 21, 2017, was moved amid high security at 12:30 pm on Sunday. This sparked outrage among his wife Ragini Singh and his lawyer Md Javed, who termed it as misuse of power and position by jail authorities,  and threatened to petition before the court. “Sanjeev was shifted as part of a conspiracy after an overnight order by Jail IG Suman Gupta on a Sunday morning so that we can’t seek intervention from the court,” Javed told The Telegraph Online. Terming the move as an “abject misuse of power”, Javed said they will challenge the decision when the court reopens on Monday. “A raid was also conducted in Dhanbad jail on October 18, 2019 during which the senior officials of jail tortured Singh in jail and also intimated him. We had raised the issue before the court back then,” Javed further said. Notably, the decision comes a day after the lawyer had sought direction from the court to Ajay Kumar regarding the treatment of Sanjeev Singh and claimed that he was suffering from various diseases. According to sources, Aman Singh, a Mirzapur based shooter of Niraj Singh murder case, was also shifted to Hotwar Jail of Ranchi from the Dhanbad prison. The other four shooters of the former deputy mayor were also shifted during the last year, including Sagar alias Shibu, Qurban Ali alias Sonu, Satish Alias Chadan and Pankaj Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Target set for anti-filaria drive in Jharkhand||The state government has set a target of administering anti-filarial drugs to more than 71 lakh people free of cost across four districts in Jharkhand during a five-day mass drug administration (MDA) programme scheduled to begin on Monday. The government will run the programme in Sahebganj, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Ramgarh from February 22 to February 27, health minister Banna Gupta said on Sunday while inaugurating the MDA programme online. Urging people to take the drugs, Gupta said, “The success of the filaria eradication programme depends on our credibility among people and our way of working. The disease has to be eradicated, the patients have to be saved and the vision of healthy and prosperous Jharkhand has to be realized.” Children below the age of two, pregnant women and most seriously ill people irrespective of their age will not be administered the drugs during the programme, said Gupta, adding that no person should take the medicine in an empty stomach. Filariasis is caused by filarial worms and can trigger abnormal growth in the infected person. The abnormal swelling in legs caused by filariasis is commonly referred to as elephantiasis, said doctors. State programme officer, Vector Borne Diseases, Dr. S.N. Jha said that in this MDA programme, a target has been set by the state government to provide medicine to 71,04,911 people. He said that this filariasis infection in childhood causes damage to the lymphatic system, causing abnormal swelling in a person's body parts. People suffering from filariasis also have to suffer severe pain and social discrimination, which also affects their livelihood and ability to work. “In comparison to women and children, men are twice as likely to develop this infection. It is very important that all people should take anti-filarial medicines given free of cost by trained health workers once a year to protect themselves and their family from this infection,” he said. Gupta directed state health director Ravi Shankar Shukla to coordinate with  deputy commissioners of the four districts to ensure the success of the five-day MDA programme. In addition, he directed that all the patients infected with filariasis in the state should be enlisted so that their health could be closely monitored and their disease treated properly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
21-02-2021||Jharkhand|| Chamoli: 3 more bodies of Jharkhand workers recovered||Three more workers of Jharkhand have died in flood-ravaged Chamoli in Uttrakhand, officials confirmed on Sunday, taking the death toll among the 14 people reported missing to four. On February 7, a glacier-break in Chamoli’s Tapovan region triggered massive floods, destryoing a dam, an under-construction hydro power plant of the National Thermal Power Corporation, in addtion to many lives. So far, 62 are reported death while over 100 are still missing. Those missing from Jharkhand included, nine workers were from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh and one from Bokaro district—all of whom had gone to Tapovan at different times to work at the power plant site. On February 18, the state government confirmed the first death after body of 26-year-old migrant worker Vicky Bhagat was fished out of the debris during a rescue operation in Uttrakhand. On Sunday, officials announced recovery of three more bodies. Lohardaga’s labour superintendent Dhirendranath Mahto said, “Three more bodies were recovered from the debris by rescue teams on Sunday. They havwew been identified as Jyotish Bakhla and Sunil Bakhla of Lohardaga and one Amrit from Bokaro. The family members, who are currently in Chamoli, have identified the bodies.” Mahto is also in Chamoli to help family members of missing persons  and coordinate with the authorities of Uttrakhand government and NTPC for identification, transportation and paper work for compensation. Mahto conceded that most families have lost hope of finding survivors among those still missing. But efforts are on to trace their bodies so that the bereaved families can get due compensation. On whether bodies will be cremated in Chamoli or will be brought back to their native place, he said, “NTPC is making arrangements for sending the bodies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||UAPA being used as  political weapon by BJP, Hemant tells Harvard conclave||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren expressed serious concern over the increasing misuse of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act to slap sedition cases against rights bodies and activists as a part of political weaponisation by the incumbent BJP- led government in the Centre and maintained that even advocates of indigenous people have come under serious threat in the country. Hemant was delivering a keynote address on the second day of the 18th Annual India Conference at Harvard University on Saturday night via video-link on the topic of tribal rights, regional politics, social welfare policies and the mitigation of covid-19 pandemic in Jharkhand. The tribal chief minister spoke his mind for close to an hour during a Q & A session moderated by Harvard Kennedy School’s senior fellow Dr Suraj Yengde.    Citing the situation in Jharkhand, Hemant revealed he had seen from close quarters how the BJP government blatantly attempted to thwart voices of dissent during its regime in the state between 2014-19 under chief minister Raghubar Das when thousands of innocent tribals, many of whom were opposed to the government’s move to amend age-old land laws were slapped with sedition cases in the name of Pathalgadi. To a question about his views on UAPA and sedition cases used as a political weapon, Hemant said: "Sedition and UAPA acts are today being used as a weapon by BJP to fulfill its political agenda. They used it when we were in Oopposition in Jharkhand too. While they (BJP) couldn’t personally dent me in their endeavour but they succeeded in nullifying MLA-ship of many of our sitting legislators in the past on shoddy grounds..." “Much recently, BJP jailed 83- year- old Stan Swamy, a stalwart of tribal rights, by calling him an  anti-national. He is so old, he can’t even do his work on his own. But, he is in jail. Attempts are made to force people to see and believe only that which they (BJP) want to make one believe. This is today the biggest concern in the country,” he stressed, adding that the trend of winning polls through caste and communal lines is becoming increasingly dangerous. “Now that elections in Bengal are round the corner, we are already seeing a resurgence of communal and casteist spins there. Such tactics lead to an unhealthy situation where people will be forced to adopt extreme sides. As a result of which incidents like mob-lynching takes place. Jharkhand too saw its share of mob lynchings in the past,” he alleged. About the infamous Pathalgadi movement in Jharkhand between 2017-18, Hemant said it was sabotaged by a few "radicalized elements" with links in Gujarat. “Pathalgadi is an age old ritual of tribals where in they put stone plaques in their villages in memory of ancestors. However, a few radicalized and anti-social elements having links with Gujarat deliberately sabotaged it,” he said. for existence. "Tribals are without their own identity in the country," he said. “They aren’t even recognised in the national census. It is why we are demanding from the government of India to have a separate column for tribals to provide them a distinct identity in the 2021 Census. We also passed a resolution in the Aassembly and sent the proposal to the Centre,” he xplained. Asked if he believed tribals (Sarna followers) were Hindus, as claimed by many, Hemant rejected the idea vehemently. “It’s a ploy by the BJP. Let me make it very clear that tribals are not Hindus. They are nature worshippers and have different culture, customs and practices which are in no way related with Hindus,” he said, adding that adviasis were deliberately forced to live in oppression. “They are used as napkins. If tribals get educated, who will work as masons, workers and domestic helps for the affluent class? That mentality against adivasis among the developed class still exists today,” he rued. Asserting that the rights of tribals and marginalised are of prime importance to his government, Hemant spoke on how despite facing a funds crunch, his government walked the extra mile to bring scores of migrants back to Jharkhand during the Covid-19 induced lockdown via trains, buses and flights. “I was the first one to keep pursuing with the Union government to permit us to bring our stranded migrants back but weren’t allowed initially for long time till migrant mishaps on rail tracks, roads startled everyone. Soon after states were allowed to get their people, we were the first to host a shramik special train to Jharkhand, led in airlifting migrants from hard to reach areas and so on,” he said. On the post-lockdown roadmap for Jharkhand, Hemant said his government had formulated policies to bolster jobs, tourism, promote sports and all- round development of the state. “Unlike the Centre, which is not saying anything about jobs today, we have dedicated 2021 as the year of recruitments. Efforts are on at various levels to fill all vacant posts, create new avenues. So is our focus on the tourism sector to usher in development. For the first time ever, we came up with a holistic sports policy to promote grassroots sports. To provide global exposure to tribals, we have started scholarships for sending meritorious adivasis to foreign varsities,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||ASI team digs out large Buddha statue at Hazaribagh village||Archaeologists have found a large statue of Gautam Buddha at Bahronpur village in Sitagarha, around 20 kilometres away from the district headquarters, while excavating a ninth century Buddhist Shrine and monastery. Virendra Kumar Partha, archaeologist at the Archaeological Survey of India said that the team has found other artifacts such as pottery, walls, stairs and tools. “Efforts are being made to take out the Buddha statue safely. The face itself is 10-inches long so we hope it's a big sculpture,” he told The Telegraph Online on Sunday. Confirming the site as a major shrine, Partha said that the ASI team has also found a reclining Buddha statue. The ASI started working at the site after Buddhist monk Bhante Tiswarro revealed details about Bahronpur, widely considered to be a popular monastery during its time. Many residents in the area had found ancient idols in the area while constructing their houses, leading to the discovery of the place. The central agency has now established that Bahronpur was not only a shrine or a monastery, but a well-developed city of its time. The ASI had first started excavating the site in November 2019, but had to pause it for some months due to the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police identify decomposed body found in Adityapur as that of NIT student||Police on Sunday identified the body, which was lying inside a water tank in Adityapur on Saturday, as that of Raja Kumar (22), a third year student of Mechanical Engineering branch of NIT Jamshedpur. RIT Police Station OC Rajesh Kumar Bhokta said the body was identified from the I-card of the deceased. The resident of Gauspur block in Saharsa district of Bihar was missing from a hotel on Kalimati Road in Golmuri area of the city since February 14 night, and a missing person report was lodged by his father Roshan Kumar on February 19. Raja was supposed to appear in a terminal exam on February 14, but he did not go to the college and instead stayed in the hotel along with a friend. After he went missing from the hotel, his friend had immediately informed his parents, leading Roshan Kumar to lodge the missing person report. "Though the body was identified from the I-card of the deceased, we also summoned his parents to see the body, who confirmed it to be of Raja," Bhokta told The Telegraph Online. He added  they shifted the body to MGM Medical College for autopsy as he had already been registered with Golmuri Police Station in connection to this matter. Golmuri Police Station OC Arvind Kumar said they had lodged a case of abduction when Raja’s father had filed the complaint, and will proceed accordingly. "Let the autopsy report come. Then only we will determine whether it is a case of suicide or something else, " said Kumar while talking to this website. According to sources of Raja's family and friend circle, the deceased's mental condition was not well and was very nervous when he came to Jamshedpur for his examination a week ago. His body was recovered by a 25- memberteam of the NDRF late on Saturday night, after hours-long operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police nab Varanasi's wanted criminal from Ranchi||A wanted criminal from Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh identified as Ravi Patel, in his late 30s, has been arrested from a rented accommodation in Ranchi under Khelgaon police station area, police announced on Saturday. Police have also arrested the landlord of the house in Khelagon identified as Deo Kumar alias Pappu and seized two pistols and couple of rounds of live cartridges from their possession. Confirming the developments, city SP Saurabh told reporters at a press conference in the evening that the crackdown was done based on a specific tip-off about a wanted criminal living under disguise in Ranchi. “The criminal has been identified as Ravi Patel hailing from Varanasi. After getting the information, we formed a quick response team (QRT) to trace the criminal. The team carried out raids on the intervening night of February 18 and 19 to successfully nab him,” he said, adding that police first seized a pistol from him. Later on, police zeroed in on Deo Kumar and held him while recovering another pistol. Police sources said that Ravi is accused in over a dozen cases of arson, violence and murder crimes in UP. In Dhanbad too, he is facing a murder case registered at Bank More police station. “In Dhanbad, he along with his associated had killed a cloth trader over a year back near Bank More,” said another official, adding that the accused has confessed about some of the killings committed by him during interrogation. “He was staying here to plan some crime. We will inform our counterparts in UP too so that they can proceed with other legal formalities to further investigations of the cases lodged against him there,” said the official. The crackdown once again exposes how tenant verification is seldom followed while renting out houses to occupants even though the city police in the past appealed people in this regard on several occasions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Ten members of a family found Covid positive in Jamshedpur||Ten members of a Sakchi-based businessman's family were found Covid-19 positive triggering a panic in the commercial centre on Saturday. The district health department acted soon after the test reports arrived. Confirming this district surveillance officer Sahir Pal said, " We have sealed the shop-cum- house of the businessman who runs a general store inside the Sakchi market. The area has been turned into a containment zone. " He went on to say that an 80-year-old male member of that businessman's family had died a couple of days back at the Tata Main Hospital. "The elderly male member was having comorbid conditions and had tested Covid -19. He was suffering from kidney and lungs related ailments," he said. According to Pal, the family has 19 members staying in the same building. "Samples were taken for all the 19 members of which 10 tested Covid-19 positive, " said Pal adding that they have also started contact tracing. Health department sources said an ambulance was hired on Saturday evening to shift five male members to the isolation ward of MGM Medical College and Hospital while the rest five were quarantined at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Appeal against budget food funds cuts to CM Hemant Soren ||A joint delegation of the Right to Food Campaign and Phia (Partnering Hope Into Action) Foundation, a charity, on Saturday met Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and requested against any cuts on food and social security schemes in the budget. The delegation, which comprised economist Jean Dreze, former vice-chancellor of Vinobha Bhave University, Ramesh Sharan, Asarfi Nand, state convener of Right to Food Campaign, and state head of Phia Foundation, Johnson Topno, felt that there are legal provisions on selection of schemes and projects at the gram sabha level. “The government should make budgetary allocation for activities conducted at the gram sabha level along with budgetary provision for establishment of single-window system at block level for social security schemes,” said Nand. The delegation said there should be not be any reduction in the budgetary allocation for food and social security schemes and also voiced its support for increasing the state government’s share in the pension schemes and make the process of applications simple. “We also suggested that lentil and edible oils should be added to the list of items available through the PDS shops,” said Nand. The delegation also demanded to make the State Finance Commission, which is a constitutional body, more active. The other demands included introduction of a regenerative farming policy in the state, constitution of a state-level advisory body for proper coordination between government and civil society organisations to give impetus to execution of welfare projects. The budget is scheduled to be tabled on March 3 in the state Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
21-02-2021||Jharkhand||Congress organises big farm law protest rally in Hazaribagh ||The state unit of the Congress organised a massive rally in Hazaribagh on Saturday, its second after one in Santhal Pargana recently, for expressing solidarity with the agitating farmers and demanding withdrawal of the three farm laws that they described as “anti-farmer”. A large number of party supporters and farmers, estimated to be around 20 thousand, gathered from various districts at the local Motwari Gandhi Maidan where the farmers’ rally was held. Responding to the appeals of the Congress state unit president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon and state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, the party supporters and farmers led by the MLAs of their respective areas, reached Hazaribagh with tractors and even bullock carts in large numbers. R.P.N. Singh, the Congress leader in charge of the party’s state unit, also reached Hazaribagh to address the rally. “These laws have invited criticism from across the world, exposing BJP that has surrendered itself to the corporate friends of its leaders,” Singh told at Ranchi airport before leaving for Hazaribagh. Besides Oraon and Patralekh, ministers Alamgir Alam and Banna Gupta also attended the rally as did Rajya Sabha MP Dheeraj Sahoo, MP Geeta Koda and a host of other MLAs. “These farm laws have pushed the farmers into immense troubles as they would now be at the mercy of corporate houses and have to cultivate whatever they will be asked to do,” minister Oraon told, reminding the days when farmers were forced to plant indigo against their will during the British rule. “We have organised these protests upholding the tradition of the Congress that has always sided with the farmers and looked into their interests,” Oraon told The Telegraph from Hazaribagh, adding the party had been supporting the farmers the same way Gandhiji did in Champaran a century ago. “The Congress, when in power at the Centre, had always fixed minimum support price so that the farmers were never deprived,” he further said, adding they had also waived their loans as they did the same in Jharkhand recently. “Today’s massive gathering is the proof of how aggrieved the farmers are,” said Congress state spokesperson Alok Dubey, referring to the huge gathering. “This is really an impressive gathering that Hazaribagh didn’t see in recent time,” agreed a scribe who was there for reporting the event for a national daily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-135
