22-02-2021||Jharkhand||50 tribals breach high security zone, try to pull off Pathalgadi||Over 50 tribal protesters breached the high security perimeter of Jharkhand High Court in Ranchi on Monday and tried to install a stone plaque stating that the state government did not hold executive powers in the area, their agitation mirroring the tribal custom of Pathalgadi. “We stopped them (Pathalgadi supporters) half way through and pacified them. The plaque was not installed, and they were not allowed to go anywhere close to the high court,” said Ranchi SP Saurav, who goes by one name. Pathalgadi, an ancient  tribal custom of installing stone plaques with inscriptions to demarcate and area as a mark of respect to ancestors, drew the attention of the state government in 2017 after a few plaques restricted entry of administration and police in villages and declared them as liberated zones. The former Bharatiya Janata Party-led government had decided to tackle the issue with an iron fist and lodged FIRs against several hundred Pathalgadi supporters. But cases against these protesters were withdrawn after the advent of the current Hemant Soren-led government. Monday’s plaque, which wasn't allowed to be installed, read: "The executive power of the state of Jharkhand does not extend to the scheduled area, therein; there is no right to freedom for the general public in these scheduled areas.” The stone plaque was the size of a dining table top. The plaque carried names of 12 districts – Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Lohardaga, West Singhbhum, Gumla, Latehar, Saraikela Kharsawan, Sahebganj, Dumka, Pakur, Jamtara and Simdega – which the Pathalgadi supporters wanted to declare as scheduled areas beyond the jurisdiction of the government of Jharkhand. Eyewitnesses said that around 50 protesters, mostly from Ranchi, Khunti, Gumla and Lohardaga districts, entered the high security zone to install the stone plaque. Police said that they wanted to install the plaque at a square close to the high court and not on the high court premises. The protesters have said that they will meet Governor Droupadi Murmu on Tuesday and handover a memorandum to her highlighting their demands. During the Pathalgadi movement of 2017, several thousand villagers carrying traditional bows and arrows gathered around the stone plaques in the bordering areas of their villages. There were several face-offs between the administration and Pathalgadi supporters during the period. Some supporters of the movement had reportedly held a few policemen hostage demanding release of their fellow supporters from jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Congress to intensify protest against rising fuel prices in Jharkhand||Concerned over the steep rise in petrol, diesel and LPG prices in the recent weeks, Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee has announced to hit the streets, demanding the Union government to rollback price in order to lessen financial burden on common man. Congress, which is part of the incumbent coalition state government, however has ruled out the possibility of slashing the state's value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel stating that doing so would push the state into financial distress. Announcing their plan of action after a meeting at its party office on Monday, party president Rameshwar Oraon said, “On February 26, we have decided to hold mashal julus (torchlight procession) at district and block levels across the state to protest against Narendra Modi government’s inhuman move of constantly hiking fuel prices. On February 27, the party will hold demonstrations at all the district headquarters.” The party has also been holding different protest activities against the three contentious farm laws by the centre in solidarity with the farmers who are protesting along Delhi borders for almost three months now. Oraon said that after organising two successful tractor rallies at Godda and Hazaribag, respectively, in recent weeks, they will soon chalk out plans to intensify their stir in this regard. “Farm rallies and stir against fuel prices will continue till the NDA government wakes up from its deep slumber and bails out the public,” he said. Currently, petrol and diesel are priced Rs 88.08 and Rs 85.60 per litre respectively in Ranchi. State government imposes Rs 17 VAT on petrol and Rs 12 on diesel. Asked if the state government would like to reduce their state VAT, on the lines of the move done by a few states recently, Oraon, who is also state's finance minister, denied the possibility in near future. “How can we sustain if state VAT is reduced? After the rollout of goods and service tax (GST), the union government has blocked all the avenues of revenue generation for the states, barring VAT and local manufacturing tax. If we are to reduce these also, how can we generate funds to run the state,” said Oraon. “At a time when global crude oil prices are down, we are failing to understand why the fuel prices in our country are going up. Since, the centre rolled out GST to promise one nation, one tax formula, the onus of regulating prices largely lies with it. It must reduce fuel prices and not put the onus on the states,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Parents demand for inoculation of school staff before reopening||A group of parents has urged the state government to ensure all staff of schools are vaccinated against the coronavirus in the interest of students since schools have been allowed to open for classes  VIII, IX and XI from March 1 in addition to the existing class X and XII. In a letter addressed to the state education department, by Jharkhand Abhibhavak Manch (JAM), a parents’ body affiliated to Federation of Parents Association on Monday, said that the government needs to make provisions for the vaccination of school staff. Ajay Rai, president of JAM, said that the school staff, both casual and permanent ones, must be inoculated to curb the spread of covid-19 within the educational premises. “Like government is giving Covid-19 vaccine doses to all the frontline staff and health workers, it should now make similar arrangements for inoculating school administration and their workers on priority basis before schools resume,” he said, while seeking serious consideration of the state government to ensure safety of the kids. Rai maintained that the government in its own submission has claimed that Covid-19 is still not over and has appealed to all to maintain all the standards of hygiene and safety norms. The resurgence of infection in a few states posing fresh concerns has even prompted Jharkhand health department to step up surveillance, mainly at transit points like railway stations and airports to prevent chances of new infections. Currently, Jharkhand is witnessing a steady decline in the number of Covid-19 cases but the detection of 10 infected persons from a family in Jamshedpur’s Sakchi area, which according to officials could be a case of cluster infection, has been troubling many parents. Although the state government in its latest unlock order has asked all schools to resume only after taking due consent of the parents, Rai believed that inoculating school administration would be the safest way to move forward. “Talking about my own case, I am still not sure if I would dare to send my kid to school from next month. At the same time, the online mode of teaching has not been fruitful. Amid such a situation, both students and their parents are under extreme stress, as the slightest could lead to the spread of virus. Therefore, we demand the government to ensure proper vaccination of bus staff, canteen workers, teaching and non-teaching staff and all those who would come to school once they resume,” he said. Subodh Sinha, a banker and parent of two kids studying in standard eight and nine in a private school conceded to the worries stating that they have decided to not send their children to school for another few weeks. “We aren’t going to send our children from March 1. We will wait and watch till we get the confidence and a clear cut idea of the trend. What is happening in other states is again worrying us. Education is important but safety of my kids is equally paramount,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Koderma district administration rolls out new rules for boatmen at Telaiya dam||Koderma sub-divisional officer Manish Kumar has asked all boatmen at Telaiya Dam to register for a license for operating boats and also asked them to wear similar uniforms. Telaiya dam is the most popular tourist destination of the state attracting tourists from different places round the year. Seeing the huge footfall, Koderma district administration left no stone unturned to develop best facilities for tourists who don’t miss a chance to go boating at this picturesque spot. In his order, Kumar instructed the boatmen to keep their boats well maintained and ensure regular servicing. In case of any technical snag, he asked the boatmen to get that fixed immediately. He asked them to keep safety kits and ensure life jackets for each and every person taking a ride in a boat on this 200 feet deep dam. “Even colour your boats in the same colour,” he claimed. Kumar said the administration is working on a plan to develop toilets and provide drinking water facilities to tourists at this spot. Kumar also informed that he had instructed policemen to keep a breath analyser to test any person if suspected of being drunk on the spot. The dam, which was the first of four multi-purpose dams included in the first phase of the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), constructed across the Barakar river and inaugurated in 1953 by the then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru, attracts a large number of tourists round the year from Bihar and Jharkhand as well as other states including Bengal. Filmmakers from Bengal and Bhojpuri film industries prefer to shoot their films at this picturesque location.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Top Maoist in police custody, talks on to decide surrender terms||CPI (Maoist) zonal commander Jeevan Kandulna, who carries a reward of Rs 10 lakh on his head, is keen to surrender to Ranchi police, highly placed sources  said on Monday, adding that the insurgent was being in talks with law enforcement agencies in captivity at a secret location. However, there was no official statement from the police regarding Kandulna’s surrender on Monday despite unconfirmed reports about the development doing the rounds since Sunday afternoon. “Maoist surrender does not happen overnight. It is a lengthy process which may even take months,” said an Inspector General (IG) rank official, adding that insurgents often surrender after ensuring that they can trust the police and the negotiation happens at different levels. “You will get to know when he officially surrenders. As of now, it is difficult to say at what level the negotiation is going on. The surrender policy of the government has been framed to encourage Maoists to shun their guns, but it all boils down to trust between the insurgent and the officials they have reached out,” said the police official, requesting anonymity. Kandulna, originally a resident of Rania block of Khunti district, about 35km msouth of Ranchi, was active in the Saranda jungles of West Singhbhum – the largest Sal forest of South East Asia. Police sources said that security forces were following his location and activities for over a year and mounting pressure on him to surrender. Some media reports highlighted that Kandulna had joined the outlawed CPI (Maoist) to avenge the killing of his sister by a splinter outfit years ago. Security forces have been on the lookout for Kandulna during combing operations in West Singhbhum in the past couple of months, sources said. While sources have confirmed his surrender, a senior police official in Ranchi, who has been in the thick of affairs during several Maoist surrender, said that in many cases the insurgents do not surrender even after having talks with the police. “I remember, once a Maoist leader wanted to surrender, but he eventually backed out and ended talks with us. He was killed in an encounter after a month,” said the police official. Police spokesperson, IG (Ops), Saket Kumar Singh said he was unaware of any such development, adding that the police will issue an official statement once and if at all the surrender happens. As per records with the Ministry of Home Affairs, at least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand are Left Wing Extremism-affected. Besides the main CPI (Maoist), there are around 17 splinter outfits active in the tribal state. The government has been working on framing better surrender policies in order to ensure more surrender by insurgents. In 2017, Jharkhand’s one of the most infamous Maoist leaders, Kundan Pahan, a zonal commander, had surrendered and was given a warm welcome by the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||ITI apprentices on three-day dharna against BCCL in Dhanbad  ||Over 100 ITI apprentice trainees of Dhanbad launched a three-day dharna at BCCL headquarters in the Koylangar area to press for jobs. The protestors who assembled in front of Koyla Bhavan at 10 am under the banner of BCCL ITI Apprentice Sangh shouted slogans against the BCCL management. Veteran Communist leader and former MP of Bankura Basudeb Acharia, who was present, supported their demand and criticized the unjust policies of the  coal company. The agitators,  who were displaying banners and posterswith slogans against BCCL, later submitted a four- point charter of demands addressed to BCCL chairman and managing director P.M. Prasad. The demands highlighted included provisions for integrating one-year trainining of ITI apprentices with jobs,  providing employement to apprentice trainees on a minimum honorarium at the earliest and providing employement to apprentice trainees on the basis of seniority. Saroj Jha,  the general secretary of BCCL ITI apprentice sangh,  said, “Earlier,  ITI apprentices, after the completion of training at BCCL and other subsidiaries of Coal India,  were absorbed in the company. But that practice has been discontinued since the last three years.” “Despite huge vacancies, apprentice trainees are not being provided jobs in BCCL and other subsidiaries of Coal India Limited while work is being carried out through private contractors who are exploiting workers by not even providing minimum salary  to skilled staff” said Pawan Kumar, president of BCCL ITI Apprentice Sangh. He added that they would be compelled to intensify their agitation if their demands weren't met. Sunil Gupta, a joint secretary of BCCL ITI Apprentice Sangh, said, “While jobs are being provided to apprentice trainees in other sectors like railways, they are being deprived of opportunities despite vacancies. Instead private companies are engaged in coal excavation work on the pretext of lack of proper workforce before BCCL.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Popular western game to be introduced for specials in steel city||Special athletes from Jharkhand will soon come across a game which is highly popular in Europe, United States and Canada. The Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) has planned to introduce Cornhole Baggo in Jamshedpur this month among the intellectually impaired. The Special Olympics Bharat (SOB), a national organisation which promotes special athletes, has already launched Cornhole Baggo through its Odisha chapter. "The new game was recently demonstrated and rules explained in a webinar conducted by SOB and attended by more than 125 persons consisting of coaches, officials and athletes of the national outfit from across the country," said SOJ assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota who was also those who attended the webinar. "We have planned to introduce Cornhole Baggo on February 26 at JRD Tata Sports Complex wherein demonstration will be given at the venue," Sahota said, adding the game is played between two or four athletes and is also played with unified partners The SOJ is sending invitations to its area director Bailey Bodhanwala and officials. Shedding light on the game, the SOJ assistant area director said the specials have to throw 6 inches x 6 inches bags full of corns into a 6 inch hole on a 4 ft x 2 ft board. Participants with lower ability will be required to throw the bag from a distance of 3 m, middle ability from 4 m and higher ability from 5 m. Each bag, which will be of red and green colours, filled with corns will weigh 454 grams," he explained. The board will be placed in an inclined position and the game will be of three sets. "Each set will have two points and participants putting the bag into the hole maximum time emerges winner. It is an interesting game and is somewhat similar to bocce," Sahota added. The SOB will also introduce the game in other districts in due course of time. "We will gradually this new game to other district of Jharkhand. We want all special athletes to try their hands," a SOJ functionary said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Tatanagar to step up Covid vigil from Tuesday||Concerned over the rising cases of Covid-19 in various parts of the country, Tatanagar has made it manadatory for all arriving passengers to undergo a Covid test at the station from Tuesday. The East Singhbhum district health department has decided to resume Covid-19 test ( (RT-PCR) at the Tatanagar railway station from tomorrow ( Tuesday). Confirming this Tatanagar station director H K Balmuchu said that they have got a  written communication in this regard from the district health department today. "The East Singhbhum  district health department will carry out the RT- PCR test while we will provide our staff for thermal screening of passengers. thermal screening will be carried out for both incoming and outgoing passengers, " said Balmuchu talking to The Telegraph Online. East Singhbum district surveillance officer Sahir Pal said three teams have been constituted for conducting covid tests on the premises of the station. " There will be a separate team for carrying out thermal screening of passengers, " he said. Pal added that a sizeable number of passengers arrive at Tatanagar station in trains coming from various states. "The health department team will especially monitor passengers coming from  Maharashtra, Punjab Chhattisgarh , Madhya Pradesh and southern India. We will collect samples which will be sent for lab tests. Passengers will be asked to stay in home isolation till the arrival of test reports. If a passenger is found positive he or she  will be admitted to a Covid hospital, " explained the surveillance officer. Railway sources said a help desk would also be set up at the entrance of  the railway station for the convenience of passengers. Data available from the office of district civil surgeon revealed that so far  in February,  55,702 samples were tested of which 163 tested Covid positive. On Saturday, 10 out of 17 samples had tested positive. The 10 positive cases belonged to a family  of a businessman of Sakchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Blaze at Jamshedpur hotel injures 12||About a dozen people were injured in a fire accident at Alcor Hotel in Bistupur late on Sunday night. The mishap took place at a marriage venue located behind the hotel building on the premises. The cause of the fire is said to be due to LPG leakage at a live kitchen. A total of 11 persons were injured, most of them sustaining a burn injury. One of the injured, a guest at the marriage party, has sustained 12 percent burns and has been admitted to the Tata Main Hospital. 10 others, including nine hotel staffs were released from the hospital after being provided first-aid. The fire could have been more deadly, but timely action by the hotel staff prevented the matter from aggrevating. By the time two fire tenders were pressed into service, the fire had been brought under control. The fire first broke out on a carpet laid at the marriage venue where a live kitchen was placed. The fire spread fast, causing a commotion at the venue. The hotel staff who were around quickly used fire-extinguishers to stop the fire from spreading further, but by the time 11 persons, including two guests had already sustained injuries. A police team rushed to the spot immediately. Deputy superintendent of police (composit control room) Arvind Kumar who had inspected the spot said, "Most of the victims sustained injuries due to the commotion after the fire broke out. All the injured persons were taken to Tata Main Hospital, but only one person was admitted at the hospital's burn care unit but his condition is stated to be out of danger, " said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. The DSP said no one has lodged any written complaint in connection to the mishap, but said they would probe the company which had supplied the LPG cylinder to the hotel. PK Singh who is a resident of Adityapur and a businessman was the host of the marriage party. Raghubir Singh, manager, Banquet Sales of the hotel said they are looking into the cause behind the mishap. "It was an unfortunate thing to happen in our hotel. We will see to it that such mishap may not take place in future, " said the manager while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
22-02-2021||Jharkhand||Only 14 per cent vaccinated in the state in a day||Jharkhand achieved only 14 per cent of its vaccination target on Sunday – the lowest in a day since the beginning of the immunization programme. As per figures shared by the National Health Mission (NHM), only 2080 of 14894 registered beneficiaries were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine on the day. The turnout of beneficiaries was equally poor for the second dose of the vaccine. Only 13 per cent of the registered 1007 beneficiaries got the second jab on the day, highlighted NHM data. As many as 135 people turned up at the vaccination centres on the day to get the second jab. So far, the state has achieved 71 per cent of its vaccination target by inoculating 2,85,678 beneficiaries, stated a report released by the NHM. However, over 1 lakh beneficiaries have given the vaccine jab a miss in the state, the report added. Ranchi continued to be one of the worst performers in terms of vaccination despite achieving 83 per cent of its target on Sunday. As per government data, Ranchi has achieved 59 per cent of its vaccination target, which is only better than Dumka's 57 per cent. As per figures with the NHM, at least seven of 24 districts failed to inoculate more than 10 per cent of the registered beneficiaries, while two districts – Gumla and East Singhbhum– did not inoculate even one beneficiary on the day. Meanwhile, one more Covid patient, a resident of Ranchi, died during treatment on Sunday, taking the Covid toll in the district to 243 and that in Jharkhand to 1086, a separate bulletin released by the NHM stated. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day, bringing the number of active cases in the state down to 453. However, Ranchi witnessed a spike in active cases despite reporting the highest number of recoveries among Jharkhand districts. As per NHM data, as many as 31 people were found infected on the day, while 36 patients recovered. Ranchi reported 21 cases against 19 recoveries, taking the count of active cases in the district to 261. At least 20 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on the day. As per government data, as many as 199596 people have been infected by Covid-19 virus in the state so far, and 98.71 per cent of them have recovered. At the current rate, it would take over 2395 days for the number of cases to double in Jharkhand, highlights government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-134
