23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Schools cannot hold on-campus exams except boards||Schools across Jharkhand will not be allowed to hold on-campus examinations for students other than those appearing for board exams until further notice, a directive from the Home, Prison & Disaster Management Department stated on Tuesday, further clarifying that schools have to continue offering online classes even after on-campus classes resume on March 1. The examinees appearing for board exams as well as other exams will be exempted from restrictions enforced on containment areas, the notification from the government stated, adding that the admit card of examinees will be treated as their entry pass outside containment zones. The Government has also allowed colleges, skill development centres and coaching institutes to resume regular classes, but they must adhere to the rules set by the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the concerned Jharkhand departments as precautionary measures against the spread of Covid-19 virus. The decisions regarding relaxations provided to Jharkhand residents were taken during a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) last week, but the official notification was issued by the government on Tuesday. Congregations of a maximum of 1,000 attendees will be allowed in open spaces from March 1, keeping the size of the ground in mind in order to ensure social distancing, the notification stated, adding that in closed areas, only 50 per cent of the accommodation capacity would be allowed. Besides, all cinema halls across Jharkhand will also be allowed to reopen with only 50 per cent capacity from March 1. This decision comes as a major relief for cinema hall owners in the state even though the Centre has allowed movie theaters to run at 100 per cent capacity across India. Fairs and exhibitions have also been allowed, but only with 50 per cent accommodation capacity. All amusement parks, entertainment parks, swimming pools will also reopen on March 1. However, swimming pools will be open only for sportspersons for training purpose, the notification stated. This means that swimming pools in clubs and hotels will remain closed. The government has allowed Anganwadi centres to open on March 1, provided all the Anganwadi sevikas get vaccinated before coming in contact with the children. Anganwadi centres are government run facilities that address nutritional needs of children below the age of six years in a bid to address malnutrition – a major challenge in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Mandatory Covid test for MLAs before budget session||The Jharkhand Assembly secretariat issued an order on Tuesday for compulsory Covid-19 testing for all MLAs and officials three days prior to the beginning of the budget session of the House on February 26. While the overall Covid-19 numbers have shown a downward trend for about two months now in the state, officials in the assembly secretariat said that they were following safety protocols to prevent any further spread of the virus, especialy now that five states are reporting a spike in cases. Officials in Ranchi maintained that they would not allow any disregard of safety norms during the Assembly session. “All the MLAs, cabinet ministers and officials required to attend the budget session are requested to get Covid-19 test done prior to 72 hours before the start of the house. In case, if anyone, is found positive, the MLA concerned may, as per the rules of the house, appoint another MLA on his behalf to raise questions,” the order issued by Vidhan Sabha secretary Mahendra Prasad read.  The order also advised anyone having Covid symptoms to voluntarily refrain from attending the House. Social distancing norms will be followed inside the Assembly. Similar rules will also apply to journalists covering the session. The Assembly premises, however, will remain out of bounds for the public whihc means the no one can watch the proceedings from the visitors’ gallery. Assembly staffs is busy putting in place mandatory arrangements in accordance with safety norms for the session. An official said, “There will be provisions for thermal scanning and sanitizer machines will be installed at all entry points. Over the next two days, the entire assembly premises will undergo proper cleaning and fogging.” Starting from February 26, the House will function till March 16. The state budget will be tabled on March 3. Notably, similar protocols were in place during the monsoon session held in September last year when covid-19 was at its peak in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Business chambers support to Traders’ Bandh on Friday over GST issues||Over 1.5 lakh small and medium size traders across Jharkhand will participate in the all India Bharat Vyapar Bandh called by Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) against GST on February 26. Leading business chambers of the state including Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industry ( FJCCI ), Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) and Jharkhand Thok Vastra Vikreta Sangh have extended support to the bandh. “We have extended our support to the bandh which is for a genuine cause of traders. We are against the new provisions of GST,” Praveen Kumar Chhabra, president of FJCCI told The Telegraph Online over phone. The bandh call given by CAIT, the apex body of traders has already been supported by All India Transport Welfare Association (AITWA) . The transporters’ unit has also announced a ‘chakka jam’  on February 26. Several other leading national and state level trade associations have supported the  traders bandh. CAIT national secretary and former president of Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry  Suresh Sonthalia said that the business community, which was enthusiastic about the GST system when it was introduced, now feels highly depressed because of wide complications and imposition of huge penalties even for a small unintentional error. "The traders across the country have been expressing their resentment over the cruel GST provisions which are contrary to the letter and spirit of GST Act passed by the Parliament," said Sonthalia. He added that more than eight  crore traders  across the country will participate in the bandh to express their solidarity over the issue. A functionary of  Jharkhand Thok Vastra Vikreta Sangh M Agrawal said that traders were finding it difficult to comply with the complex GST norms as stipulated by the Centre and in demand for simpler norms would go on a nationwide strike on February 26 to let the government know that the process of constant amendments in GST rules were only confusing traders. He appealed to all urban and rural traders to ensure success of the bandh by keeping their business establishments closed on February 26 and unitedly fight for the cause of simplified GST norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Criminals snatch Rs 6 lakh from elderly couple in Bistupur||Two bike-borne criminals snatched away a bag containing Rs 6 lakh from an elderly man near Bank of Baroda on Bistupur main road on Tuesday afternoon. The incident took place at around 1 pm when Nirmal Dey and his wife Ruma Dey were going to deposit the money which was withdrawn from Bank of India’s main branch, situated on the same Bistupur main road. As the couple reached the entrance of the bank, one of the two bike-borne criminals who was riding pillion snatched the bag from the hand of Dey and fled away towards Bistupur roundabout. The crime took place about 150 meters away from Bistupur police station and 70 meters away from the Bank of India’s main branch. As the criminal snatched the bag, Ruma Dey screamed for help, but despite the road being crowded and bustling with commuters, no one took the initiative to chase the criminals. After the police were informed, a police party led by Bistupur thana OC, Vishnu Raut reached the spot and started an investigation. “Two bike-borne criminals have snatched away a bag from an elderly couple near Bank of Baroda. We are trying to detect the criminals by taking a statement from the victims and also taking out the CCTV footage of the crime scene,” said Raut while talking to The Telegraph Online. Nirmal Dey who is a retired Tata Steel employee was too traumatised to speak, but Ruma Dey did. A resident of Bhatia Bustee in Kadma, Ruma said she was a teacher in a local English school, but after her husband’s retirement, they both had shifted to Bangalore. “The money which was snatched away was my husband’s savings. We had never thought that on Bistupur main road where so many cops remain in patrolling mode such a snatching incident can occur,” said the woman while talking about the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Pathalgadi activists meet governor on scheduled areas||A group of activists met Governor Droupadi Murmu at Raj Bhavan and sought her nod for installing Pathalgadi stone plaques near Jharkhand High Court and the Vidhan Sabha building in Ranchi on Tuesday, a day after they attempted a similar protest with a stone plaque with names of 13 districts inscribed on it. After handing over a memorandum to the governor, the activists said the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution allowed the 13 districts, including Ranchi, to be declared as scheduled areas where the tribal law should come in force. They said that as per the Constitution, tribesmen and tribeswomen living in these areas also enjoyed immunity from legal action and there was a different set of laws for such people. The activists told the media that the governor told them that it was a constitutional matter and any decision regarding their demands could not be taken in haste. “The governor has also assured that police will not harass us unnecessarily,” one of the activists, a bearded man clad in a checkered shirt and a traditional tribal Panchi – a variety of dhoti. Security was beefed up near the Jharkhand high court and the Vidhan Sabha buildings – the two areas where the Pathalgadi supporters have threatened to practice the custom.  As per the 2011 Census, tribals form at least 26.2 per cent of the state’s population of 3.29 crore. While the 32 tribal groups in Jharkhand were spread across the state, their strength was particularly high in the 13 districts which the Pathalgadi supporters cited. These are Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Lohardaga, West Singhbhum, Gumla, Latehar, Saraikela Kharsawan, Sahebganj, Dumka, Pakur, Jamtara, Khunti and Simdega. Pathalgadi, a tribal custom of installing stone plaques and other writings at the border of villages to demarcate the area and pay respects to ancestors, drew the attention of the state government in 2017 after a few plaques restricted entry of administration and police in villages and declared them as liberated zones. The former BJP-led government had decided to tackle the issue with an iron fist and lodged FIR against several hundred Pathalgadi supporters. However, soon after coming to power in 2019, Chief Minister Hemant Soren had announced to withdraw all cases against Pathalgadi supporters in Jharkhand during the 2017 movement. Monday’s security breach near the high court in Ranchi occurred a day after the chief minister’s remark that there had been a few miscreants in the 2017-2018 Pathalgadi movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Agriculture minister attacks Centre over farmers’ loan waiver issue||Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh on Tuesday accused the Centre of deceiving farmers. He charged the state BJP MPs for not raising their issues properly at the Parliament to ensure loan waiver. Inaugurating the Agriculture Exhibition of Farmer’s conclave at the Dhanbad Zila Parishad ground, he asked, “What relief has been provided to farmers of the state during almost 20 years of BJP rule in the state?” “BJP leaders should introspect injustice caused to farmers both at state and central government levels, due to which the farmers are compelled to come on road in Delhi leaving their home and family,” Paralekh said. BJP has not acted on the promised loan waiver of Rs 2 lakh and instead gave only Rs 50,000 to the farmers. “Despite fund constraints during the pandemic we had made a beginning for the loan waiver of farmers and will increase the loan waiver gradually,” claimed Patralekh. Jharkhand agriculture minister Badal Patralekh on Tuesday accused the Centre of deceiving farmers. He charged the state BJP MPs for not raising their issues properly at the Parliament to ensure loan waiver. Inaugurating the Agriculture Exhibition of Farmer’s conclave at the Dhanbad Zila Parishad ground, he asked, “What relief has been provided to farmers of the state during almost 20 years of BJP rule in the state?” “BJP leaders should introspect injustice caused to farmers both at state and central government levels, due to which the farmers are compelled to come on road in Delhi leaving their home and family,” Paralekh said. BJP has not acted on the promised loan waiver of Rs 2 lakh and instead gave only Rs 50,000 to the farmers. “Despite fund constraints during the pandemic we had made a beginning for the loan waiver of farmers and will increase the loan waiver gradually,” claimed Patralekh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||On-campus admission procedure kicks off at IIT(ISM)||The three-day process of physical verification of documents for M.Tech students kicked off at the IIT(ISM) Dhanbad campus on Tuesday, resuming activity at the institute which had to be shut down since March 2020 amid the pandemic. During its first day, the submission and verification of documents of admission aspirants of 148 students of different branches was carried out. Further proceedings will be conducted over the next two days in other branches as part of the admission process. Students were happy to visit the campus after months of online educational activities being carried out. “It was a pleasant experience returning to the campus after a gap of more than a year. The serene atmosphere of the  IIT offered the much needed solace from the boredom of home studies,” Subhas Tomar, an aspiring student, told The Telegraph Online. “We wish classroom teaching begins at the institute soon,” Tomar, the son of a farmer, added. Ashok Kumar Giri who arrived at the campus with his son for his admission said, “We are quite happy to see the campus buzzing with activities after so long. We expect that the state government provides opportunity to the students to carry out class room teaching as early as possible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city's veteran athlete gears up for national meet ||Veteran athlete Achinto Pramanik is all set to zoom into the 39th Masters National Athletics Championship starting next month. The national meet is scheduled at Dalli Rajhara in Chhattisgarh between March 20 to 24. The 68-year-old is covering a distance of 20 km daily in the morning before practicing stretching exercises at his home in Gamharia. The sexagenarian wishes to compete in 1500 m, 5000 m and 10000 m disciplines. Talking about his routine, he says, "I leave home at 5 am sharp. I take the new Domuhani bridge and preceed towards the NH 33. Keeping my age in mind, I vary my pace and try to take things easy. I run alone and enjoy it to the fullest. I want to bag medals in all the three disciplines I'm competing in and bring laurels for Jharkhand," Pramanik, who won the second slot in the 65 years and above age category at the fifth edition of the Tata Steel Kolkata 25k run-a-thon in December, 2018, said. This will be the first Masters National Athletics Championship after the pandemic. Pramanik also finished second, behind Singapore's Peter Allen, in the Delhi half-marathon (21 km) by clocking 1 hr 51 minutes. The event was held virtually in November last year. "Running comes naturally to me. I think age should not be a barrier for pursuing any sporting activity. In fact, I don't feel tired running. I want to continue it till my body permits," the veteran athlete said, adding he has already sent his entry fee for the Chhatisgarh national meet. Pramanik said he felt completely out of shape during the lockdown. Though he exercised daily at home, but missed running. "I started feeling fit only after the lockdown was lifted. Fitness is of paramount importance while participating in competitive events,” he said. He has won medals for Jharkhand in national masters athletic meets. According to him,  he wants to compete in as many marathons as possible and fulfil his dream of representing the country in world championships. “I have made it to the national masters athletics teams for international competitions on more than one occasion. The goal is to win the prize money since nobody comes forward to sponsor my trips. I have been selected in the Indian team for world competitions but had to back out due to paucity of funds,” he added. He missed a chance to represent India at the World Masters Athletics Championship in Lyon, France held in August 2015. He managed to send an entry to participate in the 2000m steeplechase, but could not afford the trip as Rs 1.5 lakh was needed to go to France. The Masters Athletics Federation of India doesn't sponsor athletes for international competitions. Pramanik, who runs a grocery shop near his home, stays with his family. He has won one gold (200m steeplechase), one silver (800m), and a bronze (1500m) at the national event held in Panjim, Goa in 2015. He also bagged three gold medals (200m steeplechase, 800 m and 1500 m) and a silver medal (4x400 m relay) at the national meet held in Hyderabad in 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Family of dead minor beat up junior doctor in Daltonganj||Around 15 to 20 people on Tuesday beat up a junior doctor on duty  in the emergency room of the Medininirai Medical College hospital in Daltonganj after he declared a patient as brought dead. The doctor, Ramashankar Kumar, said he had even performed an ECG on the 13-year-old girl to confirm the death when she was brought at around 6:30 in the morning but one of the men who had come along started beating him up without any provocation. Daltonganj OC A K Mahatha said they have  registered the case under various sections of the IPC against unidentified people, based on Kumar’s written complaint. The police have assured the doctors that they will make an arrest within 24 hours. Mahatha said that the girl had died by suicide in her Hamidganj residence on Tuesday morning. Following the assault, the family of the girl fled from the hospital to cremate her body but went back to the hospital to hand it over for postmortem after police convinced them to do so. However, the situation continued to deteriorate when junior resident doctors refused to perform an autopsy on the body, even after their seniors tried to pacify them. The family, too, started demanding the body be given to them for the last rites if postmortem couldn’t be done, making the situation more tense. Police ultimately brought the situation under control, after which senior doctors conducted an autopsy of the body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||VHP takes on Hemant for 'Adivasis not Hindus' remark ||Two days after Hemant Soren’s address at a Harvard conclave wherein he said that tribals aren't Hindus, the Vishva Hindu Parishad attacked the chief minister saying he was acting at the behest of Christian missionaries to confuse innocent tribals and forest dwellers. VHP’s central secretary general Milind Parande, in a statement issued from Delhi on Tuesday, asked Hemant to desist from sabotaging religious feelings of tribals, adding that the legendary Bhagwan Birsa Munda also practiced values enshrined in the Ramayana and Mahabharata. “Hemant Soren is committing the great sin of sabotaging the faith of the Vanvasi (forest-dwellers) society by confusing and bewildering them. The immature & thoughtless assertion of the CM that the Adivasis were never ever Hindus, nor are they Hindus now, injures and upsets the belief and faith of our patriotic and Dharmnishth/devout forest-dweller brethren – and the Vishva Hindu Parishad (World Hindu Council) strongly condemns it,” said Parande. “It seems that by denying the Vanvasi society its great personages – their share of the glorious historic credit of unique contributions to the causes of the country, Dharm and culture, he is sitting with and playing into the hands of the scheming and plotting Christian missionaries, communists and Naxalites. It shall never be acceptable,” he added. Parande said the political leadership ought to make statements with responsibility and accountability. “The planned and despicable attempts that Soren is making to confuse, misguide and disorient the Vanvasi society will never succeed. He must keep it in mind that the Vanvasi society has been in a principal role in protecting, preserving and promoting the causes of the country, Dharm and Bharatiya culture since times immemorial,” he said. Invoking legendary illustrations from the mythology and history, he claimed that Bhagwan Birsa Munda was not only adept at practising the values of the Ramayana-Mahabharata, but also strongly opposed the conversion plotting of the British and the Christian missionaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-132
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Showcause notice to Dhanbad jail superintendent ||A district court served a showcause notice to the superintendent of Dhanbad divisional jail Ajay Kumar on Tuesday in response to petitions against BJP MLA Sanjeev Singh's transfer to Dumka Central Jail alleging political meddling and that the accused's right to defend himself would be compromised if he was housed in a distant prison. The court of Additional District and Session Judge-IV of Dhanbad Ravi Ranjan served the notice while hearing the petition filed by Sanjvee Singh’s lawyer, Md Javed, regarding Sunday's (February 21)  jail transfer. The judge also asked the Jail Superintendent to submit his reply positively on February 25. Md Javed told The Telegraph online that in all, three cases based on different petitions were heard by the judge on Tuesday. Of these, hearings were completed in the case calling for cross examining eye witnesses of the Niraj Singh murder case, namely, Eklavya Singh and injured Aditya Raj. “The second hearing was on a petition challenging the transfer Sanjeev Singh to Dumka Central Jail from Dhanbad Divisional Jail. The court fixed the next date of hearing on February 25” said Javed. “The third case was related to a demand of showcause to Superintendent of Dhanbad Divisional Jail Ajay Kumar. The court served a show cause seeking a reply on February 25," he added.. Javed in his petition seeking to transfer Sanjeev Singh back to Dhanbad from Dumka,  pointed out that the transfer of an undertrial to a distant prison may adversely affect his right to defend himself and isolate him from his friends and relatives. Family members and supporters of Sanjeev, including his wife Ragini Singh, alleged the shifting was a result of "political reasons" at the behest of Congress MLA of Jharia and her sister in law Purnima Singh. Immediately after Sanjeev was shifted to Dumka jail on February 21, Ragini addressed the Press at Singh Mansion, the palatial residence of Sanjeev, along with senior BJP leaders of the district unit to allege that the transfer has was  carried out to deprive him of the opportunity to consult his lawyer at a time when his trial was at a crucial stage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||State's vaccination rate improves to 32 per cent||As many as 5561 beneficiaries were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Monday, while the second dose was administered to 1892 people, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. After achieving hardly 14 per cent of its vaccination target on Sunday, the state improved its performance significantly on Monday by inoculating 32 per cent of the beneficiaries for the first dose and 54 per cent of those registered for the second dose, NHM stated in a report. While Bokaro achieved 100 per cent of its target in administering the first dose as well as the second dose, Ranchi achieved only 64 per cent of its target for the first dose and 30 per cent for the second dose. As per government data, Jharkhand has administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine to 283704 people, thereby achieving 74 per cent of its target. However, more than 1 lakh beneficiaries have given the first jab of the vaccine a miss. The state reported only one case of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) on the day from Ramgarh district, taking the total count of AEFI cases in Jharkhand to 272, the NHM report further stated. Besides reporting the only AEFI case, Ramgarh achieved only 9 per cent of its vaccination target on the day – the lowest among all districts in Jharkhand. Deoghar has achieved the highest vaccination rate of 88 per cent in Jharkhand, while Ranchi has achieved only 63 per cent of its target so far. However, as many as 30331 people were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Ranchi – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, Ranchi reported a Covid casualty for the second consecutive day on Monday, taking the count of Covid fatalities in the state to 1087 and that in the district to 244, a bulletin released by NHM stated. As many as 41 people, including 27 from Ranchi alone, were found infected on the day. The state also reported 45 Covid recoveries on the day and 28 of the recovered patients were residents of Ranchi, the bulletin further stated. At least 19 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on Monday. As per government data, as many as 119637 people have been infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand and 98.71 per cent of them have recovered. As many as 448 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand on the day and 258 of them were residents of Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
23-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: All India Sikh Students Federation to host petrol loan mela till fuel price comes down||A Sikh outfit here has taken recourse to sarcasm to vent their anger against the Union government’s failure to control the price of petrol, which has touched Rs 91.15 per litre in the steel city. The All India Sikh Students Federation’s (AISSF) Jharkhand-Bihar unit has decided to host petrol loan mela every Sunday across Jharkhand till the price of the fuel comes down. The mela was inaugurated near the Sakchi gurdwara in Jamshedpur on Sunday. “Through such initiatives, we just want to show the mirror to the Union government on its failure to tackle the spiraling fuel prices. We organised a petrol loan mela at Jamshedpur on Sunday wherein customers could purchase petrol in easy instalments at zero per cent interest as is done for expensive home appliances and other costly branded items. This is aimed at highlighting how precious petrol has become for people so that they are forced to buy it on loan. The AISSF units will also host similar petrol loan melas in other major cities of Jharkhand from the coming Sunday,” said AISSF eastern unit president and Sakchi-based trader Satnam Singh Gambhir. The AISSF, which was formed in 2008 in Jharkhand and Bihar, currently has over 100 members in Jamshedpur. It has its units in almost all the big cities of Jharkhand. Over 30 persons took slips from the petrol loan mela held between 1pm and 5pm on Sunday. “We had tied up with a fuel retail outlet in Sakchi and anybody showing the slip bearing our stamp would be given petrol at the outlet. For each litre of petrol, one has to make a down payment of Rs 10 and give us a post-dated cheque of Rs 20 to us for getting the slip. Nearly 30 persons took the slips while we received enquiries over mobile phones from nearly 30 more people. We will be tagging the pictures of petrol loan melas on the Twitter handle of the Prime Minister Office,” Singh said. The social media is abuzz with conversations surrounding the fuel price hike as #Petrol100 trended on Twitter. Many users shared cricket anecdotes to mark the occasion as petrol prices reached the Rs 100 mark in major cities of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-133
