24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia civic body makes make livelihood provisions for the displaced ||Dhanbad District Administration along with Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority (JRDA) have decided to provide livelihood provisions for those displaced at the Jharia Vihar Colony, by engaging them in the construction work of quarters, market complexes, schools, colleges, hospitals and others. The provision is being made for around 5,000 families of the 595 underground fire-affected areas rehabilitated in Belgarhia, are done to make their standards of living better and address issues in connection with basic amenities like power, water and health facilities. Rehabilitation and resettlement officer of JRDA, Gulzar Anjum said, “The livelihood provisions are being  made to make the rehabilitation process all encompassing. The clause related to mandatory engagement of local labourers will be put up in the tender notice for the upcoming construction work.” The officer also informed that as per instructions from Dhanbad Deputy Director Uma Shankar Singh, the JRDA has cleared a shifting allowance of Rs 10,000 each which will be made to 47 families and such an amount will be provided to more beneficiaries. “We have also initiated the process for the pending subsistence allowance of 500 days of minimum wages to some of the residents of Belgarhia as per the Jharia master plan,” he said. Anjum added that they have launched an awareness campaign in fire-affected areas of Jharia since Tuesday, while a BCCL team along with district administration and JRDA workers held a camp in the Bhowra area on Wednesday. “Our team, during the interaction with residents of fire zones, explained the benefits of shifting to Belgharia which has better civic amenities. They also allayed their apprehensions about  loss of source of livelihood at the new place and apprised about the source of employment being generated for them,” he said further. Lack of source of livelihood has been a persistent issue for the rehabilitated families of Jharia, who are primarily engaged in scavenging coal, construction work and other such professions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||IIM Ranchi unveils  Birsa Munda Centre for Tribal Affairs ||Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ranchi has set up a dedicated centre for tribal studies and signed MoUs with two noted non-government organisations working in the field of development of adivasis in the state during a formal ceremony held at the premier business school’s building at Suchana Bhavan on Tuesday. Governor Droupadi Murmu while virtually launching the Birsa Munda Centre for Tribal Affairs (BMCTA), lauded IIM-R for venturing into the field of tribal research and studies as part of its academic responsibilities. She said, “It is our responsibility to take tribal values and make people aware of the cultural heritage of different tribes. Students can learn more about the tribal community through this centre. The government would be able to provide more development to them via this initiative. I hope that IIM Ranchi will ready students for entrepreneurship development in the state of Jharkhand. Thus, the tribal communities’ development will be preserved. Such initiatives can avoid extinction of tribes. It will also help in preserving their culture and heritage.” Other guests present at the low-key ceremony hosted at the IIM campus included Ranchi University vice-chancellor Ramesh Kumar Pandey as guest of honour, Padmashree and founder secretary of Vikash Bharti, an NGO based in Bishunpur, Gumla, vice-president of Friends of Tribal Society for Mumbai Chapter, Namita Pandya among others. Members of IIM’s board of governors on the other hand connected virtually to participate. Speaking on their new initiatives, IIM-R director Shailendra Singh explained the reason behind setting up an exclusive centre for tribals.  He said, “Tribal issues are important because tribal communities are still considered backward. The center’s vision will be to become one of the finest platforms where people can seek knowledge on tribal issues, income generation, entrepreneurship programmes, and how it can be inculcated in tribal youths. We should give development opportunities to tribal people to integrate them with society in accordance with the government of India’s vision to become Atmanirbhar Bharat.” One MoU each that was signed with Vikas Bharati and Friends of Tribal Society is to boost research fueled activities and roll out work integrated education programmes at the village levels. Vikas Bharati’s Bhagat said, “We are proud to be associated with IIM Ranchi at the right time. Sustainable development can be achieved with the help of students, and tribal people are ready. Jobs will be provided in rural areas with the help of the government.” Namita Pandya, President of Friends of Tribal Society for Mumbai Chapter, on the other hand said that IIM Ranchi’s move to sign the MOU of Ekal Abhiyaan, focuses on total integrated village primary education development. “Through the Ekal Abhiyaan programme, we are taking care of tribals for their overall development for the last 30 years,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Student ruckus over name at varsity senate meeting||Members of the students’ union raised ruckus at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University (DSPMU) on Wednesday demanding inclusion of student’s representatives in the varsity’s maiden senate meeting with the Adviasi Chatra Sangh (ACS) calling for rechristening the university after a Jharkhand personality. ACS holds four of five berths in the students’ council of the university and renaming the university after a local hero has been a long-pending demand of the ACS. On Wednesday, some members of the student body gheraoed the office of the vice chancellor Satyanarayan Munda and allegedly manhandled him. “How can you hold the senate meeting without including any member of the student’s council?” asked Sanjay Mahli, president of ACS, adding that his students’ union wanted to make the senate members aware of the growing demand of renaming the university among students. However, officials from the university said that the tenure of the students’ council had ended, and they did not have the right to participate in the meeting. “Around six student representatives attended the senate meeting today (Wednesday). Various issues related to the holistic development of the university were discussed,” said an official. In April 2017, the then BJP-led state government of chief minister Raghubar Das approved the idea of renaming Ranchi College after Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, a barrister, a politician and a former vice chancellor of Calcutta University, which marked the beginning of a political war between student bodies here. Several protest marches and signature campaigns by student unions followed soon after the recommendation was made. Tribal student bodies also handed over memorandums against the rechristening to governor Droupadi Murmu and government officials, but their pleas went unheeded. On Wednesday, governor  Murmu was supposed to attend the meeting in person. But she  eventually joined other senate members via video conferencing. With focus on improving the quality of teachers, she said that teachers not only imparted knowledge to students, but were also responsible for moulding them into responsible citizens. “The mode of education may have changed due to Covid-19 with inclusion of technology, but the basis of education remains the same – even today, teachers continue to guide society,” said Murmu. The senate meeting was delayed by over two hours following the ruckus by students. Talking about the achievements of the university, the vice chancellor said  they had the best of teachers and students had from neighbouring states like West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha had enrolled. He said that the university was consistently striving to include new courses and add more facilities for students. Around 20 items were on the agenda, mostly related to new courses, teachers’ recruitment, promotions, renovation and improvement of the library were discussed, sources present in the meeting said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI Entrepreneurship Summit 2021 goes virtual ||However, this year XES is going virtual and aims to have a bigger impact with its global outreach.  The event like every year has been initiated by its Entrepreneurship Cell (E-Cell ), a decade old institution that engages with startups across the country, the event aims to provide young entrepreneurs access to experienced mentors. It is home to XCEED, XLRI’s incubation centre. To be held from February 26 to 28, the summit will see  a multitude of events like Disrupt Business Plan, Emerging Entrepreneurs for kids, E-Cafe speaker series, Internfair, Workshops and more. Workshops to foster entrepreneurial aptitude that will also be conducted for three days from February 23, in collaboration with edu4sure. These workshops are open to all and will constitute mentors with rich experience from Google, S&P Global and the founder of edu4sure covering topics like ‘Startup valuation and investor pitch’, ‘Start-Up Ideation, Validation and Testing’ and ‘Essentials for Building and Running a Successful Start-Up’. These topics will give the budding entrepreneurs a complete walkthrough of the do’s and don’ts while building their own business. During MBA, live projects play a crucial role in exposing B-school students to real-world problems. It gives them the opportunity to experience a professional work environment. E-Cell has collaborated with startups like Sensio, Finocontrol, Spring works, eWards and Metalmann School International, among others to help students get a taste of real business issues. The projects cover a variety of domains - ranging from business development and marketing to data analytics giving XLRI students the versatility and holistic approach B-school students are known for. Its segment E-Cafe aims to take participants through the journey every entrepreneur goes through and give them an overview of what is required to be successful. With a focus being on inspiring and showcasing women entrepreneurs, the talk shows  will cover various stages of a start-up’s life cycle like ideation, setup, growth, pivoting and acquiring funding. As a part of the summit XES Disrupt B-Plan will also be organised. Disrupt is a platform for investors and mentors to find and invest in the top business ideas and startups from the student community. “ Through this platform, we hope to give the founders a push in the right direction, and the investors and mentors an avenue to discover good business plans and passionate entrepreneurs,” said a member of the Entrepreneurship Cell. Disrupt 2021 had over 1000 participants, of which the top five were chosen to be mentored by a panel of seasoned entrepreneurs. E-Cell had signed up with mentors of those growing startups such as  Pritesh Mittal (COO and Co-founder at Growisto), Sreejith Moolayil (COO and Co-founder at True Elements), Hari Ganapathy (Co-Founder at Pick Your Trail) and Srinivas Rowjee (Co-founder at Sportskeeda.com) and Manoj Sanker(Founder of Nemocare). Another event Emerging Entrepreneurs, as a part of the summit  aims to nurture bright young entrepreneurial talent by providing them a platform to explore creative solutions to tackle current world problems and give them a taste of the business world. Specifically for students from classes VIII to XII, it introduces them to entrepreneurship at a young age and provides them with a platform to explore creative solutions to tackle current world problems. “ In today’s world, it is imperative for us to provide our nation's youth with the right tools and enable them to live up to their tremendous potential. This year EE saw participation from 300 students from 48 schools across the country, with young mentors from Stanford, Wharton, and other leading global institutes. In fact, one of the mentors is already running a start-up worth $1.5 million which he started at the age of 23. In preparation for the grand finale on February 28, 10 finalists have received one to one mentorship from some of the best entrepreneurial minds at XLRI. E-Cell’s focus has been on the learning of the students and to provide them with a platform to excel,” said he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel conducts mock drill to test preparedness for emergencies||On Tuesday, Tata Steel conducted an onsite mock drill to check the company’s preparedness for chemical emergencies inside its Jamshedpur Works’ premise. The National Disaster Response Force ( NDRF ) team led by two deputy commandants were present as observers to witness the compliance of Standard Operating Procedure ( SOP) by various teams of the company. To check the response capability of various teams to a potential gas leak scenario. The  drill entailed the creation of a simulated scenario on various aspects to test the readiness of different teams like - fire brigade, medical, technical and operations. It was mainly aimed at ascertaining the compliance of SOP by various teams and reviewing the emergency preparedness plan to ensure an augmented state of preparedness for any such emergency. The NDRF observers witnessed the entire drill including exhibited skills and techniques for the management of incident and evacuation as well as rescue of the affected people from the simulated gas leakage site. Following the drill, the NDRF team debriefed the onsite emergency management team and shared the observed opportunities for improvement and learnings with them. And even appreciated the evacuation drill by Tata Steel. Significantly, Tata Steel has a robust system of emergency management and has a procedure in place to tackle any kind of safety related emergencies. The emergency management team at the company  is led by vice- presidents and has members from fire brigade, security, medical services, safety, human resources, Corporate Communications and chiefs of operations and maintenance. Significantly, the company conducts mock drill on a regular basis as part of its emergency preparedness plan. Tata Steel is one of world’s most ethical companies The company adds another feather to its cap, as Ethisphere, a global leader in defining and advancing the standards of ethical business practices recognises it as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies. Tata Steel  received this recognition in 2021 for the tenth time .This honour is reserved for a select number of companies with exceptional programmes and a commitment to advancing business integrity. T. V. Narendran, CEO and managing director , Tata Steel, said : “It is indeed an honour to be recognised by Ethisphere as one of the most ethical companies in the world. Today, for companies like Tata Steel that have a global footprint, there is a large societal responsibility and therefore following the highest level of ethical standards receives topmost priority. The robust internal systems that we have created including various policies and initiatives ensure that understanding and maintaining global and regional standards for ethical way of doing business is embraced across the company and around the world. The recognition encourages us to further our journey towards sustainable development by reemphasising our focus on the highest ethical values, environment and well-being of our people and community.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Sadar Hospital to be made into state-of-art healthcare centre||Dhanbad Sadar Hospital is all set to be made into a state of art hospital which will boast of facilities like ‑ clock emergency service, well-equipped ICU, better OPD facility, waiting halls for family members of patients, separate parking facility for two wheelers and cars and more. Established in May 2018, the hospital had been recently reviewed to understand how the healthcare centre could be bettered. The process for the upgrade has been initiated. A detailed report marking details like unused and dilapidated buildings of the old Sadar Hospital campus that could be demolished and made into new units or the equipment that could be brought in to make the patient experience better is to be chalked out by the designated consultant. The infrastructure boost of the hospital is part of district administration’s Health Vision 2024, which is being manned under the leadership of Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh. DC, Dhanbad in the recent past has played a key role in bettering healthcare facilities during the pandemic. A meeting between Singh and his team senior officials of district administration  with the health department comprising ADM (law and Order) Chandan Kumar; civil surgeon - Dr Gopal Das took place recently. Sharing the details, Singh said, “During the interaction we discussed manpower deficiency, lack in infrastructure with health department officials. During this meeting officials of the building division and Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited were also present.” “We will demolish some of the dilapidated buildings to create space for new facilities like dormitories for the patient’s family members, staff quarters, waiting hall and more,” said Singh. Elaborating on the slew of other infrastructure boosts that the Sadar Hospital would be getting soon, he said, “We are planning a better parking arrangement having several facilities for both two wheelers and four wheelers. We are also developing a children’s park in the hospital.” Notably, deputy secretary of the state health, medical education and family welfare department, Seema Udaipuri, who had recently inspected the hospital on February 17 also took stock of the ongoing developmental work of the hospital. She has assured that among other proposed facilities, an intensive care unit (ICU) has also been listed. Significantly, the hospital resumed its OPD services earlier this month, after a gap of nine months. The OPD services which were launched in the hospital last year after the construction of the hospital building were discontinued since the outbreak of Covid-19 crisis in March as the hospital was initially converted into a quarantine centre and later used to conduct Covid-19 testing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Robbers snatch away bag full of jewelleries from man||Two bike-riding men snatched a bag containing jewelleries from a jeweller after dragging him a few metres on the Domchanch-Jai Nagar Road of Koderma on Wednesday, due to which he sustained grievous injuries. Vicky Soni, owner of Neelam Jewelers in Koderma was sent to the Sadar hospital while a search operation was launched to nab the accused. Soni was near his shop with the bag when two men riding a bike tried to snatch it. However, he clutched onto the bag full of jewelleries as the bike continued to move forward, as a result of which he fell on the road and was dragged a few metres. The criminals escaped within seconds after they managed to get the bag, leaving Soni injured. Police said that the criminals had information regarding Soni’s habit of carrying his jewelleries back home and bringing them to the shop everyday. “They must have observed him well and carried out the attack as he was on foot. We are carrying raids in the area, while borders have been sealed,” an official said. It was not clear how much the jewelleries were worth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Two minor girls go missing in Adityapur, police yet to get any clue||Two minor girls aged 13 and 14 have gone missing since the past 24 hours, after they came out of their houses to attend tuition classes at Adityapur in Seraikela-Kharsawan district, leaving investigating officers clueless. Police have launched a search operation from Wednesday to look for Sonali Kumari, resident of Majhitola and Radha Sardar, resident of Tripura Colony of the Adityapur Municipal Corporation area, after one of the girls’ parents lodged a missing person report. "We got to know about the two minors missing from Adityapur area at about 10.30 pm on Tuesday. We have started searching for the girls seriously, " Adityapur Police Station OC Rajendra Prasad Mahto said. Sonali's father Dinesh Prasad said his daughter had gone for her coaching class in Adityapur at 3 pm on Tuesday like she would go every day. "My daughter did not return home by 5 pm, which was her usual time of coming home. But when she didn't return even by 7 pm, we got anxious and started to search for her," he told The Telegraph Online. Prasad who works at a factory in Adityapur industrial area said they first went over to the tuition teacher's house. "But the teacher told us that Sonali had not come to the class on Tuesday. We got more nervous and started searching for her at her friends' houses, during which we came to know that Sonali was seen with one of her friends, Radha Sardar at Adityapur in the evening. On going over to Radha's house in Murari Colony, we found that she was missing from her house too. After that I lodged a missing person report with Adityapur Police Station late on Tuesday night, " said Prasad. Mahto said they are talking to the parents of the missing girls and their close friends. He said they have circulated the girls’ photographs in railway stations, bus-stands and police stations of Seraikela-Kharsawan and adjoining districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Five of family found brutally murdered in Gumla||Five members of a tribal family including a five year old kid were found brutally murdered at their residence in Buruhatu Amtola of the Kamdara block on Wednesday, setting panic among people of Gumla. As the news came out, Gumla SP H.P. Janardhan rushed to the site to take stock of the incident. Kamdara Police, on the other hand, pressed a sniffer dog to kick-start probe into the gruesome murder. Those found dead were identified as Nikudin Toppo (60), wife Josphina Toppo (55), their son Vincent (35), daughter-in-law Shivani (30) and the elderly couple’s grandson Balwina. According to police, Nikudin, Vincent and Balwina were found hacked to death in one room while Nikudin was discovered dead at the veranda of their kutcha house. Josphina was found lying dead on the bed inside another room.  “They were hit by a rod and later hacked to death. Going by the crime scene, there was more than one criminal,” said an official, who was part of the probe team that visited the village in the morning. Police believe that the murder occurred in the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. A few villagers raised alarm early morning after spotting a body in a pool of blood. “It could be a case of some personal enmity of someone with the family, related to either land or something else. The bodies have been sent for the post mortem and further probe is on,” said the official, adding that preliminary interaction with the villagers didn’t yield much information as yet. “Many claimed that the family didn’t have any enmity with anyone in the village and that they eked out living through agriculture. But without a strong motive, no one would resort to such gruesome murder,” he said. Janardhan assured to crack the case soon. “We are probing from all possible angles using scientific methods based on the circumstantial evidence from the spot and will soon crack the case,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi achieves 84 per cent of its vaccination target||Jharkhand on Tuesday administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine to 4387 beneficiaries, while the second dose was administered to 1081 people, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The state achieved 29 per cent of its vaccination target for the first dose and 49 per cent of target for the second dose on the day. As per government data, so far, around 74 per cent of registered beneficiaries have been inoculated for the first time, while 83 per cent of the registered beneficiaries have been administered the second dose of Covishield vaccine. As per a report shared by the NHM on Tuesday, as many as 290133 healthcare workers and frontline workers have been administered the first dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand since January 16. As many as 15,265 people in the state have received the second dose as well. However, more than 1 lakh beneficiaries have given the first dose of the vaccine a miss. Also, around 3000 of those who took the first jab were yet to take the second jab despite being called at the vaccination centre several times. On Tuesday, Ranchi achieved 84 per cent of its vaccination target – the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. Ranchi, however, has one of the lowest vaccination rate of 65 per cent in Jharkhand since the beginning of the immunization programme. As many as 655 of the 782 registered beneficiaries were inoculated here on the day. Chatra achieved the lowest vaccination rate of 5 per cent on Tuesday as only 49 of over 1100 beneficiaries turned up at the vaccination centre there. Sahebganj and Ramgarh achieved 100 per cent of their target for administering the second dose of the vaccine. At least 93 people were administered the second dose of vaccine in Ramgarh, while Sahebganj administered the jab to 43 people. Meanwhile, as many as 50 people were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Tuesday, while 51 Covid patients recovered, stated a bulletin from NHM. Ranchi accounted for 33 of the 50 cases and 29 of the 51 recoveries, triggering a spike in active cases here. As per the NHM report, of the 447 active cases in Jharkhand, at least 261 were from Ranchi. All the remaining 23 districts had less than 100 active cases of Covid-19 infection. As per government data, as many as 119687 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far and 98.71 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
24-02-2021||Jharkhand||Congress and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha to organise protests against rising fuel prices||Two main constituents of the ruling combine in Jharkhand — the Congress and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha — announced on Tuesday that they would organise protests against rise in fuel prices at the district level later this week. While the Congress will start their two-day protest on Friday, the JMM will do so on Sunday. The Congress, in a release issued on Tuesday, said they would bring out torchlight procession on Friday at all district headquarters across the state and follow it up by a day-long dharna the next day. “The BJP that would once start shouting at the slightest increase in fuel prices is now maintaining silence at the exorbitant rise in prices of petrol, diesel, coking gas and other essentials,” the Congress said in its release. “The Union government was not interested to encourage increase in domestic protection of crude oil as it has curtailed the budget of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC),” alleged state Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon. He added that the ONGC’s budget allocation was reduced from Rs 32,501 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 29,800 crore this year. “The people should also come forward to protest against this price rise,” he further said, adding they would soon start an awareness campaign on the issue. The JMM said it would also bring out torchlight procession at district headquarters on Sunday and would stage a day-long dharna the next day on the same issues. “The rise in prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas doesn’t stand to reason when the price of crude oil reduced in international market,” JMM secretary and spokesperson Vinod Kumar Pandey said in a statement issued on Tuesday. Describing the Narendra Modi government at the Centre as insensitive towards the agitating farmers many of whom died during their agitation, he said that their protest would also be organised for expressing their solidarity with the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-131
