25-02-2021||Jharkhand||BSNL's new command centre in Jamshedpur ||A Command Centre for Network Operation (CCNO) for ensuring synergy across different networks of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) became functional at the Kadma telephone exchange on Thursday. The hi-tech centre, which will provide centralized monitoring of various telecom networks such as voice, data, leased circuits and fibre to the home (FTTH) service, will also help in detecting faults easily. The centre will function from 8 am to 10 pm on all days including Sunday and holidays. The centre was inaugurated by the chief general manager of Jharkhand Circle, K.K. Singh on Thursday evening. Sujeet Kumar, general manager of Jharkhand Circle and Sanjeev Verma, general manager of Jamshedpur Secondary Switching Area (SSA) were also present during the function. During the inauguration, K.K. Singh said that three such CCNO has been established in Jharkhand. The other two are at Ranchi and Dhanbad. “Through the one network – CCNO – we will be able to identify the fault quickly through a cross-functional centralized team which will enhance the service assurance parameters leading to increased customer satisfaction and improved quality of service,” he said. BSNL provides a gamut of telecom services to both retail and corporate customers including landline, broadband, FTTH, internet leased line, mobile, etc. and seamless availability of telecom services is a pre-requisite for sustained operational excellence. For this, it requires continuous monitoring of different network and taking corrective action, as and when the fault is detected. “For ensuring synergy across different networks and to synchronize/prioritize high bandwidth/critical circuits and as per guidelines of the corporate office, the CCNO has been set up at Kadma,” explained Sanjeev Verma. He added, “For providing the state-of-the-art solution for people who are currently working from home, BSNL’s Bharat Fibre has received a significant response from customers across the country including Jamshedpur. Through Bharat Fibre, BSNL is providing speed up to 300 Mbps and data up to 4000 GB per month which comes to around 130 GB per day.” Verma also said they have several other plans for improving the services and strengthening telecom infrastructure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi corporation to launch 'no-car Saturdays' from March 13 ||Streets of the state capital can be expected to be free from honking and noxious fumes once a week with Ranchi's civic guardians announcing a "No cars on Saturday" campaign from March 13, the environment-friendly move being cited as one to promote cycling and a healthy lifestyle among residents. Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) commissioner Mukesh Kumar said, “The 'No cars on Saturday' campaign will be rolled out from March 13 from Morabadi ground. On this day, we appeal to everyone—office-goers, market hoppers, students,  among others, to pedal for their health. Doing so at least once in a week will not just keep us healthy, but  also encourage everyone to take up cycling. It will also help decongest roads and keep our surroundings free from sound and air pollution.” To lead from the front, Kumar said all officials and staff of the corporation will cycle to work on Saturdays. “Other government and private entities are also requested to be a part of this campaign to make our city clean, green and healthy,” he said. Ranchi Smart City Corporation general manager Rakesh Kumar Nandkuliar said they had already issued directives to their staff to cycle for work on March 13. “We shall do so on all Saturdays in accordance with the campaign,” he said. Earlier, Kumar chaired a meeting with cycle enthusiasts of the city and officials of the civic body and the urban development department to explore more  activities to promote cycling in Ranchi as per the  Centre's 'India cycle for change challenge' and 'Street for people' campaigns. Kumar said RMC was also working on long-term plans to encourage cycling. Other key decisions taken at Thursday's meeting included setting up a dedicated cycle stand at RMC premises and provisions of free cycle parking for people of the city. “This apart, we will also hold meetings with builders to ask them to make provisions for cycle stands in apartment complexes and residential societies they are constructing,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation unveils menu of thrills to celebrate women on March 8||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF), in line with its commitment and motto to empower women, has planned multiple events to celebrate International Women’s Day on March 8. These events are of varying duration and at different locations, thus providing flexibility and opportunities to participate, experience and celebrate the occasion. Spread across Jamshedpur and Uttarakhand, the events are in the form of leadership development expeditions, rock climbing and water sports. All these expeditions are exclusively for women and will be led by female mountaineers of TSAF. The outdoor events with an essence of adventure are based on this year’s theme of ‘Choose to Challenge’. The main motive of the programme is to let women step out of their comfort zone into the wilderness and experience the thrill of adventures. The first leadership expedition will be led by Bachendri Pal, the first Indian woman to summit Mount Everest. It will be a five-day expedition, starting on March 6 to Dehradun /Mussoorie and is a great opportunity to learn from her personal experiences. The second leadership expedition will be to Dyara top with Poonam Rana, who also has summited Everest. This is a chance to experience snowy peaks and bring out one’s leadership skills while motivating oneself and the fellow trekkers. It starts on March 6 and ends on March 12. The third outdoor activity is a two-day leadership development programme, starting on March 8 in Tumung and Dimna, Jamshedpur. This will include a day for rock climbing in small teams and camping in wilderness. The second day will be about water sports team activities which will challenge one`s leadership skills. This will be led by L. Annapurna, Asmita Dorjee and Swarnlata Dalai. The fourth activity is a one-day water sports adventure where one can have breakfast in the middle of the lake on a floating boat, do some kayaking, swimming, ride a paddle boat and play. This will be led by Premlata Agrawal, the first Indian woman to summit seven peaks. It is scheduled on March 8. "All the events will adhere to all safety protocols as per standard guidelines prepared by TSAF to minimise Covid-19 risks," a TSAF official said. Interested candidates can write to  info@tsafindia.org  for more details and registration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Police ordered to bring back Sanjeev Singh to Dhanbad jail   ||Four days after he was shifted to Dumka central jail amid allegations of political influence, a district court issued orders on Thursday to bring former Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh back to Dhanbad divisional jail in order to "ensure the majesty of law". While passing the order on a petition moved by lawyers representing Sanjeev, who was arrested for conspiring to murder his cousin Neeraj in April 2017, additional district and session judge Ravi Ranjan also termed Dhanbad jail superintendent Ajay Kumar's reply to a show cause notice as unsatisfactory. Sanjeev's lawyer Md Javed said, “The jail superintendent, Ajay Kumar, was physically present during the hearing and the court ordered him to transfer back Sanjeev to Dhanbad jail at once in order to ensure the majesty of law. The court said that nobody was above the law whatever post he/she may hold... ." Sanjeev was arrested by Dhanbad police on April 11, 2017 as a key conspirator in the Niraj Singh murder case of March 21, 2017. He was transferred by the Dhanbad jail administration on February 21, 2021, citing security reasons, to Dumka Central Jail. On February 22, Javed  filed two petitions on behalf of Sanjeev;  one challenging the transfer of an undertrial prisoner against an earlier high court order and second, demanding a showcause notice to jail superintendent Ajay Kumar. On February 23, the court issued a showcause notice to the jail  superintendent, asking him to submit a reply within two days. Hours before the court issued the orders on Thursday, the district unit of the BJP staged a demonstration at Randhir Verma Chowk, protesting the shifting of the former MLA of Jharia. They accused the state government of working with a sense of revenge to "murder of democracy". The demonstration, staged less than 100 meter from the district headquarters, began at 10am  in the presence of senior BJP leaders, including Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha, former mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal, district president (urban) Chandra Shekhar Singh, and family members of Sanjeev Singh, including his wife Ragini, mother Kunti, younger brother Manish. The demonstration concluded at 2pm. Ragini said, "My husband's transfer was a political conspiracy of the government, effected a day after we petitioned the court for ordering the jail administration to allow treatment for his ill health."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Preparations on for 2nd phase of vaccination programme ||The Jharkhand government has started coordinating with private hospitals, especially those registered under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, to start preparations for vaccination of senior citizens and middle-aged people suffering from comorbid conditions against Covid-19 from March 1, officials said on Thursday. While the state is yet to receive the modalities for the second phase of the immunization programme, the state health department has enrolled health workers from private hospitals across the state for training sessions on February 27 and February 28, state immunization officer Dr Ajit Prasad said. “Healthcare workers in private hospitals will be trained on February 27 and 28 for the immunization programme. We are yet to receive the SOP for the next phase of the vaccination programme from the Centre, but identification of beneficiaries and other preparations have begun,” said Dr Prasad. The Union ministry of health and family welfare has announced that people above the age of 60 and those suffering from comorbid conditions at the age of 45 years or above will be vaccinated in the second phase of the nationwide immunization programme starting March 1. Beneficiaries will have to download the Co-Win App and register online for the vaccination, the ministry stated. The vaccine will be provided free of cost at government healthcare centres but those getting the vaccine at private hospitals will have to pay for it. However, the government is yet to finalise a price for vaccination against Covid-19 virus at private facilities. Representatives of various private hospitals under the banner of Association of Healthcare Providers (AHPI) met state health secretary K.K. Soan and pledged complete support to the government during the second phase of the vaccination programme. State National Health Mission (NHM) director Ravi Shankar Shukla said the Centre was likely to share the SOP within a couple of days. “As of now, we are focused on the immunization of healthcare workers and frontline workers. We will be in a position to comment on the modalities only after we receive clear instructions from the Centre,” he said. As per government data, more than 2.39 lakh healthcare workers and frontline workers have been administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand since the beginning of the immunization programme on January 16. The second dose has been administered to 17,711 people at least 28 days after they got the first jab. So far, the state has achieved around 75 per cent of its vaccination target.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI students get 100 per cent placement in two days||XLRI achieved 100 per cent placements for the outgoing batch of 2019-21 for its flagship programs two-year Postgraduate Diploma in Human Resource Management and the two-year Postgraduate Diploma in Business Management. All the 358 candidates secured offers through the final recruitment process in a record two days last week, despite the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic. The final recruitment process saw participation from 108 recruiters with 370 domestic  and international offers, inclusive of 23 new finals recruiters. The average salary offered to the batch stood at Rs 23 lakh per annum with the top 10th and 25th percentile average being Rs 37.49 and 34.80 lakhs per annum, respectively. It saw an increase to Rs 25.08 lakh per annum from Rs 24.30 lakhs per annum in 2020. The highest domestic offer at Rs 50 lakh per annum was from the Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI) sector. Information available from the institute's placement committee revealed that 23 new recruiters took part in the placement process. Some of the new recruiters included companies such as Mastercard, DE Shaw, Airbnb, DBS Bank, Nykaa, Freshworks, ZS Associates, Tata Electronics, ProgCap, Rebel Foods and IDFC Bank. Boston Consulting Group, Bain and Co., PricewaterhouseCoopers, Accenture Strategy, Amazon, ITC, PayTM made the highest number of offers among the regular recruiters. In all 33.33 per cent of the students received pre-placement offers. The top segments based on roles offered were consulting, sales and marketing and BFSI. Consulting firms extended offers to 29 per cent of the candidates. Sales and  marketing and BFSI constituted 16 per cent  and 14 per cent of the roles offered to the students respectively. This year also saw healthy participation from PSUs like Power Finance Corporation, GAIL, and others. Director of the institute Fr. P Christie on Thursday said that the entire placement process was conducted in a virtual mode this year. Expressing his happiness, the director said, “We are delighted to announce that despite the pandemic and its adverse ripple effects on the global economy, XLRI has achieved 100 per cent placements in a record timeframe.” “We attribute the outstanding placements as an affirmation by the corporate world of the highly relevant management-centric education we strive to deliver to our students year after year. This stellar success is a testimony to our students' resilient calibre in navigating the industry's shifting trends and their future journey as young business leaders of tomorrow,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Petrol pumps are Modi Tax Collection Centres, rebukes Cong  ||Congress, which is a part of Jharkhand's ruling alliance, held a cycle rally in Ranchi on Thursday ahead of a two-day protest against spiraling fuel prices, the latest agitation coming days after back-to-back tractor rallies in solidarity with protesting farmers. The party’s national spokesperson, Gaurav Vallabh, along with Khijri MLA Rajesh Kachchap and senior members, rode on cycles from Morabadi ground to the Congress office at Sahjanand Road, covering a distance of 4km as a symbol of protest against the Union government’s failure to control prices. Taking a dig at renaming of Motera stadium in Ahmedabad after Narendra Modi, Vallabh advised BJP to also rechristen all petrol stations in the country. “We demand that the BJP and its government rename all petrol pumps as 'Modi Tax Vasooli Kendra (Modi Tax Collection Centre),” he said. “When fuel prices go up, the Union government blames global crude prices. But when global prices are down, why are the rates going up daily? So, it is quite evident that the Union government is solely interested in the business of collecting taxes to fill its coffers,"he explained. Close to 100 party workers, including members of the Congress youth wing, participated in the cycle rally. On Friday, February 26, the party will hold a torchlight procession in district headquarters. On Saturday, February 27, the party will hold protest marches and sit-ins against the price hike. Claiming the government was hell-bent on keeping common people under a financial burden, he said that in February alone, fuel prices were increased  14 times. “Is the government even bothered about the people?,” he asked, adding that ever since the Modi government came to power, excise duties on petrol and diesel had gone up exponentially. “In 2014, the excise duty on petrol was Rs 9.48 and on diesel it was Rs 3.56. Today, they rose to Rs 32.98 and Rs 31.83 respectively. This means, in petrol they hiked excise duty by 248% and in diesel, by 794%. Similarly, LPG prices rose by Rs 175 in 75 days. Currently, crude oil prices have come down by 44% compared to $ 108 per barrel in 2014. But still our fuel prices are going up. This exposes poor fiscal management of the Centre,” he said. He said under the Modi regime, GDP had got a new definition. “Gross domestic product (GDP) has been redefined by Modiji as gas, diesel and petrol. No matter the fall of the GDP, but prices of these three items must keep rising to fill the government's coffers,” he rued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Truck driver injured in gun attack at Ghatshila||A truck driver was seriously injured on Wednesday night when three robbers shot at him near a forest stretch along NH-33 in Dhalbhumgarh in Ghatshila sub-division, as he refused to hand over his belongings to them. Fifty-year-old Pintu Chaudhury, a resident of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, was shifted to RIMS in Ranchi on Thursday morning with injuries on his shoulder and ribs. "Three criminals have looted Rs 15,000 and a mobile phone from a trailer driver having shot at him. We are taking care of the injured driver. We are also trying to detect the criminals," Dhalbhumgarh OC SK Tiwary told The Telegraph Online. The victim was carrying a consignment from Calcutta to Chaibasa along with a cleaner through NH-33 when they decided to make a stop to have dinner. The duo drove to an isolated place close to a forest stretch where they were cooking food when the criminals arrived on a scooter and demanded the driver to give all his cash. As Chaudhury resisted, one of the men fished out a pistol and fired a shot at him from close range. The bullet pierced through the shoulder and got stuck inside his ribs, after which the robbers took out Rs 15,000 and the mobile phone from his pocket and fled the scene. Cleaner Gulab Chand said he was with the victim when the incident took place, but the criminals did not do any harm to him. "I rushed him (Chaudhury) to Ghatsila sub-divisional hospital in our truck. The doctors in the sub-divisional hospital referred him to the MGM hospital. From there, he was sent to RIMS as there is no facility for taking out a trapped bullet in the hospital," Chand told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||State achieves 75 per cent of its vaccination target in the day||Jharkhand on Wednesday managed to administer the Covishield vaccine to around 75 per cent of beneficiaries registered for the first as well as the second dose of the vaccine, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. As per data with NHM, as many as 293490 of 388840 beneficiaries registered for the first dose of the vaccine were inoculated so far, while 17711 of the 23917 beneficiaries registered for the second dose were administered the Covishield jab for the second time after a gap of 28 days since the first dose. On Wednesday, the state managed to inoculate only 3910 of the 14950 beneficiaries registered for the first dose, thereby achieving only 26 per cent of its target. The second dose was administered to 2582 of 5219 registered beneficiaries – around 50 per cent. While Ranchi was the best performer with 68 per cent of beneficiaries getting the jab here, Ramgarh achieved only 4 per cent of its vaccination target – the lowest among the 24 districts in the state. As many as 595 of the 880 people registered for the first dose of the vaccine here got the jab. However, Ramgarh administered the second dose of the vaccine to all the 141 people registered for the dose there on Wednesday, while Ranchi achieved only 60 per cent of its target for the second dose of vaccination on the day, revealed government data. As per figures with NHM, around 93 per cent of the 1.61 lakh healthcare workers registered for the first dose of the vaccine have got the jab in Jharkhand since the beginning of the immunization programme on January 16. Around 63 per cent of the 2.27 lakh frontline workers registered for the first dose have been inoculated. The second dose has only been administered to healthcare workers so far in Jharkhand as the vaccination for frontline workers started late. Meanwhile, one more Covid patient, a resident of Ranchi, died in the state on Wednesday, taking the count of Covid fatalities to 1087 in Jharkhand and that in Ranchi to 245, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on the day. As per the NHM bulletin, as many as 32 people were found infected while 47 Covid patients recovered from the infection on the day. Ranchi reported 19 of the 32 cases and 28 of the 47 recoveries, the bulletin highlighted. As per government data, as many as 431 people were battling the viral infection in Jharkhand by the end of Wednesday. So far, as many as 119719 people have been infected by the lethal virus and over 98 per cent of them have recovered. At current rate, it would take 2397 days for the number of cases to double in the state, reveals government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Push to clear social security pension pleas in Jharkhand||A delegation of Food Security Public Forum’s West Singhbhum unit has demanded the clearance of all social security pension applications by the district administration. The forum is a network of organisations and activists working on food and social security in the district. On February 16, the forum had organised the state’s maiden public hearing on social security pension at Chaibasa. In a memorandum submitted to West Singhbhum deputy commissioner Arava Rajkamal on Tuesday, the forum said the delay in the sanction of pension was causing problems for a large number of pensioners, most of whom stayed in remote villages. “We have asked the deputy commissioner to intimate the pensioners after their applications for pension are cleared as most of them stay in remote villages and face problems in reaching the district collectorate. We have also urged the administration that pension of a beneficiary should not be stopped for lack of Aadhar card,” said Ashok Mundri, one of the forum members who was part of the delegation. At the public hearing, people had complained that they were yet to get pension despite applying for it several times in the last few years. Most of them did not even a get a receipt of their applications. According to the government's projected population figures for Jharkhand, the elderly population in the West Singhbhum district in 2021 is at least 1,35,369. But the current pension schemes cover only 65 per cent of them. The story is similar for widows and the disabled. The forum collated 1,364 cases of pending applications and 648 complaints of denial of pension. The delegation also recommended a simplified and transparent application process. “The process of making death certificate and disability certificate should be made simpler without making affidavit mandatory. The disability certificate should be issued at the block level instead of making the disabled to come to the Sadar Hospital in Chaibasa. Camps should be held at the block level to address various problems of applicants for social security pension,” Mundri added. The other demands included resumption of pension facility for those whose pension had been stopped for some months and payment of arrears for the same period. The forum also suggested that banks should update the passbook of pensioners regularly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
25-02-2021||Jharkhand||Letter that sowed steel city seed||Not many residents of Jamshedpur, particularly the young ones, know that a letter written on this day 117 years ago had prompted the setting up of their city. The letter was written on February 24, 1904 by Pramatha Nath Bose, a pioneering geologist trained in England, and addressed to Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata who was then toying with the idea of establishing an iron and steel company in India. Bose was then working as a geologist in the princely state of Mourbhanj (Mayurbhanj), now in Odisha, and had discovered a large deposit of iron ore in the hills of Gorumahisani. In 1882, J.N. Tata had come across a report on the financial prospects of iron works in India by German geologist Ritter Von Schwarz and was exploring the possibility of setting up a company in the then Chanda district, now Chandrapur district, in Maharashtra, but abandoned the idea when the quality of deposits was not found to be good enough. “As you are interested in the development of the iron industry of this country, I have to bring to your notice an exceedingly rich and extensive deposit of iron ore which I have just explored in this state (Mayurbhanj),” Bose wrote to Tata in 1904. “They occur in such abundance that for all practical purpose they may be considered to be inexhaustible,” Bose further informed. “Should you entertain the idea of starting iron works in this state, His Highness the Maharaja will, I have no doubt, afford you every facility and grant you liberal concessions,” he assured Tata expecting the latter to start his venture in Mayurbhanj state. Though J.N. Tata’s son, Sir Dorabji Tata, was also exploring the possibility of setting up iron works in Dhalli and Rajhara hills near Nagpur, they gave due importance to Bose’s letter. The rest is history. Though not exactly around Gorumahisani, Tata Iron and Steel Company eventually came up at Sakchi, a sparsely populated tribal village located at the confluence of the Subarnarekha and Kharkai rivers. In 1919, Sakchi was renamed as Jamshedpur by Lord Chelmsford, the then Viceroy of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-130
