26-02-2021||Jharkhand||Governor Murmu hails Hemant govt focus on jobs amid pandemic||Jharkhand governor Draupadi Murmu hailed the Hemant Soren-led government for its effective management of the state’s finances even as it battled a pandemic while addressing MLAs on the first day of the Budget session of the state Assembly on Friday. “Through various policies and livelihood-oriented schemes, the government has exhibited its commitment towards all sections of the society,” Murmu said in her over 40-minute speech in the Assembly. She also noted that policy decisions taken by the state government in over a year of its formation had instilled confidence among people. The Assembly session, the first of 2021, will continue till March 23 and have 16 working days. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon will table the 2021-22 budget on March 3. The House began amid strict adherence to Covid-19 safety norms. While provisions of sanitisers and thermal scanning were made available at entrances,  MLAs were made to sit in accordance with social distancing norms in the Assembly. Except JMM’s Dumri MLA and state education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who is recovering from a post-Covid lung transplant surgery, all other MLAs were present in the 81-member House. As is customary, chief minister Hemant Soren greeted Speaker Rabindranath Mahto by offering him a bouquet before the start of the day’s proceedings at 11am. This was followed by a speech by the Speaker to welcome legislators and pave the way for the Governor’s address. In her address, Murmu said the government was working with an attitude of zero-tolerance to corruption to speed up growth. “In 2020-21, around 47 corruption cases have been lodged and as many as 51 government officials have been jailed,” she said. She also praised the government for working towards balancing industrial growth and environment conservation. To tackle issues of migration and concerns of labourers and workers, the state government was also working out plans to ensure that they got the right wages, she explained. Murmu spoke of how Jharkhand cared for thousands of migrant labourers during last year’s lockdown and mentioned the initiative of running Mukhyamantri Didi kitchens to provide free meals to lakhs of people. “The government also walked the extra mile by setting up a one-stop call centre to address issues related to migrants and those stranded outside the state and also provided Rs 1,000 as assistance to close to 2 lakh migrants during the lockdown,” she said. Acknowledging the government's attempts to create jobs, Murmu said 2021 had been dedicated for recruitment. “For the first time in several decades, the government has come up with fresh rules and regulations for state civil service examinations,” she said, adding that the government had also inducted district sports officers across the state and was now providing direct employment to qualified players. The Opposition, however, was critical of the Governor’s address. Speaking to reporters outside the House, Ranchi MLA and senior BJP member C.P. Singh said, “The government made the Governor read a speech which was full of lies. The speech didn’t talk about the failing law and order, massive corruption and illegal sand mining which is going unabated under this regime.” Chandankyari MLA Amar Bauri said they would counter the government on the floor of the House on Monday. But state finance minister and Congress MLA Rameshwar Oraon hit back. “Let them (Opposition leaders) say what is wrong. Didn’t we give jobs to players? Didn’t we run free kitchens for months for migrants? Didn’t we give farm loan waivers? Or didn’t we waive hefty examination fees of JPSC recently? Unlike the BJP, this coalition government is fulfilling all its promises made in the manifesto,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
26-02-2021||Jharkhand||Around 1.5 traders across state participate in Bharat Vyapar Bandh||Around 1.5 lakh small and medium size traders across the state participated in the All India Bharat Vyapar Bandh in Jharkhand on Friday, evoking a good response in the state. Several trade unions including Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FJCCI ), Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI), Jharkhand Electric Suppliers Association and Jharkhand Thok Vastra Vikreta Sangh extended support to the bandh. Members of the Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry and CAIT went around Bistupur and Sakchi on Friday morning to ensure that traders voluntarily shut down their shops. All retail garment, electronic and jewellery stores remained closed in commercial markets of Kolhan region in Jamshedpur. Similarly, a section of traders in Ranchi, Dhanbad and elsewhere in the state participated in the bandh by not opening their shops. "We extended our moral support to the bandh," said Praveen Kumar Chhabra, president of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The call of Bharat Vyapar Bandh was given by CAIT to lodge strong protest of the business community against some of the ‘arbitrary’ and ‘draconian’ amendments made in GST Rules on  December 22. The protesters sought their immediate deferment. The CAIT also protested against unethical business practices of foreign e-commerce companies who are continuously and openly “violating the FDI policy” much to the disadvantage of domestic trade of the country. CAIT national secretary Suresh Sonthalia said that the arbitrary and unfettered powers given to tax officials will bring Inspector Raj in the country once again. He feared that instead of using it against the tax offenders, the harassment and victimisation of the honest and tax complying traders cannot be ruled out on the basis of the traders’ past experience. “The CAIT has demanded that the controversial provisions of GST rules should be kept in abeyance and traders should be taken into confidence before bringing any amendment in law or the rules,” he said. “Tax offenders and evaders must be given exemplary punishment but the distinction between error and evasion should be spelled out clearly,” Sonthalia added. CAIT, the apex union of traders, demanded the immediate issuance of a new press note to replace press note No.2 of the FDI policy plugging the loopholes and escape route to e-commerce companies who are bent upon in violating the law and policy. Indian laws are weak and can be twisted to their side even after repeated warnings from the Centre, the organisation said. The movement has already been supported by All India Transport Welfare Association (AITWA), the top organisation of transporters, which also  observed a 'Chakka Jam' on Friday. Movement of heavy vehicles, especially trucks and trailers, were affected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
26-02-2021||Jharkhand|| Body of unidentified woman found floating in a steel city pond ||The body of a middle-aged woman was found mysteriously floating in a pond near Indian Wire & Steel Products (IS&WP) company in Telco on Friday afternoon. She has not been identified, the police said. A team of officials from the Telco Police Station rushed to the site soon after passers-by noticed it when the body popped up on the water surface at around 12:30 pm, and spread the information. A huge crowd gathered as police fished out the body, but nobody could identify the woman, who appeared to belong from a decent family and had henna (dye) on her hair. Telco Police Station OC Ajay Kumar confirmed it to be a case of drowning, but said it was surprising that no one could identify the body. "In the first case, the woman, apparently from a well-to-do family, was unlikely to have to come to the pond to use its water. Secondly, it is unlikely of anybody to come and get their hair washed at such a faraway place," Kumar told The Telegraph Online. The OC said if the deceased was a local resident then someone must have recognised her. "As there is no mark of injury on the body, we cannot confirm it to be a case of murder either. We have therefore shifted it to the MGM Medical College mortuary where the body will be kept for the next 72 hours for identification and autopsy," Kumar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
26-02-2021||Jharkhand||With medals in her bag, national level archer now sells ground nuts and ‘pakodas’ ||National level archer Mamta Tuddu, a gold medal winner in junior and sub-junior levels in 2010 and 2014, is compelled to sell grocery items at her village in Damodarpur in Dhanbad amid heightened poverty due to the Covid-induced lockdown. The 23-year-old alleged the insensitivity of the concerned authorities and red tapism of the system, which added to her present condition. Mamta, daughter of a retired BCCL employee, was undergoing training at Center of Excellence for archery in Ranchi from 2018. She returned to her Damodarpur residence during the lockdown after her academy closed but could not go back due to economic constraints. “I am the eldest among the seven brothers and sisters. All of my younger siblings had to quit their studies midway as my father’s pension is yet to start. So,our family is totally dependent on the income from the  makeshift shop where we sell items like roasted and sprouted grams, pakoras, rice flakes and other such items,” Tuddu said. Divulging more details the archer said she decided to stay back at home with her family to support their income when she returned from Ranchi. “I am still playing at the senior level but need government support for sustaining life” said Tuddu, who won several bronze medals at various championships, apart from securing the top spot twice. Md Shamshad, who was her coach at the Tata Steel Jharia Division Feeder Center from 2009 to 2011 said, “She was one of the most talented archers of our centre. In 2010, she had participated in the Mini National Archery Championship held at Vijayawada.” “I had lost contact with her but we recently met. When I came to know that she is compelled to sell grams and Pakoras at her village to support the family income, it hurt me” said Shamshad. District Secretary of Dhanbad Archery Association, Jubair Alam said, “Though no application for any financial assistance has been sent by her or her father, we will visit her on Saturday and find out the reason for penury and try our level best to extend help to her.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
26-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC misses ISL play-off slot fourth time in row||Jamshedpur FC entered the Indian Super League 2020-21 field with an impressive package -- a high profile and successful coach, a goal machine and a cool-headed captain. It was anticipated that the Men of Steel would come up with a solid show with some even predicting a trophy finish. But all expectation was busted with the Tata Steel-owned club failing to reach the top four for the fourth time in succession. Jamshedpur finished their ISL VII engagement with a 3-2 win over Bengaluru FC in Goa on Thursday. The club stood sixth with 27 points (20 matches, seven wins, as many loses and six draws) in the cash-rich tournament. Jamshedpur FC made their ISL debut in 2017-18 season  and experimented with four coaches (Steve Coppell, Cesar Ferrando,Antonio Iriondo and Owen Coyle) in a bid to make the club qualify for the knock-outs. But the experiment failed even though much was expected from Scotland-born Coyle who helped bottom-placed Chennaiyin FC finish runner-up after taking over mid-way through the last ISL edition. In a desperate bid to materialise their dreams of topping the ISL ladder, JFC had stitched out a strong unit with players of proven track record. The likes of Lithuanian forward Nerijus Valskis, Nigerian defender Stephen Eze, English defender and captain Peter Hartley, Brazilian central mid-fielder Alex Lima and a clutch of of Indian players, including mid-fielder Amarjit Singh Kiyam, defender Jitendra Singh and experienced goalie TP Rehenesh to name a few. Yet, the bottomline said a different and disappointing story. Last season's Golden Boot winner Valskis,who followed head coach Coyle to Jamshedpur camp from Chennaiyin FC, did show some glimpses of his brilliance at the beginning of the tournament but seemed a bit out of colour in the latter half and was found wanting in converting some swifts feeds from the wings and centre. “We can take some positives from this season, but there are also areas that we need to get better at. I know where we need to improve and what we need to do,” said head coach Coyle. “We have improved a lot. When you look at the quality of the games that we have played [compared to the last season], there is no doubt that the improvement is there for everyone to see.” About the win against Bengaluru FC,Coyle said:"The important thing is to win the three points. This is a tough league to win games as every match shows. We finished the season with four wins out of [last] six. We showed our qualities with three goals. We could have added more." Members of Red Miners. the official JFC fan club, were disappointed at the club's show. "We didn't expect a sixth place finish. In fact, we were expecting a play-off spot and further," said Sheikh Imran, one of the members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
26-02-2021||Jharkhand||Gumla murders linked to black magic, 8 arrested||Eight persons were arrested on Friday for the gruesome killing of five members of a family on the intervening night of February 23 and 24 in Buruhatu Amtola in Kamdara block of tribal dominated Gumla district with police claiming that the murders were linked to black magic that was allegedly being practised by two of the victims. Those killed were identified as Nikudin Toppo (60), wife Josphina Toppo (55), their son Vincent (35), daughter-in-law Shivani (30) and the elderly couple’s grandson Balwina. Vincent, Shivani and Balwina were found hacked to death in one room while Nikudin was found dead on the veranda of their kutcha house. Josphina lay dead on the bed inside another room. Gumla SP H.P.Janardhan said, “This incident is linked with a witch-hunt as we found during our investigations that the villagers believed that the elderly couple (Nikudin and Josphina) of the family was into black magic. Villagers blamed the family for several deaths in the recent months.” The SP said the police took up the investigations as a challenge ever since the bodies were recovered on Wednesday. The police formed a 10-member special investigation team (SIT) under Basia SDPO Deepak Kumar, which cracked the case within two days of the incident. "During the probe, we had learnt that on February 23, villagers had convened a meeting at a local football ground to discuss ways to eliminate the family. On the same night, eight persons including a few women, who had attended the meeting, got drunk and decided to kill the elderly couple. They barged into their house with traditional weapons and killed them. Later on, they chose to kill three others of the family—a minor boy and his young parents—fearing that they would tell police,” Sp Janardhan said. The SP added that all those arrested had confessed to the crime during interrogation. Police, he added, had also recovered the blood stained weapons that were used in the crime. Those arrested have been identified as Sunil Topno (30), Soma Topno (25), Salim Topno (25), Firangi Topno (45), Philip Topno (55), Amrit Topno (30), Sawan Topno (34) and Daniel Topno (40).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
26-02-2021||Jharkhand||ED attaches assets worth over Rs 2 crore of Maoist operative in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday said it has attached assets worth over Rs 2 crore of a Jharkhand-based Maoist operative as part of a money laundering probe against him and others. The frozen assets are in the form of vehicles and are held in the name of Bindeshwar Ganjhu alias Bindu Ganjhu and his firm Maa Gange Coal Trading Pvt. Ltd. The central probe agency said its criminal case against Ganjhu and others, under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), is linked to the extremists collecting funds through extortion of contractors, coal traders, coal transporters in the Magadh-Amrapali coal block area of Jharkhand. The state police and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) are also probing the accused and have filed multiple charge sheets against them. Bindeshwar Ganjhu, the ED said in a statement, "used to collect levy from transporters and delivery order holders in Magadh-Amrapali coal block area in connivance with other extremists of Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC) in Chatra district of Jharkhand." "Ganjhu, being a member of the outlawed organisation TPC, was closely associated with top leaders and acquired proceeds of crime in his name as well as his firm which were projected and claimed as untainted properties," it claimed. The total value of assets attached under the latest order is Rs 2.03 crore while immovable and movable properties worth Rs 2.89 crore belonging to Ganjhu and another person Pradeep Ram and their two firms were earlier attached in this case, it said. The total attachment of assets in this case now stands at Rs 4.92 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
26-02-2021||Jharkhand||Over 3 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated in Jharkhand ||The total number of beneficiaries who were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand crossed the 3 lakh mark on Thursday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As many as 3839 people – healthcare workers and frontline workers – were administered the first dose of the vaccine on Thursday, while 1168 beneficiaries got the second dose, a reported released by the NHM stated. Jharkhand, however, managed to vaccinate only 26 per cent of those registered for the first dose of the vaccine on Thursday. The second dose was administered to around 41 per cent of the registered beneficiaries – only healthcare workers. Ranchi performed the best among the 24 districts in the state on Thursday by inoculating 83 per cent of the beneficiaries registered for the first dose here. As many as 645 people were administered the jab here. East Singhbhum managed to vaccinate only 3 per cent of the registered beneficiaries, and was the worst performer on Thursday. East Singhbhum also performed poorly in vaccinating the people registered for the second dose as it achieved only 9 per cent of its target. Godda and Lohardaga achieved 100 per cent target in administering the second dose, while Ranchi achieved 75 per cent of target for second dose by vaccinating 150 people – the highest among Jharkhand districts. As per government records, the state has achieved 77 per cent of its vaccination target so far by administering the first dose of the Covishield vaccine to 300137 of 392079 registered beneficiaries. As many as 19566 people have been administered the second dose of the vaccine in Jharkhand, helping the state achieve 81 per cent of its target for the second dose. As per the NHM report, no fresh Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) cases were reported on Thursday. So far, the state has reported 274 AEFI cases and 170 of them occured in Ranchi. As many as 76 people, including 47 from Ranchi alone were found infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand on Thursday, stated a bulletin released by the NHM. The state reported only 40 Covid recoveries on the day and the number of active cases jumped to 467, the bulletin further stated. As many as 119795 people have been infected by the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. As per government data, it would take 2174 days for the number of cases to double in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-129
