27-02-2021||Jharkhand||Gumla youth loses limb in IED blast||A villager lost a leg in an IED blast in Jharkhand’s Gumla district on Saturday afternoon, when he had gone to the nearby forests to graze his goats when he accidentally stepped upon the improvised device planted inside the jungle, police said. Gumla SP, H.P.Janardhan said that the injured has been identified as Mahendra Mahto(27), and has been sent to Ranchi via helicopter in the evening for better treatment. Mahto hails from Marwa village of Gumla. Police learnt about the incident hours after the incident when he was brought to local Sadar hospital by his family for preliminary treatment. “He was spotted unconscious and badly hurt in the forest when one of his family members had gone looking for him. They then brought him to the sadar hospital in an auto, 20 kilometres away, when police came to know about the incident. He lost his left leg,” said a police officer. Terming the incident as unfortunate, Janardhan said that villagers are being targeted by rebels. “We will ensure proper treatment of the victim. Initially, we gave his family Rs 20,000 for treatment as immediate financial assistance. For better treatment, we sent him to Ranchi via air,” he said. The incident comes three days after a CRPF jawan sustained serious injuries in an IED blast during counter insurgency operation in the district. He is currently undergoing treatment in Ranchi. On February 15, a Jharkhand police officer, Duleshwar Paras, got killed in a similar blast during anti-Maoist operation in the neighbouring Lohardaga district. His body was laid to rest in the presence of his family members, villagers and police and civil officers at his native village Katimba under Albert Ekka( Jari) police station in Gumla on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
27-02-2021||Jharkhand|| Adityapur residents join hands to save green lung ||Concerned over the imminent encroachment of an open space at Dindli Housing Board Colony in Adityapur, local residents with support of local NGO Jan Kalyan Morcha have demanded  a common sports utility centre at the vacant space. Functionaries of the NGO on Saturday held a meeting with the local residents after carrying out a survey of the open space, which runs the risk of getting encroached. The NGO functionary, who had carried along the blueprint of the Dindli Housing Colony, verified the area left as open space as per the blueprint of the housing colony. "The Dindli housing colony has an open space measuring 210 ft by 320 ft on the eastern side. As land grabbers are set to encroach the vacant land and the housing board had in its plan earmarked the said land as open space, we have decided to write to the housing board authority to convert into an open sports facility," Om Prakash Presidentof the Morcha told The Telegraph Online. Prakash, who is also a senior advocate, said that there is no alternative place for the children of the housing colony to play and the land in question is facing risk of being encroached by influential people. He said as the Adityapur Municipal Corporation comes under the state urban development department, the organisation will  write to them as well as the civic body. There are about a dozen housing board colonies in Adityapur. However, in all the colonies other than the one in Dindli housing, open spaces have been encroached. Land grabbers had till the recent past tried to encroach the land either by setting up cattle sheds or by dumping sand and other building materials, but the local residents drove such elements away, often risking their lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
27-02-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel sets terms for land for proposed cricket stadiums||Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), which has agreed in principle to allot 20 acres of land to Jharkhand State Cricket Association for construction of an international cricket stadium in the Balidih area, put forth a set of three conditions during a meeting with a team of JSCA officials on Saturday. At the meeting with JSCA officials, BSL director in-charge Amarendu Prakash asked for adequate advertising rights for parent company Steel Authority of India (SAIL) inside and outside the stadium, seats for SAIL officials and invitees in VVIP boxes and representation of SAIL in the stadium’s management committee. JSCA president Nafees Akhtar, who was present at the meeting, said, “This was our first meeting with the BSL director in-charge on the international cricket stadium project. It was very positive. BSL has asked for a few things, which we will get back on soon after discussions with our members”. Director in-charge Prakash said the proposal for transfer of land to JSCA was on track. “We made positive progress. The detailed terms and conditions will be finalised soon for seeking clearance from the SAIL board,” he said and went on to compliment JSCA members for attending Saturday’s meeting. Apart from JSCA president Akhtar, JSCA vice-president Ajay Nath Shahdev, secretary Sanjay Sahay, joint secretary Rajiv Badan, former secretary Rajesh Verma and former secretary Devashish Chakraborty were part of the visiting team. The JSCA officials also visited the proposed site of the stadium near Visthapit College, Balidih, a first for many in the team. The JSCA team, along with Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan, also met deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh and discussed the project estimated to cost Rs 250 crore. In the first week of February, the Union steel ministry had cleared the proposal for allotting BSL land to JSCA for a proposed cricket stadium. MLA Narayan said, “It was in 2016 that JSCA begin searching for land which has now reached the final stages. Establishment of a cricket stadium of international standards will boost the development of the area beyond compare”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
27-02-2021||Jharkhand||Business down to near-zero, Dhanbad traders stare at uncertainty  ||Coal town traders are crestfallen as market sales have dipped to near-zero levels with shopkeepers complaining they haven’t seen customers in days. Worst hit are garment traders, footwear sellers and sellers of consumer durables who attribute the sullen mood to a host of factors, including poor cash flow, inflation, an unprecedented hike in diesel and petrol prices and a sense of deep insecurity over lack of jobs. “Business has dipped to less than 25 per cent in the last three months,” said Dinesh Modi, who owns Maa Kali Sari Centre of Hirapur. “While we were sitting idle during the first three months of the lockdown, our shops were shut. Now we are still sitting idle, but our shops are open and there is zero income,” he explained. “Customers who used to buy sarees for Rs 1,000 are now settling for purchases to the tune of Rs 300 even during festivals,” Modi added, explaining that “this recession” was more taxing because now they had to deal with overhead expenses like electricity charges and generator costs without any income. Amit Sahu, who runs an electronics shop at Jharia, said markets saw a momentary revival last year from November 25 to December 15 due to the marriage season. “But now we are back to square one. Sales are negligible in our shop. Other than groceries and vegetables, nothing is moving,” he said. Rajesh Gupta, former president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce, tried to explain the scenario. “Being in the service class, Dhanbad used to be immune to slowdowns. But now, the prolonged slowdown has begun to affect markets… also, many people have lost their private sector jobs. Others are fearing job losses in the near future and are, therefore, not spending money. They are saving for exigencies,” he said. As for government employees, Gupta claimed, dearness allowances had been slashed and PSUs like Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) were paying salaries late. “The hike in petrol and diesel prices is affecting the transport sector, leading to inflation,” he added. B.N. Singh, President of Industries and Commerce Association representing over 80 hard coke factory owners of Dhanbad, said small scale industries which used to provide employment to a large number of people, were also suffering. “All sops announced earlier are only on paper. Consequently, everyone is affected,” he said. Rajiv Sharma, general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, complained about GST and other taxes that traders were subjected to. “There is a lack of cash flow in the market and notices to traders about GST delays are not helping either,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
27-02-2021||Jharkhand||Road accidents killed three times more people than Covid-19 in 2020||Road accidents caused almost three times more deaths in Jharkhand than Covid-19 in 2020 despite several months of lockdown that led to a significant fall in volume of traffic, data compiled by the Road Safety Authority and the National Health Mission (NHM) reveals. As per the latest report of the authority, as many as 3,044 people died in road accidents in Jharkhand from January 2020 to December 2020. As per figures compiled by the NHM, Covid-19 claimed as many as 1,025 lives – around one-third the number of road accident fatalities – in the state until December 31. In 2020, as many as 4,377 road accidents occurred in Jharkhand, according to data with the Road Safety Authority. While 3,044 people died in these accidents, as many as 3,303 people sustained injuries. At least 39 per cent of the accidents involved two wheelers, 18 per cent involved four wheelers and 16 per cent involved heavy vehicles. As per the data, at least 92 per cent of the accidents occurred due to speeding, 2 per cent occurred due to drunk driving, 4 per cent due to driving on the wrong side while 1 per cent accidents occurred due to traffic signal violations. While Covid-19 caused the highest deaths in East Singhbhum, Khunti reported the highest number of road accident fatalities in 2020, as per government data. Ranchi was the second worst-affected in terms of fatalities caused in road accidents and also the second worst-hit in terms of Covid casualties. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand on Saturday was 0.90 per cent against the national average of 1.40 per cent. The state has reported 62 more Covid fatalities in 2021, taking the total count of Covid deaths in Jharkhand to 1,087, as per NHM data. The Hemant Soren-led government has taken several initiatives to put a check on road accidents and save lives of people who sustain injuries in such mishaps. Last month, the state Cabinet launched a Good Samaritan Policy that aims to reward life savers in cases of road accidents and allows them to take accident survivors to hospital without having to disclose their own identity to the hospital authorities or police. “We are consistently working on our policies to curb road accidents and deaths on roads. New policies are also being framed to support kin of accident victims,” said state disaster management minister Banna Gupta, who is also the health minister. The state government is also planning to set up trauma centres in all 24 districts. Currently, there is only one level-1 trauma centre at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, one level-3 trauma centre each in Hazaribagh, Garhwa and East Singhbhum. And three more level-3 trauma centres are being constructed at Ghatshila, Koderma and Lohardaga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
27-02-2021||Jharkhand||Elephants kill two villagers in Hazaribagh||A herd of wild elephants, which killed two in Hazaribagh last week, has left two more persons dead at Barkangango village in Barkatha block of the district. A team of the forest department on Saturday recovered the body of a woman, identified as Fulwa, after she went missing in an attack by the herd. In the wee hours of Saturday, villagers found the body of Balram Paswan(30), who was also trampled to death, while they went out to search for the woman. However, they could not find Fulwa and informed the police about the incident after bringing Balram to the village. According to them, Fulwa and one other woman were in their fields when the herd suddenly reached there from Charki Tongri forest on Friday night. The other person had a miraculous escape, but Fulwa was caught by the elephant. This prompted the villagers to launch a search. The forest department, thereafter, initiated a search operation for Fulwa in the afternoon and recovered her body. Forest range officer Gorakh Ram said a team of 15 experts is now chasing away the herd into the forest area. He urged the villagers not to enter the forest as it angers the elephants. The herd, according to the residents, comprises 22 elephants, including four calves and has been destroying crops and houses since the last five days. Barkatha MLA Amit Kumar Yadav termed the incident unfortunate and said he was with the grief-stricken families. “I will ensure that their families get compensation and other government benefits on time,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
27-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand minister mocks Centre over fuel price hike 'logic'||Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon has described as "illogical" Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s reasoning that the steep rise in fuel prices was linked to increase in demand and predicted a reverse trend in the hikes for next two months ahead of crucial Aassembly elections in four states and a Union territory, including Bengal and Kerala. On Friday, Pradhan told journalists in Varanasi that the surge in fuel prices was due to increase in demand during the winter after last year’s lockdown period. Reacting to it on Saturday, Oraon asked the Union minister whether fuel prices were seasonal. “The petroleum minister’s logic is completely illogical and without facts. The reality is that despite the steep fall in crude oil prices, the government has failed to regulate pricing in the country because of its faulty policies and to fill the coffers of its corporate friends. Fuel isn’t a seasonal commodity,” he said. Speaking to reporters outside Raj Bhavan during a sit-in organised by the Congress, Oraon added that BJP was using fuel as a weapon for its political agenda. “The Union minister said, the prices will certainly ease a bit soon because Assembly elections have been announced in four states and one Uunion territory. I foresee a price slash for about two months now till the time elections are on. Thereafter, the BJP-led government at the Centre will again take the aam-aadmi for a ride with serial hikes,” he said. In many cities, prices of petrol and diesel have surged to Rs 100 a litre, prompting several Opposition parties to launch a stir. In Jharkhand too, the Congress, which is a part of the ruling coalition government, is holding agitations across the state. After taking out torch rallies on Friday, the grand old party held demonstrations in districts on Saturday. JMM, the leader of the alliance government in the state, has also announced plans to hit the streets from Sunday. Party spokesperson Vinod Pandey said a two-day protest campaign would be held across the state with torch rallies, marches and sit-ins against the Union government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
27-02-2021||Jharkhand||Dhoni visits Dewri temple before IPL||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
