28-02-2021||Jharkhand||Jeevan Kandulna, a wanted Maoist who evaded police for decades, surrenders ||CPI (Maoist) zonal commander Jeevan Kandulna, who carried a reward of Rs10 lakh on his head and faces charges in 77 cases of major crimes, surrendered to Ranchi police on Sunday after almost a week-long negotiations with representatives of law enforcement agencies. Kandulna, as per details shared by police, was accused in cases of murder, loot, rape, levy collection and involvement in Maoist activities lodged with various police stations across Jharkhand. Police said more than 4,000 operations were conducted to nab Kandulna in the past 20 years, but he always managed to escape. Kandulna, originally a resident of Rania block of Khunti district, about 35 km south of Ranchi, was active in the Saranda jungles of West Singhbhum – the largest Sal forest of South East Asia. Police sources said that security forces were following his location and activities for over a year and mounting pressure on him to surrender. Last week, a highly placed source in the police department had said that Kandulna was in talks with the police in captivity at an isolated place in the state capital and might surrender anytime soon. But many Maoist leaders, the official clarified, did not keep their promise of surrendering after talks with police. Police did not issue any official statement regarding his surrender while he was in talks with the government. After surrendering before the police in Ranchi on Sunday, Kandulna urged fellow rebels to shun the gun and join the mainstream. “I was impressed with the new surrender policy. I appeal all my fellow rebels to take advantage of the surrender policy and start afresh,” he said. Ranchi Senior SP S.K. Jha said that many rebels were still living in the far-flung jungles.  “Many youths join Maoist groups after getting influenced by their ideologies. But eventually, right wins over wrong,” said Jha. “All the provisions of the surrender policy for Left-Wing Extremists will be followed in his (Kandulna’s) rehabilitation in the mainstream, and we are expecting that more rebels will surrender after this,” he added. Sources said that Kandulna had joined the outlawed CPI (Maoist) to avenge the killing of his sister by a splinter outfit years ago. As per records with the Ministry of Home Affairs, at least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand are Left Wing Extremism-affected. Besides the main CPI (Maoist), there are around 17 splinter outfits active in the tribal state. The government has been working on framing better surrender policies in order to ensure more surrenders by insurgents. In 2017, Jharkhand’s one of the most infamous Maoist leaders, Kundan Pahan, a zonal commander, had surrendered and was given a warm welcome by police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
28-02-2021||Jharkhand||Twin fire mishaps in and around steel city||With the advent of summer, two fire mishaps took place in and around the steel city on Sunday. One of the fire mishaps took place at a forest stretch in Kandra in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district about 15 km away from here on Sunday morning, while the other one took place at a potato and onion shop near Sankata Singh Petrol Pump on Jugsalai Station Road under Bagbera thana area at the wee hours of Sunday. The owner of the potato shop Rajendra Prasad Gupta closed his shop at 10.30 pm on Saturday but when he came to open it at 8.30 am on Sunday, he found the shop and the vegetables charred to carbon. “It was the third time within a span of six months that my shop caught fire during the night. I have no power connection at the shop. I don't know whether the fire breaks out accidentally or someone sets the shop on fire,” wondered Gupta while talking to the correspondent. Bagbera thana OC Rajendra Prasad Singh said the police had spotted the fire at the potato shop at around 1 am on Sunday. “We had pressed a fire tender having informed the Jharkhand Fire Brigade but by the time the fire tender came, the shop was gutted,” the OC said while talking to The Telegraph Online. He said they are trying to find out the reason behind the mishap. The other fire mishap took place at a forest stretch close to Anand Marg Middle School in Kandra. The fire broke out at around 11 am at the forest and started to spread rapidly, attracting the passerby's notice. Soon Kandra police were informed, leading the police to make two fire tenders to reach the spot. “The fire had spread to a vast stretch, but timely action prevented the spread further,” said Rajan Kumar, OC, Kandra thana while talking to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
28-02-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccine: over 450 private hospitals to offer jabs in Jharkhand ||More than 450 private hospitals have been empanelled to inoculate senior citizens and middle-aged residents with comorbid conditions against Covid-19 from Monday in Jharkhand, officials from the state health department said on Sunday, adding that in the initial stage, private hospitals only in big cities like Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Bokaro will be running the vaccination programme. “The price of one jab of the vaccine will vary from Rs156 to Rs 250 at private healthcare facilities. A hospital willing to provide the vaccine with minimal service charge can provide it to the citizens for Rs 156 itself, but the ones seeking higher service charge cannot charge more than Rs250,” a director rank official said. As per data shared by a health department official, at least 71 private hospitals and clinics have been empanelled to administer the Covishield vaccine to citizens in Ranchi. Since the vaccination requires two jabs in a gap of 28 days, the maximum amount a private facility can charge from any person for the immunization is Rs 500. Rani Hospital, Guru Nanak Hospital and Research Centre, Raj Hospital, Anjuman Islamia Hospital, Nagarmal Modi Seva Sadan, Devkamal Hospital, Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital, Alam Hospital and Kashyap Memorial Eye Hospital are among the 71 hospitals in the state capital empanelled to administer the vaccine. Yogesh Gambhir, the president of Association of Healthcare Providers (AHPI), Jharkhand, said that residents could either register through the Co-Win App for immunization or simply visit the hospital and register themselves. “People who find it difficult to operate smart phones can directly come to the hospital and register. The registration process will begin tomorrow (Monday) morning,” said Gambhir, who is also the proprietor of Raj Hospital in Ranchi, which is empanelled for the vaccination programme. The health department provided training to healthcare workers in private hospitals on Saturday and Sunday for the second phase of the vaccination programme. Vaccination at government hospitals remained suspended for these two days, officials from the National Health Mission (NHM) said. In the first phase of the immunization programme, Jharkhand administered the Covishield vaccine to more than 3 lakh healthcare workers and frontline workers since its nationwide launch  on January 16. The state has so far achieved 78 per cent of its target in administering the first dose of the vaccine. The second dose of the vaccine has been administered to over 23,000 healthcare workers so far, which is 73 per cent of the registered beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
28-02-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Sadar Hospital bags LaQshya certification||Bokaro Sadar Hospital is among the two proud recipients of “State Certification for LaQshya”, the other being Khunti’s Sadar Hospital. Niti Ayog has praised these two healthcare centres for complying with the National Quality Assurance Programme to provide better maternal care to expecting mothers. The Ministry of Health & Family Welfare has launched ‘LaQshya’ to improve the quality of care in labour rooms and maternity operation theatres in government medical college hospitals, district hospitals, sub-district hospitals and other high case-load health facilities. “Sadar Hospital of Bokaro and Khunti, have bagged the prestigious LaQshya certification,” said Rajesh Singh, DC, Bokaro here on Sunday. The LaQshya programme aims to improve the quality maternal care is provided to women during delivery and immediate postpartum. The main objective of this initiative is to reduce the maternal and newborn mortality rate. Civil surgeon, Dr A K Pathak said the certification was given on the basis of the Labour Room and Maternity OT of the hospitals. “From 2019, we have been struggling to get the LaQshya certification as it helps the hospital bag Rs 50 lakh as fund from the government for development of the hospital infrastructure and providing incentives to the medical staff and doctors working in the Labour Room. We are happy to have achieved the target,” said Dr Pathak. Rajesh Mishra, Technical Consultant of LaQshya said there the labour room and maternity OT at Sadar Hospital have undergone a mammoth of a transformation in the past two years. Even the patients coming for treatment are more confident about the quality of treatment provided to them. Till 2019, barely 100 deliveries took place in a month at the Sadar Hospital, nowadays over 300 deliveries are taking place during the same time period. This number will soon touch the 500 benchmark. DC congratulated the entire team including civil surgeon and deputy superintendent Dr Renu Bharti of Sadar Hospital for the success. “It is a matter of pride for Sadar Hospital to receive National Quality Assurance Certification. The 30-bed Labour Ward of Sadar Hospital is the best,” said the DC. Elated with the accolade, Dr Bharti said that the doctors are performing well. Of about 300 deliveries done every month, only 80-90 patients underwent caesareans while the rest proceeded to have a normal delivery. The labour room and maternity OT of Sadar Hospital is well equipped with three delivery tables and two OT tables. The evaluation team had visited Sadar Hospital in the month of December. The evaluation was done at two levels, first was the state-level assessment. Once the healthcare centre qualified that round, it was assessed at the national level, by the team formed by MOHFW and NHSRC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
28-02-2021||Jharkhand||Villagers put up stone plaque near airport to claim land ||Over two dozen tribals installed a stone plaque at a plot of land near Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi on Sunday stating that the land belongs to the gram sabha and panchayati raj laws should be enforced there as per the Provisions of the Panchayats (Extension of the Scheduled Areas Act), 1996. The land, sources said, was handed over to spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravi Shankar’s organisation, The Art of Living, by the former Raghubar Das-led government in Jharkhand. While some media reports claimed the members of the gram sabha performed Pathalgadi, an ancient tribal custom of erecting stone slabs in memory of ancestors, police clarified the tribals were only demanding their rights as per provisions of the law. “What they did today (Sunday) was not Pathalgadi. They were demanding the right of gram sabha over the land under PESA,” said Ranchi SP Saurav, who goes by one name. Pathalgadi, sources said, was a similar practice, but it was slightly different from what the gram sabha members did on Sunday near the largest airport in Jharkhand. In Pathalgadi, a tribal custom of installing stone plaques at the village borders, the activists claim that the land is beyond the executive powers of the state and that rules framed by tribal bodies must prevail there. The Pathalgadi movement resurfaced this month in the state with some tribal groups attempting to erect stone plaques near the Jharkhand High Court and also handing over a memorandum to Governor Droupadi Murmu seeking her nod to perform the custom near the Vidhan Sabha as well. The tribal protesters claimed that 13 Jharkhand districts fell in Scheduled Areas and should be therefore beyond the executive powers of the government. As per the 2011 Census, tribals form at least 26.2 per cent of the state’s population of 3.29 crore. While the 32 tribe groups in Jharkhand were spread across the state, their strength was particularly high in the 13 districts which the Pathalgadi supporters cite. These 13 districts are Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Lohardaga, West Singhbhum, Gumla, Latehar, Saraikela Kharsawan, Sahebganj, Dumka, Pakur, Jamtara, Khunti and Simdega. On Sunday, the gram sabha members alleged that the former government handed over their land to Art of Living and their objections were unheeded. They added that they wanted to install the stone plaque on the land during the BJP rule, but were denied entry in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-127
28-02-2021||Jharkhand||Worker buried alive due to unsafe practices at construction site ||A 30-year-old man was killed on the spot as he was busy in his work at a building construction site at the densely-populated Baroda ghat in Bagbera on Sunday morning. The victim was identified as Mohammed Sonu, a resident of Islam Nagar in Jugsalai. He was the only bread-earner of the family. According to sources, Sonu was working at a building construction site along with two others. They were working inside a deep pit when suddenly a loose chunk of building materials fell on them, causing Sonu to sustain fatal injuries. The injured was rescued and rushed to the Sadar Hospital in Khasmahal where the doctors on emergency duty declared him dead. Having got the information regarding a fatal mishap, a police party led by OC Bagbera thana, Rajesh Kumar Singh rushed to the spot and inspected the construction site. “From the inspection we found that the mishap, which claimed the life of a 30-year-old man, caused due to lack of coordination between the workers and also because of inadequate safety measures,” said Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. Singh said three workers including Sonu, were digging a pit for the foundation of the building at around 9 am. He said then suddenly some other workers started to pour building materials into the pit. He said while two workers managed to save themselves, Sonu was partially buried in the building materials and was fatally injured. "Had there been the necessary coordination, then some other workers would not have ventured into the pit, resulting him to die on being buried alive with the building materials,” said the OC. The police said they have recovered the body and sent it to the MGM medical college mortuary for post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
28-02-2021||Jharkhand||Rally for prompt release of pension in Jharkhand ||More than 300 pension beneficiaries, including elderly, widows and disabled took part in a rally to protest delay in payment of pension at the Manika block of Latehar district in Jharkhand. Belgian born economist Jean Dreze participated in the rally which was organised under the aegis of Gram Swaraj Majdoor Sangh, Manika. “Non-payment of pension on time is very unfortunate. This is in violation of the Supreme Court, which stipulates that pension should be paid by seventh of every month. Action should be taken against those persons responsible for violation of this rules,” said Dreze. The members also expressed anxiety over poor pension. “The old, disabled and widowed women are worried about the poor amount of pension (Rs 1000) has not gone to their account since the last five months. “It is time that the Hemant Soren government which had made a promise in its manifesto to increase the pension amount to Rs 2500 fulfil it for the elderly, widowed, disabled and primitive tribal groups,” said Pachhati Singh of Gram Swaraj Majdoor Sangh. The members submitted a memorandum to the chief minister through the block development officer of Manika reminding to fulfil the promise of increasing pension. The memorandum also demanded that all pending application for pension should be approved, concerned BDO should be fined for non-payment of pension within 15 days and for non-receipt of pension application, execution of old and disabled pensions at the block level as it is difficult for them to visit the district headquarters and issue of helpline number for pension related grievances and fixing the annual income criteria for pension in line with the growing inflation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-128
