02-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Deprived of proper signage, city commuters bear its ill-effects||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 1The absence of proper traffic signs on several roads in the city indicates one thing – trouble. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has recently completed the construction work of the six flyover bridges on the bypass road. Ironically, the authorities didn’t install signage at new road diversions. And the commuters are bearing the ill-effects.They often cross the diversion without noticing it. Several persons can be seen reversing the vehicles or returning on the wrong side to take the side road. Consider this, in the absence of a sign at diversion to Verka on the bypass Road, commuters often drive their vehicles till DAV School only to realise that Verka turn had gotten left behind. While returning on the same road they are viable to meet accidents. There is a dire need to install signage on all the connecting roads and bypass road. There are some spots, where cops install small flex boards, to inform about the path and diversions. Despite the direction boards being installed on several roads, especially the newly-constructed ones, signage, however, is either missing or not clear enough to catch an eye on many roads.The claims of the state to promote tourism in Amritsar falls on it’s back for there is no basic infrastructure to accommodate tourists and no proper signages in the city to guide visitors. They have to ask for directions from residents and shopkeepers to reach their destination.“Signages are basic requirement of any tourist destination. Tourists suffer due to absence of sign boards. It is a routine complaint”, said Rameshinder Singh Sandhu, a travelogue writer.A few years ago, the Tourism Department had displayed signage near the Golden Temple. However, after start of the beautification project these were removed. Tourists often complain of absence of sign boards, but to no avail.Davinder Singh Sadik from Faridkot, who visited the city recently, said the authorities concerned had installed sign boards at major tourist and religious destinations, but the people coming from other districts or states are confounded everytime. “I had to stop several times to ask pedestrians or shopkeepers before reaching the Lawrence road after I had reached the bus stand,” he said.It is pertinent to mention that in the absence of signage, tourists often depend on rickshaw and autorickshaw drivers, which propels further the case of traffic snarls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/deprived-of-proper-signage-city-commuters-bear-its-ill-effects-121022
02-08-2020||Neha Saini||As catching up for coffee goes off table, virtual mode sustains friendship||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 1The Covid-19 pandemic has changed the dynamics of social interaction, be it professional or personal. Missing out the feeling of togetherness in times of isolation and social distancing has had physical as well as psychological impact.As late night parties with friends, hanging out for a cup of coffee, chit chats, small social gatherings on weekends and late night movies became a thing of the past, people were found to be catching up on each other on social media.“The social media has compensated for the loss of inter-personal interactions during this phase,” says Kriti Khanna, a fashion designing student from the city. Kriti says although she doesn’t meet her friends often due to risk of infection, she makes sure to share some quality time with her friends through video calling,” she shares.Gurleen Arora, a city-based professional, working in construction sector, too shares that the lockdown has paradoxically brought people closer to each other. “After spending four months away from my friends, I am trying to reach out to even my old friends, whom I had lost contact with.”While it might not be possible to meet friends for coffee or lunch, pandemic still rekindled the friendships. A few people have begun to catch up on each other by visiting each other by taking care of all precautions. “While I never lost contact with my close friends, I missed a few of my casual friends during the lockdown. Now, I call most of them for small intimate gathering at home and even our kitty circle runs this way. Home gatherings are done in small groups, with proper safety measures. It’s nice to re-connect with friends after so long,” shares Poonam Damani, a housewife.Clinical psychologist Dr Sonia Kapur, who is also a consultant counselor for GNDU, says that the lack of socialising has had more impact on adults. “Early on, the lack of social intimacy did create a a lot of stress among people. But the same cannot be said for children as closure of schools somehow relieved them of the stress of academics. Now that the lockdown has been lifted, gradually friendships, inter-personal communication too will resume, maybe more effectively now.”We are a bunch of friends who were together during our studies at HMV College in the 1990 batch. During lockdown, we were hit by nostalgia but we started talking and doing video calls on the web. Our web reunion led to more brainstorming and eventually, we shot a video film about our reunion from the comforts of our respective homes. It was welcomed by the batchmates and friends at our college and was widely loved. —Dr Sonia Kapur, Clinical PsychologistA lot of my friends had moved out of the city and were busy during lockdown working in essential services sector. I used to stay connected through video calls and social media. In my case, the concept of 'distance makes hearts grow fonder' worked well . Now, I have been reaching out to even my old friends, who were not in my contact for the past many years. The lockdown has brought me more closer to my pals. —Gurleen Arora, City-based professionalPhysical distancing made most of us understand the worth of relationships. Luckily, lockdown was not a deterrent in maintaining relationships. In fact, we are able to get back in touch with our long lost friends through several means. Video calling helped us rekindle our old friendships which had taken a backseat during the pre-Covid period. —Gurpratap Khairah, Associate Professor, Hindu CollegeI have been in touch with all my friends, who I have known since childhood. Lockdown might have seperated my friends physically but I did manage to catch with them digitally. Though, I really missed meeting and hanging out with most of them, social media came to our rescue amid pandemic and helped all of us stay connected and we did not lose out on anything. —Purva Dua, A student||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-catching-up-for-coffee-goes-off-table-virtual-mode-sustains-friendship-121024
02-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Social impact assessment of Asr to Ferozepur rail link nears end||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 1Though work on the ambitious Amritsar-Ferozepur railway line has been hanging fire for years, a ray of hope has been kindled as the social sciences department of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has almost completed the social impact assessment (SIA) report of the project and it will soon be handed over to the government.Despite the fact that the NITI Ayog has sanctioned funds for the railway line, the state government has not even started the land acquisition process.Prof Rajesh Kumar of GNDU, who is the SAI project coordinator, during one of his field tours shared with The Tribune that nearly 230 households would be affected while acquiring about 140 hectares of land for laying the nearly 25-km-long rail track. He said only a few structures would come on the way of the proposed track, which is largely agricultural land. He said the only thing that was upsetting people was the fear of water-logging, which according to him, could be addressed by constructing enough water exit points.The track will pass through 12 villages spread across two districts of Tarn Taran and Ferozepur. The villages are Kot Buddha, Safa Singh Wala, Kale Ke Uttar, Talwandi Sobha Singh, Talwandi Nastada Singh, Manak Ke Jand, Maan and Bangna Rai, all in Tarn Taran while Mallan Wala, a semi-urban area where a station will come up, Dullah Singh Wala, Quttubuddin Wala and Kale Ke Hithar, all are in Ferozepur.As per the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, no land can be acquired unless public purpose is served.Professor Kumar said the project would herald the social and economic transformation of about 2.5 lakh people, besides providing another line of transportation to defence forces along the international border with Pakistan.The state government has pressed in service its PWD and the district administrations of Ferozepur and Tarn Taran for land acquisition.Once the land is handed over to the Railways, it will spend a huge amount on laying the tracks and the construction of two overbridges. One railway overbridge of the span of about one and a half kilometers will be constructed over the Satluj, starting from Kot Buddha village.Once completed, it will reduce the distance between Jammu and Mumbai by 267 km, Amritsar and Mumbai by 240 km and Ferozepur and Amritsar from 118 km to 86.Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said a notification would be issued by the government once it got the SIA report. Following which the assessment of the land’s value would be carried out before announcing the award for land acquisition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/social-impact-assessment-of-asr-to-ferozepur-rail-link-nears-end-121025
02-08-2020||---||Docs seek regular sanitisation of hostel washrooms, canteen||Amritsar, August 1After a letter from the Resident Doctors’ Association of Punjab (RDAP), Government Medical College (GMC) authorities at a meeting here on Saturday assured that all their demands pertaining to ensuring Covid-19 protocol would be fulfilled.On Friday, the Resident Doctors’ Association of Punjab in a letter to the GMC Principal said five MBBS internees and four junior resident doctors were tested positive after performing their duties. The letter further states that all MBBS internees and junior resident doctors-cum-postgraduate students are living in hostels and sharing washrooms and mess, the chances of infection from one another are high.Resident Doctors’ Association of Punjab president Dr Jaswinder Partap Singh said, “We have requested the authorities to ensure that all protocols are followed to ensure the safety of resident doctors and interns.” He added that if our frontline warriors in battle against the disease fell ill, it would be difficult to treat patients properly.The association said to maintain hygiene at hostel mess, canteen and washrooms was the responsibility of the administration. The association demanded that these places must be sanitised daily and all mess workers should be provided gloves and masks to stay healthy and away from the virus.Dr Jaswinder Partap Singh after a meeting with the authorities said the hostel administration had accepted their demands. He said new sitting arrangements at mess ensuring proper social distancing would be maintained. He added the hostel inmates would also have to option to get delivery of meals at their rooms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/docs-seek-regular-sanitisation-of-hostel-washrooms-canteen-121026
02-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||12 years on, District Heritage Society yet to see the light of day||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 1Even 12 years after the announcement, the government has failed to constitute District Heritage Societies in the state. In a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Deputy Commissioner Amritsar, Dr Charanjit Singh Gumtala, patron of the Amritsar Vikas Manch, has demanded to constitute the District Heritage Society to save the historic monuments and heritage of the city.In June 2008, the Department of Cultural Affairs (travel branch) of the state government had issued a memo to all deputy commissioners to set up District Heritage Society in their respective district, but despite the lapse of more than 12 years, the society has not been so far constituted in the district. The purpose of these societies is to encourage arts and cultural activities at the village-level.Gumtala demanded that Amritsar Vikas Manch president Manmohan Singh Brar should also be nominated as a member so that he may continue to give his suggestions from time to time for the proper preservation of the heritage.Some young activists and heritage lovers are also demanding to constitute Amritsar Walled City Authority likewise the Walled City of Lahore Authority.Michael Raul, a local activist, said, “Many historical places in the walled city are under encroachment. The government is doing nothing to save the rich heritage of the city. Lahore had witnessed the same thing but they constituted the Walled City of Lahore Authority and saved dying heritage. The Amritsar should follow it and constitute the Amritsar Walled City Authority to save the heritage of Sikh Guru and Maharaja Ranjit Singh”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/12-years-on-district-heritage-society-yet-to-see-the-light-of-day-121031
02-08-2020||Kapurthala||Plasma therapy saves life of Covid-19 patient||Just ahead of Eid, plasma therapy has given a rebirth to the Muslim cleric of local Bibi Peero Wali Mosque who was symptomatic and serious after testing positive of Covid-19.The 41-year-old Maulvi, Mohammad Amanulla, was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, where he had undergone plasma therapy. Originally hailing from Bhagalpur district of West Bengal, he has been residing in Kapurthala for the past 30 years.Amanulla said he was suffering from sore throat and later caught fever, and when he got himself tested at Civil Hospital, Kapurthala, his report came out positive. He said after a few days, his condition started worsening and he was admitted to the hospital."A patient who had recently recovered from Covid-19 donated plasma which saved my life. Around 14 days after the treatment, the hospital authorities declared me fit to be discharged," Maulvi said. He pledged to donate his own plasma to save valuable lives of other people. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/plasma-therapy-saves-life-of-covid-19-patient-121034
02-08-2020||Amritsar||Youth commits suicide, 4 booked||A youth committed suicide at Sarangdev village here on Friday. Later, four persons of a family were booked for abatement to suicide. The deceased has been identified as Bittu (20), a resident of Sarangdev village in Ajnala area.The accused have been identified as Baljit Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Kuldeep Singh and their father Pritam Singh, residents of Sarnagdev. Gurdeep Singh, father of the victim, in his complaint to the police said he and his son Bittu worked as farm labourers. Bittu had a love affair with the daughter of Pritam Singh and he wanted to marry her. The accused were against this proposal and thrashed Bittu. The parents of the girl had arranged her marriage with someone and now wanted to settle the score with Bittu. They used to threaten him.On July 29, they intercepted Bittu on his way to home and threatened to kill. The victim’s father said Bittu was upset due to threats and committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree in the fields of Pritam Singh on the intervening night of July 30 and 31. The police have registered a case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-commits-suicide-4-booked-121046
02-08-2020||---||Baba Bakala court employee robbed of Rs 5K||Amritsar, August 1Two persons equipped with sharp weapons robbed a Baba Bakala court employee when he was returning home on his bike on Friday evening.The victim, Budh Singh (48), a resident of Jodhanagari village stated to the police that at around 6.15 pm when he reached near Sarja Chowk in Beriana village, two persons travelling in a car stopped him. He was on his bike. The two were armed with a sword and a datar.He alleged that they forcibly snatched his wallet containing Rs5,000 besides identity cards and driving licence and other important documents and fled away.The Tarsikka police have registered a case under Section 379-B (2) of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/baba-bakala-court-employee-robbed-of-rs-5k-121070
02-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Mahal takes charge as Hoshiarpur SSP||Hoshiarpur, August 1Navjot Singh Mahal, on Saturday, assumed charge as the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) of Hoshiarpur. He was welcomed by Senior Superintendent (Homeguards) Parminder Singh Heer and other senior police officials. Listing his priorities, Mahal said ensuring prompt redressal of complaints of people would be one of his foremost priorities. Drug and sand mafias would be dealt with an iron hand, he said. Mahal said besides police-public relationship, welfare of police personnel would also be taken care of to boost their morale.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mahal-takes-charge-as-hoshiarpur-ssp-121105
02-08-2020||Amritsar. August 1||Police arrest six with illicit liquor||With the hooch tragedy claiming the lives of around 80 people in Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts in the past two days, the Punjab Police have cracked a whip on the illicit liquor trade. In Amritsar, 12 persons lost their lives. They were residents of Muchhal and its adjoining villages located near Tangra, 30 km from here. Amritsar (Rural) SSP Dhruv Dahiya said the rural police registered as many as 26 cases and arrested six persons and made a huge recovery of illicit liquor in separate raids in different villages. “The police have recovered 348 litres of illicit liquor, 3,270 kg of lahan and 131 litres of concentrated alcohol or spirit, besides destroying an illegal still in the past 24 hours,” he said. Eyebrows were raised after the hooch tragedy hit Punjab starting from Mucchal village which witnessed seven deaths in a single day on July 30. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-arrest-six-with-illicit-liquor-121106
02-08-2020||---||2 deaths, 44 fresh infections in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 1The district health authorities reported two deaths and 44 fresh Covid-19 cases here on Saturday. The death toll due to the disease has increased to 80 and the count of positive patients reached 1,903.The deceased have been identified as 40-year-old Babaik Singh, a resident of Daburji Police Lines, admitted at Government Medical College and 74-year-old Darshan Kaur, a resident of Friends Colony (Sultanwind Road) admitted at EMC hospital.The health authorities stated that Babaik Singh was diabetic while Darshan Kaur had diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. Of the new cases, 25 are people with influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 19 contacts of positive patients.One each ILI case was reported from Bhankna Kalan, Kashmir Avenue, Baba Budha Ji Avenue, Nawi Abadi, Sant Nagar Verka, Janta Colony, Aliwal, Ramdass (Ajnala), Gunowal (Ajnala), Majitha, Gali Devi Wali, Laxmansar Chowk, Azad Road, Sohian Kalan, Amar Singh Colony, New Diamond Avenue, Basant Avenue, Labour Colony Khandwala and two each from Kale Mahal, Rani Ka Bagh and Majitha House (Albert Road).The contact cases include one each of Vijay Nagar police station and E-Division police station, besides two from the office of Commissioner of Police. The Health Department has also reported five contact cases from the 88 Battalion of the BSF posted at Khasa. Further, four contact cases from IVY Hospital, three from Bal Kalan village, two from Guru Nagar, Verka, and one from Friends Colony (Sultanwind Road) have also been reported.The district health authorities stated that 23 patients had recovered in the last 24 hours after which the total recovery count has increased to 1,344. At present, the district has 479 active cases. Staff warned for not wearing masksIn a notice issued on Saturday, the GMC authorities warned employees against not wearing masks while performing their duties. The matter was taken up by Additional Deputy Commissioner Dr Himanshu Aggarwal after a visit to the hospital. The ADC was appointed in-charge of the Covid-19 operations recently. The notice states that in future if an employee is found without a mask, action would be taken against the guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-deaths-44-fresh-infections-in-amritsar-district-120843
02-08-2020||---||Garbage dump: MC order falls on deaf ears||Amritsar, August 1Despite precautionary measures, people continue to dump garbage at the prime land of abandoned old Sabji Mandi, situated outside the Hall Gate.The Municipal Corporation installed display boards announcing Rs 5,000 fine and imprisonment for violators dumping the refuse. It also announced that the area was under the CCTV camera footage.These measures were introduced after the fire had broken out on July 4. However, it has limited impact on residents who continue to flout norms. Some mischievous persons had even damaged the CCTV camera.Among other things in the refuse, Parali (straw) used as cushion in fruit baskets and broken wooden boxes constitute a lethal mix being combustible material.Unscrupulous people even burn refuse to dispose these off as no vehicle comes to lift it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/garbage-dump-mc-order-falls-on-deaf-ears-120947
02-08-2020||---||Authors recall value of hard-fought freedom through literary gems||Amritsar, August 1Beginning August as a month of bittersweet history, Majha House conducted an inaugural session of its literary online series titled Azadi Ki Chaon Mein: Yeh Shab-Gazida Seher. The series will focus on discussions and dialogue around the Independence times and the traumatic history of partition of India. The first session on Saturday had diplomat and author Navtej Sarna and Arti Jain narrating the stories that celebrate as well as underline the significant happenings during August 1947. Navtej read a story from his late father and noted writer Mohinder Singh Sarna’s compilation of short stories, translated in English by him, in a book titled ‘Savage Harvest’. The celebrated book had stories of plunder, suffering and trauma during the partition of India.As someone who was among the survivors and witnesses of partition of India, Mohinder Singh Sarna’s literary works were reflective of the horrors he lived through during the time. Navtej Sarna read 'Insaniyat da Sipahi’ (The Defender of Humanity) written by his father. The story stood out as a proof that even the terrible time had its heroes; the only religion they believed in was humanity.Arti Jain, a storyteller and an award winning filmmaker, recounted Sikka Badal Gya, the very first short story by renowned writer Krishna Sobti, during the session. Arti, who has combined her three loves ie theatre, radio and books to produce her podcast ‘StoryJam’ -- where she narrates texts from Hindi and Urdu literature, engaged the audience with the story of an elderly widow who was among many caught unawares by the events leading to partition.Preeti Gill, patron, Majha House, said that August is the month that celebrates birth of a new nation. “But it is also a time to remember the trauma and pain of the partition of the subcontinent. We, at Majha House, are curating six sessions of engaging discussions and talks wherein the meaning and cost of freedom will be explored by some of our best known writers and thinkers. It will be a month of critical conversations about what we were, what we are now, and what we could have been.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/authors-recall-value-of-hard-fought-freedom-through-literary-gems-120948
02-08-2020||Neha Saini||Migrants shifting from agri to construction sector: Study||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 1An academic from the city has undertaken a study on the inter-state labour migration. The unsettling images and stories of mass migration during the lockdown by migrant workers are still very fresh in public memory.Dr Jaideep Singh, head of PG department of geography at SR Government College, conducted a detailed and micro-level study on migrant workers living in Amritsar in context of their living conditions, socio-economic status, remittances and the impact of migration on environmental factors.Dr Jaideep’s findings highlight the fact that not only our migrant workers are underpaid and undervalued, they also do not have access to legal safety net. “Migration is not a recent phenomenon but what brought me to undertake this study was the lack of financial and legal security that these people suffer from. I included migrant labour working in informal sectors as well and it has been observed that there has been a drastic occupational shift of migrants from the agriculture sector to the construction and other informal sectors such as hawking, vending, etc,” said Dr Jaideep.His study finds that there is a dire need for setting up an inter-state law-enforcement agency for women migrant workers suffering from domestic, professional abuse and violence. “Often, women labourers are the most neglected lot as even women police cells fail to provide justice to them,” he shared.Other significant findings of his research include creating a registration process for inter-state migrants and fixing minimum wage in all sectors.“There is a differential wage system currently where local labourers have advantage over inter-state migrants. Minimum fixed wages would provide the required financial security and avoid any oppression by the employers or labour contractors. Also, in some areas they lack safe drinking water and toilet facilities. The government needs to provide them with clean living conditions and low-cost accommodations so that slum dwellings are avoided.”Dr Jaidev took 500 respondents and included migrants from Himachal Pradesh, UP, Bihar andWest Bengal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/migrants-shifting-from-agri-to-construction-sector-study-120949
02-08-2020||Amritsar||Eid al-Adha a low-key affair as religious leaders ask to perform prayers at home||Following the restrictions on social gathering, only a few persons offered prayer of Eid al-Adha at local mosques here on Saturday. The Muslims in the city used to gather in the Eidgahs at Hall Bazar and Sultanwind Road in large number on festival. But this time, the worshippers were advised to maintain social distancing during the prayers to contain the spread of the virus. The religious leaders had asked the worshipers to not gather at Eidgahs. The police administration also did not allow the devotees to attend the prayer in Eidgah. Around 50 men performed prayers at the Hall Bazar mosque by taking precautions against the coronavirus, such as wearing face masks. Sarmad, a worshipper said, “The religious leaders asked to perform the prayers at home and avoid the social gathering. So I have performed prayer at home.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eid-al-adha-a-low-key-affair-as-religious-leaders-ask-to-perform-prayers-at-home-120950
02-08-2020||For Jagpreet Singh and his family||‘It was a month-long horrifying experience’||People were panicking. What were they to do? They were worried for their families. There was a lot of support. Things have returned to normal and we thank God for it. —Jagpreet SinghRecalling his horror, Jagpreet says, “For the first 24 hours after admission, no one from the medical staff came to our rooms. Next morning as my son developed a mild fever, I asked a nurse to check his body temperature to which she replied that they do not have a thermometer.”He was baffled. “How could they not have a thermometer?,” he questions. “The truth is they (medical staff) were afraid and not ready to come near us. They did not even have the PPE kits at that moment. Our reports were still awaited but we had already started feeling helpless,” he tells.Come April 2, Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa would succumb early in the morning. He was the first casualty of the district. His audio recordings revealed lack of treatment facilities, viraling within hours and resulting in government's criticism as panic broke out among the public.“During our stay at hospital, a Class-IV worker would come once a day and hand us Vitamin C tablets. The food was of very poor quality. The condition of cleanliness was even worse. The bed sheets were dirty. Never in my entire life had I felt so helpless,” he shares.The family test reports which were available by April 4. “Eight of us from the family were tested and four turned out to be positive. But the ordeal did not end here. The panic among the medical staff, the mismanagement, and the indifference led us to believe that something bad would happen,” he adds.Nevertheless, Jagpreet managed to get his family shifted to a private hospital on April 5 with intervention of the Chief Minister's office. His son, mother and brother were discharged from the private hospital on April 24. His father was discharged a few days later. “All from my family members (who tested positive) remained asymptomatic throughout the treatment. But it was a horrifying experience,” he says.Talking about the social stigma, he explains, “People were panicked. What were they to do? They were worried for their families.” He adds: There was a lot of support. The things have returned to normal and we thank God for it.” However, he still feels that pastures could have much greener, “if Taya ji (Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa) were still alive,” he laments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/it-was-a-month-long-horrifying-experience-120951
