04-08-2020||---||With 47 new cases, count crosses 2,000-mark in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 3The district reported 47 fresh positive cases on Monday, taking the total to 2,005. As the district health authorities have reported no new death on Monday, the toll remains at 84. Of the new cases, 32 are influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 15 contacts of positive patients.As far as the ILI cases are concerned, one each case was reported from Gate Hakeema, Islamabad, Saidhpur (Chogawan), Jagdev Kalan, Abadi Karampura, Rajesh Nagar, New Ajad Nagar, Avtar Avenue, Dashmesh Nagar, Anngarh, Dayanand Nagar, Milap Avenue, Sohian Kalan, Putlighar, Bharat Nagar (Batala Road), Sohian Kalan, Bhagat Namdev Avenue, C-Block Ranjit Avenue, Jandiala Guru, Mall Road, Tagore Avenue, Sandhu Colony, Bhittewad, Green City, Daburji village, Tungbala, Shaliwal, Navi Abadi Faijpur, Beas hospital, Gokal Avenue and two cases from Tungbala.Of the contact cases, three are from Sohian Kalan village, two each from Military Hospital, New Focal Point, Vijay Nagar Police Station, BSF battalion (Khasa) and Sehaj Enclave and one case each is from the Police Lines and Amandeep Medicity Hospital.The health authorities said 40 more patients recovered in the last 24 hours. With these numbers, the recovery count has increased to 1,435.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-47-new-cases-count-crosses-2-000-mark-in-amritsar-district-121732
04-08-2020||---||‘Live Band Concert’ held for Covid warriors||Amritsar, August 3As a prelude to the Independence Day celebrations, a ‘Live Band Concert’ for Covid warriors was organised by the Panther Division of Vajra Corps at Gobind Garh Fort here on Monday. As per the Covid-19 guidelines, a limited audience was invited.Similar concerts at various historical places having linkages with India’s Freedom Struggle are being organised across the country.The concert was performed by highly decorated bands of the Indian Army, which enthralled the audience with their splendid performance by playing tunes of famous patriotic and motivational songs in keeping with the theme.Towards the closure of the ceremony, Major-General Vikram Singh, General Officer Commanding, Panther Division, felicitated the Covid warriors, including personnel of the Punjab Police, medical fraternity and prominent educational institutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/live-band-concert-held-for-covid-warriors-121733
04-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran DC to sponsor education of PSEB Class XII topper||Tarn Taran, August 3Money won’t become a barrier to higher education of Veena Kaur, a PSEB Class XII topper, as Deputy Commissioner (DC) Kulwant Singh has offered to bear the financial burden of her further education.Veena had bagged the first position in the district in PSEB Class XII examinations, the results of which were announced last month, scoring 444 marks out of 450 in the arts stream. A resident of Saidpur, a border village, Veena completed her Class XII from Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Patti.Veena says she wants to become a judicial officer. Her father is a construction worker and mother a homemaker. Veena said after the DC assured her of financial support, she applied for admission to Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; Punjab University, Chandigarh; and Army Law Institute in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-dc-to-sponsor-education-of-pseb-class-xii-topper-121735
04-08-2020||Amritsar||Long road to generate wealth from waste||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/long-road-to-generate-wealth-from-waste-121736
04-08-2020||PK Jaiswar||Illicit liquor trade flourishes with impunity in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 3The illicit liquor trade continues to flourish in the holy city despite tall claims of the police department that they have made huge recoveries in the past if the data of seizures of illicit liquor is anything to go by. The illicit trade is flourishing allegedly with the support from politicians and police personnel.The Punjab Government, after the relaxation of the curfew and lockdown restrictions imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, had ordered a crackdown on bootleggers and illicit liquor trade as it was facing losses due to poor sale of liquor. 723 cases registered since May 17 this yrDuring the curfew, a number of people in the rural belt had taken to illicit liquor trade, causing huge losses to the state exchequer. Within 15 days of the crackdown, the Amritsar rural police stood among the top districts in seizure of liquors, number of cases registered and arrest of bootleggers. It was followed by Tarn Taran and Batala police districts.However, the hooch tragedy that claimed over 100 deaths in the three districts of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Batala highlighted the glaring flaws in the system. This hinted that illicit liquor mafia continues to operate with impunity. The deaths also brought to forth the collusion of lower-rung police officials with bootleggers. The involvement of women in the illicit trade is also found.As per recent data, the rural police had registered as many as 723 cases under the Excise Act and arrested 257 bootleggers since May 17 this year. They had confiscated over 7,500 litres of illicit liquor, 3,900 English wine, 45,850 kg of lahan and 955 of extra neutral alcohol (ENA). The rural police also busted 31 illegal stills during the period.The situation is no different in city areas. There are many notorious localities in the city where liquor is being sold in pouches, said Jagtar Singh Karampura of the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India. “Gumtala, Navi Abadi, Abadi Karampura, Faizpura, Maqboolpura, Anngarh are several such areas,” he added.Rattan Singh Randhawa, a prominent farmer leader, said, “The illicit liquor trade is flourishing in rural as well as in urban areas with the connivance of police personnel, bureaucracts and politicians. “It is an open secret that illicit liquor is supplied to voters on the directions of politicians during the election days. Politicians allow notorious bootleggers to brew illicit liquor in order to lure voters,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illicit-liquor-trade-flourishes-with-impunity-in-amritsar-121737
04-08-2020||Our Correspondent||MLA Sikki, PA supplying spurious liquor in area, allege kin of victim||Tarn Taran, August 3After a dharna by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the Sadar police on Monday recorded the statement of kin of a hooch tragedy victim who accused Khadoor Sahib MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki of supplying spurious liquor in the area.Workers of the SAD, led by Youth Akali Dal (YAD) president Parambans Singh Romana, staged a protest outside the District Administrative Complex (DAC), seeking registration of a case against the MLA. SP (Headquarters) Gurnam Singh reached the spot and told the protesters to go to the Sadar police station to get their statements recorded.Kamaljit Kaur of Bhullar village gave a written statement to the police, accusing MLA Sikki and his personal assistant Germanjit Singh of supplying spurious liquor at her village. She demanded that both Sikki and Germanjit be booked under Section 302 of the IPC on the charge of murder of two of her close relatives (who died after consuming spurious liquor).YAD president Romana said leaders of the Congress, particularly MLAs, distributed spurious liquor. Romana said the SAD would continue its protest until action was taken against the “culprits”.“We request the government to swing into action, else we will be forced to launch an agitation against the legislators as well as the Chief Minister,” said Romana. He also criticised the Rs 2 lakh compensation announced by the government, saying “since the hooch tragedy, which claimed around 150 lives was a man-made tragedy, families of all victims should receive a compensation of Rs 25 lakh”. Former MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha, Harmeet Singh Sandhu and Iqbal Singh Sandhu were among others who took part in the protest outside the DAC.Entrust probe to HC judge: CPIAmritsar: Leaders of the Communist Party of India, Amritsar (Rural), on Monday met the families of 12 victims of the hooch tragedy from Muchhal village here.CPI secretary Lakhbir Singh Nizampura said, “The illegal liquor trade has been going on with the connivance of senior police officials and the government’s claims to stop drugs were a bundle of lies.”“All this is happening under the patronage of politicians and the illegal business continues despite change in government,” he said. He demanded an inquiry should be entrusted to a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. They also demanded a compensation of Rs 10 for kin of the deceased.Nizampura said they had given a list of drug-sellers in Jandiala town areas to the police around two years ago but no action was taken. “The government is always waiting for some mishap to occur before taking remedial steps,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mla-sikki-pa-supplying-spurious-liquor-in-area-allege-kin-of-victim-121738
04-08-2020||Neha Saini||Kewal Dhaliwal pens a book on Jallianwala Bagh||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 3Capturing the horrific massacre at the Jallianwala Bagh on the eve of Baisakhi in 1919, noted theatre thespian Kewal Dhaliwal has turned his play into a book that has been released in three languages during the lockdown. The book, titled The Silent Trees in English, Rakhtgatha in Hindi and Desh Mera 1919 in Punjabi, has been translated by him. The books are available online.Written from the perspective of Shaheed Udham Singh, the book has been adapted from stage by one of prominent plays that Dhaliwal had produced to mark the 100th anniversary of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre.“The idea behind the book is to make the current generation of readers to know about the historical and moral significance of the Jallianwala Bagh. There were a lot of important events that led to the rise of nationalism after the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and many of our nationalist idols were born after the brutal killing of innocents at the hands of British,” said Dhaliwal.It is also the first trilingual book to be released simultaneously based on that tragedy. “We had originally planned to release the book on the 100th anniversary of the Jallianwala Bagh but instead we produced a play that was staged across the country last year. On April 13 this year, we released the book in an intimate ceremony as the lockdown was in place,” said Dhaliwal.The book places Jallianwala Bagh as the central character and is narrated from the perspective of Shaheed Udham Singh. It also has real life accounts of Jallianwala Bagh survivors, including Ratan Devi, who spent an entire night of Baisakhi in 1919 inside the Jallianwala Bagh among hundreds of dead bodies that included her husband Chhaju Bhagat as well. “Her account has been preserved by the Jallainwala Bagh Trust in its records and she describes the horror that she witnessed with words like ‘blood and bodies all over’. I have also included prominent historical figures like novelist Nanak Singh and Shaheed Bhagat Singh as part of the story as both were deeply affected by the incident,” said Dhaliwal.Kewal Dhaliwal says that the message behind the book and his play is to bring out the fact that the Jallianwala Bagh is not a site of leisure or a tourist spot, but a memorial that should inspire.“It’s unfortunate that a memorial has been turned into a picnic spot, where people take selfies and wander around. The Jallianwala Bagh is a site of nationalism, a place that should be respected and inspire the youth with the same intensity that got Shaheed Udham Singh to avenge the martyrs or made Bhagat Singh pledge to the country as he carried the bloodied soil from the bagh. It’s a site of martyrdom and must be given due importance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kewal-dhaliwal-pens-a-book-on-jallianwala-bagh-121739
04-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Hospitality sector finds it hard to get rid of Covid scars||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 3The Covid-19 pandemic has dealt a severe blow to the tourism and travel industry, which was once a booming sector. The industry has been battered after the stringent lockdown was imposed.The city is just witnessing visits by tourists from within the state. Hoteliers say with a majority of the trains still off the tracks, flights suspended and travel restrictions on inter-state movement, people are refraining from visiting the tourist sites.People are still avoiding their visits to crowded places even after the lifting of the curfew. The entire economy has been shaken. The financial status of prospective tourists has also taken a beating. With less purchasing power amid the pandemic, travellers are wary of hitting tourist places.Meanwhile, the hotels are grappling with financial constraints as the footfall is very low and they also have to follow the guidelines released by the Central government.As per these, they have to broadly follow 30 norms, including deployment of adequate manpower with Covid-19 protective norms, valet parking, a proper disinfection of steering, door handles, keys, etc, separate entry and exits for guests, securing travel history, medical condition etc, along with ID and self-declaration form of customers, adopting contactless processes such as QR code, online forms, digital payments such as e-wallets etc for both check-in and check-out, disinfecting luggage before entry in the hotels and exercising precautions while handling supplies, inventories and goods in the hotel.They have also been asked to ensure proper queue management and disinfection, availability of appropriate personal protection gears and maintaining social distancing. Hoteliers say that these norms can only be followed by high-end hotels where customers with high paying capacity stay.Consequently, the hotel industry has suffered a major blow after the imposition of the lockdown. There are about 850 hotels, lodges and inns in the holy city. There are about 50,000 directly and indirectly people employed in these units. They fear that the tour and travel industry will take over a year to achieve the same level of room occupancy as before the pre-Covid times.Taxi operators and auto rickshaw drivers are vocal in their criticism against the Central and state governments for not sparing a thought for daily wagers like them. Sukhdev Singh, a taxi driver, said his taxi, which was financed from a bank, was seized by the bank as he was unable to pay the monthly instalment in the lockdown. He said his was not a case in isolation. A large number of taxi operators lost the ownership of their taxes in the lockdown.Famous tourist sitesThe city boasts of some famous world famous spots — the Golden Temple, the Jallianwala Bagh, the Durgiana Temple, ancient Ramtirath temple, which is believed to be hermitage of Bhagwan Valmiki, where he had composed Ramayana, Summer Palace of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, which also houses panorama giving graphic display of his life and reign, Pul Kanjri, a tourism site associated with the Maharaja, Gobindgarh Fort, Heritage Village, Partition Museum, which is housed in the British-era Municipal Corporation building, War Museum and the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post.Luxury retreats in cityMany luxury properties in the holy city have changed its character in the past few years. Several big names in the hospitality industry such as Radisson Blu, Ramada, Holiday Inn, Hyatt, Taj Swarna, Marriott and Park Plaza have been operating five-star hotels here. Except Ramada and Hyatt, rest of the five luxury hotels are open, but with negligible footfall. In addition, a five-star property is coming up inside the Circuit House and another of the same category hotel is proposed in the vicinity of Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport. In addition to this, eight more four-star category hotels are under construction.I am struggling to make both ends meet. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, autos are allowed to ply with just three passengers. The passengers are already limited as tourists are not visiting the holy city. Not only this, even the BRTS buses are cornering the major share of the fares. —Rakesh Kumar, An autorickshaw driverEven though some hotels were re-opened as per the guidelines, most of them have been without business. With no meetings, marriage parties, business conclaves, product launching and other activities taking place, the hospitality industry has been facing survival crisis. —APS Chatha, Chief, Hotel & Restaurant AssociationIt was for the first time after the lockdown that I came to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple. Earlier, I used to come frequently. I did not face any difficulty while travelling in car to reach here. This place has a huge potential for tourism. I would like to explore more sites here. —Jarnail Singh, A tourist from MuktsarAfter the lifting of curfew, inter-state tourism started picking up the pace. Pilgrims have started visiting the holy city. But a huge chunk of tourists from outside the state as well as abroad are yet to come. We have also been hosting the medical staff in our hotel. —Ramandeep Singh, Incharge, SGPC Run InnEarlier, a huge influx of tourists resulted in setting up of over 100 taxi stands with most of them plying five to seven taxis each. We also used to take tourists to neighbouring states such as Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, but today, we have run out of income. —Raj Dhaliwal, Taxi operator||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hospitality-sector-finds-it-hard-to-get-rid-of-covid-scars-121740
04-08-2020||Amritsar||Webinar on room cleaning post Covid||Neera Sharma retires as DAV principalAmritsar: Neera Sharma retired as principal of DAV Public School, Lawrence Road, on July 31, after serving in the position for 14 years. An academic for the past 38 years, she started her career at the school as a teacher in 1982 and later rose to the capacity of the founder principal of DAV International School, Amritsar, in 1998. A PhD in education, during her tenure, she remained committed to strategic and continuous improvement of policies and methodologies that enhanced teacher and student performance. In recognition of her contribution towards the cause of education, she was felicitated with Mahatma Hans Raj Award (Gold Medal) in 2009, National CBSE Award in 2012, Best Principal Award in Punjab/Chandigarh state category in 2012, CBSE Sports Promotion Award in 2014 and State Award for Best Teacher in 2018. She said nurturing young curious minds into responsible and sensitive citizens of the future was her way to contribute to society. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-on-room-cleaning-post-covid-121741
04-08-2020||Transferred to Hoshiarpur within a few days of his recovery||‘Be cautious, not scared of coronavirus’||Gardening, yoga and inspiration from his own fellow officials kept him going during the 17-day isolation period. While two of his family members - wife and daughter - also tested positive for Covid, the trio stayed isolated from each other.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal says: "The fever and chills had set in on the night on July 8. In the morning, I got tested and within a few hours, I came to know that I had tested positive. The first thing I did was to isolate myself from my family. I sent my wife and daughter to a separate room when I got fever at night. During the isolation period, I was at my official house, while my wife and daughter were at the private house. So, it was quite a strict isolation protocol and went off smoothly especially because my wife and daughter were totally asymptomatic. I also healed of the symptoms within a day. After two days, I was already doing office work."While the SSP's attending a wedding a day before he tested positive created quite a buzz, he says he most likely got the infection from the office. "Thankfully I didn't stay long at the wedding. I'm almost certain I got Covid from the office because hundreds of people were visiting me daily. Even though sanitisation and distancing was religiously followed.""Two days into getting Covid I was already working and coordinating on major developments at the office. Within a few days of recovering from the fever I began early and started jogging, exercising and yoga. I was also coordinating office work from home too and indulging in little pleasures like gardening," he adds.He says motivation from the state DGP led him to go for plasma donation. "All through my isolation, fellow police personnel, who tested positive were a means of motivation. One of my female police persons always remained upbeat during group calls. They all welcomed the idea of plasma donation. 14 days into my recovery when I received a call from the DGP, it was then that Plasma donation came up. I was keen to donate it, but he asked me to get better first. But he in turn eventually motivated me to donate plasma.”“A total of 36 personnel tested positive for Covid, including me and 33 of us have decided to donate plasma.— As told to Aparna Banerjee||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/be-cautious-not-scared-of-coronavirus-121742
