05-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Hooch tragedy accused chased in Batala’s narrow lanes, arrested||Tribune News ServiceBatala, August 4After learning that a bootlegger named Dharmendra would “do business” in the narrow lanes of Hathi gate on Monday night, DSP (City) Parvinder Kaur dispatched a cop, posing as a decoy customer.She stationed herself at the end of the 100-metre-long narrow street knowing that the accused would run in the opposite direction, if at all he smelt danger.Dharmendra got suspicious when he was approached by the decoy and started running across the street. After running for nearly 100 metres, he came in front of the DSP, who tripped him down. The moment he fell on the ground, he was surrounded by the officer’s body guards. He was arrested.In the raids conducted late Monday night, the cops were successful in arresting four persons involved in the trade. They have been identified as Heera of Bank colony, Badal of Hathi gate, Harpreet Happy of Mian Pandher village and Dharmendra of Hathi gate. Total eight persons have been arrested in the hooch tragedy case so far.SSP Rachpal Singh confirmed the arrests and said the cops were on the lookout for more persons.In Batala police district, the tragedy has claimed 13 lives so far. On August 1, the cops had arrested the kingpin identified as Triveni Chauhan, her son Johnny, Darshana ‘Faujan’ and her son Rajan.Sources say the police have more clues about the whereabouts of several bootleggers and had extended their network far and wide. “More arrests will be made in the next few days. We are questioning all four suspects and will conduct raids once we finish with our investigations,” said Parvinder Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hooch-tragedy-accused-chased-in-batalas-narrow-lanes-arrested-122179
05-08-2020||---||Electric hazard: High tension prevails due to low cables in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 4High tension 11,000 kW electricity wires running close to the rooftops are a bane for the residents of many areas in city. Many accidents, including deaths, have been reported due to these electricity wires in the recent past. The residents have been demanding the relocation of these electricity transmission lines at the earliest.Though the politicians promise to get these relocated when elections are near, they never look back once the election process is over. “This has been a cause for concern for us as nobody is ready to buy a house under with the dangling wires,” said Sanjeev Kumar, a resident of the Indira Colony.Residents stated that every time they taken up the matter with the Power Corporation, they ask them to bear the expenses for the relocation, as per the rules. The Power Corporation officials claimed that the transmission lines were laid much before the localities were developed.However, the residents question why the local authorities had turned a blind eye when these localities were being developed? “Why did they issue power connections to the residents in the first place, they said” The land under these transmission lines is comparatively cheaper than the surrounding areas. “Now, they expect poor people to pay for shifting of transmission lines,” said an area resident, adding that the government should intervene.The residents in areas such as New Dashmesh Nagar, Indira Colony, Mohakampura, Azad Nagar and many more demanded that the government should bear the expenses for the relocation of the transmission lines.They claimed that they lived in a constant fear of electrocution. Surjit Singh, another resident, said, “At some points, the wires are just a few feet above the roof. It is a risky situation but not everybody can afford to sell houses at throw-away price and move from here. Those who could afford have already gone.” He added that unless government decides to bear the expenses, residents would be forced to live in grave threat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/electric-hazard-high-tension-prevails-due-to-low-cables-in-amritsar-122180
05-08-2020||---||Youth Congress protests against agri ordinances||Amritsar, August 4Urban unit of the youth Congress, led by its district secretary Vivan Khurana, staged a protest against agriculture ordinances and rising fuel prices outside the Hall Gate here on Tuesday. Khurana alleged the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020, are anti-farmer.“It allows farmers to sell goods outside mandis. In this, big traders and companies will fix the price of crops and reduce the prices of products. The second ordinance is an amendment to the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. In it, the government has lifted the ban on storage of potatoes, onions, pulses, oilseeds. This will benefit the companies, not the farmers”, Khurana said.“Agriculture is a business in western countries. In India, however, land is a mainstay of the family. This decision must be repealed. The hike in diesel prices should be reversed. Farmers should get subsidy on fuel”, he added.According to recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission report on farmers, the minimum support prices of crops should be given on each produce, he said. If a trader buys on less than MSP, legal action should be taken. The farmers should be completely debt free. If the Union Government does not withdraw this ordinance by August 15, the Youth Congress will intensify its struggle against the government, Khurana said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-congress-protests-against-agri-ordinances-122181
05-08-2020||---||53-yr-old woman latest fatality, Amritsar district toll 85||Amritsar, August 4The health authorities reported the death of a woman due to the Covid-19 disease in the district on Tuesday. The district also reported 21 fresh cases, taking the total number to 2,026.The victim, 53-year-old Shikha of Jawahar Nagar, was admitted at the PGI, Chandigarh.The total number of casualties has risen to 85. Of the new cases, 10 are persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 11 are contacts of positive patients. As far as the ILI cases are concerned, one each case was reported from Maqboolpura, Khandwala (Chheharta area), Wariyam Singh colony, Green city locality, Ranjit Avenue B-block, Putlighar area, Mata Bhadar Kali temple, Mall Road, Basant Avenue and East Mohan Nagar.Of the contact cases, three are from Baba Bakala Sahib, two each from BSF battalion (Khasa) and Gol Bagh area. One each case was reported from Haripura, Habibpura and Care N Cure hospital.The health authorities stated that the recovery count had increased to 1,491. Among the recovered patients is DCP Jagmohan Singh. Talking to The Tribune, he said he had fever for two consecutive days, prompting him to undergo the Covid-19 test. Following which, he was found positive on July 28.Doctors advised him to stay home. However, after two days, he started suffering breathing problem, so he immediately got himself admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) where he stayed for three days. He appreciated the medical staff and paramedics for giving good treatment to the patients in the hospital.Dr Himanshu Aggarwal, ADC and Nodal Officer for Covid-19, said after consulting with Cabinet minister OP Soni and Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khehra rapid testing of suspected Covid-19 patients would be initiated at the flu corner. He said this move would provide the report to patients within half an hour. He warned of strict action against those employees of GNDH who would be found roaming without masks on the campus of the hospital.He announced that the dialysis unit would soon be set up at GNDH and suggested to the hospital administration to set up a teleconferencing room on the premises to enable relatives of the patients to talk to their relatives.Meanwhile, the laboratory at GNDH was adjudged the best in the quality control category for the fourth consecutive term by the Indian Medical Council of Research.In Tarn Taran, 23 positive cases were reported on Tuesday, which included four medical officers and one DSP of Punjab Police. All have been admitted to the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/53-yr-old-woman-latest-fatality-amritsar-district-toll-85-122182
05-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Residence of Tarn Taran MLA gheraoed||Tarn Taran, August 4Workers of the Aam Aadmi Party under the leadership of Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal, local Halqa in-charge of the party, protested against the deaths of innocent persons after consuming spurious liquor and gheraoed the residence of local MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri for hours here on Tuesday.The police had installed barricades to prohibit the protesters from reaching the MLA’s residence but they managed to reach it ignoring all the restrictions. While addressing the protesters on the occasion, Dr Sohal condemned the incident and expressed his deepest sympathy to the bereaved families.He alleged that the state government was responsible for it. The illicit liquor trade was being run with the connivance of leaders of the ruling party and officials of the police and the administration. The AAP leader demanded a compensation of Rs 20 lakh and a government job for kin of the victims.As the MLA was not available due to being infected with the virus, the protesters handed over the memorandum to the DSP on duty. Other leaders of the party also addressed the gathering on the occasion.SGPC files police complaint||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residence-of-tarn-taran-mla-gheraoed-122183
05-08-2020||---||AAP ups the ante against govt, local MLAs||Amritsar, August 4With the death toll in the hooch tragedy crossing the 100-mark, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has intensified its demonstrations against local MLAs and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Taking a hard line on the issue, hundreds of AAP activists started marching towards the residence of MLA Danny Bandala here on Tuesday. But the police forcibly rounded them up on the way and took them to the Civil Lines police station.Workers, who were being led by Harbhajan Singh (ETO), in-charge of the Aam Aadmi Party’s Jandiala Guru constituency, and Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, president of Majha zone, were arrested by the police and taken to the Civil Lines police station. AAP workers were holding boards and raising slogans against the liquor mafia and the government.Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal said despite a large number of deaths, the government and the administration were yet to wake up. He said Capt Amarinder Singh was sitting in his farmhouse and did his duty by suspending four officers. The villagers and the families of the victims are directly testifying to the involvement of local Congress leaders in the case. Harbhajan Singh said the Aam Aadmi Party would continue with its struggle in this matter till the real culprits behind these deaths were brought to book.He was accompanied by Amritsar city president Ashok Talwar, co-president Rajinder Palah, constituency in-charge Manish Agarwal, Dr Inderbir Nijhar, Dr Inderpal, youth president Majha zone president Sukhraj Bal, vice-president Jagjit Singh, district president Ved Prakash Bablu, senior leaders and a large number of volunteers, including Ravinder Hans, Narinder Marwaha, Sanjeev Kumar, Ravinder Singh, Harish Babbar, Arvinder Singh and advocate Parminder Sethi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-ups-the-ante-against-govt-local-mlas-122185
05-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Prices of gadgets soar as internet services witness snags||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, AUGUST 4The one thing that really surged, apart from the positive cases, amid the pandemic has to be the online networking of things. As the establishments shuttered, the students and office-goers found themselves working from home. The internet world has never before experienced such a heavy traffic of users that it began slackening off often.Besides, the demand of gadgets has shot up. Eventually, the increase in prices of handsets, personal computers (PCs) and laptops also soared as those category of people who didn’t before own these items also thronged the markets as it was turning into a necessity in these unfortunate times. Parents who were earlier worried about the strain the eyes has to go through when using one at a stretch, had to somehow do away with the thought as everything from recreation to education and employment had been going on digital mode.Networking issuesPeople from different areas complained of network problem and high equipment cost. Pahulpreet Singh, a student of BTech, says, “Online classes are arduously long and network snapping after some time causes enough trouble. For a qualitative study it is essential to provide durable networks and e-gadgets.” However, remaining glued to the screen for hours sure has made the task more tedious. “Apparently, given these circumstances, it was nostalgic to miss the company of classmates while taking lectures on conventional boards,” he reminisces.Not only this, shopkeepers selling SIMs of different companies, inside the walled city are reported to have received many queries from people, especially young students and mothers, complaining about snagging issues. The problem is not only in the congested areas, even dwellers of the posh areas like Ranjit Avenue, Green Avenue, Basant Avenue, Shastri Nagar faced sluggishness.Gadgets’ cost rising to skyFollowing high demand, the prices of desktops and assembled computers, irrespective of their brands, have increased by Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 per piece. The rise in prices was denoted to the extraordinary increase in demand not only from the students but also from the office-going class.Even the demand and prices of webcams — which had nearly become obsolete after the arrival of smartphones — skyrocketed. The marked shift of educational institutions going online had given rise to the demand as students need the webcam to avail online lectures, ultimately leading to its price rise in the markets. The cost of a webcam virtually doubled from its original price of Rs 1200.Interestingly, tabs — not particularly much desired by a large number of people – also saw customers procuring the gadget big time. And the shopkeepers had an opportunity to exhaust their inventory. Barring a multinational company or two, many have even discontinued with the manufacturing of tablets.Meanwhile, the value of mobile handsets remained least changed, smartphones remained the most on the top of the wishlist of many much as before. “Smartphones are an alternative to computers as they come with all those features,” said a customer.Unlike other industries and trades, people manufacturing and those selling PCs, laptops, tabs and mobile phones did not incur much loss amid the lockdown. Even if the case, the unlocking phase has seen many retailers of these electronic goods recover swiftly.The demand of computers, laptops and mobile handsets increased like anything after the opening the markets. Laptop recorded the sharpest spike among all these products. Starting price of a laptop of any brand is now Rs 37,000 which used to be Rs 20,000 before the lockdown. Import of computers scaled down due to the Covid-19 restrictions from China, virtually causing the gap between demand and supply. — Vikas Narang, proprietor of a computer and mobile showroomAs soon as the national lockdown was announced I returned here to live with my parents. During online studies, I find that the network slows down frequently. It causes a vital communication gap between the students and teachers. Of course, sitting in front of a screen for hours is sure to take a toll on the eyesight. There’s no escaping that. — Ajay Sharma, Phd student, Council of Science and Industrial Research, New DelhiWhen network is not available in the rooms, children tend to go out of the rooms to continue their online classes. They are attending online classes and then tuition class as well, each stretching about two-hour long. Over four-hour long screen and digital exposure can have harmful impact on their health. — Jyoti Kapoor, a housemakerThere are now three major companies engaged in providing cash paid cards. Reopening of shops after the lockdown brought a windfall of customers seeking pre-paid connections. Most of them return to complain about the poor network in rooms, narrow streets and remote parts of the area. I keep telling them that I am an ordinary vendor selling these SIMs on a paltry commission. So, don’t harass me. — Naresh Kumar, shopkeeper||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prices-of-gadgets-soar-as-internet-services-witness-snags-122186
05-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||85 workers hired to spray disinfectants laid off by Amritsar MC||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 4Their removal not justified: UnionLeaders of the MC Employees’ Union said these workers had worked continuously risking their lives during the pandemic. It was unjustified to remove them after the work was over.The MC Employees’ Union on Tuesday opposed the move of the MC to lay off 85 workers who were outsourced for sanitisation work after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. The union demanded that they should be adjusted in some other department.The MC had outsourced 170 workers for spraying sodium hypochlorite solution in all 85 wards. Two persons each had been assigned the task of disinfecting a single ward. Besides, these workers performed duties in hospitals where suspected Covid-19 patients were quarantined. They were recruited in two batches.The first batch of 85 persons was hired on March 26 while the other batch of 85 workers was outsourced on April 14. With the unlocking process underway, the MC has decided to focus on only hotspot areas. One batch of 85 persons is still working while others have been laid off.Dr Ajay Kanwar, Municipal Health Officer, said, “We had outsourced these employees from a service provider company. There were informed that the work would be for a short term period and after some months they would be laid off. It has been written in their contract that it is a short-term job to control the pandemic. We have laid off one batch of 85 workers. Others are still working.”Leaders of the union said these workers had worked continuously risking their lives during the pandemic. It was not justified to remove them after the work was over.Vinod Kumar Bitta, president, MC Employees’ Union, said, “These workers did spray by putting their lives to risk. They used to visit hotspot areas wherever cases were reported. We have opposed their removal and demonstrated against the decision. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu has assured that they will adjust them in some other department.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/85-workers-hired-to-spray-disinfectants-laid-off-by-amritsar-mc-122188
05-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Man shot dead in Noordi village||‘Act against Illegal constructions’Amritsar: Mayor Karamjit Singh at a meeting on Tuesday talked tough on illegal constructions in the city. During the meeting, he asked the building staff that there were reports of illegal constructions, but the department did not take any action against these building owners. The practice is tarnishing image of the Municipal Corporation. Giving strict instructions, the Mayor said immediate action should be taken against these illegal constructions. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-shot-dead-in-noordi-village-122189
05-08-2020||On June 22||‘My recovery is nothing short of a miracle’||“I got tested for Covid-19 and was announced positive later in the night,” said Neeraj Kumar. His subsequent 23-day hospitalisation was an experience he remembers clearly and doesn’t want anyone to go through the ordeal. “I was amongst the most critical patients of Covid-19 in the city and my survival and recovery is nothing short of a miracle for me as well as the team of doctors treating me,” shared Neeraj.A frontline warrior, Neeraj worked in relief distribution work throughout the lockdown and had visited extensively the clusters vulnerable to the infection. “I knew the risk to health being a frontline warrior. But it was only when I contracted the infection that I realised how scary the entire experience was,” he said. Neeraj had been diagnosed with critical symptoms of the Covid-19 pandemic and he was put on ventilator the second day after being hospitalised.During the 23-day period of treatment, he was intubated with life support and oxygen throughout as his lungs had severely been affected. He lost 16-kg weight during the period. “The situation did not improve even after the report of my sample came out negative twice after 15 days. My lungs were not functioning properly and the doctors treating me too were worried about my condition.”But what makes him a survivor was his will and determination to fight, as is expected from a police officer. “I would say that it was definitely the most dreadful experience of my life. Every day I spent in ICU with ventilator being my only hope for survival, it was like waiting for the unexpected any moment. Luckily, for me the unexpected thing was my gradual recovery,” he said. Living in a 14-member joint family, Neeraj’s biggest support came from his brothers and his children.“Contrary to my fears, my family members did not contract the infection. But my sister, who was visiting us during that time, showed mild symptoms but later she recovered. I used to avoid sharing my critical condition with my family.” He said he and his family got unrelenting support of his peers, friends and family during the time. If there was one thing that his experience made him learn, it was the extreme dedication of the healthcare professionals towards Covid-19 patients.“It used to take one hour for doctors and healthcare workers to wear their kit and approach the positive patients for collecting samples. I used to get pricked multiple times to get a single blood sample. Yet, the doctors and nurses used to motivate patients with a smile on their face.” His welcome party after being discharged was a warm, sweet family affair. “My three children and the entire family threw a small house party to celebrate my win over Covid-19. I would like to say that people, who are still not taking the disease seriously, need to re-think about it. I could manage to survive, but I consider myself quite lucky. There are so many who have succumbed to the virus and precaution is the only way to save yourself and others.”He is eager to return to his duty this month.— As told to Neha Saini||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/my-recovery-is-nothing-short-of-a-miracle-122190
