06-08-2020||---||Assets of liquor smugglers will be confiscated, says OP Soni||Amritsar, August 5After CM Capt Amarinder Singh offered condolences to the families of those killed in the illicit liquor tragedy, Cabinet minister OP Soni and Lok Sabha members Jasbir Singh Dimpa, Gurjit Singh Aujla, MLAs Santokh Singh Bhalaipur, Raj Kumar Chabewal, Sukhwinder Singh Danny along with Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira reached Muchhal on Tuesday evening to meet the families of the victims.Expressing solidarity with the families, Soni said justice would be served. “You will be given justice, no matter which party or faction the culprits belong to. Those responsible will be held accountable and will not be spared. The properties and assets of smugglers and those found guilty will also be confiscated,” Soni said. He said the police were working round the clock to nab the remaining culprits.“Total 37 persons were arrested by the police from various places in the past two days and investigation is in full swing. Departmental investigation has also been started against the suspended police and civil officials involved in the crime.”He announced a financial aid of Rs10,000 from District Red Cross Society for the victim’s families. “The DC has been given the responsibility to disperse the amount among the families, so that they do not have to starve or suffer in the need of bare necessities,” he said. The district administration officials have been directed to give benefits including elderly pension, widow pension, and dependent ration cards schemes as fast as possible for the members of the victims’ families.Meanwhile, MPs Gurjeet Aujla and Jasbir Singh Dimpa also offered their condolences to the families of the deceased. Dimpa said he would raise the issue of including the chemical used in making the spurious liquor under the NDPS Act and demand for its ban. Rejecting any need for CBI inquiry in the matter, Dimpa said the Punjab Police were working diligently to nab the culprits. “Total 37 people have been arrested so far, five kingpins of illicit liquor mafia have also been identified and nabbed,” he said.Gurjit Singh Aujla said the unfortunate loss of 117 lives due to illicit liquor consumption cannot be compensated. “But to ensure that their families continue to earn a livelihood will be just,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/assets-of-liquor-smugglers-will-be-confiscated-says-op-soni-122596
06-08-2020||Amritsar||Carelessly placed construction material on road poses threat to commuters||Carelessly placed construction material on the GT road, underneath the elevated road, is posing a threat to the lives of commuters. People riding two-wheelers are especially scared of skidding due to the sand and pebbles of gravel scattered over the road.This was due to the civil work being carried out for the beautification of the stretch passing underneath the elevated road. The beautification project falls under the Smart City project. A private concern is carrying out the project, which was handed over by Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL).Harpinder Singh Walia, a resident of the New Golden Avenue, said: “The road witnesses continuous high flow of traffic throughout the day. I hardly manage to apply break after finding the sand strewn over the road. It did not happen once. It is a daily sight since the work started after unlocking of the lockdown”.He said officials concerned must show some sensitivity towards the safety and well being of motorists. He said all people were aware of the lethal impact of a fast-moving vehicle coming over construction material especially sand and gravel.The ASCL is carrying out development and beautification projects under the elevated road with an investment of Rs 12.50 crore.Once completed it would have lush green vegetation, under the elevated road, with red coloured sandstone offering a heritage look to the residents and visitors entering from the Jalandhar side.Green leafy vegetation would be a treat to watch amidst the traffic rush on the road. As per the proposed plan, colourful lights, parking of vehicles, rehree zones and solar panels on BRTS stations, planting of saplings with investment of Rs 12.50 crore will be carried out by the ASCL.The private concern, establishing these facilities, will also maintain these for the next three years. Though ASCL CEO Komal Mittal did not attend to the call but other officials stated that the concerned private concern would be advised to take care of construction material at the site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carelessly-placed-construction-material-on-road-poses-threat-to-commuters-122597
06-08-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||56-year-old falls victim, 67 new Covid cases in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 5With the death of a 56-year-old man due to Covid-19 at Government Medical College here, the death toll increased to 86 in the district on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Iqbal Singh, a resident of Tej Nagar on the Sultanwind road.The district also reported 67 new Covid cases in the past 24 hours, taking the count of cases to 2,093. The number of active cases, however, was 491 and 1,516 persons have defeated the virus, with 25 recoveries reported in the past 14 hours.New cases include 39 persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 27 contacts of positive patients. Of ILI cases, one each was reported from Abadi Kharak Singh Wali, Tej Nagar, Ujjagar Singh Nagar, Guru Hargobind Nagar, Diamond Avenue, Kathunangal, Indira Colony (Majitha Road), Gate Hakeema, Attari, Bhullar Village (Ajnala), Sudhar (Ajnala), Lopoke, Chainpur (Ajnala), Tarsikka, Guru Bazaar, Chitta Katra, Heir Village (Ajnala), Diamond Avenue (Majitha Road), Adliwal, Division E Police Station, Green Avenue, Rajesh Nagar, Ajnala, Mahal, Dashmesh Avenue, Rani Ka Bagh, Krishna Square, Chawinda Devi, Jujhar Singh Avenue, Gehri Mandi, Preet Nagar and Mattewal and two cases each were reported from Bharat Nagar on Batala Road, Preet Avenue and C-Block at Ranjit Avenue.Contact cases include five from the BSF battalion posted at Khasa, four each from Majitha and Pawan Nagar on Batala Road, three from the Sultanwind Road locality, two each from Jandiala Guru, Preet Avenue on Majitha Road, Jujhar Singh Avenue and Baba Bakala and one each from Central Jail, Anngarh and Chehharta.Rapid testing at Flu CornerIn order to fast track testing of suspected Covid patients, Government Medical College has started rapid testing at Flu Corner. Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Himanshu Aggarwal, the nodal officer for Covid centres, said test reports would be available within half an hour.At a meeting with GMC principal Dr Rajiv Devgan, the ADC took notice of reports of hospital employees not wearing masks and told the principal to take a strict action against violators of safety protocols. It was also decided that a dialysis unit would be set up at the Covid ward for convenience of patients of kidney-related diseases. ADC Aggarwal also directed the hospital to set up a system to help patients interact with their family members. He suggested a room at the Covid ward be converted into a teleconference room for the purpose.Come forward to donate plasma, appeals ADC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/56-year-old-falls-victim-67-new-covid-cases-in-amritsar-district-122601
06-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Book Khadoor Sahib MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki in spurious liquor case, says SAD||Tarn Taran, August 5Hundreds of SAD workers, led by former MLA and district president Virsa Singh Valtoha, and SGPC member Alwinderpal Singh Pakhoke, on Wednesday gheraoed the residence of Khadoor Sahib MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki at Reshiana village over the alleged role of the MLA and his PA in the distribution of spurious liquor in the area. The liquor had claimed over 100 lives in the area. The workers started their march from nearby Sheikhchak village and gheraoed the residence of Sikki for hours in the scorching heat and demanded registration of a case against the MLA and his PA.Addressing the party workers, Virsa Singh Valtoha and Alwinderpal Singh Pakhoke alleged it was clear from the statements of the victims’ families that the MLA and his PA, Jarmanjit Singh, were actively involved in the distribution of spurious liquor in villages of the area. The leaders further alleged that the trade was freely carried out even during the lockdown period. The leaders demanded a probe by a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. They also demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh each for the victims’ families and registration of a criminal case against the MLA and his PA. The protesters burnt the effigy of Capt Amarinder Singh and Sikki.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/book-khadoor-sahib-mla-ramanjit-singh-sikki-in-spurious-liquor-case-says-sad-122602
06-08-2020||---||Police foil SAD bid to gherao residence of MLA Bandala||Amritsar, August 5Workers of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) attempted to gherao the residence of Jandiala MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala to protest against the illicit liquor menace here on Wednesday. They were stopped by the police a few metres away from the house of the MLA and pacified. The activists raised slogans against the state government and demanded resignation of MLAs allegedly involved in the hooch tragedy.Leading the protect march, SAD leader Talbir Singh Gill said: “MLA Danny Bandala patronised illicit liquor traders in the area. He is responsible for the deaths in Mucchal village. We demand justice for families who lost their dear ones to the menace.”Gurpartap Singh Tikka, district president of the SAD, said: “The SAD has always stood for the people. Over 100 people have been murdered but no one take action against those responsible. Whenever police arrested a liquor smuggler, the Congress leaders used would get them released. Congress MLAs should also be booked. Kin of victims have told us that they don’t have money to conduct last rites of the deceased. The government is providing them with only Rs 10,000 which is shameful.”Former MLA Harmeet Singh said: “Captain Amarinder Singh had taken an oath on Gutka Sahib to eradicate drugs from the state. However, he has given a free hand to its MLAs and Congress workers who have patronised drug smugglers.”Some families of deceased persons from Mucchal village were also part of the demonstration.Jagir Kaur from Mucchal village said: “The state government is responsible for all deaths. The government has failed to check the sale of illicit liquor. I have lost my son. The sale of illicit liquor should be banned and strict action should be taken against those guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-foil-sad-bid-to-gherao-residence-of-mla-bandala-122603
06-08-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Covid hits pause, scribes face dearth of news ideas||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 5As all sections of society have been unsettled by the Covid-19 pandemic, journalism, too, is no exception. As reporters are expected to file ground reports, restrictions on movement and health concerns during the period have affected coverage of news.Suddenly, press conferences, political rallies, film promotions, cultural events and all other social, political, economic and religious events became a thing of the past even seasoned journalists were face to face with a dearth of story ideas.“It reminded me of my initial days of profession when I would have to think really hard before listing a story idea,” revealed a senior journalist and political observer, adding that while ground reporting has took a back seat, reporters with good ‘source-bank’ have managed to stay afloat.For reporters of print media, dependence on mobile phone, social media and personal contacts has increased as ‘work from home’ has became the new normal in many organisations. But for television journalists and newspaper photo journalists, daily work still includes visiting places in the city.Reporters are complaining that news other than those related to coronavirus have lost relevance in the current times. “Even seniors at head offices are more interested in Covid-19 updates. With newspaper decreasing the number of pages, other news stories have lesser space available,” said a young woman journalist working with a national daily newspaper.“A little political activity has resumed but leaders are mostly issuing political statements. They surely cannot afford to stay away from headlines for long. It has come as a bit reliever for us,” quipped a TV journalist, adding that most politicians prefer to upload a video on the social media, knowing well that channels would pick it up and use as fodder.A few in the local journalist fraternity felt that reporting had seen new low during the pandemic. “In times of turmoil, insurgency and disaster, journalists are expected to leave their comforts and report on problems of the general public. But much to our dismay, many among us tried to project undeserving people as heroes. Every one became a philanthropist overnight and many of them wanted just fame,” said a reporter with a Punjabi newspaper, adding that journalists should not oblige anyone by misrepresenting facts.Increased inaccessibilityOf all problems shared by many journalists, the most prominent one was the increased inaccessibility of higher officials of various government departments for obtaining official versions. Journalists complained that the flow of authentic and unbiased information has got compromised.“It seems that all of sudden, officials have become no more accountable. Some don’t even pick the phone to deny an accusation or confirm a development and this all is being done on the pretext that they are busy in Covid-19 related duties. Many of them are really busy but everyone isn’t,” said another journalist.‘Never report on an empty stomach’ was a senior journalist’s advice for me when I was assigned health beat as a new recruit. “An empty stomach is more prone to viral infections,” he explained, adding that health reporting involves frequent visits to hospitals.In the last week of March this year, when Covid-19 started making headlines and a nationwide lockdown was announced, I would often ask myself if a full stomach can guard me against the new deadly virus. To tell you the truth, so far, it has worked for me.Layoffs and resignations after salary cuts at our office forced the remaining staff to work double shifts. I could not find time to sleep. A few days later, I started having dreams of coronavirus. During this time, I was living alone and that made things even worse. A desk journalistI lived in a PG. The landlords asked me to vacate as I had to go out for my job on daily basis. I had to find a place with my relatives. My parents were also worried as I have been assigned health beat. They ask me to avoid going out. Gradually things improved and I have found a new place to stay. City-based woman journalist from JammuI try not to touch my face and repeatedly sanitise my hands. I try to stay away from people but still at the back of my mind, I am always worried. The biggest worry is that I go out to work daily and return home every night. I fear if I catch virus, I may also infect my family members. A television journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-hits-pause-scribes-face-dearth-of-news-ideas-122604
06-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Three masked men snatch Revolver||No City-kolkata train on 2 daysAmritsar: The 02357 Kolkata-Amritsar Durgiana Express special train will not operate on August 8 and the 02358 Amritsar-Kolkata Durgiana Express will not run on August 10. Railway officials cited technical reason for not operating the trains. However, vendors are annoyed with the railway for cancelling the trains. They said their business was already suffering on account of low footfall as limited trains were being plied. On June 1, the railway station was reopened with two trains, Amritsar-Jayanagar Express and Jan Shatabdi between Amritsar-Haridwar. The vendors said some more trains were allowed to be plied but the passenger footfall continues to remain too low due to the fear of coronavirus. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-masked-men-snatch-revolver-122605
06-08-2020||---||BJP workers celebrate bhoomi pujan of Ram Temple||Amritsar, August 5BJP leaders and workers here on Wednesday lit up earthen lamps to celebrate the foundation laying ceremony for the Ram Janmabhoomi temple at Ayodhya. Former cabinet minister Anil Joshi, along with his party supporters, gathered at the under construction Radha Krishna temple in Ranjit Avenue.Joshi said reconstruction of the temple signified the victory of truth, non-violence, universal peace and brotherhood over the ideology of Babar, which is synonymous with forcible change of religions and violence. He said invaders with Babar’s ideology carried out several attacks in India to damage its religious institutions and forcibly change Hindu religion and culture. But all of them failed.He said that he had taken part in the kar sewa of Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya.Veteran BJP leader Lakshmi Kanta Chawla, district BJP president Suresh Mahajan, Rajesh Honey and others gathered at Katra Bhai Sant Singh Chowk and distributed sweets among people.Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik along with his supporters also celebrated the occasion by lighting up earthen lamps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-workers-celebrate-bhoomi-pujan-of-ram-temple-122606
06-08-2020||---||US-based foundation gives Rs 5 lakh to Khalsa College Governing Council||Amritsar, August 5The US-based Khalsa Global Reach Foundation on Wednesday presented a cheque for Rs five lakh to Khalsa College Governing Council (KCGC) secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina as special financial assistance to the girl students at Khalsa College for Women (KCW).KCW principal Dr Manpreet Kaur received the cheque from Dr Sarbjit Singh, president, Langar Challe Guru Shabad Sanstha, who was here on behalf of the Foundation.Organisers of the foundation, who are the ex-students of the college have been sending financial assistance for the meritorious students of the Khalsa College, Amritsar, Earlier as well, speaking on the occasion, Chhina said the funds would be given to the eligible meritorious girl students as per the guidelines agreed upon with the foundation earlier.“With this kind of help, bright students from the border region, belonging to poor section of the society will be able to continue with their education,” he said, adding that KCGC was proud of its rich alumni worldwide. Principal Dr Manpreet Kaur said they were grateful to Global Reach Foundation and Khalsa College Governing Council (KCGC) for the help.Dr Sarbjit Singh, who himself is an alumni of Khalsa College and a preacher of Sikhism said the Foundation had been spearheading a movement for the promotion of education amongst the girls, especially in the rural and border regions, and the assistance was part of the programme. Khalsa College Global Alumni Association (KCGAA) president Dr Davinder Singh Chhina said the alumni worldwide were committed to join hands with the KCGC for the promotion of the girls’ education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/us-based-foundation-gives-rs-5-lakh-to-khalsa-college-governing-council-122607
06-08-2020||---||Gol Bagh to get facelift under Smart City plan||Amritsar, August 5Gol Bagh, one of the most important parks located in the heart of the city, is about to change. The Smart City Mission will redevelop Gol Bagh’s existing indoor badminton complex and swimming pool at a cost of Rs 5.35 crore and new sports facilities. On Wednesday, the work of redevelopment of Gol Bagh and construction of new facilities was started by Member Parliament Gurjit Singh Aujla in the presence of MLA Sunil Datti, Amritsar Improvement Trust Chairman Dinesh Bassi and Amritsar Smart City CEO Komal Mittal.MP Aujla said, “In the current coronavirus era people are now health conscious and adopting a healthy lifestyle. Sports are of great importance to live a healthy lifestyle. Following this sports infrastructure is being developed to promote sports in the city. New sports facilities will be constructed under the Smart City Mission in Gol Bagh. The wrestling stadium of Gol Bagh will also be developed soon”.MLA Sunil Datti said many efforts had been made by the Punjab government to encourage sports in the state and now the badminton court and swimming pool at Gol Bagh will be redeveloped and made of international standard.On the occasion, Dinesh Bassi, chairman, AIT, said in the coming days residents would have a lot of sports facilities in the city as Gol Bagh and Bularia Park are being developed as sports centers.MC Commissioner Komal Mittal said in addition to the redevelopment of the existing badminton court and swimming pool under this project with a cost of 5.35 crore, new indoor and outdoor gyms, jogging tracks, climbing walls, cricket net and synthetic track would be constructed.Outdoor volleyball, basketball, badminton courts and karate grounds will also be constructed. Apart from this, new trees and plants will be planted. She said the project would be completed in a period of nine months and the project contractor would maintain it for five years. Smart City Mission nodal officer Rajeev Sekhari and fire station officer Lovpreet Singh were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gol-bagh-to-get-facelift-under-smart-city-plan-122608
06-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Green belts, pavements encroached upon, authorities look the other way||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 5A large number of dwellers in residential localities have encroached upon the green belts and pavements outside their houses. Many of them have even installed iron grills earmarking the land as their own. Caring two hoots for norms, people are rampantly resorting to installing grills, a trend that has caught up among residents.It has also been noticed that green belts in many localities are used as private lawns by nearby residents and the back doors of their homes open in the belt. Some even use these places to cultivate vegetables for their kitchens.In many areas, the demarcation of green belts has almost eroded and people have constructed structures for the parking of vehicles.Balram Kumar Sharma, a resident of Ranjit Avenue, said a green belt outside the residence enhanced the beauty of house and offered a soothing effect.However, some people were resorting to acquiring more space in front of their house line. He felt that people became audacious in doing so, as the land cost was very high.At many places, the width of the motorable road was narrowed, which contributed to traffic hassles. At others, people encroached upon the pavements.These violations were not specific to a locality, but visible in almost all planned and non-panned localities such as Basant Avenue, Rani Ka Bagh, Shastri Nagar, Joshi Colony and Kabir Park among others.Surjit Singh, a senior citizen, said: “The trouble was more pronounced in the commercial pockets of localities. Shopkeepers do not hold back from placing gas stoves, other paraphernalia for cooking and other marketable objects on the footpath. Sometimes, they even place their material in the parking area of the market.”The first priority of the administration should be to use these green belts for the purpose for which these were created. It will be great if trees were planted in all these belts and encroachments were removed, he said.Kirpal Singh Randhawa, a human rights activist and a resident of Kabir Park, said keeping in view the magnitude of encroachments, it had taken a diabolical proportion.He said the entire city was being held at ransom by these persons, while the authorities turned their attention the other way.He took up the matter of rampant encroachments with the judiciary, as he had filed a case in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. He said the judiciary pronounced judgment in his favour. However, finding non-execution of the order, he again filed a contempt of court petition in 2010 and the latest contempt of court petition in 2017.Expressing dissatisfaction over the pace of action against encroachers, he said the malaise was so rampant, that the authorities need to frequently say after every week carry out action against violators. He said high pecuniary fine could also act as a deterrent.Residents feel that if no action was taken against people causing damage to green belts, it will embolden others and encourage them to occupy the area adjoining their houses for personal use, he observed.Officials of the Municipal Corporation said some localities fall under the control of the civic body. They said they carry out anti-encroachment drives from time to time. However, people encroach upon the area again.Amritsar Improvement Trust chairman Dinesh Bassi said the Trust recently removed decades-old encroachment from Truck Stand Scheme. He assured that the anti-encroachment drive would be continuously carried out. At the same time, he said awareness needs to be raised among people for not encroaching public land, as it cause inconvenience to commuters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/green-belts-pavements-encroached-upon-authorities-look-the-other-way-122609
06-08-2020||---||Declared ‘tankhaiyas’, Langah aides apologise to Akal Takht||Amritsar, August 5A day after former member of SGPC’s Dharam Parchar Committee Rattan Singh Jaffarwal and committee member from Kadian Gurinderpal Singh Gora were declared ‘tankhaiyas’ by the Akal Takht, both submitted their apologies to the Takht.They were charged with violating Akal Takht’s ‘hukumnama’ against Langah by having association with him and seeking pardon for him from the ‘panj pyaras’ of Nihang organisation Tarna Dal on August 3.They said they were committed to the Akal Takht and had submitted their clarification to the Secretariat. They had appealed to the Jathedar to listen to their pleas sympathetically and pardon them, they said.On his picture with Langah that went viral, Gora said he never participated in the ‘amrit sanchar’ ceremony and the picture might be morphed.Langah was excommunicated by the Akal Takht on October 5, 2017, after his objectionable video had gone viral. Though he was acquitted by the court later as the complainant withdrew the charges, the Akal Takht’s verdict stands till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/declared-tankhaiyas-langah-aides-apologise-to-akal-takht-122721
06-08-2020||---||Probe ordered by CM eyewash: Sunny Deol||Batala, August 5Gurdaspur MP Sunny Deol has termed the magisterial probe ordered by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh into the spurious liquor tragedy as an “eyewash”.This has triggered strong reactions from Congress men, with Cabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa even going to the extent of telling him “to keep his unsolicited advice to himself and not interfere in the working of the state.”In a statement, Deol said: “Ordering a magisterial probe will be an eyewash and will serve no purpose until a full-fledged, free, fair and impartial investigation is done.”Meanwhile, Randhawa, whose assembly seat of Dera Baba Nanak falls in the jurisdiction of the Batala police, said: “People are still mourning their loved ones and here you are coming up with uncalled-for advice. Have you even cared to visit the constituency even once after the tragedy?”AAP: cong failed to fulfil promisesChandigarh: In a joint statement, AAP MLA and Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and party MLA Aman Arora said the Congress had failed to fulfil the promises made to the people of Punjab ahead of the 2017 elections. The illicit liquor trade was a fallout of the ill-designed policies of the Congress government, they said. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/probe-ordered-by-cm-eyewash-sunny-deol-122705
06-08-2020||GS Paul||Lost parents to liquor tragedy, kids find saviour in Sonu Sood||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 5Actor Sonu Sood, who won accolades for helping migrants reach back safely to their native places during the lockdown, has come to the rescue of four children who lost their father, a rickshaw-puller, in the Tarn Taran spurious liquor tragedy, and their mother, who couldn’t bear the shock of losing her husband.The four — Karanbir (13), Gurpreet (11), Arshpreet (9) and Sandeep (5) — were accommodated temporarily by their uncle Sarwan Singh (deceased Sukhdev’s brother). He too felt helpless due to his meagre earnings.“Due to financial constraints, I am unable to take care of my brother’s children. I am an auto-rickshaw driver. My wife, three daughters and a son are dependent on me,” he said.The actor came across their plight through one of his friends in Punjab. Extending a helping hand, he tweeted: “I assure these little kids from Punjab will have a good home, a nice school and a bright future ahead.”Talking to The Tribune, Sood said: “They are no more orphans now. I am there to take care of them. I was keenly following the liquor tragedy. I was moved to know the story of Tarn Taran-based four children. We are on the lookout for a best place where they could be accommodated and get good education.”Sood roped in his friend Karan Gilhotra from Chandigarh to trace them and extend the help. Gilhotra, who is the chairman of the PHD Chambers of Commerce in Punjab, said already a children’s home, Mata Chaya Ashram, in Abohar, had been shortlisted for the children. “If their guardians permit, we will shift the children there. They will have homely atmosphere and their education will be taken care of by us,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lost-parents-to-liquor-tragedy-kids-find-saviour-in-sonu-sood-122707
