08-08-2020||Amritsar||Explosion in firecracker unit in Amritsar||An explosion took place in a cracker unit at Iban-Kala village on the outskirts of the city here on Saturday, police said.There was no loss of life in the incident, they said, but the building housing the cracker unit was completely damaged and the entire stock of crackers was gutted in a fire.Four fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the flames, they said, adding that a short circuit was believed to be the reason behind the incident.Nobody was present at the cracker unit at the time of the explosion, the police added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/explosion-in-firecracker-unit-in-amritsar-123878
08-08-2020||---||Underpasses an answer to Amritsar’s gridlock?||Amritsar, August 7These could be used for a much better cause. Perhaps, as parking spaces or something of public use. Instead, the underpasses of the various flyovers in city are home to nearby shopkeepers displaying or as storage for their goods. It’s a total waste which turns into a nuisance every now and then.The new extension of the Bhandari bridge flyover towards railway station is entirely at the disposal of the nearby market selling cycles. Thousands of cycles are displayed under the bridge during the day. The workers of these shops can be seen assembling cycle parts under the bridge. The extension of the bridge on the Gol Bagh side is no different. It is dotted with shops selling tyres and other automobile parts.The entire stretch of the BRTS corridor on the Batala road has variety of businesses operating like selling of old cars, vegetables and food vends etc. Initially, the administration had used the place of vehicles, but absence of scrutiny has paved the way for increasing encroachments.Kulwant Singh, a resident, says, “The entire city has a big problem of parking. If these underpasses are used for parking, it could solve the problem to a great extent.” Though the underpass under the elevated road from Bhandari bridge to Alpha Mall is being redeveloped under the beautification project, the residents suggested that it could have been better if it was used for parking of vehicles.In absence of enough parking spots in markets, the vehicles can often be seen parked haphazardly on roadsides. Even in markets where white markings demarcate the parking spaces have been used; vehicles can be seen parked outside the designated areas.“The government would spend huge amounts on exotic plants which would die some months later. An similar experiment was conducted by the previous government and it had failed. The public money should be put to practical use,” says Satnam Singh, another resident, adding that all kinds of encroachments should be removed from under these bridgesThe tendency to display goods outside shops, footpaths and sometimes on the road itself has resulted in narrowing the space impeding the flow of vehicular traffic. “The parking on roadsides is a big issue for the city. The main bottlenecks are caused by wrong parking of vehicles, says Kewal Krishan, a resident, before adding, “the market places do not have enough parking spaces and the administration must devise a plan to create multistorey car park.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/underpasses-an-answer-to-amritsars-gridlock-123508
08-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Covid disrupts household budget as grocery expense rises, income slides||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 7The Covid-19 pandemic has dealt a blow to the economy and its repercussions are also being felt on household budgets of the people. Most families in the city have witnessed a fall in income but their regular expenses have increased, disrupting household budgets.Residents revealed that during the lockdown, their expenditure on grocery, cooking gas and power increased while the flow of regular income of many families got disrupted. However, the lockdown didn’t affect high income groups and the service class in the same manner. Shopkeepers and those engaged in small trades have been using their savings to meet the expenses but those from economically-weaker section are taking small loans or borrowing money to support their families. But owing to the low income, a large number of small traders didn’t get their trade licences renewed. Some residents deferred payments of property tax and water sewerage bills.People involved in sectors such as hospitality, transportation, education sector and international trade, have been severely affected. Workers of the hotel industry, taxi drivers, guides, travel agents, courier firms, schoolteachers and contractual workers are facing temporary or permanent job loss. A large number of daily-wagers have taken to selling vegetables to earn a livelihood. Even vendors, especially fast food sellers, are struggling to stay afloat. According to information, over one lakh people were directly associated with the hotel industry in the city. Many of them lost their job or suffered a salary cut. It is still not certain as to when tourism would pick up the pace in the city. Salary cuts and job loss have led affected household budgets of low income groups. With suspension of religious programmes and ceremonies, priests and clergy are unable to meet their expenses. Similarly, private schools imposed heavy cuts on salaries of teachers.The economic recession is here to stay for long. With the rise in unemployment, the living standards of the low income groups would deteriorate . The number of job seekers would increase and jobs reduce in the future. Dr Maan Singh, EconomistWe have failed to keep our savings intact during the pandemic. The school management has imposed heavy salary cuts. Only 30 per cent salary is being paid. On the other hand, the expenses have increased. Harjit Kaur, a SchoolteacherThe household budget has increased as all family members stay at home. Income has remained unchanged. Expenses on education of children have also increased. We have to pay for internet for their studies. Pooja, a House wife The household budget of drivers has been severely affected. We have been jobless for the past four months. Following the Covid-19 restrictions, inter-state travel has also declined to naught. Tourists are not visiting the city. Gurpreet Singh, DriverI spent less on travel and dining out during the April to July period but expenditure on grocery rose. Panic-buying was one of the factors. The power bills have increased as ACs remain switched on at all times. Jagmeet Singh, Govt employee||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-disrupts-household-budget-as-grocery-expense-rises-income-slides-123509
08-08-2020||Neha Saini||Private schools threaten to strike off names of students after August 10||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 7The private school management body, Recognised Affiliated Schools Association (RASA), has threatened to strike off the names of the students whose parents are unable to pay fee or submit application for fee waiver till August 10.Going by the High Court order, schools have the right to decide on how much fee waiver is to be given to the student and it will be decided only after parents submit an application with the required documents to prove that they have been hit economically due to Covid-19 pandemic — Harpal Singh UK, Legal Counsel , RASAThe statement has come from Harpal Singh UK, legal counsel for Punjab RASA and Chairman, Amritsar RASA, who says that as per the Punjab and Haryana High Court ruling, schools have the right to decide case-to-case fee waiver.This was a pressure tactic adopted by the schools to mislead and threaten parents. — Satinder Bir Singh, DEO “Going by the High Court order, schools have the right to decide on how much fee waiver is to be given to the student and it will be decided only after parents submit an application with the required documents to prove that they have been hit economically due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In this case, the schools have to decide on the fee waiver within two weeks. But this does not imply that students continue their online classes without paying the fee even once.”UK also said the schools would have full authority to strike off the student’s name after a considerable time, if the parents do not submit the fee waiver application or deposit the fee. “The schools are ready to defer fee but only for the needy students.” He said after August 10, schools would be well within their right to strike off the student’s name and no other private school will allow admission to the student until they pay their fee. The private schools defend their case by saying that teachers’ salaries have to be paid since they have been taking online classes throughout the lockdown.DEO Satinder Bir Singh, meanwhile, said this was a pressure tactic adopted by the schools to mislead and threaten parents. “As per the court order, private schools cannot strike off the name of the students during the Covid-19 period on account of non-payment of fee. In case any school goes against the order and does that, parents can file a complaint with us and we will take strict action.” He said the claims by the Amritsar RASA representative were ‘misleading’ and against the HC order.Most parents in the city, whose wards are studying in private schools, have been receiving messages from schools about a deadline for paying the fee. “We received the message this week that the fee has to be paid till a particular date or else the online classes of our children will be discontinued. This is the case with most of the parents,” said a parent from the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/private-schools-threaten-to-strike-off-names-of-students-after-august-10-123510
08-08-2020||Amritsar||Covid claims 2 more lives, Amritsar district toll 90||The health authorities reported two more deaths due to the Covid-19 disease and 59 new cases in the district on Friday. It death toll has climbed to 90.At 25, Rinku, a resident of Judge Nagar, perhaps was the youngest victim of the Covid-19 disease in the district. He was suffering from acute respiratory infection and admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH). Another victim was 80-year-old Charan Kaur of Kallu Wala Khuh in the Verka area. She was also admitted to GNDH. She was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. With 59 fresh cases, the total count of positive cases touched 2,196 in the district. Of the new cases, 33 persons are suffering from influenza-like illness (ILI) and 26 contacts of Covid patients.One ILI case each was reported from Pandher Kalan village, Laxman Sar Chowk, Jamalpour village, Sunny Enclave, Kot Khalsa, Karan Vihar on the Majitha road, Jora Fatak, Batala Road, Bundala village, New Suraj Ganj, Raja Sansi, near Shivala Mandir, Majitha Road, Old Jail Road, Ranjit Avenue Block C, Garden Enclave, Hall Bazaar, Butala village, Dyan Nagar, Lawrence Road, Kathunangal, Med Card Hospital, Roari village, Kaler Bala (Baba Bakala), Kot Khalsa, Vijay Nagar, Verka, Darshan Avenue, Gopal Nagar and Dashmesh Nagar. Two each were reported from Sultanwind and Judge Nagar areas.The total number of recoveries stood at 1,647 while the number of active cases 458. — TNSAIT Chairman Bassi tests positiveDinesh Bassi, Chairman, Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT), on Friday also tested positive for the Covid-19 pandemic sending employees of the trust into a tizzy. All the officials who came in contact with him will undergo the test to check for the virus. In a message on his social media account, Bassi urged all those who came in contact with him to undergo the test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-claims-2-more-lives-amritsar-district-toll-90-123511
08-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||How many more years? Street vending project remains buried||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 7In 2016, the Municipal Corporation (MC) had hired a company to conduct a survey under Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014. The data collected revealed presence of 16,253 vendors in the city — of which 55 per cent were anchored and 45 per cent hawk the streets. Eventually, vendors’ data was garnered and smart cards prepared for them. A total of 42 locations were identified at the time to establish so-called ‘smart’ markets by the MC.Four years on, the fancied street vending zone project — under which roadside vendors are to be shifted to special zones — continues to be up in the air. Locations were identified, smart cards prepared, yet a single vending zone hasn’t come up here.What had gone wrong?In January 2019, the project came agonisingly close to materialise when Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and then MC Commissioner, Sonali Giri, had inaugurated the venture near the bus stand. Even smart cards were issued and smart vending certificates handed to the vendors.But as fate would have it, opposition from some Congress councillors posed a stumbling block which never could be crossed. Despite efforts by the company, the political leadership of the city stalled implementation of the project. This in turn set in motion the firm’s suspension of the work. Ever since then the task never gathered steam, or any fond memories.Factor this in, last year Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and other officials concerned had showed renewed interest. They visited the identified spots at the bus stand, railway station, Gurdwara Shaheedan Sahib, Chatiwind Gate and Hussainpura Chowk but failed miserably to implement the programme.“The shifting of vends to the street vending zones is the need of the hour. The MC should implement the project to address the traffic bottlenecks on city roads. The number of vends are increasing,” says Jatinderpal Singh, a resident. This year the grounds for hope have again sprouted. In February, the MC House had sent a proposal to the state government to approve 37 street vending zones in the city under the Street Vending Plan. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu assured that project would be implemented soon.“It is also good for the vendors. They would get permanent space for their livelihood,” at least Singh is thoughtful of vendors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/how-many-more-years-street-vending-project-remains-buried-123512
08-08-2020||---||GNDU tops India Today Ranking-2020 in North India||Amritsar, August 7Guru Nanak Dev University has been adjudged the only state government university in North India to bag the top position among higher education institutes for “India Today Ranking-2020”. No higher education institute of Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan or Chandigarh could attain any position even among the first 35 positions in the state public universities imparting education in arts, science and technology disciplines.Overall, the GNDU is ranked 20th among all central, public and private universities in the country. However, it has retained its position at 11th place among the state universities of India in 2020. The GNDU is ranked among the top 10 state public universities and top 9 per cent universities of the world by the World University Ranking. Nature Index has placed it among the top four institutions in Punjab and 10 institutions in North India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-tops-india-today-ranking-2020-in-north-india-123513
08-08-2020||---||Congress MLA gives Rs 1 lakh to kin of hooch tragedy victim||Amritsar, August 7Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka appealed to all MLAs and MPs in Punjab to donate Rs 1 lakh from their pocket to the victims’ kin of the hooch tragedy. On Thursday, he gave Rs 1 lakh each to two poor families who lost their earning hands in the liquor tragedy and natural calamity.The victims on the other hand urged the government to provide employment so that they could look after their children and bear the burden of their education.Speaking on the occasion, Raj Kumar Verka said leaders of SAD, BJP and AAP parties were playing politics over dead bodies. “Instead of playing politics they should hold their hands and provide Rs 1 lakh financial relief to the families out of their pockets,” Verka said.Nirmal Singh, a resident of Nanaksar Mohalla in Tarn Taran, lost his life after consuming illicit liquor. His wife Rajwant Kaur told the media that the government should also provide them jobs so that they could bring up and educate their children.Similarly, a young couple, Ravinder Singh and Harpreet Kaur, died after roof of their house collapsed in Dhapai in the recent past. Ravinder was the only earning hand of the family. Verka gave Rs 1 lakh help to Ravinder’s mother Balbir Kaur.Verka said, “We have 13 Member Parliaments and 117 MLAs in Punjab. Everyone should play his role by providing Rs 1 lakh relief to the victims while the state government has already announced Rs 2 lakh compensation to them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/congress-mla-gives-rs-1-lakh-to-kin-of-hooch-tragedy-victim-123514
08-08-2020||---||BJYM activists stage protests in front of Congress MLAs’ houses||Amritsar, August 7Activists of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) on Friday staged protests in front of the residences of Congress MLAs, holding them responsible for hooch tragedy.Led by BJYM state president Bhanu Pratap, they staged protests outside the residences of Congress legislatures for keeping mum on the allegation by the affected families of involvement of four Congress MLAs.Close to the residence of MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, they got involved in jostling with police as the latter had barricaded the path to prevent them to go ahead.Making mockery of “Ghar Ghar Naukri” slogan given by the Congress before the Vidhan Sabha elections, Bhanu Pratap said it was now providing “Ghar Ghar Sharab”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjym-activists-stage-protests-in-front-of-congress-mlas-houses-123515
08-08-2020||---||Chemists seek PM’s intervention in telemedicine guidelines issue||Amritsar, August 7Seeking intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD), urged him to streamline the telemedicine guidelines in accordance with provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Pharmacy Act, 1948 to prevent misuse of prescription drugs.Punjab Chemists’ Association president Surinder Duggal said that on March 25 this year telemedicine guidelines were notified by the board of governors by amending the Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics) Regulation, 2002.He said the step was taken with an aim to ease access to healthcare for patients. However, in order to make telemedicine consultation effective and protect public health, it should be done in accordance with the provisions of two Acts (Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Pharmacy Act and Rules).He said as per the telemedicine guidelines, doctors can prescribe medicines via tele-consultation by sending photo, scan and digital copy of a signed prescription or e-prescription to the patient via email or any messaging platform or by transmitting the prescription directly to a pharmacy which is contradictory to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and the Pharmacy Act.There are ill consequences of prescription drugs if consumed without medical advice and a significant rise in antibiotic resistance is reported due to drug abuse and self-medication. He said as per drugs and cosmetics rules, the pharmacist should stamp the medicines as dispensed on prescription to stop people from getting the same prescription drugs from multiple pharmacies, he pointed out.The Telemedicine Guidelines allow doctors to issue prescription by sending photograph of scanned copy of the prescription to patients. The scanned copy of prescription or photograph of prescriptions is not valid under applicable laws since it cannot be stamped to prevent multiple dispensations. In absence of stamping on prescription, there will be multiple dispensing of prescription which can lead to increase in self-medication. This could subsequently result in antibiotic resistance, Duggal said.He said in order to obviate this risk, the association appealed to the Central Government to establish a national portal on which the doctors can email prescription and the patients or the pharmacist can access the prescription by using a unique OTP. The pharmacist can, after dispensing the prescription, either deface it or specify the quantity of medicine dispensed on the national portal itself so that once the medicines are dispensed the prescription cannot be reused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chemists-seek-pms-intervention-in-telemedicine-guidelines-issue-123516
08-08-2020||---||GNDU students protest, seek fee waiver till physical classes begin||Amritsar, August 7A long-standing demand to waive off fee by GNDU students unions once again gained spotlight as group of students from Students For Society (SFS) and Punjab Students Union (Lalkaar) held protest outside university gates on Friday. The protesters were not allowed inside the premises as they gathered outside the gates.The authorities must understand the difficult situation of students and their families as lockdown has impacted livelihoods of many. Despite our repeated requests to waive fee till physical classes begin, the authorities have issued notice to deposit full fee for the new session. — Gagan, Student Of Guru Nanak Dev UniversityThe student bodies have been raising the issue time and again as GNDU announced to commence its new session with online classes. “The university authorities must understand the difficult situation of students and their families as lockdown has cut off livelihood of many. Despite our repeated requests to waive off fee till physical classes begin, the authorities have issued notice to deposit full fee for the new session. We are only demanding a rollback of the decision to ask students to deposit full fee before the session begins. Instead, they can give us time until things normalise,” said Gagan, a student protester.The students met the registrar Prof KS Kahlon, who listened to their demands and assured them relief. The other demands by the students include extension to research scholars for submitting their synopsis and relaxation in RDC rules; making the online attendances discretionary; withdraw GST on educational services. The university, it its part, has been looking to start with online classes by the end of August.A few days back, ad hoc teachers facing job lay off too raised their issues with the GNDU authorities. Most of the ad hoc faculty was paid salaries and dues till April and asked to relieve till further notification. The varsity on Friday met a few of them and offered them to join back as faculty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-students-protest-seek-fee-waiver-till-physical-classes-begin-123517
08-08-2020||ACADEMICS IN PANDEMIC||‘We will wait for JEE Main result to start BTech admissions’||IN Covid times, educational institutes have had to evolve systems for admissions, conduct of classes, taking exams and declaring results while ensuring that these are in the interests of the students and do not affect the academic session as well. Director of the Centre-run Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology LK Awasthi discusses various related issues with Deepkamal Kaur. Excerpts:What is the admission scenario at NIT Jalandhar in the current Covid times?We will be starting admissions after JEE Main result through centralised counselling. We will have to wait till then as some students have already appeared in JEE in January while others have not. Some also are still waiting to try their luck for JEE (Advanced). So in any case, nothing can be done as of date. The only good thing that has happened for them is that the HRD Minister has removed the condition of scoring minimum 75 per cent marks in Class XII.The demand for courses in data sciences and data analytics have increased. So, our students who are doing BTech in industrial production, chemical engineering and even textile engineering will have these courses as a part of their curriculum to enhance their employability and make them more IT-enabled. — Prof LK Awasthi, Director of the Centre-run Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology If the entrance exam takes place in September and result is declared by the month end, the admissions will take another three weeks or so. In that case, how will you cope up with lesser time left for the semester which normally ends in December?We will hold classes for the freshers for six days a week to complete the required credit hours in a semester. We also may continue with classes on some Sundays. We will work on the methodologies so that the semester completes at the same usual time and will not alter the existing plan.While the HRD ministry is still to come out with fresh guidelines on conducting final year exams and declaring their results, the NIT is already through with the process. Is this not a violation of some kind?There is no violation. The ministry insists that examination have to be held for the final year and we have already done that. We had to wind up everything for the exit classes in time as their employers were waiting for them to join and we could not hold them back. In Covid times, opportunities of getting placements cannot be missed at all.How have the placements been for NIT students this year?Around 75 per cent of our students got placed before Covid, through the routine placement mechanism. We got 10-15 per cent more placements done for the remaining students through online placement fairs. We are also pleased to share that 20-30 per cent of our third year students who were doing internships have already got pre-placement offers.What is the status of the intermediate classes?We have conducted online exams for them, which will have 30 per cent weightage. We will also take into account their performance in the assignments and the mid-semester exams that had been before Covid. We will declare their results soon and start next semester online classes. There are some students who cited internet issues during exams. We will take re-exam, which we are ready to take even through pen-paper mode for them whenever possible.What changes are you making on the campus to run online classes?We have 16-17 departments. We will convert one classroom of each department into a studio from where the lectures can be recorded and relayed. Through our Board of Governors, we have sought Rs 1 crore grant from the Centre to make these changes. The studios will be equipped with required softwares and will be available to all lecturers of the department turn wise to take online classes.Another good thing that has happened recently is that we have signed an MoU with the NHAI. We will have to provide 40 UG/PG students mostly of civil engineering for internship periodically. They will pay Rs8,000 per month as stipend to all UG students and Rs14,000 to all PG students.Are you planning any changes in the courses keeping Covid in mind?The demand for courses in data sciences and data analytics have increased. So our students who are doing BTech in industrial production, chemical engineering and even textile engineering will have these courses as a part of their curriculum to enhance their employability and make them more IT-enabled. We are continuously evolving our systems by way of interactions internally as well as experts in the field. This month we will have an HR eConclave and a webinar on New Education Policy.What is your personal opinion about the New Education Policy?The New Education Policy will open doors for wider spectrum of courses. Students will get a chance to mix different disciplines and branches unlike the complete segregation system which was being followed earlier. The new policy should help develop better HR resources for our country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/we-will-wait-for-jee-main-result-to-start-btech-admissions-123519
08-08-2020||---||1,500 smartphones to be given to Class XII students today: DEO||Amritsar, August 7The first phase of smartphones distribution among Class XII students of government schools in the district will begin tomorrow (Saturday). DEO Satinder Bir Singh attended an online meeting in this regard with School Education Secretary Krishan Kumar, who gave detailed instructions on the distribution process.“It has been decided by the Punjab Government that first of all the students of Class XII will be provided smartphones to join the online classes that are being conducted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The purpose is to ensure that no student is denied access to education due to the lack of smartphone. We have about 13,400 Class XII students of various senior secondary schools in the district whom smartphones will be given in consecutive phases starting from August 8,” said Satinder Bir Singh.He said around 1,500 smartphones would be distributed on the first day. “We will get 1,500 smartphones in the first batch and later more will be received on August 11. The department is considering installing the Punjab Education App on these smartphones. The app is being developed to streamline online education imparted by teachers. Harbhagwant Singh, Deputy DEO, Secondary, has been made the nodal officer for the distribution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-500-smartphones-to-be-given-to-class-xii-students-today-deo-123522
08-08-2020||Amritsar||No pact, residents pay for parking||Powercom JE shot at, injuredTarn Taran: Shinda Singh, who works as a junior engineer with Powercom, was shot at on the national highway here on Friday. He was admitted to the Primary Health Centre, Kairon, from where he was referred to the Civil Hospital, Tarn Taran. Pradeep Kumar Saini, Chief Engineer, Border Zone, Amritsar, along with other officials visited the hospital to enquire about his health. The Sarhali police have registered a case in this regard. The police said the JE, posted at Sarhali subdivision, was going to office on a motorcycle when two persons, sitting in a car, fired at him near Thathian Manhattan village. He received bullet injuries at his thigh and got injured. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-pact-residents-pay-for-parking-123523
08-08-2020||PK Jaiswar||Drone to keep vigil on illicit liquor trade||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 7To nail smugglers and dealers of illicit liquor in the rural belt, the Amritsar (rural) police have launched drone surveillance. The project was launched at Pandora village falling under the Kamboh police station here.The DSP (Narcotics) would supervise the project on a daily basis. SP (Operations) Shailandra Singh said an inspector-rank official would monitor the entire operation from a control room and prepare a report to be submitted to senior police officials.He said at present, the drone surveillance would be carried out at densely populated villages. He said the project would be then extended to other villages and later to cover the entire rural belt in the near future.“We are hoping that the drone surveillance would help stem the problem of not only illicit manufacturing of liquor but of drug traffickers as well,” said SP Singh, adding that the government would adopt a ‘no-tolerance approach’ towards illicit liquor smugglers.Meanwhile, the police have launched a crackdown on bootlegging. In the past 24 hours, the rural police nabbed nine bootleggers and seized 252 litres of illicit liquor and 786 kg of lahan. The police have busted seven illegal stills in the past one week.The police have tighten the noose around the illicit liquor trade following the death of over 100 people after consuming illicit liquor in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drone-to-keep-vigil-on-illicit-liquor-trade-123525
