14-08-2020||Amritsar||4 deaths take Amritsar toll to 105||With four more patients dying of Covid-19, the death toll in the district increased to 105 on Thursday. The health authorities also reported 60 new Covid cases, taking the total count to 2,634. The number of active cases is 500 while 72 persons recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 2,029.The deceased have been identified as Sukhdev Singh, a 65-year-old resident of Kot Atma Ram on Sultanwind Road; Kulwinder Singh, a 47-year-old resident of Nawakot; Kailashwanti, a 61-year-old resident of Gumtala; and Harbhajan Singh, a 59-year-old resident of B-Block, New Amritsar. Except for Kulwinder Singh, all others were patients of chronic kidney disease.The contact cases included 11 personnel from the BSF battalion posted at Khasa, four persons from Prem Nagar (Majitha Road), three from B-Block Ranjit Avenue, two persons each from Indira Colony, Hamidpura (Naraingarh) and Aman Avenue and one case each from Guru Arjan Dev Nagar, Government Medical College, Gopal Nagar, Gumtala, New Amritsar and Khandwala.Meanwhile, the gynecology unit at Government Medical College has been closed for sanitisation after at least four employees tested positive for the disease. Patients admitted at the unit have also been shifted to other units.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-deaths-take-amritsar-toll-to-105-126309
14-08-2020||Amritsar||Cap on number of passengers pushes auto-rickshaw fares up||The auto-rickshaw drivers have been fleecing the passengers in the name of maintaining social distancing in their vehicles by following the instructions of administration in the city. The standard fare of auto-rickshaws, which was earlier Rs 10, has now been doubled for most of the city routes. The drivers charging Rs 20 from Bypass road to Bus Stand at Balata Road, GT Road, Majitha Road, Fathegarh Churian Road and Ajnala Road.It is burning a hole in the common man’s pocket. The workers, who have to commute to the city for small jobs, are the major sufferers. They are unable to pay Rs 20 for a small ride of three to five kilometers.Meanwhile, the auto drivers claimed that Rs 10 for one ride is no more viable as the police did not allow them to ferry with more than four passengers.“The diesel prices have witnessed a steep rise in the past. We need at least seven to eight passengers for a trip. This way, we used to earn Rs 70 for a distance of five to ten kilometres. During pandemic, it got reduced. The administration has put several restrictions on us. So it is no more viable to ply the vehicle for just for Rs 40. Hence, we had no other option but to increase the fare. Moreover, the number of passengers also decreased as people avoided going outside,” said Mangal an auto rickshaw driver.However, the auto-rickshaw drivers can be seen violating the social distaining and accommodating seven to eight passengers. The cops issued a challan to the violations.Ironically, residents are not opting Metro bus service being run under the BRTS project. Theses buses are being operated on two major routes of the city but the residents are not willing to travel in it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cap-on-number-of-passengers-pushes-auto-rickshaw-fares-up-126313
14-08-2020||Amritsar||Now, sanitation workers just a call away in holy city Amritsar||Mayor Karamjit Singh and Commissioner Komal Mittal jointly stated that the Municipal Corporation was making all possible efforts to provide ultra-modern sanitation facilities to the residents of the holy city. “We mostly receive complaints regarding tardy lifting of garbage. Therefore, keeping this in view, the MC has set up a complaint room at the Ranjit Avenue Office in order to bring transparency in work,” he said.The complaint centre has been set up under the Municipal Solid Waste Management project in which people can lodge any complaint regarding garbage lifting. The MC also flashed a toll free number 1800-121-4662 to register complaints regarding sanitation. Complaints received from 9:00 am to 5:00 pm will be dealt on the same day and complaints received after the office time will be dealt by 10:00 am on next day.The Mayor said the Municipal Health Department was fully active during the pandemic and a commendable work had been done by the sanitation workers. Garbage lifting is being done on a daily basis in the city at present but still if any citizen has any grievance related to it, he can lodge his complaint. It would be addressed in a timely manner, said Mayor.MC to act against illegal buildings at petrol pumpsEstate officer of the Municipal Corporation asked the MTP wing to submit report on illegal restaurants and hotels being functional at petrol pump premises in the city. There are several petrol pumps, where hotels and restaurants have been constructed illegally.Deputy Mayor Younis Kumar had written to the Chief Minister, Secretary Home Department and Minister for Local Governments in this regard. Deputy Mayor claimed that he had asked the Municipal Town planners to provide the details of illegal hotel and restaurants at petrol pumps. But the MTP wing officials did not respond to the letters of Deputy Mayor.The experts claimed that no such buildings can be constructed around the petrol pump as it poses threat to the lives in case of some untoward incident. The petrol pump owners have constructed the buildings in pump premises without any approval from the government. Not only on the GT road, the commercial establishments are also operational even in congested areas of the city. In case of fire at petrol pump, major tragedy can happen due to the negligence of the MC.Yesterday, Estate office cum in-charge of Illegal Building Removal Committee, Sushant Bhatia has written a letter to MTP wing to provide a detail report on the issue to take appropriate action within three days.Bhatia claimed that these hotel and restaurant owners didn’t have any approval or NOC. These buildings are illegal and violate the building bylaws. “MC will take appropriate action soon,” added Sushant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-sanitation-workers-just-a-call-away-in-holy-city-amritsar-126315
14-08-2020||Amritsar||Migrant found dead, one arrested in Amritsar||A migrant, Raj Kumar (37), was found dead on the roof of a factory in the Focal Point area here on Wednesday.The police have arrested a Nepali resident Dharminder Kumar alias Dhadi of Basantpur. Dinesh Kumar, a relative of the deceased, told the police that Raj worked in a factory in the Focal point area. On Wednesday, he had not come to the factory. His roommate, Dharminder, too, had not reported for work. The two lived on rooftop of the factory.When Dinesh went to the rooftop, he found blood spilled there. The deceased's body was later found dumped near the canalnear the Focal Point.Inderjit Singh, SHO, Maqboolpura police station, said the police had nabbed Dharminder from the focal point area. He had hit the deceased with an iron rod on his head. A case under Section 302 and 201, IPC, has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/migrant-found-dead-one-arrested-in-amritsar-126318
14-08-2020||The nation-wide lockdown due to Covid-19 brought with itself new challenges for the school education system. Keeping in view the health of students||Shift to online teaching a step towards transparent pedagogy||How has the Covid pandemic changed the school education system in India?The biggest and most significant change that has happened due to the Covid-19 pandemic is that schools had to build infrastructure for digital teaching. The concept of online classes is quite prevalent in foreign schools and colleges and many of our students, who go overseas to pursue higher education, have to adapt to that system. But it was something new for students at Indian schools. The Covid-imposed transition will make it easy for them to adapt to the digital system of teaching.What additions have educational institutions under the CKD done to facilitate the shift towards online education?The Chief Khalsa Diwan Trust runs 51 schools and educational institutions in the district, in both urban and rural areas. First, we conducted skill development workshop for our teaching faculty to teach them how to use various digital learning and teaching tools to facilitate the shift to digital teaching. We have also been conducting objective-type online tests for students from Class I to Class XII regularly to check their learning output.What challenges do you face while conducting online classes for students in the rural belt?I believe unless we make digital education accessible to all students, including those living in rural areas, the transition is incomplete and the purpose isn’t fulfilled. The most basic problem for students in the rural belt is the unavailability of smartphones and poor internet connectivity. The problem is also being faced in families where there is one phone and two or more students waiting to attend online class. To overcome this, I have asked my staff and faculty to donate any spare smartphone to such students. We have managed to arrange phones for a few needy students. The state government must also support institutions such as ours to bridge the digital gap.How do you see the future of education system in India after the shift towards digital education?I feel that it’s a great step towards a more transparent pedagogy. After the schools and colleges reopen, we might have to review the mechanism of education delivery as students would have become habitual to attending classes online. In my view, it will be important to maintain a balance between online classes and regular classroom teaching and adopt blended learning. If we give student the option to choose between online class and regular class, it would help us control the spread of the infection and also familiarise students with both methods of teaching.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shift-to-online-teaching-a-step-towards-transparent-pedagogy-126319
14-08-2020||The pandemic threat looms large over Independence Day celebrations as only a few persons would be attending the function at the Guru Nanak Stadium this time. Though ‘adequate’ security arrangements have been made||‘No freedom’ to celebrate the spirit of free India this time||Cabinet Minister OP Soni would preside over the function. According to information, there would be no parade during the function organised to mark the Independence Day and only 30 cops would participate in the symbolic parade.The SDMs have been deputed to award freedom fighters. They will visit their homes for handing over the awards. Due to the pandemic threat, only limited persons have been invited to the programme. The cases are increasing in the holy city with each passing day and the district, too, is among the top districts of Punjab in mortality rate.Meanwhile, local kite makers are still hopeful of selling kites prepared by them. Jagmohan Kanojia said he had prepared kites with pictures of heroes of India’s independence struggle, prime ministers and presidents of the country since the Independence. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-freedom-to-celebrate-the-spirit-of-free-india-this-time-126320
14-08-2020||Amritsar||Unions protest laxity of Labour Dept officials||Labour unions are up in arms against officials, which badly affected the office work, leading to a huge pendency of applications under different schemes. Representatives of the unions, in a statement issued today, threatened to organise a dharna against labour officials, while alleging corrupt practices by them. They also demanded immediate transfer of the local labour officer and an inspector.Failed to clear pending applicationsLabour unions allege that local labour authorities had locked the construction wing of the office, which led to the pendency of over 4,000 applications under different schemes, including the Shagun Scheme, scholarships for children of construction labourers, etc. They said the last meeting for clearing the backlog of various applications under different beneficial schemes was held in November 2018. A meeting was held in March this year, but only a few cases of a circle were cleared.Amarjit Singh Asal, secretary, Punjab State All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Vijay Mishra, state president Central Trade Union (CTU), Kulwant Singh Bawa, general secretary, HMS, Surinder Sharma, district president India National Trade Union Congress(INTUC) and Daswinder Kaur, National president Domestic Workers Federation (DWF) held a meeting at Ekta Bhawan in Putlighar in this connection.They alleged that the local labour authorities had locked the construction wing of the office which led to the pendency of over 4,000 applications under different schemes, including Shagun Scheme, scholarships for children of construction labourers etc. They said last meeting for clearing backlog of various applications under different beneficial schemes was held in November 2018. A meeting was held in March this year, but only a few cases of a circle were cleared. Asal said as per rules, the labor officials were supposed to hold meeting at every month.Mishra alleged no applications were being taken from the applicants. He said labour inspectors were making unnecessary objections and rejected the applications. “Around 90 per cent of applications were rejected in the same way and they were forced to make rounds of the office,” alleged Mishra.They alleged that neither the labour officer nor the inspectors were available on their seats. They said the atmosphere in the office had deteriorated. He said repeated complaints to the concerned authorities through different mediums but they went unheard.The unions alleged they were forced to resort to agitation and have decided to organised permanent dharna at labor office from August 17 which would be intensified if their demands were not met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unions-protest-laxity-of-labour-dept-officials-126321
14-08-2020||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Employees take out marches, demand arrears, regular jobs||The eight-day-long protest by employees of various state government departments entered its seventh day on Thursday. People visiting government offices for getting their works gone had to return empty-handed. The employees are protesting under the banner of the Punjab UT Mulazam and Pensioners Sanjha Front.On Thursday, the protesters took out a march to the office of the MLA Dharambir Agnihotri in Tarn Taran. Another group of members of the organisation took out a march to the office of Khadoor Sahib MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki at Shekhchak village. They submitted a memorandum to the spokesperson of the MLAs, as MLA Agnihotri was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 and Sikki was not available in the area.Sukhpreet Singh Pannu, district convener of the front, said the employees were protesting against the deduction of mobile allowance and non-releasing of instalments of the Dearness Allowance. He alleged that the state government was “indifferent” towards the demands of the employees, forcing them to go on the path of agitation.Meanwhile, employees working with the Roadways on a contract or outsourcing basis, under the banner of the Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha, staged a protest outside the District Administrative Complex (DAC) on Thursday and submitted a memorandum to officials, demanding regular jobs.Gurvel Singh, a leader of the organisation, said: “The state government is in no mood to regularise their services in accordance with the 2016 Act passed by the state Vidhan Sabha to regularise services of all employees with three years of service.”Employees of the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and the RMSA working at the office also took out a march in the town, demanding regular jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/employees-take-out-marches-demand-arrears-regular-jobs-126322
14-08-2020||Amritsar||SAD (Taksali) seeks steps to check rising sacrilege cases||The SAD (Taksali) leadership has approached the district administrations of Majha, Malwa and Doaba, demanding intervention in cases of sacrilege and missing 'saroops' of Guru Granth Sahib.SAD (Taksali) president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura said 267 saroops had gone missing from the possession of the SGPC. "Recently, the rarest of rare saroop went missing from Gurdwara Ardas Sahib at Kalyan village in Patiala. Such shameful incidents happen due to lack of administration and political will. Where is Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who had promised to ensure justice in sacrilege incidents? We demand that stern steps should be initiated, keeping the faith of the Sikh community under consideration,” he said.He told the party submitted memorandums to 11 offices of Deputy Commissioners in various districts in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-taksali-seeks-steps-to-check-rising-sacrilege-cases-126323
14-08-2020||Amritsar||Injured in cylinder blast, hockey player Gurinder discharged after two months||A team of surgeons at Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital successfully treated a 22-year-old state-level hockey player Gurinder Singh after he suffered burn injuries during a cylinder explosion. Two brothers, a national-level hockey player Sukhmanjit Singh (16) and a state-level hockey player Gurinder Singh (22), were badly burnt in an LPG cyclinder blast at their home on May 21 this year.After the accident, both were rushed to a private hospital where Sukhmanjit Singh died. Later Gurinder was shifted to the SGRD Hospital in a critical condition on May 26. The doctors at the hospital stated that the patient had 65 per cent of skin burn.Plastic and microvascular surgeon Dr Vikas Kakkar and his team; Dr Rana Ranjit Singh, Dr Gurlal Singh, Dr Rajiv Sharma, Dr Karanveer Singh, Dr Anurag Salwan, Dr Harpreet Kaur, Dr Anmol Randhawa, Dr Chatanya, Dr Amarjot Kaur took care of the patient.Dr Manjit Singh Uppal, Director-Principal said, the patient returned to his home fully recovered after two months of his stay in the hospital.Dr Kakkar said such surgeries were very challenging and required a challenging task of repairing the patient’s badly burnt limbs, small blood vessels, muscles, which were successfully performed by a team of qualified doctors from the hospital. He said badly injured and infected limbs of the body could be effectively repaired with plastic surgery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/injured-in-cylinder-blast-hockey-player-gurinder-discharged-after-two-months-126324
14-08-2020||Amritsar||Principal of Spring Dale bags award||Fire dept of MC gets infra boostAmritsar: Keeping in view the need to rev up fire-fighting infrastructure, the fire department of the Municipal Corporation, has been provided with five large silver ladders, 50 fire hoses, five high pressure portable firefighting pumps, search lights, portable emergency lighting system, fire extinguishers, cylinders, human life detector, water-cum-foam nozzle and other essential equipment, said MC Commissioner Komal Mittal. Mittal said the equipment had been procured as per needs of the old city areas which are known for narrow streets. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/principal-of-spring-dale-bags-award-126343
