18-08-2020||Neha Saini||Ain’t a party! Nightlife lacks buzz as Covid hits clubbing||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 17Long queues to get entry at discos, jostling to buy a drink for friends at the bars and putting on dancing shoes to let your hair down used to define nightlife in a pre-Covid era. As the pandemic outbreak swept the globe, it shuttered the once lively music shows, nightclubs and lounges. It is not quite clear for how long the dance floors will have to remain empty.The recent night curfew implemented by the Punjab government has once again put the clubs in a fix. While the hotels, restaurants and marriage palaces are to open with 50 per cent capacity, the lounges are putting in their best bet keeping in mind the night curfew restrictions. While complying with standard operating procedures and offering regular food services, the club owners are hoping that the industry will have to remodel itself with measures that reduce risk of transmission.Masks, face shields, digital menus, limited staff and hourly sanitisation have become the new business mantra. Time limitations aside, the walk-ins have been taking place, but the business is yet to pick up. Usually, a normal weekend would mean a packed house. “Our regular walk-in customers are coming in, but due to restrictions, we cannot allow more than 30 persons at a time. It means we are running way below our capacity and it’s not good for business,” says Santosh Masanu, manager, Bons Adda, nightclub at airport road.While the club owners are finding it hard to work out overhead expenses as customer inflow is slow, the alternate industry, including independent music artistes, bands and DJs too are struggling to find gigs. “Since the wedding season is also lull, private parties and live music nites at clubs too are not being organised. The house parties get limited members that doesn’t require professional music artistes,” says Suyush Kapoor, an independent music artist from city.Meanwhile, the absence of a place to let your hair loose, the city party goers have managed to find their own party spot in the comfort of their home. Many have resorted to small weekly house parties with limited family and friends.We can only wait till the nightlife fully resumes. There is no chance of revival until the parties are allowed and that can only happen once Covid -19 pandemic is controlled. Even with all the precautions, people are not ready to risk coming to a party and we cannot force people to come. —Shobit Khanna, owner, Bon’s AddaI and my husband used to love going out for a weekend or party in Delhi, but ever since the pandemic, we have not been able to enjoy that kind of outing. So, I have turned my terrace into a small garden party space, with some dim light and music. We enjoy our evenings on our terrace now. —Shikha Sareen, EntrepreneurFor the DJ industry, it is a long road to a hopeful survival. With wedding industry shut and no parties happening, the scope for DJs to flourish or even think of reviving is limited. Clubs and lounges too are shut. We are not able to operate at bare minimum given circumstances. —Anmol Singh, A DJWe are opening soon. It’s a risk but we cannot keep our property in a dormant state anymore. Revenue generation is dependent on the running state of the property. We cannot sit back and wait for things to change. We will be open for events and dining following all the government protocols and guidelines. Our hopes are high. —Prabal Talwar, owner, Clubhouse||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aint-a-party-nightlife-lacks-buzz-as-covid-hits-clubbing-127500
18-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||MP Sunny Deol seldom visits his constituency||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, August 17To borrow Winston Churchill’s phrase, MP Sunny Deol remains a ‘riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside an enigma’.The actor is seldom seen in his parliamentary constituency which elected him with a whopping margin of 70,000 votes. His extremely poor oratorical skills have let him down on more occasions than one. It is precisely due to this reason that he never delivers speeches whenever he is among his constituents. Reason enough why BJP strongman Amit Shah, who personally coordinated his election from New Delhi, asked him to stop giving speeches in the run-up to the polls. The actor was actually asked to concentrate on road shows.His visits to his constituency are indeed as rare as sighting an Igloo in the Sahara.Residents have now started questioning his efficacy as a parliamentarian. They argue that if an MP is not interested in touring his area and addressing the grievances of the people, then what purpose is he actually serving?His so-called advisers, and there are many, claim that Sunny “Phaji” is busy doing the rounds of ministries in the national capital trying to get important developmental initiates sanctioned.However, a visit to ground zero proves not even a single project has fructified till yet.Deol, not long ago, had anointed his blue-eyed man and Bollywood cameraman Gurpreet Singh Palheri as his representative to oversee the affairs of the constituency. The man was least interested in doing so and was seldom seen in the area. One fine day, he made his intentions clear and left for Mumbai for good. Now, a little known worker has been named as his PA. On his part, the PA is very selective in taking calls, a development which has not gone down well with Phaji’s voters.It is a well documented fact that Deol was a reluctant contestant. His predecessor Sunil Jakhar had endeared himself to the constituents and was unlikely to lose unless the BJP fielded some celebrity. The party’s in-house intelligence reports had pointed out that Jakhar could be derailed only and only by a big time celebrity and that is why Deol was brought in.If Phaji was reluctant to contest, he is now equally reluctant to visit the constituency.Two big ticket projects are lying in a limbo. They are the elevation of the 3.6-km narrow gauge rail track running through the municipal limits of Pathankot and a 40-km-long the Qadian-Beas rail link. Both these ventures require Central intervention which, in any case, is not forthcoming. And in the future, too, what with the Covid-induced fear hanging in the air, the chances look bleak.Post lockdown, ministers and MLAs have started visiting their respective assembly segments. With less than 18 months to go for the state polls, this development naturally assumes significance. Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa regularly holds meetings in Dera Baba Nanak while his ministerial colleague Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa, who has just recovered from a bout of Covid, takes stock of development works in Fatehgarh Churian. Likewise, Fateh Bajwa and his actor son Arjun, can be seen touring Qadian. In Sri Hargobindpur, Balwinder Laddi makes it a point to inspect the ongoing initiatives every third day.The parliamentary constituency has nine seats out of which seven are represented by Congress legislators. A recent survey by a political party revealed that out of all these seats, Randhawa is the most easily placed. He has not only decimated whatever opposition he had from the Akalis but has also ushered in several works in the wake of the Kartarpur corridor. The most pronounced work he has done is to bring in the Seechewal model of water harvesting in as many as 25 villages. Residents question his efficacy as MPResidents have now started questioning his efficacy as a parliamentarian. They argue that if an MP is not interested in touring his area and addressing the grievances of the people, then what purpose is he actually serving?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mp-sunny-deol-seldom-visits-his-constituency-127501
18-08-2020||---||2 more lose Covid battle; DCP, 90 others test positive in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 17With two more deaths due to the Covid-19 disease being reported on Monday, the toll has reached 113 in the district. The deceased have been identified as 58-year-old Avtar Singh, a resident of Rajasansi who was admitted to Ivy Hospital with a head injury, and 63-year-old Sudarshan Kumar, a resident of Kabir Nagar (Tungbala area) who was admitted to Government Medical College.The health authorities also reported 91 new positive cases with which the total count of positive patients has increased to 2,853 in the district. Of the new cases, a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) also tested positive.The new cases include 46 persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 45 contacts of positive patients. As far as the ILI cases are concerned, one each case was reported from Jasroor village (Ajnala), Sarangdev village (Ajnala), Sadar Bazar Cantonment, Ranjit Vihar (Loharka), Green Avenue, Sathiala village, Majitha Town, Karyal village, Amrik Avenue (Tarn Taran Road), Chamrang Road, Bhusiwala Dera village, Vikas Nagar, Jahangir, Saidhpur village (Baba Bakala), Vishowa village, Dream City, Chachowali village, Tailor Road, Sultanwind Gate, Kot Pala Singh (Tarn Taran Road), Kashmir Avenue, Gali Gamun (Tarn Taran Road), Bharat Nagar, Fatehgarh Sukarchuk, Gokul Vihar (Batala Road), Kacheri Road, Kartar Nagar (Chehharta), Preet Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Housing Board Colony, Sher Shah Suri Road, Hotel Holiday Inn, Fatahpur Rajputan, Batala Road, Raja Sansi, Ranjitpura, Imperial City (Loharka Road), Jagdev Khurd Village, Baba Bakala, Majitha Road, 100-Ft Road and East Mohan Nagar, besides two cases from Ajnala.The contact cases include five from the BSF battalion posted at Khasa, three from Maluwal Bhakna Kalan village, two each from Galowali Kulian village, Kukkrawala village, Kalomahal village, Ram Nagar Colony, Plah Sahib Road, Guru Amardas Avenue, C-Block Ranjit Avenue, Devi Wali Gali, B-Division police station, Maqboolpur police station, Military Hospital, Corporate Hospital, and one each from New Nehru Colony, Jaura Fatak, Baba Sangat Singh Nagar, Green City, Dashmesh Avenue, Government Medical College, Jawahar Nagar, Nehru Colony, Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, 100-Ft Road, Anngarh and New Amritsar.The total number of recoveries so far has been 2,217 while at present there are 523 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-more-lose-covid-battle-dcp-90-others-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-127502
18-08-2020||---||Amritsar Central Jail inmate dies of ‘drug overdose’||Amritsar, August 17A jail inmate, identified as Sunny Bhullar of Sangrur, allegedly died of drug overdose inside the high-security Amritsar Central Jail on Sunday.Vikramjit Singh, brother of the victim, said he had some marks of injections on his arm which indicated that he died of drug overdose. He said his death due to drug overdose indicated that how drugs were easily available on the high-security jail premises.Sunny Bhullar was wanted in many criminal cases, including murder and attempt to murder. He was shifted to the Amritsar Central Jail in April 2019. He complained of uneasiness and was taken to the jail hospital. He was referred outside but could not survive.A jail official revealed that Bhullar was a drug-addict and was under treatment at the de-addiction centre in the jail. He said it was not clear whether he died of drug overdose or some other complications. “It would be premature to say that he died of overdose,” he said, adding that investigation would be carried out in this regard.Arshdeep Singh, Jail Superintendent, said the exact cause of death would be ascertained after a postmortem. He said a medical board comprising three doctors of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital and the Civil Hospital would be constituted for his autopsy. “As a Covid-19 patient died after jumping off the fifth floor of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, his postmortem could not be conducted today,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-central-jail-inmate-dies-of-drug-overdose-127503
18-08-2020||PK Jaiswar||Green belts turn into dump yards||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 17Green belts in the holy city are fighting for their survival. Numerous green belts along the roadsides have been turned into dump yards and the authorities concerned have failed to rein in irresponsible residents and plant saplings to increase the green cover. Not just environmentalists, but residents, too, are questioning the administration for its failure.A stretch leading from Rigo bridge to B-block railway crossing had trees of different varieties. However, the entire green belt has turned into a dumping ground.The authorities allege that some irresponsible people have started dumping waste into the green belt, especially during evening hours. One could see construction material on the site as well.Further, garbage attracts stray animals, which often lead to mishaps. Om Kumar, a resident of Islamabad area, said his brother had got critically injured after a pig suddenly came on the road from the green belt. He said his brother had suffered a fracture on his leg.Similar situation is prevalent in other parts across the city. Residents said poor waste management system has devastated the green cover. They said the authorities have turned a blind eye to this nuisance.“Garbage starts accumulating when workers go on strike. As a result, people throw garbage in green belts,” said Ramandeep Singh, another resident.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu pointed out that garbage lifting process has improved in the city. He said it was better than other cities. “Whenever, authorities get a complaint, they instantly resolve it. As far as maintenance of green belts is concerned, I will look into this. People should avoid throwing garbage, especially in the greet belts.” He said, “Residents should help the Municipal Corporation in keeping the city clean and green rather than acting irresponsibly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/green-belts-turn-into-dump-yards-127504
18-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja ---||Widening of Fatehgarh Churian Road hangs fire||Tribune News Service Amritsar, August 17 The widening of Fatehgarh Churian road project heading towards Dera Baba Nanak is hanging fire. On August 15, 2019, Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had announced that the road from Amritsar to Dera Baba Nanak, connecting Kartarpur Sahib Corridor, would be widened at a cost of Rs88 crore.  Initially, the road up to Fatehgarh Churian was to be widened following which the project would cover Dera Baba Nanak. Due to delay in getting approvals regarding shifting of electricity poles and axing trees, work on the project had stopped soon after its inauguration. The Public Works Department (PWD) had dug trenches for a few kilometres alongside the roadside.  Inderjit Singh, Executive Engineer, PWD, said, “We had dug trenches up to 7 kilometre. The work was stopped due to bad weather. We will restart the work as soon as rain stops.” Randhawa said, “Funds have been released. The work will commence soon. We will complete the entire project within two years.”  The Fatehgarh Churian road is a prominent stretch leading to Dera Baba Nanak.  The road is not only narrow, but in a pathetic condition. Situated close to Amritsar district, Fatehgarh Churian falls in Gurdaspur district and the 24-km stretch connects both districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/widening-of-fatehgarh-churian-road-hangs-fire-127505
18-08-2020||---||Govt responsible for death of 120 persons: Chugh||Amritsar, August 17Bharatiya Janata Party workers from five urban constituencies of the border district held protests against Capt Amarinder Singh-led government over its failure in stopping sale of spurious liquor, which resulted in death of over 120 persons.Tarun Chugh along with activists held a protest at the Hall gate. Chugh, who is a national general secretary of the BJP, said the state government was solely responsible for death over 120 persons who had breathed their last after consuming illicit liquor. He demanded Rs 25 lakh compensation for every family.He said tall claims of Capt Amarinder had fallen flat of curbing drugs and mafia in the state after the formation of his government in 2017.Former cabinet minister Anil Joshi said the BJP would give Rs 50 lakh to a Congress MLA who would drink a glass of same illicit liqour. He said the Congress has befooled masses in the state.Jobs, smartphones, laptop and other promises remained on paper. Pension to senior citizens, handicapped and widows, were to be raised to Rs 2,500, but it still remains at Rs 750 per month. He said the amount under the “Shagun Scheme” was to be raised to Rs 51,000, but beneficiaries were getting just Rs 31,000. He said illegal distilleries were busted at Rajpura and Khanna during the lockdown.BJP leaders Shwait Malik and Suresh Mahajan, among others, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-responsible-for-death-of-120-persons-chugh-127506
18-08-2020||Amritsar||Construction workers protest, seek transfer of two officials||Construction workers, affiliated to various labour organisations, on Monday held a protest against two officials of the Labour Department for not attending to their pleas and complaints.Under the patronage of Left parties, labour organisations held a protest against Labour Officer Hardeep Singh Ghuman and Inspector Upkar Singh outside the Labour Department office here.While addressing the protesters, Amarjit Singh Asal, a Left party leader, said it was for the first time during his political career spanning over three and a half decades that he was seeking transfer of two officials. He said the labourers were hugely dependent on various social welfare schemes being run through the Labour Department.However, these officials had not been listening to their complaints and grievances for the past four months. He said the workers approached him and in turn, he met the Labour Officer several times to attend to the complaints of the workers. But it did not have any impact on him and he continued to attend the office at odd hours to avoid meeting labourers.After their three-hour protest, Tehsildar Manjit Singh accepted a memorandum from the members of the organisations like the All-India Trade Union Congress, the Hind Mazdoor Sabha, the Indian National Trade Union Congress and Center for Trade Union Punjab. Following which, they ended their protest.The labour unions alleged that a large number of construction workers had applied to the department seeking benefits of government schemes but the number of applications had only increased manifold and no needful was done in this regard by them since they assumed office here. The Labour Department offers pension and gratuity to construction labourers, who completes 60 years of age, Rs 31,000 under the Shagun Scheme on the marriage of their daughters, Rs 3.20 lakh on the death of a labourer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/construction-workers-protest-seek-transfer-of-two-officials-127507
18-08-2020||---||Trucks carrying construction material back on GT road||Amritsar, August 17Over a fortnight after the removal of construction material from the GT road, the illegal parking of vehicles carrying sand and gravel on the same site is also being witnessed.The Improvement Trust, headed by Chairman Dinesh Bassi, had taken the daring step to remove the construction material on July 29.The Trust had taken a keen interest in removing the material as it blocked the front view of its commercial scheme Sardar Jai Inder Singh Truck Stand scheme, known as Jahajgarh area.Consequently, investors are reluctant to procure properties in the scheme. So, repeated auctions did not fetch an impressive price for shops. Several campaigns to remove the material failed in the past.Now, the Trust had written to Commissioner of Police Sukhchain Singh Gill to provide police force to remove it once again. Confirming this, Rajiv Sekhri, Superintendent Engineer of the Trust, said they were awaiting the response of the police. Besides, the Trust has also written to Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira seeking the deployment of a duty magistrate to carry out an encroachment drive.Meanwhile, the police are yet to take action against those who had threatened Trust officials, including its SDOs Amandeep Singh, Harmit Singh, Vipan Kumar and other Trust officials, with dire consequences and misbehaved with them when they had gone to reclaim the land after the anti-encroachment drive.Kulwant Singh Ankhi, patron of the Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM), said he, along with a delegation of the manch, had gone to hand over a memorandum, seeking the arrest of those named in the FIR registered at the police station B division, to the Commissioner of Police. However, the meeting did not take place as he was not at office. He said the police had not yet arrested the accused named in the FIR.He said the encroachment was an eyesore, especially for outsiders coming by vehicles from the Jalandhar side.He said the Trust had envisaged a plan to re-develop and beautify the scheme at a cost of Rs 10 crore, but some people with vested interests were obstructing the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trucks-carrying-construction-material-back-on-gt-road-127508
18-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Harike wetland to be made tourist hub, says Manpreet||Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal after inaugurating a park developed at a cost of Rs 1.25 crore in Patti today said the state government would spend Rs 15 crore on harnessing full potential of Harike wetland for making it a tourism hub.The Finance Minister said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had announced to provide 50,000 jobs in the government sector. He said the state government had filled 4,200 posts in the Health Department to combat COVID-19 pandemic, besides filling 1,500 vacancies in the Medical Education Department.Speaking on illegal mining in the state, Manpreet said the government had earned more than Rs 300 crore through mining during the Congress’s tenure, which used to be Rs 20 crore during the SAD-BJP regime. He said illegal mining would not be allowed in the state and stern action would be taken against those indulging in it. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/harike-wetland-to-be-made-tourist-hub-says-manpreet-127509
18-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Property of two smugglers freezed||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/property-of-two-smugglers-freezed-127510
18-08-2020||Tarn Taran||20-yr-old ‘killed’, in-laws booked||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/20-yr-old-killed-in-laws-booked-127511
18-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Kar Sewa sect plants 400 saplings||Tarn Taran, August 17The Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, planted saplings on two kanals at Mal Chack village, 25 km from here, on Monday. The land belongs to the village panchayat. Bhai Davinder Singh of the sect said that 400 saplings of 50 different species had been planted on the land. He said it was the 61st forest (mini jangal) in the row of 550 mini forests which the Kar Sewa sect had pledged to plant in memory of 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev.Kulwant Singh, sarpanch of the village, was among the others prominent personalities of the area who were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kar-sewa-sect-plants-400-saplings-127512
18-08-2020||---||Pvt hospital nurse ‘kills self’, 4 persons booked||Amritsar, August 17Mystery shrouds the death of a nurse who worked at a private hospital near Majitha Road bypass. The victim has been identified as Jyoti (21). She allegedly committed suicide by injecting some poisonous substance.Following the statement of the victim’s family, the police have booked four persons — Gurpreet Singh; Sanjay Sharma, manager of the hospital; his wife Kirti Sharma; and Munish Kumar — all employees of the hospital.Assistant Commissioner of Police (North) Sarabjit Singh said all had been booked for causing death by negligence (304-A IPC) while the further investigations were underway.William, father of the deceased, said his daughter was working in the hospital from the last two years. She used to live as paying guest at a hostel in Greenfield area on Majitha Road. He said she had died in the hostel last night. The incident came to fore in the wee hours on Monday.He said Jyoti had sharp injuries on her feet and an empty injection near her body. It appeared that she was injected poison, which led to her death, he alleged. Investigating Officer Kulwant Singh said a case under section 304-A of the IPC and other relevant Sections has been registered against four persons. He said the police have taken mobile phone of the victim and injection into their custody for further probe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pvt-hospital-nurse-kills-self-4-persons-booked-127514
18-08-2020||Amritsar||Covid patient jumps off hospital building in Amritsar, dies||A Covid patient admitted to Government Medical College allegedly committed suicide by jumping off the hospital building today. The deceased has been identified as Swaran Singh (46), a resident of Sandhpur village near Bhikhiwind in Tarn Taran district.Though the authorities presume that he might have been upset due to his disease, the exact reason behind his suicide is not known.Medical superintendent Dr Raman Sharma said the patient was an opium addict and an alcoholic. “The patient had complained of breathlessness and stomach ache,” he said. The authorities said a psychiatrist had also provided counselling to the patient last evening. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-patient-jumps-off-hospital-building-in-amritsar-dies-127526
18-08-2020||GS Paul||No award, Asian Games medallist feels left out||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 17BSF jawan Gurlal Singh, who became India’s first para-cyclist since 1951 to win a bronze medal for the country in the Asian Para Games, seldom finds a place in the records of the state government.Harshly treatedI am the only breadwinner of my family of four. My daughter has a heart ailment since birth. I wanted the award money to be utilised for her treatment. Being a sportsperson, I deserve equal dignity. — Gurlal Singh, Para-cyclistOn July 22, Sports Minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi honoured three para-sportsmen — Paramjit Kumar (powerlifting) from Jalandhar, Mohammad Yaseer (shotput) from Sangrur and Raj Kumar (badminton) from Patiala and awarded them Rs 50 lakh each for their accomplishments in ‘special’ disciplines in the Asian Para Games, 2018.Minister promises supportI will look into how Gurlal’s case was skipped. If he is found deserving, I will extend him his due honour. — Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi, Sports MinisterIronically, Gurlal, who won a bronze medal in the 4-km time trial in the C4 category (athletes with 60 per cent disability) in the same meet, was not honoured by the state government.Minister Sodhi said, “I will look into how his case was skipped. If he was found deserving, I will extend him his due honour. As per the amended sports policy, the para-sports players are honoured at par with the normal category players,” he said.Reacting over it, Gurlal said, “It is sad to see that the state government is ignorant of my achievements. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had honoured me along with 72 other players two days after the event in 2018 in New Delhi. I appeal to the state Sports Ministry to consider me at par with my colleagues,” he said.Hailing from Nanoke village in Ajnala, Gurlal had lost his left leg while trying to save a fellow soldier who was injured in a mine blast near the LoC on December 25, 2010.Gurlal had also won a bronze medal in the 4-km time trial at Tashkent (Uzbekistan) in April 2019 and is now preparing for his next target of 2022 Asian ParaGames. At present, he is training at the Aditya Mehta Foundation Academy in Hyderabad.“I am the only breadwinner for my family of four. My daughter has a heart ailment since birth. I wanted the award money to be utilised for her treatment. Being a sportsperson, I deserve equal dignity,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-award-asian-games-medallist-feels-left-out-127528
