20-08-2020||Neha Saini||Adjusting their lens with time, photographers get creative||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 19While the pandemic has been equally devastating for economy in all sectors, for ones in the business of photography, it’s been a true test of their creativity. The boom in pre-wedding, wedding, corporate photography before Covid-19 had to pull the brakes suddenly due to the pandemic.Now, the ones surviving are looking towards a possible change in focus as far as business is concerned.With the extravagant weddings reduced to mere necessary rituals, the boutique photographers in the city are looking towards exploring other genres of photography.“For us, it’s a new era of business as the pandemic has hit every commercial sector. The weddings are happening but at a much smaller scale now. So, the cost, too, has to be adjusted. But there is a huge possibility in the shift towards digitalisation, as more businesses, local or global, are opting to go online. That means they need photographers for creating visual content for their digital portals. Also, the scope of intimate shoots before wedding has found some footing,” said Deep Kanwar from Paran Singh Photography.Intimate photo shoots are pandemic friendly, as they happen at a small scale, require less equipment and human resource and are done in the confines of your home, are safe and keep in mind social distancing. “The setting mostly is either the garden or indoor living area in the house. The entire shoot is wrapped up in an hour or so, unlike the elaborately planned and creatively directed pre-wedding shoots that were popular before Covid-19,” says Deep.Another area of photography that has picked up pace during the lockdown is the moving photography. The visuals being used for setting up social media platforms, start-ups, virtual photo shoots, the business opportunities in this genre are good for future.“We are getting work orders for start-ups, local businesses that are looking to establish themselves digitally now. But the costs of running operations with 15-20 employees and overhead expenses are still a matter of concern,” says Vijay Malhotra, another prominent commercial photographer from the city. Malhotra, who has prominently specialised in wedding and commercial photo shoots, adds that though the work was slow, they hope that it might pick up if restrictions are relaxed in the coming months. “It’s a crucial time for all in the business, as the wedding season is about to begin. If the government relaxes the restriction on hosting weddings and other social events, maybe we will be able to survive through,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/adjusting-their-lens-with-time-photographers-get-creative-128577
20-08-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar-based mechanic turns e-rickshaw into vintage car||Pollution-free environment experienced during the lockdown lead a city-based family to search for a battery operated vintage looking car.Danish Talwar said his family had realised the dangerous levels of pollution, which were prevalent in the state before the lockdown.Jasbir Singh Bhola, along with his welder Nishan Singh and his sons Jasjit Singh and Inderjeet Singh, assembled and fabricated the e-car for the Talwar family. It’s the third fabricated e-car, which rolled out of Bhola’s small automobile workshop. Earlier, he had fabricated a vintage car for BM Singh, who is a blood donor, and Tarn Taran-based commission agent. Bola said this e-car works on the same principle as that of e-rickshaw.He said, “The entire body is fabricated with iron sheet. It has four batteries of 12 volts each. We fix the seats and use motorcycle’s tyres.”He said, “Like e-rickshaw, it does not require any clearance from the Road Transport Authority.” The e-car drives at a speed of up to 70 km per hour to 80 km per hour with four persons. It takes around four to five hours to charge and can be driven for around 80 km.The e-car also has a button, which puts the motor in reverse. The retro looking e-car costs around Rs1.50 lakh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-based-mechanic-turns-e-rickshaw-into-vintage-car-128578
20-08-2020||---||Encroachments lead to traffic snarls||Amritsar, August 19The stretch from Gurdwara Pipli Sahib to Nawa Kot connects numerous roads, but frequent traffic bottlenecks discourage commuters from using this route.Reason: Vendors have encroached upon this particular stretch. Not just vendors, but unregulated parking and railway crossing often leads to traffic jams, which proves out to be a nightmare for locals.Makeshift kiosks selling vegetables and fruit, besides shopkeepers have encroached upon a major portion of the stretch.Harjit Singh, a resident of Kabir Park said, “We pay obeisance at Gurdwara Baba Deep Singh Shaheed every weekend. The stretch from Gurdwara Pipli Sahib via Railway colony B-block offers shorter route. However, due to rampant encroachment and railway crossing, we avoid using this stretch.”Harpreet Singh, a shopkeeper, said as the footfall of devotees was high at gurdwara, it attracts a lot of vendors. Sudesh Kumar, a resident of Puttalighar area, said apart from encroachments by shopkeepers and vendors, railway crossing also leads to traffic snarls.As the railway crossing is on Amritsar to Attari track, which connects Lahore in Pakistan, a limited number of trains use this track.The road assumes significance as it connects Nawa Kot leading to Gate Khazana and further the entire walled city. It also provides a link from Railway colony B-block to Gobindgarh fort.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/encroachments-lead-to-traffic-snarls-128579
20-08-2020||---||SC verdict on Prashant flayed||Amritsar, August 19Members of the district units of Jamhoori Adhikar Sabha, Tarksheel Society and other like-minded organisations on Wednesday flayed the attempt to hold social activist and senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan guilty by the apex court.Amarjit Singh Bhalla, district president of the sabha, said the move validated the reason that the present government was hell-bent to muzzle the free voice. He said a tweet invited the wrath of the judiciary signalled towards rising intolerance even in the high offices of democracy.Prof Parminder voiced his concern over an attempt to discourage intellectuals to air their concerns on the contemporary polity, social values, and fall in the standards of administration. He added that expression of opinion cannot become contempt of court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sc-verdict-on-prashant-flayed-128580
20-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Graft allegations dent MC’s drive against illegal buildings||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 19The ongoing drive by the Municipal Corporation (MC) against illegal buildings has proved to be mere eyewash as the Municipal Town Planning (MTP) has failed to take any major action so far.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal had constituted an Illegal Construction Removal Committee on August 7. During the last 12 days, the committee sealed some buildings of influential persons in the city but MTP officials failed to take action against illegal buildings.The holy city has hundreds of illegal buildings being constructed with the connivance of MC officials during the past few years. Though the Department of Local Bodies had charge-sheeted several officials of the MTP wing in 2017, the construction work of illegal buildings is still underway.According to sources, a large number of files related to illegal buildings have gone missing. Wherever officials of the MTP wing pay a visit to take action, owners of the buildings raise allegations that officials of the department had of accepting bribe by officials of the department.A team of the MTP wing had returned without taking action against illegal buildings from Ajit Nagar on Saturday. Shailinder Singh Shelly, councillor of Ward No.46, opposed the move of the MC and alleged that MTP wing officials took bribe from people to allow the construction. “Now they are adopting a pick-and-choose policy while taking action against illegal buildings,” said Shelly.On Tuesday, Shelly submitted a list of 19 illegal buildings in his area to the MC Commissioner and asked to take action on all these buildings.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu claimed that they had successfully sealed several illegal buildings of influential persons in the past few days. “We will not spare anyone. If officials of the MTP wing failed to take action, we would start proceedings and charge-sheet them. Our objective is planned development of the city. The buildings violating building bylaws would be demolished otherwise we will charge compound fee from the illegal buildings and add to the revenue of the MC.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/graft-allegations-dent-mcs-drive-against-illegal-buildings-128581
20-08-2020||Amritsar||Parkash Purb of Guru Granth Sahib celebrated||Despite the threat of Covid-19, a large numbers of devotees turned up to participate in the nagar kirtan to mark the ‘Parkash Purb of Shri Guru Granth Sahib’ and seek blessings of the almighty.It was on this day in year 1604 that the first ‘Parkash’ of the Sikh holy book was commenced at Darbar Sahib by the fifth Sikh master, Guru Arjan Dev. The anniversary of the religiously and historically important event was observed with devotion and fervour. On the occasion, a nagar kirtan commenced from Gurdwara Shri Ramsar Sahib and culminated at Sachkhand Shri Harmandir Sahib before moving through different localities and market places on the route.The bhog of Akand Path was performed before the start of the procession. Later Hazoori Raagis of Darbar Sahib performed kirtan (recitation of religious hymns).Head granthi Giani Jagtar Singh informed the devotees about the historical importance of the day. He also asked the devotees to live life as per the tenants of the Sikh holy book. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/parkash-purb-of-guru-granth-sahib-celebrated-128586
20-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Despite Covid, politicians start nurturing their seats||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, August 19Despite the Covid scare being all pervasive, MLAs of Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency have started nurturing their respective Assembly seats with the Congress taking a clear lead, a development which is bound to stand it in good stead when the state heads for the polls in February 2022.The constituency has nine seats out of which seven are held by the Congress while one each is represented by the SAD and its alliance partner BJP. The BJP, following the seat sharing agreement, has been allocated four seats while the SAD contested on five seats.This time, sources reveal, the BJP is sure to ask its high command to impress upon the Akalis to increase its share. The party contests from Sujanpur, Bhoa, Pathankot and Dinanagar and it hopes to pouch Batala and Gurdaspur too.Congress MLAs, wearing masks and sanitisers, have hit the ground running even as, rather ironically, locals are being forced to stay at home.A distinct advantage that goes in favour of the Congress is that all sitting MLAs are sure to be re-nominated. “Not even a single legislator will be denied the ticket. We know who our candidates will be and hence we know where to start. Both the BJP and the SAD are still in hibernation and by the time they wake up we might have covered a substantial distance,” said an office-bearer of the Punjab Congress.The Congress reigns supreme in Dera Baba Nanak (Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa), Fatehgarh Churian (Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa), Dinanagar (Aruna Chaudhury), Qadian (Fateh Bajwa), Gurdaspur (Barindermeet Singh Pahra), Sri Hargobindpur (Balwinder Laddi) and Bhoa (Joginder Pal).Ever since Sunny Deol romped home with massive margins in seven of the nine seats, the MLAs, who got their bases eroded, have developed cold feet and hence are now trying to retrieve lost ground.A SAD leader admitted that the party had yet to set its house in order while the Congress had already taken the first steps. “To ensure they get back what they lost to Deol, these legislators have relegated Covid to the sidelines and are concentrating on touring their areas. On the other hand, we are finding ourselves bogged down with our MP’s prolonged absence not helping things. Without an iota of doubt, round one has gone to the Congress. Just see how its leaders are mingling with their constituents. At times they are also distributing grants for developmental initiatives. A case in point is of Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa who, after recovering from Covid, has made a couple of whirlwind tours of Fatehgarh Churian and is also distributing funds,” he maintained.A top BJP leader also pointed out how, despite facing little or no opposition, Randhawa remains glued in his assembly seat. “His main rival Sucha Singh Langah got trapped in a voyeuristic episode in 2017 and ever since then has been politically and socially ostracised. Still, the minister is taking no risks,” he said.Observers say that it is high time for the SAD-BJP leaders to come out in the field otherwise the scorecard for the Congress may not get disturbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-covid-politicians-start-nurturing-their-seats-128588
20-08-2020||---||Virus snuffs out 3 more  lives, 75 infections in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 19The district reported three more deaths due to the Covid-19 disease on Wednesday, taking the toll to 118. The health authorities also reported 75 new positive cases in the district. The total count of positive cases reported from the district has increased to 2,975.The deceased have been identified as Amrik Singh, a 42-year-old resident of Santnagar; Harpreetpal Kapoor, a 43-year-old resident of Gurdwara Chowk, Rayya; and Baldev Kapoor, a 82-year-old resident of Jagdambey Colony (Majitha Road).Of the new cases, 35 are persons with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and 40 contacts of positive patients. As far as the ILI cases are concerned, one case each was reported from Jagatpura (Batala Road), Gumtala, Kali Mata Mandir locality, Focal Point (Mehta Road), Peer Ahmad Shah Area, Sant Nagar (Circular Road), Mandiala village, Pakharpura village, Bhullar Avenue, Vijay Nagar, Jathol village, Preet Avenue, Bandala village, Sant Avenue, Gunnowal village, Sainsara Kalan village, A-Block GT Road, Golden Avenue, Green City (Ajnala Road), Gali Patwari, Roop Nagar (Gate Hakeema), Paras Singh School area, Gosain Road, Shimla Market (Putlighar), D-Block (Ranjit Avenue), Green Field (Majitha Road), Model Town, Sant Nagar (Verka), Rama Garden, Vijay Nagar (Batala Road), Rayya and Sant Nagar and two cases each from Ajnala Town.As far as the contact cases are concerned, five cases each were reported from Majitha Road; four each from Government Medical College and Corporate Hospital; three each from D-Block (Ranjit Avenue) and Plah Sahib Road; two each from Mohini Park, Old Jail Road, Partap Bazar (Chehharta), BSF battalion posted at Khasa, Bhalla Colony (Chehharta), Guru Gobind Singh Avenue (Majitha Road) and one each from Rajasansi, Nawakot, Bhagtanwala, Krishna Nagar, Dashmesh Nagar, Officer Colony (Taylor Road), Khandwala (Chehharta) and Amritsar Central Jail.Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said a total of 98 persons recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours. “The district has witnessed 2,371 recoveries so far. At present, the district has a total of 486 active cases,” added the Civil Surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virus-snuffs-out-3-more-lives-75-infections-in-amritsar-district-128589
20-08-2020||Tarn Taran||20-yr-old dies in road accident||Harpal Singh (20) of Jawanda Kalan village was killed in a road accident near Majha College here on Tuesday. The Sadar police have registered a case under Sections 279, 304-A, 337 and 338 of the IPC against an unknown truck driver.The police said Harpal Singh was going to his village on motorcycle. When he reached near T-Point at Majha College, a truck coming from the Amritsar side hit the victim. He was rushed to the local Civil Hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. However, the driver managed to flee the spot. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/20-yr-old-dies-in-road-accident-128590
20-08-2020||---||Amritsar's Khalsa College Charitable Society launches web-based TV||Amritsar, August 19With a view to promote education, rich Punjabi culture and heritage, the Khalsa College Charitable Society (KCCS) on Wednesday launched Khalsa College Governing Council Television-KCGC TV here. The web-based TV will be first of its kind 24/7 channel by educational institution to stream activities online relating all 18 colleges and schools under the society.In a brief and low-scaled programme organised in view of Covid-19, the web TV was inaugurated online on the occasion of Parkash Purb of Guru Granth Sahib. “The day when whole world is celebrating the first installation of holy Guru Granth Sahib is most conducive to launch the public TV. We all take inspirations from the holy message from the Granth Sahib,” said KCGC secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina.The day when whole world is celebrating the first installation of holy Guru Granth Sahib is most conducive to launch the public TV. We all take inspiration from the holy message from the Granth Sahib.  —Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, KCGC secretaryKCGC president Satyajit Singh Majithia gave a televised message from national capital highlighting how the web-based TV will focus on educational seminars, conferences, cultural and spiritual heritage of integrated Punjabi culture. “Alumni of the college is spread all over the world and they all will also be connected with the platform,” said Majithia adding that taking blessings from Guru Granth Sahib, they dedicate the TV to the public.“The KCGC society, which is running 13 colleges and five schools throughout Punjab including the 128 years old iconic Khalsa College Amritsar (KCA), will involve all the principals, teachers and students from PG department of journalism and professional journalists to air programmes,” informed Chhina adding that the opening of the channel unveils the new chapter in the history of the Khalsa College Society.Khalsa College principal Dr Mehal Singh, who is also consulting editor of the TV, said the platform would help in the online studies of the students also. “It would be entirely non-political web-based TV, which would be available on YouTube and would be accessed by the teachers and students for holding online classes during Covid-19 times. The educational conferences, webinars, seminars, cultural and spiritual programmes would be available live and recorded,” said executive editor, KCGC TV, DS Rataul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsars-khalsa-college-charitable-society-launches-web-based-tv-128591
20-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||No end to woes of poultry farmers, suffer huge losses||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 19Poultry farmers have been at the receiving end this year. Earlier, they suffered losses due to the lockdown and later sales and wholesale prices declined during the monsoon.The prices of a broiler have dropped from Rs 120 per kg to Rs 62 per kg in the wholesale market. Poultry farmers believe that sales dwindled due to religious beliefs associated with “Sawan”.They said they had suffered losses between March and June due to the lockdown and rumours associated with Covid-19. High prices of broiler were witnessed after Unlock 1.0 in June as hotels and restaurants were allowed to sell cooked meals.Navdeep Singh, manager of a restaurant, said a broiler used to cost between Rs 130 and Rs 140, but after Unlock 1.0 it increased to Rs 230.GS Bedi, a poultry farmer, said production of broilers came down by around 40 per cent (prior to the lockdown).He said poultry farmers had incurred huge losses on account of loss of sales after the pandemic outbreak. He said though poultry products were not involved in transmission of Covid-19 to humans anywhere in the world, rumours on social media proved costly. Earlier, around 12 lakh to 20 lakh chicks were reared in hatcheries and now, it has fallen between five lakh and six lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-end-to-woes-of-poultry-farmers-suffer-huge-losses-128592
20-08-2020||---||CMO tells admn to look into affairs of AGA Heritage Club||Amritsar, August 19Responding to a complaint filed by a local resident on alleged malpractices in the AGA Heritage Club, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) has asked the district administration to look into the affairs of the club and resolve it as per its constitution.The complainant, PC Sharma, in his communiqué to the CMO had stated that the club neither deposited the provident fund nor the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) of its employees. Even the GST for the financial year 2019-20 was yet to be deposited.It’s a matter of regret that about 90 employees of the club, including 60 regular ones, have not received their salaries during the Covid-19 period, he claimed.He alleged that local officials of the EPFO and the ESIC never listened to the complaints of workers of the club. Deputy Commissioner is the ex-officio president of the club, which has 1,500 members, mostly government officials either in service or retired.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said: “I heard about demand for holding elections to the club but could comment on this after going through its constitution. Similarly, on the allegations of anomalies in the provident fund and other social benefits being denied to its workers, he said after studying all aspects he would comment.Rohit Lakhanpal, secretary of the club, said the club’s management had been dutifully submitting documents for holding elections at the Deputy Commissioner’s office for the past four years. He said this year the elections were to be held in April. However, it was postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.He said the club paid salaries to its staff up to March and after the lockdown, its earnings completely exhausted. Now, the executive committee of the club would decide on paying the salaries to the staff.He said the PF and the ESI was not deposited during the lockdown period and that it would be done soon. The club did not receive any notice from the PF Department to attend the hearing. He said though the social activist was not a member of the club, he was keen in its affairs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cmo-tells-admn-to-look-into-affairs-of-aga-heritage-club-128593
20-08-2020||AXManmeet Singh Gill||Educate yourself, be cautious, but don’t panic||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 19The uncertainty of future, confined to homes, concerns about family and loved ones, lack of physical activity, increased screen time and fear of contracting Covid-19 are collectively taking a toll on mental health of people.The drastic changes in lifestyle during the past few months have baffled many. While a few are seeking help from psychiatrists and psychologists to tide over the stress, majority of people are still unaware, confused and not willing to contact doctors due to a social stigma attached with mental health issues.Dr Sneh Kumar, Head, Department of Psychiatry (Sri Guru Ram Das University of Medical Sciences and Research), said, “Out of 50 patients who visit the OPD daily, at least two-three people are there to seek help of psychiatrists.” He said due to lack of awareness and social stigma, people generally do not seek medical assistance for mental health issues.Dr Savinder Singh, Director, Dr Vidyasagar Institute of Mental Health, said, “I have personally attended to at least 10 patients in the last few days, who feared of contracting Covid.”He said number of such persons consulting private clinics could be way higher.Dr Amarjit Sachdeva, a skin specialist, said, “Skin related issues due to indiscriminate use of chemical-based sanitisers are reported daily. People are using sanitiser while sitting at their homes. I have attended to a patient who had developed skin rashes and feared that it could be a symptom of Covid.”Medical experts said people often relate symptoms of common cold and flu to Covid-19. Doctors said instead of trusting social media messages and rumours, people should try to get latest update from the websites of World Health Organisation and the Ministry of Health.“In fact, increased screen time is one of the major factor behind stress and panic,” said Dr Sneh. He said one should get adequate sleep, eat healthy diet and indulge in physical activity to stay mentally fit.“Lack of physical activity can have a devastating effect on mental health of a person. People have apprehensions and this leads to anxiety. In most cases, counselling will do the work, but in some cases medication is required,” said Dr Savinder.He said sensational media headlines and WhatsApp messages have led to panic among people. “We must keep a positive attitude and look at the brighter side of the situation. People can indulge in meditation or pursue any activity, which makes them feel better,” he said.Residents said they had developed a habit of checking social media or news to get regular updates, which at time feels annoying. “The fact that a positive patient can remain asymptomatic is what worries me the most. How do I get to know that if the other person or the shopkeeper from whom I am buying grocery is not positive? asks,” a local trader.Well he may not be the only one troubled by such questions, but a weak mental health would only worsen the situation. So stay healthy, physically and mentally fit.If possible, use soap and water to wash hands instead of using chemical-based sanitisers. Educate yourself on the symptoms of the disease and do not panic. It is important to take precautions as panic will invite trouble. —Dr Amarjit Sachdeva If your work does not require it, switch off your Internet. Fix a time and do not use Internet for more than an hour. Get an adequate sleep of seven to eight hours. Digital detoxification is foremost required as people, including children, have started watching smartphones for long durations. —Dr Sneh KumarCovid infection does not mean the end of life. A majority of the patients are recovering. We should stay positive. Getting scared will serve no good. If need is felt, one should take medical assistance. But most importantly, you can stay mentally fit and in high spirits just by staying positive. —Dr Savinder Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/educate-yourself-be-cautious-but-dont-panic-128594
