23-08-2020||Amritsar-born actress Poonam Sood is someone who believes in choosing her roles based on quality rather than quantity. In this competitive world||Work harder and harder to survive in industry: Poonam Sood||Did you always want to be an actor?No. Actually being from a middle-class family my dream was to become a doctor, but circumstances were not in my favour. I never thought that one day I would become a part of tinsel town.You have done Mere Yaar Kaminey, Aj De Lafange, Yaar Annmule 2 and Munda Faridkotia. Which film did you enjoy the most and why?I enjoyed Munda Faridkotiya because it was my first comedy film.How has your journey in Pollywood been so far?My journey in the industry has been very good and I have learnt many new things.What prompts you to take up a role?The story that relates to reality always prompts me a lot to take up a role.Do you think it is very tough to be yourself in the industry?Yes, it is; because you have to work hard to maintain your presence in the industry.What is your biggest learning from the industry so far?For me, every role is a challenge in itself. If you want to survive in this industry, you have to work harder and harder.What is next on your wish list?Besides doing some good films, I want to be recognised as a social worker.Does criticism affect you?Yes, criticism definitely affects me. But I always take it in a positive way.What are your other interests?Helping the needy.Which Punjabi dish do you like the most?Saag with makki ki roti and daal makhni.Which is your favourite Punjabi film?Angrez.What is the future of OTT in India?Very bright.Would you like to do a web series?Definitely, I am even working in one.How do you keep fit?Gymming and good diet.What are your upcoming projects?Ucha Pind and Karni Aapo Apni.— Dharam Pal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/work-harder-and-harder-to-survive-in-industry-poonam-sood-130210
23-08-2020||Amritsar/New Delhi||5 Pak intruders shot along IB in Tarn Taran||In one of the biggest anti-infiltration drives in recent times, Border Security Force jawans gunned down five Pakistan intruders trying to smuggle in contraband from across the International Border (IB) in Tarn Taran early this morning.Read also: IS man was planning lone wolf strike: Cops Around 9-kg heroin, valued at Rs 45 crore in international market, an AK-47 rifle with 27 rounds, four 9 mm Beretta pistols, seven magazines and 109 live rounds were recovered from the scene. Two mobiles and Rs 610 in Pakistan currency were also confiscated.This is the first time in a decade that five intruders have been killed in a single operation along the 3,300-km IB — of which Punjab shares 553-km frontier — with Pakistan.BSF IG (Punjab Frontier) Mahipal Yadav said jawans of 103 Battalion noticed suspicious movement near Dal border outpost around 12.30 am. As the men approached the barbed fencing and tried to smuggle in the contraband, the jawans challenged them to surrender but they opened fire, prompting retaliatory fire.A BSF official said the exchange of fire began around 4.45 am and continued till 5.30 am. On search, the forces found five bodies, besides heroin and arms. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-pak-intruders-shot-along-ib-in-tarn-taran-129968
23-08-2020||Neha Saini||Lost & Found: Journey of a painting in the chaos of Partition||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, August 22Partition Museum’s first ever online art exhibition, Memories Unlocked: Partition, Migration, Identity, is showcasing a rare pre-Partition painting of Guru Nanak by renowned artist Sardari Lal Parasher. The painting was done by SL Parashar somewhere between 1939 and 40 and was thought to be lost in the chaos of the Partition.The luminous oil on canvas painting is part of the exclusive showcase of 26 art works by 16 eminent and upcoming artists of India, by Partition Museum and Art Alive Gallery. The fascinating part about the painting is the fact that it was left behind along with many other pre-Partition works by SL Parashar when he had to suddenly migrate from Pakistan during 1947. Titled “Guru Nanak, Continuous Light” it depicts Guru Nanak on his journeys, seated in a field. He appears to be resting, while his two disciples, Bhai Mardana and Bhai Bala, are alongside, with Bhai Mardana playing the Rabab.The painting history is closely related to the turmoil that took place during the Partition and was almost lost had it not been for another eminent artist Abdur Rahman Chugtai. SL Parashar was born in 1904 in Gujranwala (now in Pakistan) and later did his master’s degree in English Literature from Forman Christian College, Lahore, in 1935.About Sardari Lal ParasherAt the time of Partition, he was the vice-principal of Mayo College of Art, Lahore, and while Parasher had to leave Lahore overnight with his family during post Partition rioting, the painting was left behind. It was later retrieved by Chugtai, who was Parasher’s close friend and sent to Government Art College, Chandigarh, before being handed over to the Parasher family. Now this painting has been given by the Parasher family to be included in the Partition Museum’s exhibition-cum-fundraiser.Parasher’s daughter, Dr Prajna Parasher, a distinguished professor and academician, said, “In this depiction of Guru Nanak, Continuous Light, the artist’s radiant subject assesses the viewer. Wise and silent, framed by a golden sunset and his own tired feet, it seems now he is seeing out of this moment of repose into the chaos that is about to come. But that is a retrospective gaze. What is certain is that Guru Nanak and his disciples, Mardana and Bala, sit comfortably under the tree, themselves narrators of history, narrating outward to us here.”Mallika Ahluwalia, CEO and curator of the Partition Museum, founder trustee of The Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust, said the exhibition was being held to remember the Partition through the lost art and heritage. “Work of this archival nature is not seen any more as most of the early work by many of Punjab’s artists was either lost or scattered due to the Partition. We hope that through this exhibition, more and more people will come to know about SL Parasher’s work and artistic legacy”.Sunaina Anand, Director of Art Alive Gallery, curator of the exhibition and trustee of The Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust, called the painting a ‘precious work of nostalgia’. “The artist’s priceless legacy is captured in the versatile nature of his work which often stems from his experience of the Partition. A precious work such as this has immense nostalgic value and is indeed a treasured resource for understanding the artist’s heritage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lost-found-journey-of-a-painting-in-the-chaos-of-partition-129950
23-08-2020||---||Roads wear a deserted look in Amritsar on Day 1||Amritsar, August 22The first day of the weekend lockdown announced by the government crippled normal life in the city as roads wore a deserted look. All shops, except for essential shops, restaurants, hotels, sports complexes, religious places and liquor vends, remained closed throughout the day.However, the volume of vehicular traffic was less in some parts of the city and cops were seen conducting checking at different chowks to enforce lockdown. Despite the fact that most of the establishments were closed, a number of people were seen roaming around in markets.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said the weekend lockdown and night curfew would be enforced strictly in the city and towns of the district. The Deputy Commissioner of Police had been assigned the duty to ensure that only 50 per cent shops operate on a given day in markets on weekdays, said the DC.In a warning to the general public and shopkeepers, he said violations of night curfew or the weekend lockdown may attract an FIR or sealing of shops, apart from monetary penalty.Khaira said except for hotels, which have to accommodate visitors from other places, all shops, restaurants and liquor vends would close at 6.30 pm. The orders also make it mandatory for religious places to close after 6.30 pm.The Deputy Commissioner said the positivity rate of the disease in the district was around 6-7 per cent of the total tests conducted. An early diagnosis would help stem the spread of the disease, he said, adding that people like shopkeepers, dhaba operators and others who come in contact with a large number of people daily should come forward for testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/roads-wear-a-deserted-look-in-amritsar-on-day-1-129951
23-08-2020||---||59-yr-old succumbs to virus, 75 new infections in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 22The district reported one more Covid death on Saturday, taking the toll to 125. The deceased has been identified as 59-year-old Kamal Kishore, a resident of New Amritsar. The victim was undergoing treatment at a private hospital and had diabetes and hypertension, claimed the health authorities.Besides, the district also reported 75 new positive cases. With these, the total count of patients has increased to 3,190.Of the new cases, 35 are persons have influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 40 contacts of positive patients. Of the ILI cases, one case each was reported from East Mohan Nagar, Vijay Nagar, Mohan Avenue, Abadi Nirankari Colony, Rattan Singh Chowk, Beri Gate, Amarkot, Hide Market, Hussainpura, Ramdass village (Ajnala), New Tehsilpura, MG Road, Madipur, Haripura, Krishna Street (Circular Road), Gate Khajana, Kotla village, Lahori Gate, Fatahpur village, Jagdev Khurd village, Jail Road, Preetam Nagar (100-Ft Road), Ravidas Nagar, Kot Khalsa, Basant Avenue, Shiv Nivas, Kale Ghannupur village, Sohia village, Varindavan Garden, Chatiwind Gate, Haripura Main Road, Gumtala, New Amritsar, Garden Colony, Baba Deep Singh Colony and Sharma Colony.Of the contact cases, five cases were reported from Kakkian Wali Gali (Katra Bagghian); three cases each from Baba Bakala, Military Hospital and Brahm Nagar (Lawrence Road); two cases each from Moon Avenue (Majitha Road), Preet Nagar, Dolonangal village (Baba Bakala), Bhorshi Rajputan village (Baba Bakala), Utam Avenue, Anand Avenue, Marrari Kalan village and Government Medical College; and one case each from Green Avenue, Kashmir Avenue, D-Block Ranjit Avenue, Friends Avenue (Airport Road), Civil Hospital, New Amritsar and Model Town.The authorities reported that a total of 2,523 patients had recovered so far. At present, the district has a total of 542 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/59-yr-old-succumbs-to-virus-75-new-infections-in-amritsar-129952
23-08-2020||---||Registration for certificate courses at GNDU till August 31||Amritsar, August 22Class X or Class XII pass students could seek admissions to various courses at the department of lifelong learning of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) till August 31, said Dr Saroj Arora, director of the department.Arora said the department conducted various programmes under the non-formal mode of education to fulfill educational needs of those who could not get appropriate opportunities for higher education.The Guru Nanak Dev University conducts educational programmes to adopt to the changingcircumstances in the technological world.Courses of one-year duration at Guru Nanak Dev University include certificate course in dress designing, cutting and tailoring; diploma in cosmetology; diploma in graphics and web design; diploma in computer application; diploma in fashion designing; diploma in fashion and textile design.The Six-month certificate courses at Guru Nanak Dev University include certificate course in beauty culture; certificate course in web designing; certificate course in AutoCAD and reveat modelling; training for The International English Language Testing System (IELTS); certificate course in English speaking and communication skill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/registration-for-certificate-courses-at-gndu-till-august-31-129953
23-08-2020||---||Financial experts address webinar on investment||Amritsar, August 22The University School of Financial Studies of Guru Nanak Dev University organised a webinar on ‘Investment Awareness Programme’. The objective of this Bombay Stock Exchange of India (BSE) - sponsored webinar was to discuss the importance of financial literacy and intricacies involved in investment planning.Dr Mandeep Kaur, head, University School of Financial Studies, mentioned how financial literacy played a crucial role and how simply being aware could lead to better financial decision making, especially during the Covid-induced financial environment.Sanjay Aggarwal, guest speaker of the webinar, spoke on how to invest funds based on various factors such as inflation, types of investments, prevailing interest rates, the purpose of investment and so forth. He delineated how investment in real estate provides more of emotional benefits and how based on age, the purpose of investment changes, which can be an important factor in deciding where to make an investment.Further, the webinar focused on a range of services provided by the BSE, including the robust grievance-handling mechanism. Aggarwal briefed about BSE’s mobile application and website that helped investors stay abreast with the ever-changing market scenario. The information about online services provided by the BSE was an important highlight of the webinar.Investors apprised of market scenarioThe webinar focused on a range of services provided by the Bombay Stock Exchange, including the robust grievance-handling mechanism. Aggarwal briefed about BSE’s mobile application and website that helped investors stay abreast with the ever-changing market scenario.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/financial-experts-address-webinar-on-investment-129954
23-08-2020||---||Chemists oppose entry of Reliance into e-pharmacy||Amritsar, August 22After opposing the entrance of online shopping websites like Amazon into e-pharmacy business, the Punjab Chemist Association (PCA) on Saturday opposed the entry of Reliance Industries which had announced acquisition of online pharmacy Netmeds along with its subsidiaries.Surinder Duggal, president of the PCA, pointed out that e-pharmacies were not recognised by the laws under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and thereby were illegal. The association had earlier shot a letter to the Prime Minister’s Office and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare objecting to Amazon’s entry in the pharmacy business and alleged that the move could have legal implications on the e-commerce platform.It has now written to Jeff Bezoes, CEO Amazon and also to Reliance Industries in this connection. Duggal pointed that the home delivery cannot be undertaken by any online pharmacy. He said as per the Drugs and Cosmetics Act sale of certain drugs need to be accompanied by prescriptions. He said Amazon India launched its pharmacy business in Bengaluru and conducting pilot projects in other cities. He said other online retail websites were also trying to foraying in the rapidly growing e-pharmacy segment.The association urged the government to intervene and ban online pharmacy to safeguard the interests of 8.5 lakh chemists and their dependent families nationwide.Giving an ultimatum till September 30, the association has urged the PM to amicably resolve the issue so that the livelihood of thousands of chemists and their families do to suffer due to entrance of big online outlets. He said that if the government failed to resolve the issue, stringent action would be initiated. He said a meeting of office-bearers of the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists would be held shortly.‘Ban online pharmacy’Giving an ultimatum till September 30, the association has urged the Prime Minister to amicably resolve the issue, so that the livelihood of thousands of chemists and their families does not suffer due to the entrance of big online outlets. The association urged the government to intervene and ban online pharmacy to safeguard the interests of 8.5 lakh chemists and their dependent families nationwide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chemists-oppose-entry-of-reliance-into-e-pharmacy-129955
23-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar MC fails to implement resolutions passed during 550th birth anniv celebrations of Guru Nanak||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 22The proposals, passed by the Municipal Corporation general house in November 2019 to observe the birthday celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev, have not been implemented so far. Opposition in the general house raised an objection to the functioning of the MC, which has failed to implement the decisions even after nine months.The civic body held a special general house meeting on the preparations pertaining to the 550th birthday anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev on November 7, 2019. The House unanimously had passed several resolutions regarding naming a road after Guru Nanak Dev and other initiatives to spread the teachings of the First Sikh Guru. The House had decided to rename a road leading to Fatehgarh Churian and further goes to Dera Baba Nanak and Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan. The road starts from the Canal office near the railway station. The Canal office-Custom Chowk stretch is called Albert Road and then it is Maqbool Road till Rattan Singh Chowk. It is called Fatehgarh Churian till the bypass chowk.The civic body had proposed to rename it as Guru Nanak Dev Marg and announced to install logos of the Marg on the road.The MC had also decided to renovate Guru Nanak Auditorium by spending Rs 50 lakh. As per the proposal, seats were supposed to be replaced and the buildings would be whitewashed. The MC also passed a resolution to buy books related to Guru Nanak Dev for Pandit Moti Lal Nehru Library. The House had sanctioned Rs 2 lakh for this cause. Besides, there were some resolutions for the sanitation work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-fails-to-implement-resolutions-passed-during-550th-birth-anniv-celebrations-of-guru-nanak-129956
23-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Illicit liquor trade: Now, drones to be used for surveillance in Tarn Taran||Tarn taran, August 22The district police have initiated steps to keep anti-social elements like traders of illegal liquor under constant surveillance with the help of drone cameras.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said here on Saturday that an initiative was started at the police stations of Chabal and Goindwal Sahib from today. The SSP said Jhabal SHO Inspector Shaminderjit Singh led the initiative in Jagatpur and Khairdeenke when SHO, Goindwal Sahib, Inspector Harwinder Singh supervised the drone practice session in the Mand area villages.The Goindwal Sahib police practised at Dhunda, Hansawala and other villages.The Goindwal Sahib police with the help of the drones recovered 350 litres of lahan from two different places alongside the Beas river. The police have registered cases under Sections 61,1 and 14 of the Excise Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illicit-liquor-trade-now-drones-to-be-used-for-surveillance-in-tarn-taran-129957
23-08-2020||---||Pump operator booked for bungling of water bills||Amritsar, August 22Amritsar rural police have booked a person working as a private pump operator for bungling a huge amount which the villagers paid as water bills.A case was registered against him following a probe conducted by DSP Majitha after a complaint was submitted by Gurpreet Kaur, sarpanch of Sarhala village, falling under Kathunangal police station here.She alleged that the village Panchayat had deputed Satnam Singh of the same village as a private pump operator at the village after the government water supply began following construction of an overhead water tank in 2014. She said the accused used to collect water bills from the residents. However, he did not deposit the same with the government and bungled the amount.The incident came to light when they got an outstanding power bill of the pump amounting to Rs 37.22 lakh. A complaint was submitted with the rural police in February 22, this year while a probe was held by DSP Majitha in this connection. Kathunangal police have now registered a case under Section 406 of the IPC against him.He is yet to be arrested, said the police authorities, while adding that raids were on to nab him. Amanjit Singh, investigating officer said after the registration of case, the accused fled the village. He said raids were on to nab him.The caseThe village panchayat had deputed Satnam Singh of the same village as a private pump operator at the village after the government water supply began following the construction of an overhead water tank in 2014. She said the accused used to collect water bills from residents. However, he did not deposit the same with the government and bungled the amount. The incident came to light when they got an outstanding power bill of the pump amounting to Rs37.22 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pump-operator-booked-for-bungling-of-water-bills-129958
23-08-2020||---||Two mobile phones, cigarette packs found from jail||Amritsar, August 22The Amritsar Central Jail authorities found two mobile phones and 14 packs of cigarettes from the premise here on Friday.According to jail authorities, an unclaimed polythene bag was recovered from the backside of barrack No.7 by the patrolling staff. During checking, it found two unclaimed mobile phones and 13 packets of cigarettes.Another packet of cigarette was found from a prisoner, identified as Pardeep Singh, a resident of Patti Verka. He had returned from Guru Nanak Dev Hospital after medical a check-up. During checking, a pack of cigarettes was recovered from his possession.Following the complaints lodged by Davinder Singh and Bahadur Singh, both assistant superintendents, the Islamabad police have registered two separate cases under Section 42 of the Prisons Act and Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-mobile-phones-cigarette-packs-found-from-jail-129959
23-08-2020||Tarn Taran||AAP’s dharna enters Day 3||The dharna of the Aam Admi Party (AAP) volunteers protesting against more two deaths in Pandori Gola after a gap of about two weeks due to the consumption of illicit liquor entered its third day though there was a holiday today.The party workers are staging the dharna in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here. As many as 170 leaders and the volunteers of the party have been booked under various sections for violating the Covid-19 norms spreading and the blocking the national highway. The AAP had called for the indefinite dharna to stress on the demands.The speakers condemned the state government and the local district administration for failing to check the supply of the spurious and illicit liquor in the area which caused two more deaths in Pandori Gola. The leaders said 11 people of the village died in the first few days of this month and later, two more died of the same.The party also demanded for the addition of Section 302 of the IPC against the accused responsible for the deaths of about 100 persons responsible for the deaths due to spurious liquor. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aaps-dharna-enters-day-3-129960
23-08-2020||Amritsar||Guru Teg Bahadur remembered||To celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur, a one day national webinar was organised by SR Govt College for Women, Amritsar.Dr Manvinder Singh, Prof, department of Guru Nanak Studies, Guru Nanak Dev University, delivered his discourse on the topic ‘Life, teachings and philosophy of Guru Teg Bahadar’. He apprised the participants of the Guru’s teachings of philosophy equality, righteousness and humanity, researchers and students from different institutions attended the webinar.The webinar was in continuation with the series of activities organised under the year-long celebrations announced by the state government. It was an effort to disseminate the Guru’s message of humanity. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-teg-bahadur-remembered-129961
23-08-2020||Harsimran Singh||‘Positive attitude helped soften Covid-19 blow’||Not only Harsimran, even his wife showed Covid symptoms and the duo were quarantined at home. They claimed that they recovered with self-medication.“Being a social worker, I saw it coming. So, we were mentally prepared for the disease. We had been feeding the homeless, rickshaw pullers and slum dwellers since March 22. We were exposed to patients. The fever and chills had set in on the night of August 12. I got tested in the morning and the disease was confirmed. The first thing that I did was to isolate myself from my family. I sent my children to my relatives’place.”I stayed positive but fear sets in when the oxygen level dips. I felt discomfort in breathing only once and took steam, which normalised the situation. Covid-19 is recoverable at home with good diet such as fruits, especially banana. More salt, more water, intake of tulsi, ginger, lemon and giloy is beneficial. —Harsimran Singh, president, Just Sewa Society“Due to high fever and weakness, it was a painful experience, but I decided to stay at home instead of getting admitting to any hospital. All the symptoms, including high fever, body ache, dry cough, fatigue, chills, headache, sore throat, loss of appetite, and loss of smell were there. The Doctor advised me to take azithromycin and hydroxychloroquine. In my case, these medicines worked well. Apart from this, I took several traditional and domestic remedies for fever, sore throat and fatigue. My fever got normal after 10 days but I used to feel body ache and weakness. It took me some time to recover my sense of smell,” Harsimran Singh added.After recovery, Harsimran Singh conducted a live session on his Facebook page and shared his Covid-19 experience. “I don't hesitate to say that despite government’s efforts, home quarantine is better than getting admitted to any hospital, especially if you are young. I was positive all the time but one fear that if the oxygen level dips. I felt discomfort in breathing only once and took steam, which normalised the situation. Covid-19 is recoverable at home with the good diet such as fruits especially banana. More salt, more water, intake of Tulsi, ginger, lemon and Giloy (Tinospora Cordifolia) is beneficial,” said Singh.After watching the Facebook session of Harsimran, several Covid patients are now consulting him. Harsimarn stated, “Positivity was my mantra to fight Covid. More than 15 patients are consulting me. I motivate them to fight with it with positive energy. You should try to be in high spirit all the time and focus on the antibiotics and good diet. There is no need to panic. It is a type of viral fever.”“Being an advocate, I am working online from home. The courts are hearing only urgent matters. My team helps me on phone,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/positive-attitude-helped-soften-covid-19-blow-129962
23-08-2020||Amritsar||4.2-kg heroin seized from Gurdaspur area||A team of special task force (STF), led by DSP Vavinder Mahajan, has seized 4.2 kg of heroin hidden in a water pipe across the barbed fence near Chanduwadala village border outpost in Gurdaspur.In a statement issued here today, a STF official said the seizure was made following the questioning of Sukhwinder Singh, alias Kaka, of Chanduwadala village, who had around 15 acres across the barbed fence.Kaka was nabbed following a tip-off that he, along with Karandeep Singh of Dhilwan and Mandeep Singh of Chanduwadala village, had smuggled a drug consignment, procured from Pakistan-based smugglers, into the country.The BSF authorities were informed and a joint team searched the area and confiscated the contraband.Further probe was underway, and raids were on to arrest Karandeep and Mandeep, an official said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-2-kg-heroin-seized-from-gurdaspur-area-129876
23-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Panel hints at employees’ role in missing ‘saroops’ case, report soon||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 22The Akal Takht-appointed three-member committee to probe the case of missing 267 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib is likely to submit its findings on Sunday. Sources said the probe committee had found the involvement of some publication employees of the SGPC.Members of the committee questioned the present and former employees of the SGPC during the course of investigation. They explored the documents of the publication department and also consulted the chartered accountant firm dealing with the SGPC.The snail’s pace of the probe has “irked” the Sikh sangat. Opposition parties have been describing the incident as another instance of inept handling of the SGPC and interference by the Shiromani Akali Dal in its affairs.The findings of the committee will be submitted to Akal Takht acting Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh. Subsequently, the findings could be deliberated at the next meeting of the five Sikh high priests, to be held on August 24.After retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Navita Singh, withdrew her name from the Akal Takht-appointed two-member committee to probe the case, two more officials were assigned to join advocate of the Telangana High Court, Ishar Singh, the other member of the probe committee.High priests to meet tomorrowThe findings of the committee will be submitted to Akal Takht acting Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh. Subsequently, the findings could be deliberated in the next meeting of the five Sikh high priests, to be held on August 24. Members of the committee questioned the present and former employees of the SGPC during the course of investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/panel-hints-at-employees-role-in-missing-saroops-case-report-soon-129882
