25-08-2020||---||Six more deaths, toll climbs to 131 in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 24The district health authorities reported six deaths on Monday, taking the toll to 131. The district also witnessed 106 new cases pushing the total count of positive cases to 3,369.The deceased have been identified as Amrit Lal, a 63-year-old resident of Tunda Talab area; Baldev Singh, a 50-year-old resident of Naamdev Colony on the Sultanwind road; Sanjeev Kumar, a 42-year-old resident of Gali Dhoighat Wali; Jaspal Singh, a 65-year-old from EMC Hospital; Harlochan Singh, a 70-year-old resident of Gopal Nagar; and Ashok Kumar, a 60-year-old resident of Gokul Vihar.Of the new cases, 59 are persons with sympotoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 47 are contacts of positive patients. As far as the ILI cases are concerned, two each cases from Sultanwind Road and Verka; one each case from Green Field, Majitha, Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Model Town, Baba Sahib Chowk, Abdall village, Harar Khurd village, Khooh Suniarian, Sohian Khurd village, Loharka Kalan village, Guru Harkrishan Nagar, Adarsh Nagar, Basant Nagar, Shahpur Khurd Village, Sehaj Enclave, Janta Colony, E-Block Ranjit Avenue, Loharka Road, Ajnala, Tarn Taran Road, Antaryami Colony, Joshi Colony, Ram Tirath, White Avenue, Army cantonment, Kavin Road, Mustafabad, Namdev Colony, Lakhowal village, Tunda Talab, Ram Nagar (Verka), Talwandi village, Chehharta, Bhalla Colony, Kartar Nagar, OCM Mill neighbourhood, Dream City, Tilak Nagar (Shivala), Pingalwara, Khiala village, Shakti Nagar, B-Block Ranjit Avenue, Paris Town (Batala Road), Green Field, Putlighar, New Partap Nagar, Chachowali village, Baba Deep Singh Colony (Fatehgarh Churian Road), Mall Road Fatehgarh Churian Road, Vallah village, Choti Khoohi area and Gokul Vihar (Batala Road).Of the contact cases, six from Rani Kaa Bagh, four each cases from Maqbool Road, 100-ft Road, Krishna Square; three cases from Khalchian village; two cases each from Mustafabad, Jodh Nagar, Bhindi Saidan village, Rajasansi, D-Block Ranjit Avenue, BSF battalion at Khasa, Ranjitpura, Old Cantonment, Ajit Nagar; and one each case from Gurnam Nagar, OBC Bank, Shastri Nagar, Krishna Square, Central Jail, Medical Enclave, Dashmesh Avenue, Holy City and Milap Avenue.With as many as 2,636 patients recovering from the disease till date, the district has now 602 active cases.Partial opening of markets in place Amritsar: As cases of the Covid-19 continue to surge, the authorities on Monday introduced partial opening of markets to curb the rush of people and vehicles on roads. As per new norms, shops at one side were opened and other side remained closed. All commercial hubs of the city, including wholesale textile markets like Katra Ahluwalia, Shastri market, Tahli Wala Bazar, Pratap Bazar and nearby streets were allowed to get their premises underway. Similarly, stationery items market, Mai Sewa Wala Bazar, gold and silver ornaments market Guru Bazar, Bhandiyan Wala Bazar, Chaurasti Attari and Batti Hatta, grain markets like Daal mandi, Mishri bazar, Swank mandi, Wadi Dhab, Dhab Wasti Ram, Lachchmansar chowk and surrounding areas also abided by the new norms. Police personnels were seen warning violators and enforcing stringent actions to prevent the spread of virus. They also spoke over public address system to acquaint people with the new norms, calling upon them to go by mask mandates and social distancing rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-more-deaths-toll-climbs-to-131-in-amritsar-district-131084
25-08-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||After losing job, he opens ice-cream outlet to keep head above water||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 24Sandeep Sharma’s life was going all well till March this year. He was working as a sales executive with a top company selling premium ice creams. After sometime, the nationwide lockdown was announced and normal life was masked in dread and threat of the pandemic-induced fears.As businesses crumbled salary cuts were introduced, a large number of employees were shown the door and the unemployment graph began to move up. It had become a normal sight. However, people such as Sandeep have endured blows but have stood up in an instant — his company had announced to slash the salaries by 60 per cent for the month of April. With the decision taken, he was staring down the barrel.“We were broken but thought that it was just temporary. I continued working hoping that things would soon return to normal,” says Sharma. But it only worsened. “In May, the sales targets were increased and the markets were closed. The pressure from the top management started increasing. The objective was to force employees to resign so that the company does not have to lay them off,” he adds.But instead of resigning to fate, he carved his own path. In June, Sandeep turned an entrepreneur and started his own outlet in Majitha road area in June. “With 10 years of experience in the ice-cream industry, I thought of selling ice-cream, milk products and confectionary items,” he shares.Nevertheless, much brainstorming was needed in the early stages of the set-up. “The problem was that I had worked for top brands and these were unaffordable for a majority of people. I had to look for affordable brands which could go well with local tastes,” he says.Icy curbs freezing businessFrom squeezing through tough times to coming back stronger by materialising his idea, he is still enmeshed in the thick of pandemic-triggered lockdown curbs. And his new business, going about these days, remains to mature.Expounding on his workaday life, he says, “The business is not going good at this time. People mostly buy ice-cream after dinner and at that time we are forced to close the shops.”Earlier, the shops were required to shut by 8 pm but the outset of new curfew instructions mentions that the shops shall call it a day by 6:30 pm. Furthermore, with shops working on alternate days and the weekend lockdown in place, this means we can operate only three days a week. “From the business point of view, we are still at the investment stage and cannot dream of big profits,” he tells.“The virus took our jobs and now the government is ruining our livelihood,” he laments, adding, “when the normalcy returns, I am confident that the business would boom.”This has also given rise to a slew of other worries apart from business ones. Of which, the biggest worry is the education of his children. “The schools block the children’s online class codes if the fee is not paid on time. We have already paid the admission fees and charges for four months. Every day I am worried that I have to pay the school fee at the end of the month my children would suffer,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-losing-job-he-opens-ice-cream-outlet-to-keep-head-above-water-131085
25-08-2020||---||A nature lover, she loves to plant traditional trees||Amritsar, August 24Indu Aurora is an ardent nature lover and this is clearly evident when one visits her house located on the Airport road here. Not only has she made it a point to maintain her garden lush green embellished with fruit and flower trees, she is also a part of several NGOs such as the Voice of Amritsar and Phulkari- Women of Amritsar which are also among the forefront organisations in plantation drives in the holy city.“I love gardening since my childhood. I inherited this hobby from my parents who were also passionate nature lovers,” said Aurora. She had a kitchen garden until recently. Since her gardener moved back to his native place during the lockdown, her kitchen garden got damaged and could not be revived.Though disappointed over it, she diverted her attention towards growing fruit and flowers. I got many beautiful fruit and flower trees planted in my 550 yard house. These include gulmohar, jamun, bananas, kinnows, seedless lemon, black mulberry etc.“The lush green trees in my house are a healthy retreat. My garden is also home to many birds, including koyal (nightingale) and Woodpecker. I have also sighted owls in my garden,” she said.Indu Aurora was also among those who had raised her voice against mindless chopping of trees during Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) project and other ‘development’ works. A lot of trees in certain parts of the walled city and near the Old Jail road were lost in rapid urbanisation.“When the government did not pay any heed, we decided to do something for the environment and therefore launched an extensive tree plantation drive under the banner of Voice of Amritsar,” she said. She is former president of the VOA.“We have certain trees dating back to the time of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in Amritsar. We cannot ever expect to see them again in our lifetime. They need to be preserved,” she pointed out. She said with the help of her organisations, she was trying to plant more and more traditional trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-nature-lover-she-loves-to-plant-traditional-trees-131087
25-08-2020||---||‘Partition-induced migration has affected identity of Dalits’||Amritsar, August 24Of all castes we have in India, it is the Dalits who were the most affected in terms of cultural identity by migration, both during the Partition and after the Independence. What we call the Dalit consciousness is nothing but chronicling of the exploitation they were subjected to by the so-called upper caste people, said Prof Pritam Singh, a renowned writer and visiting scholar at Wolfson College, University of Oxford, in an interaction with Sumail Singh in a web lecture organised by Majha House here on Monday.The lecture was part of a series of such talks centred around the theme of Punjabi identity in the global perspective. Prof Singh said: “The cultural identity is affected by many factors, both internal and external. I have delineated several such factors that affect identity, these are economic status, caste, gender, societal faultlines, ecology and language.” Talking about language, he said it was one of the most important factors which affected one’s identity as people saw language as an identifying unit and it had affected the cultural identity of Dalits the most because of high levels of migration among the community that results in loss of language.Recalling his teaching experience at Oxford, he said: “I was told that there were some twenty odd students studying Punjabi language, and almost all of them were from the Dalit background.” He shared that they were at a loss when it came to language because they could not speak in their own language with anyone and had to learn to speak in English so as to be understood by others.“Migration to the UK had cost them their language, which they saw as a loss or at least an erosion of their identity,” he said. He also spoke on the shift in the choice of languages. “While in India, English is now seen as the most important language and the language of the elite; in the earlier times in England, it was the language of peasants and the elites conversed in ‘superior’ languages such as Latin,” he said.Our notion of identity kept changing and evolving with changes and shifts in our socio-cultural constructions, he said. “If we move up the ladder of success and become affluent, our identity changes in subtle ways; if we move from one country to another, or even from one state to another, our identity changes; if we discard one language and choose another, our identity transforms,” Prof Singh said. Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, said: “Since August is the month of the Independence, we have dedicated all our sessions to exploring and talking about subjects related to freedom. Identity, a complex issue, is also affected by the Independence and migration, and today (on Monday), Prof Singh talked about Punjabi Identity, its meaning and how the language sees changes with migration.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/partition-induced-migration-has-affected-identity-of-dalits-131088
25-08-2020||---||Citizen forum protests in support of lawyer Prashant Bhushan||Amritsar, August 24  The Democratic and Progressive organisations under the banner of Citizen Forum Amritsar on Monday came in favour of activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan and organised a protest against ‘unnecessary’ curbs on the right to free expression as fundamental rights given to the citizens in the Constitution. The organisations condemned the alleged repression of pro-people organisations and prominent citizens in the country under the garb of Covid-19. The protesters alleged that it was a calculated move of the ruling NDA government at the Centre to curb the voice of the citizens of the country. They raised the issue and demanded that the government must ensure that the freedom of speech of the Indian citizens as guaranteed in the Constitution was not curbed and to take back anti-people laws and ordinances by the Central Government. Speaking on the occasion, Prof Parminder Singh urged the conscientious citizens of the country should join hands to defeat the nefarious forces which were hell bent on destroying the social fabric of the society by infusing a sense of fear among the people. “The need of the hour is to restore dignity and autonomy of the institutions, particularly the judiciary, to uphold the fundamental values of our freedom struggles and sacrifices of freedom fighters,” he said. The activists expressed solidarity with activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan and pleaded the apex court to take his case on merit. Among those present on the occasion included Master Sucha Singh, advocate Kanwaljit Kaur, Prof AS Sidhu, Prof Inderjeet Kaur, advocate Navjeet Singh, prof SS Sohal, Dr SS Dhillon and farmer leader Rattan Singh Randhawa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/citizen-forum-protests-in-support-of-lawyer-prashant-bhushan-131089
25-08-2020||---||Prof GS Sekhon elected PCCTU district president||Amritsar, August 24 Prof GS Sekhon has been unanimously elected district president of the PCCTU (Punjab and Chandigarh College Teacher’s Union) for two years (for 2020-22. In a statement, professor Sekhon assured the teachers that he would try his level best for the betterment of college teachers.  Further, he appealed to the Punjab Government to consider the demands of teachers sympathetically to create a better environment for higher education in the state. He reminded the government that the recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission had been implemented in many states, but in Punjab, the teachers of colleges and universities were still waiting for the same, so the government should do the needful in this regard.  He said the pension-gratuity scheme, regularisation grant, relaxation in refresher and orientation courses, service security for unaided staff and child care leave for the women working in non-government colleges should be implemented as soon as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prof-gs-sekhon-elected-pcctu-district-president-131090
25-08-2020||---||Centre for all-India exam set up at Khalsa College||Amritsar, August 24 The Khalsa College Governing Council (KCGC) announced the opening of the Centre for All India Competitive Examination (CAIC) at the Khalsa College campus. The centre would offer coaching and training to the students aspiring to compete for the various all India services, including Civil Services (IAS, IPS, IFS and PCS), defence services, banking and other sectors. KCGC secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina handed over the appointment letters to renowned Professor of Sociology from Guru Nanak Dev University, Prof Paramjit Singh Judge, who was posted as Chief Coordinator of the Centre. Another well-known political scientist from GNDU Dr Jagrup Singh Sekhon, a retired Professor from the Political Science Department, was appointed as Coordinator of the centre. “The two top functionaries will join their duties on September 1, 2020,” said Chhina adding, that they are the best minds and their vast experience as coordinators at the IAS Coaching Centre, GNDU in the past will help the Centre to grow into recognizable institution.  “We have high hopes that they will make the Centre one of the best in the entire northern region”, said Chhina. He said the management had planned the Centre to open the new vistas of opportunities for the students from all faculties wanting to compete at high level posts of the recruitments in the country. Prof Judge and Dr. Sekhon said they were proud to be associated with the historic Khalsa College institution and they would do their best to make the Centre best amongst such institution available. “We will train students to compete successfully for the top level examinations especially civil and defence services,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-for-all-india-exam-set-up-at-khalsa-college-131091
25-08-2020||Our Correspondent---||River waters: Dhindsa Jr flays Badals for their ‘unclear’ policy||Tarn Taran, August 24 Former Punjab Finance Minister and senior leader of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) Parminder Singh Dhindsa has condemned Sukhbir Singh Badal-led SAD leadership over their dual and unclear policy regarding the three ordinances issued by the Union Government regarding the agriculture sector. An MLA from Lehra, Dhindsa was in Goindwal Sahib here on Monday to attend a meeting of the party workers. He said the three ordinances regarding the farming sector issued by the Union Government would be of little benefit to farmers. He said if a decision on the river water issue was taken without keeping the state’s interests in mind, it would put the region into darkness. He said only the state had the right over the river waters and it was the backbone of the farming sector too as the ground water was going deeper and deeper every year making the situation more critical for the people of the state.  He said some amendments were necessary in the three ordinances issued by the Union Government to save the farming community, including the guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP) for farming products which was the right of the farmer. He said otherwise the farmer would be ruined in case his interests was not protected. He was accompanied by Bhai Mohkam Singh, Daljit Singh Lalpura, Satnam Singh Manawan and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/river-waters-dhindsa-jr-flays-badals-for-their-unclear-policy-131092
25-08-2020||Our Correspondent||AAP submits 2-day ultimatum to administration||Tarn Taran, August 24The AAP workers on Monday gave a two-day ultimatum to the administration that in case it failed to register a case under Section 302 of the IPC against the culprits responsible for the deaths caused by consuming spurious liquor at Pandori Gola and other villages of the district, they would start another protest outside the office of Inspector-General of Police, Ferozepur.Their indefinite dharna, started in front of the local District Administrative Complex (DAC), had entered the fifth day today in which the protesters sat at the dharna site in the night too.“The Tarn Taran SSP was following the dictates of his political masters and was trying to suppress people’s voice but we would not budge till the police accept our demands,” said AAP legislator Kultar Singh Sandhwan while leading the protest along with MLAs Jai Kishan Rori and Manjit Singh Bilaspur in front of the SSP’s office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-submits-2-day-ultimatum-to-administration-131093
25-08-2020||---||Jaitley and his works remembered on first death anniversary||Amritsar, August 24On the first death anniversary of senior BJP leader Arun Jaitley, city residents remembered his contribution to the city’s development. His close relatives and BJP leaders held separate functions to pay tributes.Rajeev Kumaria, principal of PBN senior secondary school, over a century old government-aided education institute, said Arun was his first cousin. So a subdued ceremony, as per the Covid-19 norms, was held at the school premises.Rajeev said as their mothers were real sisters and their Nanaka was situated at a locality in the walled city. “His statesmanship could be understood from the fact that despite unsuccessfully contesting against Capt Amarinder Singh from the Amritsar Lok Sabha seat in 2014, he had delivered most of the promises to its residents,” he said.After the NDA formed the government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had elevated Jaitley to Union Finance Minister. Arun did not keep any grudges against the residents and delivered. “So, during his maiden budget speech in parliament during 2014, he had sanctioned establishment of Indian Institute of Management (IIM) here, approved the establishment of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Punjab,” the principal added. He had wished the establishment of AIIMS in Amritsar but it was diverted to Bathinda.During the following budget session, he had sanctioned the establishment of Post Graduate Institute of Horticulture Research and Education in Amritsar. However, it is yet to be established. In 2016 Union Budget he had allocated Software Technology Park of India to Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jaitley-and-his-works-remembered-on-first-death-anniversary-131094
25-08-2020||Amritsar||Man kills self; wife, in-laws booked||Sumit Singh, a resident of Majitha area, committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan here on Sunday. The police have booked his wife and in-laws for abetment to suicide but none has been arrested.Harjinder Singh, a resident of the Verka bypass area and a relative of the victim, told the police that Sumit Singh was married to Shailly of the Sultanwind area here around a year ago. It was his second marriage after his first wife died in a road mishap.He said Sumit Singh told him that his in-laws used to take his wife to their house and did not send her back. When he went to take her back, they insulted him. Perturbed over this, he took the extreme step.The victim’s family members alleged that his in-laws had also demanded money from him after he sold a property. However, these allegations were being looked into, said the police.The Majitha police have registered a case under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC against Shailly, her brother Paras and father Jaspal Singh, all residents of the Sultanwind road area. The police said further investigation was under progress. They said raids were on to nab the suspects.Missing youth’s case: Four held for culpable homicideThe police have arrested four persons, including a juvenile, on the charge of culpable homicide in a over one-and-a-half-month-old case in which a youth was drowned in a canal.Those arrested have been identified as Sahil, and Abhi, a juvenile, both residents of Maqboolpura, Deepak Kumar of Murabbewali Gali, Tarn Taran Road, and Inderjit Singh of Rasulpur Kaler village.According to the police, Vishal, along with four youths, had gone swimming in a canal. However, he drowned in the canal, but they did not inform his family members or anyone about this. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-kills-self-wife-in-laws-booked-131096
25-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Nonagenarian alleges harassment by BSNL||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 24In the latest Bollywood movie ‘Gulabo Sitabo’, a constant verbal duel is witnessed between Haveli owner’s husband Amitabh Bachchan and one of the tenants Ayushmann Khurrana. He refuses to pay the rent, citing his poor condition, much to the chagrin of Amitabh.In a similar real-life story, 92-year-old Dilip Kumar Singh, who is currently staying in Chandigarh, alleged that his tenant — the BSNL — was not removing the tower from his plot and other paraphernalia from his Haveli, situated in his ancestral village Jamarai.The nonagenarian said he had made repeated requests to the BSNL authorities to remove the tower from his plot, but to no avail. So, he dispatched a communiqué to the Union Government in this regard.At this ripe age, his only wish is to move back to his village, where his father used to stay. Not only this, even he used to spend his vacations in the Haveli, when he was a child. He said this house, which is called Haveli in the village for its massiveness and heritage glory, is falling apart due to the lack of proper care and maintenance.He said: “I am unable to run to the court and lawyers and take physical stress of pursuing the legal matters, especially in the times of Covid.”In his communiqué, he requested the Ministry of Social Justice to direct the BSNL to end this harassment. He said it would save him from the mental and physical stress of filing cases and running around to get the tower removed from his plot amid the pandemic.He, in his communiqué, a copy of which is available with The Tribune, claimed that the tower was illegally installed on his plot number 217 at Jamarai village in Khadur Sahib tehsil, without his knowledge or agreement, in 2007.“When I came to know about it, the tower was already built, working and functional,” he said. He said after meeting the BSNL officials, they assured him that it would be removed after three years and they entered into an agreement with him for three years.So, he said, the agreement with the BSNL was signed on January 23, 2008, whereas, the fixture was installed illegally on the premises in July 2007. A BSNL official, wishing not to be quoted, however, said BSNL was paying Rs2,500 per month as rent to the owner.Haveli bought by son this year only||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nonagenarian-alleges-harassment-by-bsnl-131097
25-08-2020||---||Probe panel indicts SGPC officials, Akal Takht seeks action||Amritsar, August 24The Akal Takht-appointed probe panel has revealed that records of not 267, but 328 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib were misappropriated. This was disclosed by the five High Priests during a meeting, held today under leadership of Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh.With the panel’s report pointing towards gross discrepancies in the publication records of ‘saroops’ since 2015, the High Priests today held the SGPC officials and employees concerned accountable for the lapse and directed the committee to call up an executive body meeting and initiate stern action against the erring officials within a week.Giani Harpreet Singh said the SGPC’s investigation spoke about 267 missing ‘saroops’ from its records between September 18, 2015, and May 31, 2020. However, the Takht panel found misappropriation of additional 61 ‘saroops’ after scrutinising the ledgers of 2013-2014 and 2014-15. Besides, it was feared that at least 125 ‘saroops’ were compiled in an unauthorised manner, out of extra printed ‘angs’ (pages) that were otherwise supposed to be discarded. These ‘saroops’ were issued to devotees without any receipt. This practice was going on since August 18, 2015, and never came to the fore as no audit was conducted by the SGPC publication department since 2016.Unauthorised printing of Guru Granth Sahib in CanadaMeanwhile, Canada-based Ripudaman Singh Malik and Balwant Singh Pandher were accused of violating the Akal Takht’s edict, issued on May 9, 1998, by printing nearly 12 copies of Guru Granth Sahib without seeking any permission. Reports had surfaced that they had set up a printing press in British Columbia and printed the copies to test their venture. Both were directed to submit an explanation within a month with the Akal Takht Secretariat. Besides, Surrey-based Guru Nanak Sikh Gurdwara Society was directed to take into its possession the copies of Guru Granth Sahib and the printing infrastructure. The society was also directed to get the print of the ‘saroop’ examined from experts to find printing ‘error’ in verses of the holy scripture, if any, and submit the report within six months.SGPC’s 2016 executive body, chief secy summonedThe Akal Takht has summoned the 2016 executive committee of the SGPC and its then Chief Secretary Harcharan Singh on September 18 for skipping the 'pashchatap paths' (prayers of remorse) after 'saroops' got damaged during an accidental fire in the publication branch at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib in May 2016Ban on Dhadrianwale’s eventsConsidering a report, which testified the alleged distortion of Sikh history by preacher Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale in his discourses, the five High Priests have put a blanket ban on his programmes, till he tenders an apology at the Akal Takht||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/probe-panel-indicts-sgpc-officials-akal-takht-seeks-action-130850
25-08-2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht rejects Sucha Singh Langah’s plea for clemency||Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Monday rejected a clemency appeal of excommunicated Sucha Singh Langah, a former Akali minister, saying the Sikh community would continue to socially boycott him.The decision came after Langah submitted an “apology letter” with the Akal Takht Secretariat through his son Sukhjinder Singh Sonu.Langah was excommunicated by the Takht on October 5, 2017, after an objectionable video reportedly featuring him had gone viral. Later, he was acquitted by the court as the complainant had withdrawn the charges.Akal Takht’s officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh made it clear that the Takht’s verdict stood till date. “No pardon was granted to him. The sangat should not have any association with him,” he said.The former Akali minister’s son said it was for the fourth time when his father had approached the Takht for forgiveness. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akal-takht-rejects-sucha-singh-langahs-plea-for-clemency-130851
