27-08-2020||---||Amritsar district sees 7 deaths, 73 new Covid-19 cases||Amritsar, August 26The district recorded seven more Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday, taking the toll to 142. It is the highest single-day number of deaths reported in the district due to the disease. The district health authorities also reported 73 new positive cases, taking the total count to 3,537.The deceased have been identified as Hans Raj, a 65-year-old resident of Fairland Colony; Saroj, a 61-year-old resident of Tilak Nagar; Amarpal Singh, a 65-year-old resident of Fatahpur village on Chabal Road; Sonia Rani, a 75-year-old resident of Verka; Gurmail Singh, a 65-year-old resident of Indira Colony; Mohinder Singh, a 69-year-old admitted to Ivy Hospital and Sukhdev Singh, a 66-year-old resident of Chohan village.Of the 73 new cases, 40 are persons with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) while 33 are contacts of positive patients. Of the ILI cases, one each case was reported from Luxmi Vihar, Kohala village, Palm Vihar, D-Block Ranjit Avenue, Chachowali village, Nag Khurd village, Mugosohi village, Kaironangal village, Sardar Avenue, Indira Colony, Tunda Talab, Devi Nagar, Bagh Ramanand, Suraj Enclave, Putlighar, Shubham Enclave, Basant Nagar, Hathi Gate, Adarsh Nagar (Islamabad), Nag Kalan village, Professor Colony, Shiv Nagar Colony, Focal Point, Batala Road, Preet Nagar, Laxmansar Chowk, New Mohini Park, Mirabi Wali Gali, Gol Bagh, Begewal village, Kartar Nagar, Fairland Colony, Shivala Colony, Fatahpur village, Military Hospital and Chohan village.Of the contact cases, four are from Civil Hospital; three each from Jujhar Singh Avenue and Friends Avenue (Plah Sahib Road); two each from Basant Avenue, Gharinda Police Station, Verka, Military Hospital, Darshan Avenue, Rose Avenue, Varindavan Garden, Aman Avenue; and one each from Ganda Singh Colony, Kot Khalsa, Haripura, Prem Nagar, BSF battalion posted at Ajnala, Basant Avenue and B-Block Ranjit Avenue.With as many as 2,738 patients recovering from the disease, the district at present has 657 active cases.Patti Civil Hospital SMO tests +ve for virusTarn Taran: Patti Civil Hospital SMO Dr Bir Inder Kaur testes positive on Wednesday. Earlier, the tests of two Asha workers, one medical officer, an ambulance driver and a lab technician were also found positive. Dr Anoop Kumar, Civil Surgeon, said the hospital authorities received reports of 691 samples on Wednesday, of them 26 were tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-sees-7-deaths-73-new-covid-19-cases-131841
27-08-2020||---||Home isolation norms for asymptomatic, mild-symptomatic patients simplified||Amritsar, August 26Making it easier for asymptomatic and mild-symptomatic Covid-19 to recover at home, instead of hospital, the district administration has now allowed suspected patients to give an undertaking regarding the availability of home isolation facilities at their houses while giving samples.Earlier, those opting for home isolation had to obtain permission from the authorities after testing positive. The new instructions would put at ease those asymptomatic patients who often complain that they are fit and being unnecessarily harassed. Further the move would also lessen the burden on health facilities as the district already has over 600 active cases. Even as a large number of patients are recovering each day, the daily additions have resulted in increase in the number of active positive cases.Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said the Director (Health) has issued new instructions in this regard, according to which new asymptomatic or mild-symptomatic would be required to follow a set of instructions while in home quarantine. “They are required to have a health checkup kit, which includes a thermometer, a pulse oximeter, Vitamin-C and zinc tablets,” Dr Singh said.The patient would also be required to contact the Health Department in case of any health issues. The Civil Surgeon said the health of home quarantined patients would be monitored regularly.Those senior citizen’s who are asymptomatic Covid patients and submit a medical fitness certificate could also be allowed home quarantine, too. Similarly, pregnant women who are not at high risk (from Covid) and are expected to deliver within three weeks could be isolated at home after obtaining the opinion of a gynecologist, the officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/home-isolation-norms-for-asymptomatic-mild-symptomatic-patients-simplified-131842
27-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Once a ‘lord’, Partap Singh Bajwa is close to getting effaced as rivals wrest control||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, August 26In the past few weeks, particularly after his marginalisation in state politics, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa’s detractors have started comparing him to the Greek mythological creature, Icarus, the one who flew too close to the sun and got its wings burnt.Political observers feel that the man’s opportunism coupled with a knack of indulging in political one-upmanship at the drop of a hat means he has virtually been reduced to a lame duck in the ongoing political melodrama.In his home borough of Gurdaspur, the political permutations and combinations, too, have changed to the extent where Amarinder loyalists and Cabinet Ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa have emerged as the two most influential leaders of the ruling party.Both are known Partap baiters and were instrumental in getting him removed as PPCC chief in 2016. Subsequently, they lobbied hard to ensure that Amarinder was re-catapulted to the post of the state Congress chief, a development which must have won them brownie points from their boss.Partap, at one time, was considered to be the master of all he surveyed in Gurdaspur. His writ ran large and his stature increased manifold when he got elected as an MP in 2009. His proximity to Rahul Gandhi had become the talk of the town and Congress men would often make a beeline for Qadian residence. However, the man had forgotten that in politics, nothing is permanent. The fact is that when you realise that nothing is permanent in life, you become more tolerant, more forgiving and less judgmental. He remained oblivious to this, too.Everybody knows how he managed a Rajya Sabha seat for himself — it was a quid-pro-quo for giving up the post of the PPCC president. Ever since he lost the 2014 polls to film actor Vinod Khanna, Partap’s marginalisation and the materialisation of Randhawa and Tript as Congress bigwigs in the area have gone hand in hand.Sources reveal that top officials have now been asked by the powers that be in Chandigarh to refrain from obeying Partap’s diktats. Right now, as things stand, officials of the civil and police administration beseech Randhawa and Tript for plum postings. The serpentine queues of officials at their residences in their native villages of Dharowali and Qadian, respectively, is proof enough of their ever increasing power. Whenever police officers join their new postings in either of the two police districts — Gurdaspur or Batala — they make it a point to clandestinely visit the leaders, apparently to seek their blessings.Internal party reports of the SAD and the BJP tell how difficult, the two parties feel, it will be for them to defeat any of the two leaders in the upcoming state polls. “In the 2019 parliamentary elections, MP Sunny Deol led with substantial margins in seven out of the nine Assembly constituencies. However, he trailed behind by 20,000 votes each in the Dera Baba Nanak and Fatehgarh Churian constituencies, which are represented by Randhawa and Tript, respectively, in the state Assembly.Interestingly, in the 2017 Assembly polls, both had won by wafer thin margins of a thousand votes apiece. “The considerable increase in their voter base in two years proves, beyond reasonable doubt, how powerful they have become in state politics,” said a sitting BJP MLA.As ill luck would have it, both have fallen victim to the virus. While Tript has recuperated, Randhawa, a politician known for his no-nonsense approach to men and matters, is recovering at his official residence in Chandigarh.In Batala, a turf war has erupted between Tript and former time MLA Ashwani Sekhri. The former wants his son, who is the chairman of the Gurdaspur Zila Parishad, to contest the Assembly polls from here. This development is irking Sekhri no end. These days, he is busy lambasting his rival left, right, and centre for his “interference and intrusion” into what he considers his home-seat.“There can be only one lion in the jungle. And I am the only one in the political jungle that Batala has become. My rival should better find some other place to live in. As for his public utterances, it is a question of mind over matter. I do not mind because to me, he does not matter,” said Sekhri. He says he has decided not to utter a single word against his bete-noire and then goes on to quote Napoleon’s words: “Never interrupt your enemy when he is making a mistake.”On this, Tript has maintained a Sphinx-like silence. He is doing what he does the best: Keep his opponents guessing his next move on the political chessboard.Indomitable leaders||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/once-a-lord-partap-singh-bajwa-is-close-to-getting-effaced-as-rivals-wrest-control-131843
27-08-2020||---||Govt teachers decry delay in promotions||Amritsar, August 26The Amritsar unit of the Elementary Teachers Union on Wednesday started a series of hunger strikes outside the District Education Office (Elementary) in protest against the government over delay in promotions as head teacher and centre head teacher. A 10-member delegation led by Nishanjit Singh, Baljinder Singh Butter, block Raiya-1 leaders of Elementary Teachers Union Dilbag Singh Bajwa and Daljit Singh Bal, sat on hunger strike while raising their demands.Sharing information, the principal media secretary of the organisation, Gurinder Singh Ghukewali said the state Elementary Teachers Union president Harjinderpal Singh Pannu and district president Satbir Singh Boparai encouraged the protesters to fight for their right. “Due to the incompetence of the district education office, the promotions for the above mentioned posts have not been done for a long time. Head teacher and centre head teacher promotions are being delayed without any justification. The elementary school teachers are facing economical hardships and professional loss due to the delay. We would continue to hold our protest until our demands are heard,” said Pannu.He said the Elementary Teachers Union would continue its hunger strike outside the District Education Office and teachers from each block will sit in strike every day. “If the matter is not addressed on Teachers’ Day, we would hold a massive protest in front of the District Education Officer’s residence,” said Pannu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-teachers-decry-delay-in-promotions-131845
27-08-2020||Our Correspondent||7,000 litres of lahan recovered in Harike||Tarn Taran, August 26The district police on Wednesday seized 7,000 litres of ‘lahan’ from the mand area of Marrar village in Harike alongside Satluj river in an operation carried out with the help of drones equipped with sophisticated cameras.SSP Dhruman Nimbale said the police team recovered seven boats from the spot. Six working stills were also destroyed at the site. The raiding party seized 7,000 litres of lahan, the SSP said. Based on vital inputs obtained through drone cameras, 125 officials of the Tarn Taran police, in close coordination with the Excise Department and the Forest Department of Punjab, conducted raids in the mand area early this morning. The massive search operation was launched in the marshy area with the help of drones mounted with HD cameras to pinpoint the exact location of the working stills and activity of suspicious persons in the grassland. Trained operators specially requisitioned from Punjab Armed Police, Jalandhar, were pressed into service, to conduct a recce of approximately two square kilometers area a day prior to the raid, added SSP. The footage of the drone cameras was shown to residents of nearby villages to identify the suspects. Daler Singh, Kulbir Singh, Laly, Manjit Singh, Fuman Singh, Mohan Singh and Balwinder Singh Nimma who have been named as accused based on the basis of information provided by the locals. A case under Sections 61, 1, and14 of Excise Act has been registered at Harike police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-000-litres-of-lahan-recovered-in-harike-131846
27-08-2020||ACADEMICS IN PANDEMIC||‘Paradigm shift in education system must be observed patiently’||At a time the entire higher education system in the country is undergoing an overhaul with shift towards digital teachings and challenges posed by the Covid-19 threat, IIM Amritsar’s first full-time Director Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy says it’s time for institutions and students to become more responsible and disciplined in adapting to the new normal. In an interview with Neha Saini, he talked about the paradigm shift in the education system in the country due to the pandemic and the National Education policy 2020. Excerpts:How has the resumption of academic session been possible for the IIM as shift towards digital learning has become the new normal?It was challenging for us as an institution as IIMs generally are not in virtual classroom mode. There were a lot of logistical issues that needed to be resolved before we resumed academic sessions, including setting up digital teaching labs and conducted workshops to train our faculty in using web teaching tools. Also, we had to figure out issues like getting our placement brochures made available on digital mode, procuring laptops for e-education despite service disruptions and a lot of other things.We resumed our academic session from August, with a two-week delay. But we plan to catch up by juggling a few things like cutting down on our vacation time and making sure that the online teaching is done in a way that we get our academic rhythm back and finish our session by March-April 2021 as per the schedule. With a number of precautions, we can easily conduct exams. The only thing is we have to abide by the rules and guidelines given by the Central agencies. — Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, IIM DirectorWhat’s been the new normal for the IIM Amritsar campus post pandemic?We resumed our academic session from August, with a two-week delay. But we plan to catch up by juggling a few things like cutting down on our vacation time and making sure that the online teaching is done in a way that we get our academic rhythm back and finish our session by March-April 2021 as per the schedule. As far as hostel accommodations are concerned, whenever we re-open for students, we have set up separate apartments for housing students, including an apartment that will be converted into a quarantine facility in case of need and another for setting up a small clinic with on-call doctor and nurse. I have also scheduled an online meeting to address the new students just to ease them into the new normal.Professional institutes of higher education have resumed academic operations but the issue of conducting competitive examinations like the JEE, NEET and others has raised a conflict. What’s yout take?I feel that with a number of precautions and safety practices in place we can easily conduct these exams. The only thing is we have to abide by the rules and guidelines given by the Central agencies. I don’t think we need to be live in fear but only take caution. We cannot afford to lose an academic year as delaying the entrance exams would have recurring effects for two to three years of academics and disturb the sequence the institutes. But again, we do not have to take unnecessary risk but only keep in mind the academic future of students.How would you read into the NEP 2020 proposals of setting up academic credit bank and converting higher education institutions into multi-disciplinary institutions?I suspect that all institutions become multi-disciplinary at one point. For example, management schools are already multi-disciplinary in context of the specialised courses offered. Some of these programmes might be a distant possibility, barring sciences, but may be in another 10 years so, I would not be surprised if IIMs offer bachelors courses in education or any other discipline as long as it is relevant to studying management. Also, the proposals like academic credit banks are student friendly that would offer flexibility to student to shift institutions without necessarily having to repeat their academic learning. It’s like academic transfer programmes in the US. Only we have to teach our students to learn to study at different pace while switching institutions. So, it needs a lot of time and thoughtfulness before being implemented and all we can do is wait and watch how it unfolds.What is the status of placements at the IIM under the current situation?So far, we have not got any cancellations for our students who were offered placements or jobs during our summer internship programmes. So, being an optimist I would say that we are looking towards a possibility that the placements might get delayed due to uncertainty prevailing but the students would have jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/paradigm-shift-in-education-system-must-be-observed-patiently-131848
27-08-2020||Amritsar||Man booked for sacrilege||Dist Cong chief puts in papersTarn Taran: District Congress Committee president Manjit Singh Ghasitpur on Wednesday resigned from the presidentship as well as primary membership of the party. He was perturbed over the alleged involvement of the party MLA and his PA in the supply of spurious liquor. Manjit Singh, while addressing newsmen here on Wednesday, said as many as 130 people had lost their lives and the party high command had taken no notice of the allegations levelled on the party MLA and his PA who were said to be responsible for the supply. He said drugs were still available in the area and the administration was mum over the issue. He alleged even the then SSP too ignored the issue and ‘did not perform’ his duty fairly. OCCollege actuary robbed of Rs2.61LAmritsar: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants on Tuesday robbed Rs2.61 lakh from an accountant of Khalsa College of Pharmacy near Guru Nanak Dev University. Mukhwinder Singh along with his co-worker Deepak Kumar left the college to deposit Rs2.61 lakh in the HDFC Bank. When they reached near the campus, two robbers snatched their bag containing Rs2.61 lakh and fled the spot on their bike. TNSRs 20K looted from liquor shopAmritsar: Four unidentified motorcyclists robbed a liquor vend on the 88-foot road, falling under the Sadar police station, late evening here today. The workers at the liquor vend, Pamma Sharma and Surinder Singh, stated that four masked robbers came at the liquor vend and thrashed the buyers. Then they entered inside the vend and decamped with Rs20,000. When Surinder Singh resisted, one of the robbers fired a shot from his pistol. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-sacrilege-131849
27-08-2020||Our Correspondent||AAP workers discontinue dharna on SDM’s appeal||Tarn Taran, August 26The AAP workers lifted its week-long dharna on the appeal of the local SDM today staged in front of the local District Administrative Complex (DAC). The party workers were protesting against the Pandori Gola hooch tragedy in which as many as 13 persons lost their lives after spurious liquor.The party volunteers were at the dharna site as usual when the local SDM, Rajnish Arora, came there and appealed to the volunteers to lift the dharna. The SDM told them that as two of party MLAs Kulwant Singh Pandori from Mehal Kalan and Manjit Singh Bilaspur from Nihal Singh Wala had contracted the virus, they should save themselves by staying at home.Both MLAs participated in the dharna and remained at the site throughout the night with the party volunteers.Addressing the workers, AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said it was Capt Amarinder Singh who was responsible for their contracting the virus as he failed to act timely. Sandhwan said they must keep raising their voice to act against the accused who were involved in the supply of the spurious liquor which killed more than 120 persons. He said the dharna had been postponed and in case their demand was not met, they would be forced to hold the protest again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-workers-discontinue-dharna-on-sdms-appeal-131852
27-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Rendered jobless, a teacher starts her own boutique||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 26A dream that remained buried for long has finally gotten wings. Manjit Kaur of Dhotian village in Tarn Taran has at last got her own boutique up and running. Losing her teaching job at a private educational institute, where she had been working for ten years, proved instrumental and so did the faith that she didn’t lose after being laid off in July.“After the lockdown, the school management told that they are unable to pay the salaries and they will have to lay off the staff. The management assured that as soon the situation would normalise they will call us back. But I had decided to start my own work and dress designing was my top priority,” says Manjit.Instead of letting the past steer her astray, she started working to fulfill her dream. “Years back, after completing 10+2 I had joined a professional course of stitching at Nehru Yuva Kendra in Amritsar. Then I did a proficiency certificate course in fashion designing under community development programme of the HRD ministry in 2006. Before marriage, it was my dream to adopt the dress designing as profession,” she shares. Unfortunately, due to some circumstances it never panned out and had to join a nearby private educational institute as a teacher in 2010.Everything happens for a reasonTen years before who could have thought that such a wicked turn of things would happen to churn the best times out for her as she announced the opening of boutique in July and till the end of month she had 25 orders from her circle.“I used to stich my dresses at home and fellow teachers and friends often advised me to start a boutique. I was quite confident about my choice of stuff, colur combinations and creative designs,” she says. And after a discussion with her husband and a good mate Jagroop Kaur she invested Rs 20,000 initially. “So I started the boutique in a partnership with Jagroop”, she adds. She’s now has had a great response and is earning more than the salary school management offered him.“I am now able to earn more than the school management used to give as salary. I have made WhatsApp groups and added my fellow teachers, old students, friends, relatives. I put the photographs of fresh designs, embroidery work and paint work on the suits in these groups,” she tells. Even the ladies from abroad have approached her and she has stitched stitched for them.Talking about the future plans, Manjit said, “Though, I am working around 25 km away from the city but the social media eliminated all the gaps. I am getting orders from city as well as far flung areas as border villages. Now, I have named the boutique as ‘Libas Boutique’ and will appear on the Instagram and Facebook soon. The preparation of logo and other artwork is in process,” she says, before adding, “we will make it worldwide from our village!”‘Virus didn’t cripple women’s love for suits’Manjit believes that though outbreak badly disrupted the society and people faced financial crunch but it didn’t affect the women’s affection for the Punjabi suits. “Marriages or other functions are being conducted with several restrictions. The household budgets are disrupted after the outbreak but the women are passionate to buy new Punjabi suits. They are hopeful that the situation would normalise before the wedding session in winters,” she quips. She has learned that no woman in her knowing postponed her plan to buy fresh arrivals of pieces. “If they are this much passionate for new dresses in time of crisis, hopefully the business shall boom when the situation is normalised”, adds Manjit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rendered-jobless-a-teacher-starts-her-own-boutique-131853
27-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Illegal liquor seized||Dasuya, August 26In a joint operation, the Dasuya and Talwara police with officials of the Excise Department on Wednesday seized around 200 liters of illegal liquor and 12,000 liters of raw liquor (lahan) in the mand area of Passi Bet. Two working stills were also destroyed in the operation. The teams during raid seized five drums, cans, pots, 17 tarpaulins and other items being used to distil and store illegal liquor. The police also seized two loud speakers during raid. These were used by the smugglers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-liquor-seized-131854
