30-08-2020||---||Amritsar district sees 28 fatalities in last 6 days||Amritsar, August 29In a sudden spurt in the number of deaths due to the Covid-19 pandemic in the last six days, the district has reported a total of 28 deaths. These account for 18 per cent of the total 153 deaths due to the disease in the last five months.The sudden increase in the number of cases and casualties due to the virus has worried the administration as well as the public. The evaluation of the details of the deceased reveals that hypertension was listed as co-morbid disease in case of at least nine deceased.The district had reported six deaths on Monday, four deaths on Tuesday, seven on Wednesday, six on Thursday, two on Friday and three on Saturday (today). The district administration has already taken remedial steps as 10-day curfew in worst-affected areas.An official said, “Now health employees are increasingly falling victim to the virus. A senior pharmacist lost his life due to the disease just a day or two ago.” As the number of positive cases was expected to increase in the coming weeks, residents were advised to take ample precautions, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-sees-28-fatalities-in-last-6-days-133620
30-08-2020||---||One killed, 2 injured as roof of shop collapses||Amritsar, August 29A man died while two others were injured when the roof of a shop collapsed following heavy rain on Friday. The shop was located opposite to Amandeep Hospital on the GT Road. The deceased has been identified as Raj Khosla (42), a resident of Lahori Gate.According to information, Raj Khosla was there to meet his friend, who owns the shop. The building was more than 100 years old. There were three persons in the shop when it collapsed. Two persons, including shopkeeper, managed to come out before it collapsed. They got minor injuries, while Raj Khosla got serious injuries. He was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him dead.It is worth mentioning here that three persons, including an eight-year-old girl, were killed after a three-storey building collapsed in the Guru Nanakpura area on the Sultanwind road after heavy rain on Friday. Apart from this, an old building near Lohgarh Gate also collapsed after heavy rain. No loss of life was reported in the incident. “One woman was rescued from the building safely”, said Lovpreet Singh, Station Fire Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-killed-2-injured-as-roof-of-shop-collapses-133621
30-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Pandemic leaves photographer with only memories of past||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 29After over a six-decade-long career in professional photography, the outbreak and his ripe age have prevented veteran photographer Parkash Chand Sharma, 83, from embracing his long cherished profession. He owns the Sharma Studio, which has acquired a landmark position on the Cooper road over the years.Trained by his father Harbans Lal Sharma, who graduated from Lahore’s iconic JJ School Arts, Chand had to undergo a gruelling daily regime before even being considered to qualify to hold the camera.He vividly recalls: “After clicking, we used to draw and develop photographs followed by touching and displaying it to customers. The film was developed with carbon. It was them dried and touching was done over the figure to finesse its appearance. Photographs were printed following final finishing.”“Over the years, new techniques have completely overhauled the method of clicking pictures and developing, besides adding many more ways to retain these.Though technology had drastic changes but for an artist the art always remains a cherished objective,” he comments.The times have changed. And he has seen it all in the profession. “Now three to four persons are required to run a shop. Whereas earlier one was enough. Even a function requires three-four persons to cover a party where one person used to do the job,” he says, before adding, “the paying capacity of people has also increased, besides changes in their priorities.”He still possesses those bygone Bellows Type Trade camera, in which body and lens are separate. “It was used for group photos. Sheet films would be fit in and the focus center is the main thing so that light passes through the sheet and the members of a group to be photographed are always asked to stand still”, he recollects.He concedes: “Digital photography has made the development of images a job of seconds what used to take hours.”His son Rakeshwar Nath Sharma and grandson Piyush, who is doing BCA, are running the establishment now. Piyush is the fourth generation of the family learning the nuances of the profession, which his great grandfather Harbans Lal, a resident of Gandhi square in Lahore, had learnt from iconic JJ School of Art. Before getting into photography, he used to paint; learning the art from a popular painter named Allah Baksh and was an employee of the canal department. Lal breathed his last at the age of 83 in 1993.Eventful early daysParkash Chand was a 10-year-old when his family, at the time of Partition, had come in a train from Lahore. However, due to rampant arsoning and rioting the train was forced to extend the journey to Lucknow. “There my family, comprising parents and five siblings, stayed for a year and thereafter came to Amritsar to settle down permanently. His father took a shop on rent of Rs70 per month.” During his eventful career he has got assignments from the Army. In 1965, he went to the international border with the then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri to shoot the scenes. He also earned the opportunities to click pictures of then Chief Minister Partap Singh Kairon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-leaves-photographer-with-only-memories-of-past-133622
30-08-2020||---||Three persons lose Covid battle, dist toll climbs to 153||Amritsar, August 29With three more patients losing their life to Covid-19, the toll due to the disease in the district reached 153 on Saturday. The health authorities also reported 117 new cases, taking the total count to 3,808. With 2,986 recoveries, the district had 669 active cases on Saturday.The deceased have been identified as Surjit Singh, a 67-year-old resident of Partap Nagar; Nathu Ram, a 53-year-old from Patalpuri Waryam Nangal village and Kulwant Kaur, a 75-year-old resident of Inderjit Colony on 100-Foot-Road.Of the new cases, 78 are persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 39 are contacts of positive cases. The ILI cases include three patients from Baba Bakala, two cases each from Ghannupur Kale, New Amritsar area, Bhagtanwala and Nangli and one case each from Gate Hakeema, Katra Khajana, Laxmi Vihar, Guru Ramdas Avenue, Tarsikka, Majitha, Baba Sawan Singh Nagar, Rajinder Nagar, Chattiwind, Ibrahimpura (Ajnala), Decent Avenue (Majitha Road), Ramdas, Kot Khalsa, Guru Nanak Nagar (Chheharta), Gate Khajana, Sadhirpur, Sardar Avenue (Majitha Road), Guru Tegh Bahadur Nagar, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Kangra Colony, Sarhala Kalan, Ram Bagh, Gopal Nagar, Sandhu Colony, Naraingarh, Waryam Singh Colony, Mehta Road, Bhakna Kalan, Ranjitpura Chehharta, Islamabad, Mullechak, Ranjit Avenue, Mahania Kohara, Sandhu Colony, Batala Road, Guru Nanak Wara, Tungpai, Naushehra (Majitha Road), Kashmir Avenue, Guru Amardas Colony in Naraingarh, Gwal Mandi, Putlighar, PSPCL office on Batala Road, Rattan Singh Chowk, New Partap Nagar, Housing Board Colony (Ranjit Avenue), Daburji, Sant Avenue, Dhulka, Parvati Devi Hospital, New Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Loharka, Khabbe Rajputtan, Jaura Fatak, Ujjagar Nagar (Sultaniwnd) and Inderpuri (Kot Khalsa).Seven contact cases were reported from BSF battalion posted at Khasa and three cases each from Block A and B of Ranjit Avenue, two cases each from Bazar Gujjra, Tehsilpura, Toba Bhai Salo, Green Avenue, Raghunath Pura, Cantonment area, Sadar Bazaar, New Amritsar, Lahori Gate, Bibeksar and Nwa Pind and one each from Traffic Control Room and SGRD Hospital.District round-upNew cases 117Total cases 3,808Deaths 153Recoveries 2,986Active cases 669||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-persons-lose-covid-battle-dist-toll-climbs-to-153-133623
30-08-2020||---||Trust removes illegal shanties at Kabir Park||Amritsar, August 29Officials of the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT), accompanied by police personnel, removed shanties built on the AIT land in the Kabir Park area here on Friday.The officials claimed that despite being accommodated at flats in the New Amritsar area, slum dwellers did not vacate the land, defying the directions of the court.The slum dwellers resisted the demolition drive on Friday and reportedly pelted the officials with stones. The police detained some persons and took them to the police post in Kabir Park. They were later released. The AIT officials claimed that they had made adequate arrangements to transport goods of the slum dwellers to their flats in the New Amritsar area, but the occupants turned down their requests following which the situation became tense.Meanwhile, dwellers Shedi Lal and Kavita accused the Improvement Trust of bullying, alleging the authorities wanted to evict them from the place for personal gains.The occupants claimed that they were not served any notice before initiation of the demolition drive. “We have been living here for the several decades. We are being harassed mentally, physically and financially by the government in an unconstitutional manner,” said Parveen Kumar, a shanty dweller.Officials present during the drive included ACP Narinder Singh, AIT Executive Officer Ravinder Kumar, AIT SDO Sukhdev Raj, Naib Tehsildar Archana Sharma and Islamabad SHO Anil Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trust-removes-illegal-shanties-at-kabir-park-133624
30-08-2020|| ---||Police constable caught taking drugs, dismissed||Amritsar, August 29  Days after an Assistant Sub-Inspector was dismissed from service after his video of consuming narcotic substance became viral on social media, a police constable on Saturday was dismissed from service after he was nabbed by a police team along with two others while consuming drugs near Tarsikka canal.  He was identified as Harmanjit Singh, a resident of Rasulpur Kalan. He was posted at the Jandiala police station here. Dhruv Dahiya, SSP, Amritsar rural, in a statement issued here on Saturday said that the state government had adopted a zero tolerance attitude towards drug abuse in the state. Constable Harmanjit was caught red-handed while taking drugs. The police team seized a lighter, heroin in silver foil and Rs 10 currency note used for consuming drugs.  The others two nabbed included Jobanjit Singh of Rasulpur Kalan village and Charanjit Singh of Tarsikka.  The SSP said preliminary investigations revealed that they had procured the contraband from Kuldip Singh Meena of Dehriwal village. He said raids were on to nab him. He was absconding from his house.  In another incident, the Jandiala police nabbed four persons while consuming drugs near Dharad village. They were identified as Sajan Singh, Jaspal Singh, Sukhbir Singh and Karanjit Singh, all residents of the same village. The rural police registered two cases under the NDPS Act against them while further investigations were under way to ascertain the source of contraband.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-constable-caught-taking-drugs-dismissed-133625
30-08-2020||---||Panel probing irregularities at GNDU complains of threats||Amritsar, August 29Three consultants appointed by Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) Syndicate earlier this year to probe irregularities committed by functionaries submitted a letter of complaint over alleged threats being received by them from various quarters to hush up the investigation here on Saturday.The consultants, Chaman Lal (vigilance), Sukhdev Raj Suri (finance) and Ramesh Ahluwalia (constituent colleges) handed over the letter to GNDU Registrar, alleging “pressure tactics to malign and disrupt the investigation”.Probe ordered in Feb“We are being told that if we continue with the investigation, a campaign will be launched to malign us and raise objections on our appointment. We have also been threatened of a court case,” they wrote in the letter.According to the university authorities, the matter had come to light a few days ago as the consultants assigned conveyed their grievance to the Registrar verbally. “The university authorities have taken strict cognisance of the complaint and will provide all support and safety to the consultants so that the probe is not hindered,” said a senior official of the university.The Syndicate, in its meeting on February 10, has appointed the consultants to carry out investigations into the irregularities in office records of various divisions of the construction department. Two other enquires of the electrical division of the construction department have also been entrusted to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/panel-probing-irregularities-at-gndu-complains-of-threats-133626
30-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Small fish found dead in Beas||Thousands of small fish were found dead on the cost of river Beas on Thursday when poisonous chemicals sprinkled by Kirian village farmers in the mand area entered into the river water.The Chohla Sahib police have booked six persons in this connection. The suspects have been identified as Ashok Kumar, Satpal, Balwinder Singh his son Sandeep Singh, Balveer Singh and his son Aashi.Kamaljit Singh, Wild Range Officer, in his complaint to the police, said the suspects sprinkled poisonous chemicals on their crops sown in the mand area near the river side. After heavy rainfall in the area the water entered into the river which resulted in the death of small fish. The accused managed to escape from the spot. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/small-fish-found-dead-in-beas-133627
30-08-2020||Amritsar||One held with illegal sand||Officials of the Mining Department confiscated a truck laden with “illegally excavated sand” here on Friday evening. A case under was registered following a complaint by Rohit Prabhakar, Sub Divisional Officer-cum-Mining Officer.  The police then arrested Harpal Singh, the driver of the truck. The Mining Officer said the suspect could not document regarding 500 cubic feet of sand in the vehicle. He was intercepted at a checkpoint on Ajnala — Ramdass road. The Ajnala police have registered a case under the IPC and the Mines and Minerals Act against Harpal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-with-illegal-sand-133628
30-08-2020||---||Five vehicle lifters arrested, 10 two-wheelers recovered||Amritsar, August 29The police have nabbed five vehicle lifters in two separate incidents and recovered 10 bikes and scooters from their possession.In a statement issued here on Saturday, the police said those arrested were identified as Mahinder Kumar, Sukhdev Singh, Suraj, Ashu Pandit and Harmeet Singh.Nine vehicles were confiscated from Mahinder, Sukhdev, Suraj and Ashu Pandit. Ashu Pandit, alias Rajesh Kumar, who was lodged in jail, was brought on production warrant and arrested. Investigation revealed that Ashu Pandit used to steal bikes or scooters from different parts of the city and later handed them over to his friend Suraj Kumar.Suraj further handed over the vehicles to Mahinder Kumar and Sukhdev Singh for further disposal. They used to sell these vehicles at cheap rates. The police seized five scooters and four bikes from their possession.Meanwhile, the police also arrested Harmeet Singh of Deep Avenue in Tarn Taran and recovered a stolen bike from him. As per information, Vinod Kumar of Dera Baba Nanak Road in Batala informed the police that he used to work in a private hospital on the Batala road. He said when after his duty hour he went to parking, he found his bike stolen. During investigation the police zeroed in on Harmeet Singh who was nabbed by the police. His accomplice Arshdeep Singh was yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-vehicle-lifters-arrested-10-two-wheelers-recovered-133629
30-08-2020||---||Ensure that liquor shops are closed by 6.30 pm, cops told||Amritsar, August 29 Shops and commercial establishments remained closed due to the weekend curfew here on Saturday. The police established checkpoints to keep an eye on violators. A large number of challans were issued for violating curfew restrictions. Most of residents avoided stepping out of their houses and there was very low volume of traffic on roads. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira has instructed the police to strictly enforce the shutting down of liquor vends in the city and periphery towns by 6.30 pm as per the existing guidelines issued by the government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. He said these orders were valid till August 31 and after that new decisions could be taken on the basis of review by the government. He also appealed to the elected councillors, panches and sarpanches to ensure that the public of their respective areas must follow the safety protocols and precautions. The DC said the number of positive patients had crossed the 3,700 mark and around 70-80 new patients were being reported daily, which was a matter of serious concern.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ensure-that-liquor-shops-are-closed-by-6-30-pm-cops-told-133630
30-08-2020||---||Cong holds protest over agri ordinances||Amritsar, August 29 Lok Sabha member Gurjeet Singh Aujla on Saturday staged a symbolic  silent protest against the Union Government at Jallianwala Bagh against the three agriculture related ordinances issued by it. He said the three ordinances would further marginalise farmers and gave more control to private players.  Aujla also asked from the Union Government to postpone the JEE Exam. He said when the government cannot organise a session of the Parliament due to the Covid-19, holding a competitive exam is risky. “Around 23 lakh students from the country would take the exam. It would require them to travel out of their homes and cities. This could be risky for them.” he said.  Aujla said the Congress would oppose the three laws earlier brought in by the Union Government through ordinance route when these bills come for voting in the Parliament. He also accused the SAD of double standards. He said the SAD, which is in alliance with the BJP, should have opposed the ordinances. “Punjab predominantly being an agrarian state will be the most affected if the MSP for crops was withdrawn. Politicians from all parties should oppose the ordinances as livelihood of majority of state’s population is dependent on agriculture,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cong-holds-protest-over-agri-ordinances-133631
30-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Kar Sewa sect begins tree plantation drive||Tarn Taran, August 29The Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, under the leadership of its head Padam Shri Baba Sewa Singh, on Friday started plantation drive on the Khemkaran-Chabal road in Chabal village.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh inaugurated the drive by planting a sapling in Chabal village near Gurdwara Bohri Sahib. Sewa Singh and project director of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) Sunil Yadav were also present along with others.Sewa Singh said that in collaboration with the NHAI, the saplings would be planted up to Khemkaran town but in the first phase it would be completed up to Bhikhiwind township. “On Friday, we planted chakresia saplings, while neem, jamun and arjun will also be planted in the coming days”, said Sewa Singh. He said under the environment conservation scheme the organisation had planted about five lakh saplings till date covering approximately 500 km of area, including roads, public places and gardens, which were helpful in maintaining environment clean and green.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kar-sewa-sect-begins-tree-plantation-drive-133632
30-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Youth injured in road mishap, dies||3 booked for stealing bricksTarn Taran: The police on Friday booked three members of a family of Manakpur village for damaging public property. The Kacha Pakka police said the accused had been identified as Bhupinder Singh, his brother Harjinder Singh and son Sukhjinder Singh. In his complaint to the police, Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) Ram Tasveer Singh alleged that the accused had stolen bricks used for making the common street leading to their house. The accused were absconding, said the police. OCFormer players honouredAmritsar: In order to mark National Sports Day, masters/ veterans team on Friday honoured former national and international players at a brief function here. Among those honoured included Bahadur Singh Bal, Avtar Singh, Gurbhej Singh, Parminder Singh, Sukhchain Singh Bhangu, Kamal Kishore, Jagir Singh Randhawa, Paramjit Singh, Sawan Singh, Dev Nath, Gurmukh Singh, Yoga lecturer Sukhbir Maan and Manpreet Singh. GNDU drug and pollution testing laboratory coordinator and former head pharmaceutical science Dr Preet Mohinder Singh Bedi and Pardeep Sareen was the chief guests. TNSBid to break open ATMHoshiarpur: Thieves made an unsuccessful attempt to break open an automated teller machine (ATM) of HDFC Bank in Rajpur Bhaiyan village on Saturday. Branch manager Davinder Kumar told the police that at 8 am he got information that an attempt was made to break open the ATM machine. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-injured-in-road-mishap-dies-133637
30-08-2020||Stories That Inspire||Survival on the brink, but going digital breathing life into firm||PK JaiswarTribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 29Lemon Leaf, an event management company, had been reeling under the lockdown restrictions imposed on weddings, which are still in place, scaling down not only functions but also the business of the firm.Rather than fade away, the problems are likely to escalate as the government recently announced stricter constraints with the weekend curfew and 'odd-even' method for opening of markets further squeezing the survival."This is incredibly challenging period for all of us and we all need to evolve and adapts in order to survive. There is only 10 per cent of business at present," says Pulkit Arora, owner of the firm, which also organises corporate events.This is an incredibly challenging period for all of us and we all need to evolve and adapt in order to survive. There is only 10 per cent of business at present. Virtual mode can never be the replacement going by the Indian wedding culture as functions are of emotional values. But under the circumstances prevailing, it could be a good substitute. Recently, we held two such functions of virtual mode using technology. We are also collaborating with an IT firm for further options. —Pulkit Arora, owner, Lemon Leaf, an event mgmt companyAmid the doldrums the set-up has been in, it has taken to online mode, rather than shutting the shop. "Recently, we held two such functions of virtual mode using technology. We are also collaborating with an IT firm for further options," he says.But he thinks this is a temporary phase. "Virtual mode can never be the replacement going by the Indian wedding culture as functions are of emotional values. But under the circumstances prevailing, it could be a good substitute platform," he adds.Around Rs 40 lakh of the organisation is stuck in the market as many payments remain due from clients who themselves are in deep waters and have expressed their inability to pay owing to the crisis. And Pulkit knows it all himself. According to him, the tremors triggered due to the lockdown has all other industries associated with weddings in shambles. This included hospitality, floral, transportation and catering etc. "When weddings were stopped, all these allied industries were also hit and many were left unemployed," he shares."We had some Muslims migrants who were part of the team involved in decoration of the customised sets during marriages. Initially, when the curfew was imposed we paid them full salaries for two months hoping that the situation would improve. In third month, they were paid half of it and in fourth we could not afford. Hence, they went back to their native states," he tells.Now, it has become very difficult to find the same team again. "My team of graphic designers and accountants and operation supervisors all were relieved as crisis continue. We also had to vacate the rented godown in order to cut down expenses," Pulkit says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/survival-on-the-brink-but-going-digital-breathing-life-into-firm-133638
30-08-2020||Renu Sud Sinha||How Vikas Khanna's tweet led to 30 million meals||In another two days, Feed India Initiative will have completed five months of its tenacious journey of feeding millions in more than 135 cities across India during the pandemic. The man spearheading this campaign is New York-based Vikas Khanna, a Michelin-starred chef for the world, but a humble man at heart from ‘Guru ki Nagri’ Amritsar.Read also: ‘What he is doing comes from that space – langar sewa’The campaign has crossed the 30 million-meal (cooked and dry ration) mark, but food is not the only thing Vikas and his team of volunteers are providing. Also on the list are 400,000 slippers, 3 million sanitary pads and 2 million masks. While he’s been too busy to calculate the overall cost, “on a rough estimate, it should be around $10 million”, says Vikas. The campaign, however, has zero-administrative cost, as it is being managed by a team of 60 volunteers, in India and the US.From his house in Manhattan, he shares an interesting anecdote that led to the foundation of this vast effort. In March-end, he received a mail from an old-age home in India, seeking donation for its inmates, stuck during the lockdown. He immediately transferred some money, but the mail turned out to be a spam. However, it set him thinking about the plight of the less fortunate during the pandemic. Having been associated with such endeavours before, he was aware that most orphanages, old-age homes, and other such institutes run from month to month in terms of rations, donations, etc, and would be hugely affected by the pandemic. And that’s how the idea of Feed India came into being.Feed India, or Barkat as he calls it, started with a single tweet on April 1. Vikas asked his 2.3 million followers on Twitter to go to their neighbourhood orphanages, old-age homes, leprosy centres and check if the inmates needed ration or food.Soon, the messages grew faster than the Covid cases across India, and he and his volunteers were quick to respond.A basic kit of essentials, including hygiene essentials, was put together. Each bag consisted of ration items, essential supplies, sanitisers, sanitary napkins, detergent and sometimes even chocolate, along with slippers, water bottles, etc.From institutes of destitution, his campaign soon extended to migrants walking home, street vendors, Mumbai’s dabbawalas, boatmen and craftsmen in Varanasi, inmates of widow ashrams, people with disabilities, transgenders, sex workers, AIDS patients, anyone and everyone in need.As Vikas was managing everything from the US, there were some logistical issues — unscrupulous vendors, dishonest suppliers, vanishing supply trucks, payments that had to be paid twice. He almost gave up but his mother — the anchor who keeps him rooted, as he puts it — reminded him how having achieved his dream of becoming a top chef despite odds, he could not be scared of these little singes.He reached out to the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in mid-April. By then, the NDRF had already been working with the pandemic-affected in different states.But didn’t the NDRF find the proposal of a celebrity chef sitting across oceans a little farfetched? Says Satya Narayan Pradhan, Director-General of the NDRF, “His commitment, authenticity and straight-forwardness came across loud and clear. And this partnership has moved from strength to strength because of the synergy in sincerity from both sides.”Vikas has spent millions from his own funds to kickstart the campaign and keep it going. Collaborations, in both cash and kind, with brands came much later. India Gate rice management was the first to approach him in mid-April. Since then, there have more than 50 Indian and international collaborators, including Tata, Procter & Gamble, Paytm, Patanjali, etc. The latest on board is Crown Rice. It has committed 1 lakh kg of rice for Feed India’s Ganesh Chaturthi prasadam drive in Mumbai on September 1.Many individuals have also pitched in, including artist and architect Tarik Currimbhoy, Sandie Tillotson (NuSkin), Heather Ibrahim-Leathers (Global Fund for Widows), social entrepreneur Payal Tulsiyan, and of course, the man of the moment, Sonu Sood. The two Punjabi boys came together to help migrants reach home — Sonu was taking care of transportation and Vikas was providing them with meals on the way. For this initiative, Vikas had come up with an innovative plan. He reached out to Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited and converted at least 100 fuel stations on the highways of UP, MP and Maharashtra into kitchens from where the weary migrants could have a hot meal on the go.The one lesson from the pandemic, says Vikas, has been the “resilience of mankind and its solidarity”.With the end of the pandemic nowhere in sight, how long can he sustain Feed India? “I signed two book deals last week, and the proceeds will go into funding the drive. More brands are coming forward. I tweeted about it last week and there were 16 mails within 30 minutes.”On what makes him go on, he says, “My faith in my Guru, Guru Nanak Dev, and my promise to my mother that I will see it through. She didn’t raise a quitter.” She did not.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/how-vikas-khannas-tweet-led-to-30-million-meals-133564
30-08-2020||Neha Saini||‘What he is doing comes from that space – langar sewa’||For a Michelin star chef who has served the likes of Barack Obama, Dalai Lama, Queen Elizabeth, Vikas Khanna’s favourite food — the humble, home-cooked dal-chawal — is a reminder of the man’s modest lifestyle. “He can eat dal-chawal seven days a week. It’s his all-time favourite, ever since he was a child,” says his mother, Bindu Khanna (70), based in Amritsar.Read also: How Vikas Khanna's tweet led to 30 million meals According to Bindu, “Our backyard was host to several impromptu feasts as Vikas’ friends and neighborhood kids would gather around and he’d cook for them. Many times, a few of our neighbours would call him to taste a new recipe they tried at home. He was fondly called ‘pandat’ by one of our neighbours because he was a simple, sorted kid, ready to help everyone.”His elder brother Nishant, an educator, agrees. “As a kid, Vikas was always empathetic, feeding strays, birds and the needy. For many, what he is doing now might be a new concept but growing up in Amritsar, we always learnt to share our graces.”Not the brightest of kids in school, his mother recalls how Vikas would spend most of his time after school cooking, along with his beeji (grandmother). “Vikku,” as his mother fondly calls him, “was always sentimental and inclined towards creativity. He was different from other kids as he was always doing chores that people at that time did not deem fit for a boy. He learnt knitting from his grandmother and would make sweaters. He learnt sculpting and would do wooden sculptures. A wooden Ganesha that he made is still displayed at Salaam Bombay, an upscale restaurant in New York where he worked.” He was born to beat the odds, she says. “Even when he started Lawrence Garden Kitchens, his small catering business, from our home, many doubted his choice of career as it was not seen as a respectable line of work. When he told me about his decision to become a chef, I too was a bit taken aback. I asked him — “Kya tu abb bawarchi banega?”The first time, says his mother, her son’s culinary skills stunned her was when he cooked bhindi for her. “It was the best bhindi I had ever tasted, Vikas was seven or eight years old that time and I knew then that he would go places.”His passion for food and service came from his beeji. In his ancestral home, his room was close to beeji’s room and both of them would spend hours in the kitchen, where Vikas would watch her cook.Bindu says that he still misses his grandmother, who was one of the most influential persons in his life. ‘Beeji passed away in 2013, and two years later, his father passed away. Vikas still has not come to terms with his father’s death.”As for Vikas, his mother says that her son has always managed to surpass her expectations. “I still cannot believe what he has managed to achieve. He is still childlike, simple and ready to help anyone who comes to him.” Even with Feed India campaign, Bindu shares that Vikas is following his heart. “As a kid, he would often go to the Golden Temple to perform langar sewa. What he is doing with Feed India is something that comes from that space, with the belief that no one should remain hungry,” shares Nishant. One cannot get more Ambarsari than that!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/what-he-is-doing-comes-from-that-space-%E2%80%93-langar-sewa-133567
