01-10-2020||North East||Assam police recruitment scam: Mastermind Diban Deka surrenders||BJP leader and one of the prime accused in Assam police recruitment scam, Diban Deka, has surrendered before the police in the state's Barpeta district. Deka, who, along with former DIG PK Dutta, had been absconding since the scam came to light, surrendered on Wednesday night in Pathacharkuchi area, a police officer said. He has been brought to Guwahati for further interrogation, the officer said. Examination to recruit unarmed sub-inspectors was cancelled on September 20, minutes after it began, as the question paper was found to have been leaked on social media. Over 20 people have been arrested in this connection. State Level Police Recruitment Board (SLPRB) chairman Pradeep Kumar subsequently resigned on September 27 taking "moral responsibility" for the leak. Police had issued look out notices and announced an award of Rs one lakh each for any information which could lead to the arrest of Deka and Dutta. The former DIG is yet to be traced and it is suspected that he was holed up somewhere near the India-Nepal border. Deka was questioned by the CID after the scam had surfaced, but was allowed to go as there was "no circumstantial evidence against him". Shortly after, he went missing. On September 24, however, he took to Facebook to claim that his life was in danger. Deka said he was involved with the "company" which was responsible for conducting the exam. He identified himself as the national executive member of the BJP's Kisan Morcha and said he would not do anything to bring disrepute to the saffron party. He also said that he had flagged the leak after receiving a copy of the question paper on WhatsApp. Deka said he has "left Assam fearing for his life". He further said that he might get killed anytime as many big and corrupt officials are involved in the scam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-42
01-10-2020||North East||OIL plans to cap blowout by November||Oil India Limited has said that it will be able to “resolve” the gas well blowout at Baghjan in Assam by November. At the company’s 61st annual general body meeting on Tuesday, Oil India chairman and managing director Sushil Chandra Mishra said: “We have been able to divert the gas flow. A team is arriving from Canada for the stubbing process. Everything remaining equal, we will be able resolve (the) Baghjan (blowout) by November.” The blowout at Baghjan in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district, around 530km from here, occurred on May 27 and is still to be controlled completely. It has affected over 8,000 local residents and the ecology of the area. On the demand for early compensation to the affected, Mishra said they have already deposited Rs 33 crore with the Tinsukia district administration based on initial recommendations. “We will also abide by whatever the final assessment of the National Green Tribunal on the compensation front,” Mishra said. He also said an independent damage assessment of the local ecosystem has not been as serious as predicted but said the company will still carry out reclamation to restore the ecology. On the company’s performance during the last fiscal, Mishra said financial year 2019-20 was a challenging one with weak economic growth, resulting in weaker demands across sectors. “But we completed the year on a positive note, leveraging the best of available advantages and building on available opportunities, reporting a revenue of Rs 13,649 crore and profit after tax of Rs 2,584 crore,” Mishra said. Oil India is the country’s second largest Navaratna company in terms of total proved plus probable oil and natural gas reserves. The company’s top brass also paid tribute to three employees who lost their lives while fighting the blowout at Baghjan. Mishra also said that Oil India has drawn up ambitious plans for the future, including fast-tracking of exploration in Arunachal Pradesh and developing the Baghewala heavy oil field in Rajasthan, besides strengthening its presence in other sectors of the hydrocarbon industry. He reiterated Oil India’s commitment to the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India programme) recently launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “With a view to expedite action in this direction, OIL has created a new department ‘INDEG’ for development of items indigenously,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-42
01-10-2020||North East||Cong steps up heat on question paper leak case in Assam||The Opposition Congress on Wednesday not only accused Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal of being “directly involved” in the question paper leak case but also used a protest here to reach out to the “disgruntled” youths whose future was being “compromised” by the incumbent government. Assam PCC chief Ripun Bora levelled the accusation against Sonowal during a protest against the cop recruitment scam at the Manabendra Sarma complex here. Hundreds of Congress members participated in the protest which was cut short by security personnel. “The chief minister is directly involved in the case, based on facts and reports. There cannot be an impartial probe if he is there. Therefore, we want his resignation and a probe by a sitting high court judge. We will continue to protest till our demands are met,” Bora said. He said he was also against an inquiry by the CBI because it was in the hands of the government. At the start of the protest, the PCC chief released a bunch of black balloons inscribed with the words “nibanuwa murkhuwa (headache for the unemployed) Sarbananda Sonowal resign as CM”. Later, Bora urged the unemployed youths to come out and protest as their future was being allegedly compromised by the state government. The Congress has called another protest on October 5 in all the district headquarters where the offices of the superintendents of police will be the gheraoed. Party spokesperson Imdad Hussain told The Telegraph, “The youths are most affected and disgruntled because of the government’s inability to hold any exam without hitch and lack of jobs. Aren’t their futures being compromised? As a political party we have to look into such issues and flag them appropriately.” There are over 18 lakh educated unemployed youth in the state. Apart from targeting Sonowal, Bora also targeted the police department, BJP legislators whose names have cropped for holding mock tests for the sub-inspector exam without naming them, former chairman of the state level police recruitment board, Pradeep Kumar, and officer on special duty (Ranjit Mazumder) to the chief minister, who has been allegedly appointed by the RSS for “saffronisation” of the government. He also displayed the photographs of BJP youth leader Diban Deka, a suspect in the paper leak case who is absconding, with senior BJP leaders such as Ram Madhav, Siddhartha Bhattacharya and MLA Bhaskar Sarma and Phanindra Sarma, to counter them denying any link with Deka. The recruitment of Deka’s wife in the publicity department was also raised by Bora. Deka is likely to surrender any moment, sources said. Bora condemned the police for “using” force to thwart their democratic protest, allegedly injuring a few Congress members who tried to march to Dispur. Besides the Congress, peasant organisation Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti also sought Sonowal’s resignation in connection with the scam. Sonowal told mediapersons on the sidelines of an official function here that “in sync with the state government’s principle of zero-tolerance against corruption, no leniency or compromise would be tolerated” in the inquiry process. He said the new recruitment board has been constituted with a mandate to see that no meritorious student is deprived of his or her right. He also maintained that the inquiry ordered was not the result of any complaint. “Within 15 minutes of the reported leak of question papers, state government has cancelled the examination of the recruitment... for the first time any government acted so expeditiously and transparently to institute an inquiry to disclose the reasons responsible for the alleged scam,” Sonowal said. So far 21 people have been arrested in the case since September 20, including one by the CID on Wednesday. The arrested is a close aide of former DIG Dutta. The CID, which is probing the case along with Guwahati police’s crime branch, is also “preserving the crime scene” in the two hotels where the mock test for the exam was held and candidates stayed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-42
