06-10-2020||North East||Three outfits claim hand in Arunachal attack||An ambush in Arunachal Pradesh’s Changland district on Sunday morning, which left one Assam Rifles jawan dead and another injured, was carried out jointly by the NSCN (K), Ulfa (Independent) and the PLA, the armed wing of Revolutionary Peoples Front, according to a statement issued by Ulfa (I) on Monday. However, no official statement has been issued on the attack till Monday evening by Assam Rifles or the army. The statement issued by Deep Asom of Ulfa(I)’s “publicity department” said the “joint military offensive against the occupational forces” was carried out by the cadres of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Khaplang), United Liberation Front of Asom (Independent) and the Peoples Liberation Army (PLA) at 9am near Senmo village on Manmao road in Changlang district of “so-called Arunachal Pradesh”, killing two on the spot and others injured. The area is around 340km from state capital Itanagar. Assam Rifles in a tweet has condoled the demise of warrant officer Birendra Singh, who hailed from Uttar Pradesh, in the line of duty. “Singh, who was born in 1967, and was from 19 AR, hailed from Mainpuri district of Uttar Pradesh. We are readying to send his body home. We don’t have much details except combing operations are still continuing,” an Assam Rifles official told The Telegraph. Another jawan was injured in the ambush which was carried out on a water tanker on the way to an Assam Rifles camp, around 5km from the incident site. He is being treated in Changlang. The attack comes three days after the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act was extended in three districts and four police station areas of the frontier state for another six months. The Act gives security personnel unbridled power in “disturbed areas” to carry out its operations, among others. A notification by the Union home ministry announcing the extension of AFSPA said, “...Tirap, Changlang and Longding districts in Arunachal Pradesh and the areas falling within the jurisdiction of the following four police stations in other districts of Arunachal Pradesh, bordering the State of Assam, are declared as ‘disturbed area’ under Section 3 of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 up to 31.03.2021 w.e.f. (with effect from) 01.10.2020, unless withdrawn earlier.” The attack also come amid reports that India and Myanmar are set to sign a deal to extradite rebels taking shelter in the neighbouring country. Insurgency-hit Changlang, Longding and Tirap are the three districts where AFSPA was extended. All the three districts border Myanmar, which is around 28km from the site of the attack. Changlang and Longding are separated by Tirap district. In July, six militants of NSCN (I-M) were killed and an Assam Rifles personnel hurt during an encounter in Longding district. The Ulfa statement said that for decades the “WeSEAn” (Western South East Asia ) people struggled with blood and tears to protest and defend our freedom enduring endless persecution and torture in the hands of the colonial occupational forces. “ ... India must fully realise either its forceful occupation nor its draconian laws... will break the will of the WeSEAn people for self-determination. The WeSEAn revolution will endure and move forward as long as India illegally occupies and dominates our grievances. “The more India oppresses and refuse to recognise our genuine struggle, we will continue to defend our legitimate rights at all cost,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
06-10-2020||North East||Resume talks at highest level: Muivah||The National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) on Monday released an eight-page letter written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 25 by its general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah on various aspects of the ongoing peace talks, including its resumption at the “highest” level to “save” the process. The letter was released because of the “delay and the lack of response from the office of the Indian Prime Minister to our people”. This is the second time NSCN (I-M) has made public a document related to the peace process to resolve the decades-old Naga political problem. On August 16, it made public the Framework Agreement signed on August 3, 2015, to counter the “manipulated” copy of the document circulated by Nagaland governor and the interlocutor for peace talks, R.N. Ravi. He is also a signatory to the agreement. The NSCN (I-M) has sought the removal of Ravi, compelling the Centre to resume the talks with Intelligence Bureau officials. The Centre, according to reports, had “fixed” September to wrap talks and announce a final deal. However, like last year’s October deadline, this one too did not materialise, because the outfit stuck to its stand of a separate flag and constitution, a demand the Centre has “expressed” its inability to accept. Muivah’s letter states at the outset that after 22 years of political dialogue between the government of India and the outfit, a “serious deadlock” has emerged on the issue of the Naga “National Flag” and “Constitution”. Besides urging Modi to arrive at an amicable and honourable political solution to the Naga issue and citing the reasons for the strained ties with Ravi, Muivah’s letter says that under the given circumstances and in order to “save” the political dialogue, talks should resume at the “highest” level; “without pre-condition and outside India in a third country”. “And if our stay in India is no more welcome, all necessary arrangement must be made for us to leave India and the political talks be resumed in a third country,” Muivah said. The behaviour of Ravi, Muivah has said, towards the Nagas is totally unacceptable. Some of the other points raised in Muivah’s letter: ⚫The NSCN agreed to start political negotiation with the Gol only after it recognised the Naga issue as political and stopped terming it as India’s “Internal Law and Order Issue”. ⚫It has come as a total shock and surprise that the Gol has started branding and accusing the members of the NSCN who are in political negotiation as “terrorist”. ⚫Ravi has again given an ultimatum to the NSCN, “The next date of meeting will be fixed after NSCN submits its draft proposal as was told to them in the meeting dated 30th January, 2020”. This calls for an official clarification from the Gol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-42
