09-10-2020||North East||Nagaland govt issues SOP for Durga Puja||The Nagaland government has issued guidelines for the celebration of the forthcoming Durga puja, allowing pandals to be set up only at temples in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said. The guidelines issued by the principal secretary, Home Department, R Ramakrishnan on Thursday said as Durga Puja pandals usually see a congregation of a large number of people, it is imperative that suitable regulations are put in place and appropriate measures are taken during the celebration to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Durga Puja pandals will be allowed to be set up only in temples and no pandal shall be allowed to be erected on and by the side of any road, it said, adding that no stalls shall be set up near pandals. The four-day Durga Puja will be held from October 23 to 26. The guidelines said that a maximum of 30 people including organisers and priests shall be allowed to gather at any time in puja pandals. The puja organisers should not allow any person to enter the puja premises without face cover or mask, Ramakrishnan said, adding that it shall be the responsibility of puja organisers to arrange for facilities for handwashing or sanitisation at the entrance of puja premises. All visitors to the puja pandals shall be subject to thermal scanning by puja organisers and no person with any symptom related to COVID-19 shall be allowed to enter the puja pandals, the guidelines said. Devotees can visit the temples from 5 am till 10 pm and the organisers should ensure sanitisation of the premises before opening and after closing and every six-hours during the day, it said. People above 65 years of age, children below 10 years of age and persons with comorbidities and pregnant women may be advised to avoid visiting the puja pandals, he said. The respective District Task Force headed by the Deputy Commissioner should also make necessary arrangements with the concerned puja committees to ensure that immersion of the idols is suitably staggered so as to avoid congestion and large gatherings at the immersion sites, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
09-10-2020||North East||Nagaland government calls meeting on peace talks||The Nagaland government on Wednesday convened a consultative meeting on the ongoing peace talks to resolve the Naga political problem on October 15 because it “feels” that the issue needs to be “addressed with utmost” urgency and seriousness by all sections in order to facilitate an early solution. The move comes within two days of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) releasing a letter written by its general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah to the Prime Minister on February 25 where he said that after 22 years of political dialogue between the government and the outfit, a “serious deadlock” has emerged on the issues of Naga “national flag” and “constitution”. The NSCN (I-M) on Wednesday said it has made its stand “very loud and clear” during the talks that there “is no way forward” without finalising these two issues. The peace process to end the longest armed resistance in Southeast Asia started with the ceasefire with the outfit in 1997. A Framework Agreement was signed between the Centre and the NSCN (I-M) on August 3, 2015, based on which the final solution is being worked out. The state government said on Wednesday that it wanted all stakeholders to “come” forward and participate in the consultative meeting to be held at the State Banquet Hall, chief minister’s residential complex in Kohima from 10am. “All tribal hohos, mass-based organisations, civil societies, church organisations, political parties, NGOs, prominent persons, etc. are being invited to discuss the most important issue that our society is presently faced with. The state government is of the view that ceasefire and negotiations between the Naga political organisations and the government of India has been going on for more than two decades and the Naga people have been crying out for peace and political solution,” it said. On Wednesday, the outfit said, “What is there for the Naga people to gain out of Naga deal if we are to lose our political identity that is identified by flag and constitution? This is the question that is now playing into the conscience of the Naga people at large.” Significantly, talks on Naga “flag” and “constitution” are going on with the government of India with all seriousness, the statement said. The Centre, according to reports, had “fixed” September to wrap up talks and announce a final deal. However, like last year’s October deadline, this one too did not materialise because the NSCN (I-M) stuck to its stand of a separate flag and constitution. Muivah’s February letter assumes significance because he has spoken about resuming talks at the Prime Minister’s level, without any precondition and in a third country because of the prevailing circumstances. He also highlighted the “divisive” role of the Centre’s interlocutor for the peace talks and Nagaland governor, R.N. Ravi. “And if our stay in India is no more welcome, all necessary arrangement must be made for us to leave India and the political talks be resumed in a third country,” Muivah’s letter said. Muivah is the “ato kilonser” (prime minister) of the “Government of the People’s Republic of Nagalim (GPRN)”, a “parallel” government run by NSCN (I-M).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
