13-10-2020||North East||App to help travellers, small businesses||A trip to Mahabalipuram in Tamil Nadu by an IIT Guwahati student and the difficulties he and his family faced there has resulted in the development of a mobile application that will “not” only help those travelling to a new place but also small businesses do their business online. Sahara, a hyperlocal tech start-up began by IIT Guwahati students, has launched a mobile app by the same name that lets business owners “create” synergy with customers and potential business partners on a global platform with the power of digitalisation. The start-up members are Sai Vara Prasad, co-founder and chief operating officer; Sai Praneeth, co-founder and chief executive officer; Rahul Nagurtha, technical adviser; Praveen Kumar, business adviser; and Shiv Kumar, operations adviser. Co-founder Praneeth, a second year student of chemical science and technology at IIT Guwahati, told The Telegraph from Hyderabad on Wednesday that the idea for the app was born after a family vacation to Mahabalipuram in December last year. “During the trip, we had trouble looking for services suitable for us when we reached a new place. So, we wanted to create a platform where travellers can easily explore the best services and local cultures instantly when they travel or enter a new city or place,” 18-year-old Praneeth said. “All businesses are going through a rough patch because of the Covid-19 pandemic. So, we thought what if there is a platform that can show all the businesses and their products or services easily. A customer can then order/book products or services from these businesses in a simple way without taking a risk by going out during the pandemic. This app can be highly helpful for both travellers and normal consumers. Our entire team has worked very hard to  make this happen,” Praneeth said. Work on the Sahara app started in February and was officially launched on September 30, Praneeth said. He said they were looking for investors to scale up the app features. The app can display shops and business within a 15km radius. Sai Vara Prasad, elder brother of Praneeth, is a co-founder. “The only aim of Sahara is to provide you the best services wherever you go,” he said. Inspired by the Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat and Digital India initiatives, this “entrepreneurial endeavour is determined” to deliver “Made in India” solutions by providing the best services to the people and “encouraging” existing offline businesses to move online and have diverse opportunities. With the idea of one-stop solution for everything that people require, from food to shelter, the aim is to provide services that stand up to international quality standards at fairly low costs, the institution said in a statement. Union Education minister Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank tweeted on Monday evening about the startup, Sahara, developing a mobile application to help local businesses go online. “ ...The app will help business owners attract more customers aarts well as potential business partners. Wonderful initiative leading to #AatmaNirbharBharat!” the tweet said. The Sahara app is designed keeping in mind to “provide” a seamless experience to individuals and retailers who may not have had any prior knowledge of the application. It enables businesses to register through their mobile app in simple and easy steps which includes submission of details related to the consumer/business product, phone-based verification and their respective geolocation. Considering the operational benefits it can provide and its mission to convert every offline business to online, Sahara app is available on the Google Play store, the statement said. According to Praneeth, a Neilsen report estimates there are about 12 million local kirana stores in India with a humongous 98 per cent share of the retail grocery market pumping monetary transactions into the economy worth billions of rupees. Sadly, 98 per cent of these establishments fall in the unorganised sector because they lack access to a basic digital infrastructure secluding them from the outreach of potential customers, he added. “We have set out to reclaim this space. We will empower them (small businesses) to earn their equity in the booming digital economy. It’s a win-win game,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
13-10-2020||North East||Naga groups 'agree in principle' to aid talks||The Opposition Naga People’s Front-constituted Political Affairs Mission to help facilitate the ongoing peace talks to resolve the Naga political issue has said that the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (I-M) and the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs) have “agreed in principle” to come together and discuss across the table issues related to the peace process. The development assumes significance because the Centre is negotiating with both the groups which have differences over a couple of issues related to the ongoing talks. The NSCN (IM) had last week said it has made its stand  “very loud and clear” during the ongoing talks that there “is no way forward” without finalising on Naga flag and constitution. The NPF-PAM in a statement said their objective is to bring the NSCN (IM) and the NNPGs, made up of seven outfits,  to a common understanding as both the groups are now engaged in negotiation with the Government of India for a political solution. After withdrawing from the Joint Legislators Forum (JLF) on Naga political issue in August, the NPF constituted the PAM with the objective of  “further strengthening” the ongoing talks between the Naga Nationalist Groups and the Government of India while continuing to play the role of an active facilitator on the Naga political issue. The statement said the two sides have agreed in principle to come together and discuss across the table as proposed by the NPF-PAM in a separate meeting with both the groups. The NPF-PAM said it will also reach out to all the other groups who are yet to join the peace process once tangible progress is made in its endeavour to bring the NSCN(IM) and the NNPGs to a certain level of understanding. The recent trip of NPF-PAM members to Delhi has been quite encouraging they have been briefed by the Centre’s representatives  that the political dialogue has been put on track although there was “some hitch” for some time. “The Collective Leadership of the NSCN (IM) has also conveyed that they would definitely keep their words by way of participating in the effort of the NPF-PAM to bring the NSCN (IM) and the 7 NNPGs to sit across the table,” the statement said. NPF-PAM will figure out the date and venue very soon in consultation with both NSCN (IM) and the NNPGs. The NPF-PAM has had held a series of consultative meetings with the NSCN (IM), the NNPGs working committee, various Naga civil societies and also with authorities representing the Centre directly involved with the Naga negotiators. During the course of interaction with various civil societies, it was reconfirmed that every Naga wanted an early solution while also noting that the past Agreement and Accord had taught us “enough lesson on how ample dissension had been brought into our Society instead of uniting our people” .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
13-10-2020||North East||25 convicted in Assam doctor lynching case ||A court in Jorhat on Monday convicted 25 persons in the 2019 Dr Deben Dutta lynching case, the investigation of which “stood out” for the police’s promptness in filing a “foolproof” chargesheet in 22 days and the steps taken for “protection” of witnesses. Of the 32 accused, six were acquitted by the Jorhat District and Sessions Judge Robin Phukan. One died during the trail. Dr Dutta, 73, senior medical officer of Teok Tea Estate dispensary in upper Assam’s Jorhat district was lynched by a mob on August 31, 2019, for allegedly delaying the treatment of a worker, Somra Majhi. Dutta died on way to the Jorhat Medical College and Hospital. The mob not only bashed him up but also used sharp weapons during the assault. The lynching sparked off a huge uproar with a series of street protests and the Indian Medical Association threatening to withdraw doctors from garden hospitals if prompt action was not taken to punish the guilty. The accused (case no 434/2019) were charged under Sections 302/ 341/ 342/ 353/ 427/ 506/ 143/ 144/ 147/ 148 r/w 149/186/ 109 IPC r/w Sec. 4 of The Assam Medicare Service Persons & Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence & Damage to Property) Act, 2011. The sections deal with murder (302), wrongful confinement, 147 (rioting), 353 (use of criminal force to deter public servants on duty), 149 (unlawful assembly of people with common objective). The quantum of punishment would be pronounced on October 19 but the minimum punishment under the sections could be life term. Special public prosecutor Durga Prasad Jaiswal told The Telegraph that the case stood out for two reasons. “First was the speed at which the foolproof chargesheet was filed, 22 days to be precise. Secondly, this is also the first case in the country wherein witness identity ‘concealment’ approach was adopted. There were seven witnesses whose identity I too don’t know,” Jaiswal said. There were altogether 60 witnesses but 56 were examined during the trial. A four-member special investigation team headed by Dr Siva Prasad, DIG, Eastern Range, investigated and concluded the case in a “record” time of 21 days and filed an elaborate 602-page chargesheet on September 21, 2019, sources said, adding that the other SIT members included V.C. Nimbalkar, Prakash Sonowal and Dipankar Gogoi. Family members of the deceased were relieved and happy with the conviction of so many people because it will serve as a deterrent. The daughter of the deceased said she wanted that at least the person who “cut him” should get death sentence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
13-10-2020||North East||Concern over Assam govt's transport full-occupancy nod  ||The Assam government’s decision to allow public transporters to operate at 100 per cent capacity from Friday has not only triggered concern but also seems to be going against its own campaign to maintain social distancing norms amid the pandemic. Senior advocate Nilay Dutta tweeted his concern on Friday night: “The GoA (government of Assam) has officially abandoned social distancing norms of ‘Do Gaz ki Duri’ in public transport in Gauhati city. Is @PMOIndia aware of this decision of GoA to allow 100 per cent capacity in city bus transport. Does @himantabiswa and the Health Department agree to this move.” Dutta added, “...Transport Department decision to allow 100% capacity in public transport is fraught with dangerous possibilities. All good work may be set at naught with this crucial decision.” There are many who share Dutta’s concern as coronavirus cases continue to rise in the state. Altogether 192,416 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Assam since March. Till Friday, there were 29,710 active cases and 802 deaths. Most here feel a significant section of the population were “anyway not adhering” to the preventive measures to check the spread but the government’s decision will make matters worse. A response to Dutta’s tweet reflected the concern, “If you are connected with the citizens… you would have found that almost all buses are running with more than 100 percent capacity.” Like Dutta, they too referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to the masses in his speeches and tweets to adhere to social distancing by maintaining do gaj ki doori (a distance of two yards), wearing masks and practising personal hygiene to defeat the coronavirus. Modi had made the pitch in his Mann Ki Baat talk on August 30 and during the launch of the nationwide mass awareness drive against coronavirus on Thursday. A recent Modi tweet said, “Let us #Unite2FightCorona! Let us always remember: Wear a mask. Wash hands. Follow social distancing. Practice ‘Do Gaj Ki Doori’. Together, we will succeed. Together, we will win against Covid-19.” He had earlier praised villagefolk for practising do gaj ki doori, which most believe is an important step in the fight against the pandemic. The state also fears that there could a major spike after the Durga Puja festivities. The decision to allow 100 per cent occupancy is also being seen as a move by Dispur to “shift the responsibility of staying alert and safe” to the public following the rising demand to restore economic activities affected because of the pandemic since March. A senior member of the Indian Medical Association told The Telegraph that the decision to open up businesses was along expected lines. “The government is gradually shifting the responsibility of staying alert and safe to the public. With businesses opening up, the onus of staying safe is on the public. One has to be extra careful till we get a vaccine and seek medical help if they display any symptoms. If things go wrong, the government will again revert to the lockdown,” he said. A National Health Mission official said the government is opening up businesses but it has “not” said one has to travel by public transport or enjoy a film in a cinema hall. “That is a personal choice but the government has to unlock businesses to keep the economy running. We have to live with Covid by maintaining all safety protocols. We need to decide where to go and how to go and what to avoid. Today or tomorrow, we will have to open up. The public has to understand that and behave accordingly, ” he said. The government decision was triggered by the All Assam Motor Transport Association indefinite chakka bandh from October 5, seeking a 100 per cent fare hike and lowering of road tax by 50 per cent if they have to run with 50 per cent seat capacity, among other demands. They government did not agree to the hike on account of approaching elections but allowed 100 per cent seat occupancy by adhering to other safety protocols like wearing masks and ensuring proper sanitisation. Assam goes to polls in April-May next year. Association member Pradip Das said they lifted the strike once they were allowed to run at full capacity. “We are adhering to Covid protocols and are also keeping a watch on our drivers so they don’t pick more passengers than the seating capacity,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-41
