22-10-2020||North East||Assam Rifles jawan killed in Arunachal militant encounter||An Assam Rifles jawan was killed in an encounter with militants in Tirap district of Arunachal Pradesh on Wednesday morning. An army statement issued in the evening said the soldier was killed in an encounter with a group of insurgents. “Based on specific input, the security forces had launched a joint operation with police to aggressively dominate, locate and neutralize the insurgent group reported to be present. During the operation, a contact was established with the insurgents in the early hours. In the ensuing firefight, a soldier sustained grievous injuries and made supreme sacrifice fighting the insurgents. The operation is under progress and security forces are committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity in the area,” the statement said, without naming the insurgent group. The police was also a part of the joint operation. The attack on the 6 Assam Rifles patrolling team took place around 8am near Sanliam village on Khonsa Lazu Road of Tirap district, which shares border with Myanmar, police sources said. “The name of the deceased jawan is Babu Rao. The patrolling team were on foot when the attack took place according to our information. Sanliam is around 25km from the district headquarters Khonsa,” one of them said. So far no organisation has claimed responsibility for Wednesday’s attack. This is the second attack carried out against the paramilitary force this month. On October 4, a warrant officer of 19 Assam Rifles was killed and another injured in an ambush carried out jointly by the NSCN (Khaplang), Ulfa (Independent) and Peoples Liberation Army (PLA), the armed wing of the Revolutionary Peoples Front (RPF), in Changlang district. Tirap, Longding and Changlang, which border Myanmar, are districts where the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act is in force. Tirap falls between Changlang and Longding districts. Assam Rifles personnel guard the 1,643km Indo-Myanmar border. Four northeastern states — Arunachal Pradesh (520km), Nagaland (215km), Mizoram (510km) and Manipur (398km) — share border with Myanmar from where several insurgent outfits from the region operate. Rebels have been targeting Assam Rifles in both Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur, more so after six militants of the NSCN (Isak-Muivah) were killed during an encounter with the force in Longding district. On July 29, three jawans of 4 Assam Rifles were killed and six injured in an ambush “carried” out by cadres of the RPF, Ulfa and Manipur Naga People’s Front (MNPF) in Chandel district of neighbouring Manipur after the troopers were returning to their base following an area domination patrol. On October 16, NSCN (I-M) had flayed the Assam Rifles for their “total disregard of the agreed ceasefire ground rules”. It had cited three incidents that took place this month where the outfit’s members were assaulted/arrested, including the “unwarranted arrest” by the 19 Assam Rifles on October 14 at Jairampur, Changlang district, “without any provocation except for being a member of NSCN”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-40
22-10-2020||North East||Logistics park to come up in Assam||The country’s first multi-modal logistics park coming up at Jogighopa in lower Assam’s Bongaigaon district will provide employment to 20 lakh people, Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari has said. The park, whose foundation stone was laid by Gadkari through videoconference on Tuesday afternoon, is the first among 35 such projects identified for implementation across the country and the only one that will be funded completely by the Centre. These parks are a key policy initiative of the Centre to improve the logistics sector by lowering overall freight and warehousing costs, besides checking vehicular pollution and congestion. A state of the art facility, the Rs 1,171 crore Jogighopa park will provide direct air, road, rail and waterways connectivity, envisioned to drive economic growth and trade competitiveness through a truly integrated, seamless, efficient, reliable and cost-effective logistics network to facilitate domestic and export-import trade in the region. The park is being developed by the National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation (NHIDCL), a fully owned company of the ministry of road transport and highways, on 317 acres of land along the Brahmaputra. Gadkari said the project would generate direct and indirect employment for around 20 lakh people. The multi-modal logistics park, to be completed in two phases within 2023, will have facilities like warehouse, railway siding, cold storage, custom clearance house, yard facility, workshops, petrol pumps, truck parking, administrative building, boarding and lodging, eating joints and water treatment plant, among others. Explaining the importance of such a facility, an official said logistics is the backbone of any economy. “Assam has tea, spices, vegetables, coal, hydro-carbon products, etc. It is with connectivity and logistics that we can reach the world with these products. “The logistics park will provide the requisite support for growth of our industry and business. Lack of a proper logistics facility has hindered the growth of export and import of products from Assam over the years. The facility will change this,” the official said. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed for the project between the NHIDCL, Ashoka Paper Mills and the Assam government on Tuesday. The state government has transferred 200 acres belonging to the paper mill which closed down in March 1983. Appreciating the role of chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal for realisation of the project, Gadkari urged him to review its implementation every month for maintaining quality and timely completion. Gadkari said his ministry also has plans for national highway projects worth Rs 80,000 crore in Assam. “Work (on the logistics park) will begin next month. The 154km distance between Jogighopa and Guwahati will be covered by making a four-lane road on this stretch, while a 3km rail line will connect Jogighopa station to the park and another 3km rail link will connect it to the inland water transport. “The road to the newly developed Rupsi airport will be upgraded to four lanes for easier connectivity,” Gadkari said. Project work worth Rs 280 crore has already been awarded, including Rs 171 crore for road construction, Rs 87 crore for erecting the structure and Rs 23 crore for rail lines. DoNER minister Jitendra Singh highlighted the efforts of Gadkari in clearing developmental projects in the Northeast. He said the logistics park is a novel idea and will be replicated by other states soon. Thanking the Centre for the project, Sonowal said the people of lower Assam always felt neglected as during all these years after Independence no significant industrial development took place in the region. However, with the MMLP coming up, people of the region will be filled with new hope, he said. Sonowal said the park would revive trade links of the erstwhile river port of Dhubri by connecting it to Chittagong port in Bangladesh and significantly boost domestic and international trade. It will offer a golden opportunity for the economic development of the people of lower Assam, the chief minister added. State industries and commerce minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said Jogighopa will be a “game changer” for Assam’s economy. Patowary appealed to Gadkari to sanction a similar logistics park at Silchar to uniformly develop both the Barak and Brahmaputra valleys. Gadkari, on his part, urged Dispur to set up an industrial park at or near the Jogighopa facility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-40
22-10-2020||North East||Kaziranga National Park reopens for tourist season||The Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve in Assam was thrown open to domestic and international tourists on Wednesday. However, visitors below 10 years or above 65 years are not allowed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Kaziranga is the second park to reopen in the state after the Manas National Park on October 2, two of the most sought-after places by tourists visiting Assam. There are five national parks in the state. Orang National Park and Tiger Reserve will reopen on November 1. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal formally reopened Kaziranga, famed for its rhinos, for tourists, hoping the move would help revive Assam’s tourism sector hit hard by the coronavirus-induced lockdown. This has been the longest shutdown for Kaziranga since the lockdown in March, a huge financial loss for the facility and locals, many of whom are dependent on the park for their livelihood. According to a senior forest department official, the annual Kaziranga revenue is around Rs 6 crore, raised through entry fees, safari fees and tariffs for accommodation in forest guesthouses. But the park has taken a huge financial hit, first because of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests in December last year followed by the lockdown. The park usually remains closed between June and September because of the annual floods and reopens in November. This year Kaziranga witnessed one of its worst floods since 1988. The park authorities are hoping the advance reopening will help them encash on the Durga Puja holidays. Visitors will, however, have to adhere to strict regulations to check the spread of Covid-19, which has infected over 2 lakh people and led to 850 deaths in Assam since March 31. Even the jeep safari will run at half capacity while the elephant safari will start from November 1, an official said. Referring to the one-time financial assistance provided to those engaged in jeep safari to alleviate their economic stress, Sonowal said the state government would take more such initiatives in future for providing succour to the people engaged in the tourism sector. He also called on the people of the five districts covered by Kaziranga and those residing in the surrounding areas of the park to extend full hospitality to the visitors so that the “best picture of the state could be presented to the world”. Urging everyone to follow Covid protocols, Sonowal also urged the media to spread the good news about Kaziranga’s reopening so that tourists from across the country and abroad can come and enjoy the natural beauty of the park and contribute to the revival of the state’s tourism industry. In 2018-19, over 47,10,971 domestic tourists and 25,739 foreign tourists visited the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-40
22-10-2020||North East||Mizoram agrees to withdraw forces from Assam after border flare-up||Mizoram decided to pull out its forces from Assam’s territory following the intervention of Satyendra Garg, joint secretary (Northeast) in the home affairs ministry, at a meeting with officials of both the states in Silchar on Wednesday evening to restore normalcy along the border. Silchar is in Cachar district of Assam. This is the second time since Monday that the MHA has intervened. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla had on Monday held a videoconference with the chief secretaries of Assam and Mizoram — Kumar Sanjay Krishna and Lalnunmawia Chuaungo — and directed both the states to “quickly calm down” the situation along the border. The Assam government in a statement on Wednesday evening evening said Mizoram home secretary Pi Lalbiaksangi announced the decision to withdraw forces after meeting Garg, who said the Centre and the two states had fruitful discussions and resolved to settle all “issues amicably across the negotiation table”. In the morning, The tripartite meeting held with Garg followed a bipartite meeting in the morning a meeting was held between Lalbiaksangi and her Assam counterpart G.D. Tripathi to restore peace and normalcy in the disturbed border areas resume the movement of stranded trucks carrying essential commodities stranded on the Assam side of the border. to Mizoram border following the flare-up on Saturday night in Lailapur in Cachar district, the Assam government said. At least 20 deserted huts and stalls were set on fire along the NH-306 allegedly by a crowd from Variengte in Mizoram’s Kolasib district in response to a clash involving people from Lailapur earlier in the day in the area. The people from Lailapur had allegedly pelted stones at an auto stand in the Vairengte area over border-related issues. At least seven people were hurt. Variengte check gate is the officially recognised border between the two states. The arson took place about 3km inside the Assam territory, officials from Assam claimed, triggering tension in the area and disrupting movement of trucks to Mizoram. The meeting between the two senior home department officials was held at an army camp close to Lailapur on Wednesday morning. Lailapur is about 45km from Silchar, which is 330km from Guwahati. As part of confidence-building measures, both sides would have interaction and coordination once in a month at the level of deputy commissioners, SPs and DFOs to hammer out any issues. During the meeting at Lailapur, Tripathi, commissioner & secretary (home & border), had asked his Mizoram counterpart to withdraw forces from Assam’s territory at the earliest and to maintain status quo because the presence of Mizoram policemen have triggered “a fear psychosis in the minds of truckers, the government statement said. Lalbiaksangi said she would communicate the request to the higher authorities while urging Tripathi to first ensure the movement of stranded trucks as soon as possible. It was also decided in the meeting that both the states would provide security to the people living on both sides of the border. Apart from seeking the withdrawal of forces, Tripathi also asked his counterpart to book the miscreants involved in the arson on the Assam side of the border on Saturday night and ensure there was no encroachment of reserved forest areas. Tripathi, on his part, assured that the Assam government and the Cachar district administration would persuade the truckers to resume movement so that people in Mizoram did not face hardship. “We are for people-to-people contact and keeping every mode of communication open so that the camaraderie and bonhomie that exist between the people of the neighbouring states prevail,” he said. A statement from Mizoram government said the home secretary-level meeting in the morning dwelt on four major issues and both of them agreed that no steps would be taken in the disputed areas without mutual consultations, consent and agreements of both governments. The meeting had also agreed that withdrawal of police forces would be taken up once vehicular traffic and the current situation return back to normal. On Tripathi’s suggestion to withdraw police forces from the area, Lalbiaksangi had said they would remain deployed for the safety of Mizoram residents till the situation returned to normal. She pointed out there were no reports at all of any incident targeting non-Mizo drivers within Mizoram. In fact, drivers stranded due to the blockade were helped by the Young Mizo Association, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-40
