26-10-2020||North East||Guwahati colour identity plea||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Thursday suggested creation of a distinct colour identity for Guwahati so that it could leave a lasting impression on visitors and tourists who come calling to the city. “I have a request. Here Himanta Biswa Sarma will have to help. I want that colour combination for houses in Guwahati should be developed so that tourists who come from within and outside India take back beautiful, lasting memories of the city for its distinct identity. Have asked them (officials and ministers) to study and develop a colour combination with help of the people,” Sonowal said at a function to inaugurate the extension of the Ganeshguri flyover here on Thursday. The chief minister then referred to some cities across the world which are known for their unique building styles or uniform colours something which is their USP to attract tourists. “It feels good when you visit these cities, for the colour, the uniformity. Guwahati with its hills, forests, rivers and water bodies is nature’s gift; something we don’t appreciate much. We should all pledge to protect the city and turn it into one of Southeast Asia’s beautiful cities. Through its uniform colourful look we can convey to the world that we are one, have the same mentality, believing in peaceful coexistence. It will give the city a distinct identity,” the chief minister said. Sonowal urged PWD minister Sarma and Guwahati development department minister Siddhartha Bhattacharya to deliberate on the suggestion so that a consensus on the colour combination could be developed in the coming days with the support of the city’s residents. The Sonowal-led government has stepped up development activities in the run up to next year’s Assembly polls. During meetings on Thursday, all the ministers harped on development and developmental projects. Santanu Bharali, legal adviser to the chief minister, said the colour or colours for the city will be decided after thorough discussions within the government and ideas and reports submitted by the public and NGOs as “soon” as possible. He then referred to a couple of Hindi films shot in exotic and unique locations, especially Santorini island in Greece where Salman Khan’s Wanted (2009) and Hrithik Roshan’s Bang Bang (2014) were shot. “Santorini is all white; exuding peace. There is also a place in South Africa, a slum actually which was turned into an attractive tourist destination by an NGO which got it coloured. Guwahati’s potential has to be tapped, something our government has been trying. A decision will be taken after a thorough discussion but it will be taken soon,” said Bharali, who hails from Guwahati just like Sarma and Bhattacharya. Sonowal hails from Dibrugarh in Upper Assam. There have been attempts in the past to paint the city’s riverfront. One was initiated last year for the Japan Prime Minister’s visit which had to be cancelled because of the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. The colour was light yellow, a trader from the locality said.Guwahati was one of the dirtiest cities in the country, according to the Swachh Survekshan 2020, the results of which were announced in August. It was ranked 356 out of the 382 cities in the category having a population of 1 to 10 lakh.At the function, Sonowal said the completion of the Ganeshguri flyover extension is an example of “good governance, quality governance”. The extension was completed in 19 months though the deadline was three years. Built at a cost of Rs 58.74 crore, the 425.50m flyover will ease traffic congestion in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-39
26-10-2020||North East||Naga groups to seek ‘advice’ on peace talks||Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), which are in talks with the Centre apart from the NSCN (Isak-Muivah) to resolve the Naga political problem, will be holding a meeting with apex tribal bodies at Dimapur in Nagaland on October 29. The proposed meeting to seek the “valuable advice” of the tribal bodies on issues related to the Naga peace process comes in wake of the groups’ meeting on Thursday with R.N. Ravi, the Centre’s interlocutor for the Naga talks, on the draft agreement signed with the NNPGs. The Centre and the NNPGs began their talks in 2017 and even signed a draft agreement that year before concluding their talks on October 31, 2019. Efforts at reconciliation and securing an early solution have intensified in recent months. The consultative meeting called by the Nagaland government in Kohima on October 15 also “appealed” to the negotiating groups to come together under a spirit of oneness, mutual trust and understanding with sincerity and commitment towards “achieving one solution for one people as early as possible”. The meeting came amid reports about the peace process, which started with the ceasefire with NSCN (I-M) in 1997, getting stuck. The differences between the negotiating groups was also an area of concern. NSCN (I-M) chairman Q. Tuccu has said the road to the final deal had become “ticklish” as the sensitive issue of “Naga Flag and Yehzabo (Naga constitution)” remains a “sticking point”. Though unity and early solution was the recurring theme of the October 15 meeting, the Opposition Congress, the Naga People’s Front and the Janata Dal United stayed away. “The meeting was not up to expectations,” Naga Hoho president H.K. Zhimomi told The Telegraph. More than 200 representatives attended the consultative meeting of tribal hohos, mass organisations, civil societies, church organisations, political parties, NGOs and prominent individuals, the government said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-39
