30-10-2020||North East||Arunachal Internet bar to curb cheating||The Arunachal Pr­a­desh government will temporarily suspend Internet ser­vices in 15 out of its 25 districts to “check” any possible online malpractices during the state civil services exam on Sunday. The Arunachal Pradesh Pu­blic Service Combined Co­mpetitive (Prelims) examination is conducted by the Aru­nachal Pradesh Public Service Commission. Those who clear the exam are appointed to the most coveted posts in the state civil services, including deputy superintendents of police and circle officers. Commission chairman Ni­po Nabam told The Telegra­ph that they requested the st­a­te government this month to bl­ock Internet services in the 17 examination centres under the 15 districts to rule out the use of unfair means during the exam. There will be two papers of three hours duration on Sunday, from 9am to noon and from 1pm to 4pm. “Nowadays technology has become so advanced that frisking alone cannot detect the sophisticated gadgets that are in the market. These may be used to scan the question papers and send it online to experts who may revert with answers. To check the use of unfair means, were requested the home department to block the Internet services during the duration of the exam on Sunday since we don’t have resources to install jammers,” Nabam said. The home department has on the commission’s request an­nounced temporary suspe­nsion of Internet from 8am to noon and from noon to 4pm on Sunday to check transmissi­on/sharing of exam-related information through telecom services. The districts where Internet services will be suspended on Sunday are Lower Subansiri, Upper Subansiri, Lower Dibang Valley, Lohit, Tirap, Changlang, Itanagar Capital Region, Papum Pare, Tawang, East Kameng, West Kameng, East Siang, West Siang, Leparada and Upper Siang. All the 15 deputy commissioners have been asked to coordinate with the telecom ser­vi­ce providers and implement the order, sources said. They said this may soon become the norm in other states too to ch­e­ck exam-related malpractices. This is the second time si­nce 2017 that Internet services will be suspended in the state. The commission had on Thursday briefed the governor on the preparations for Sunday’s examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-39
30-10-2020||North East||Police hunt for coaching institute owner and IT employee next in JEE scam||After arresting the topper of the JEE (Mains) examination in Assam and his doctor father for allegedly using an impersonator to write the test, the state police is looking for an owner of a coaching institute and an employee of a leading IT company in connection with the fraud in the country's prestigious engineering entrance exam. Five persons have been arrested in the case so far and taken into police custody for five days, a senior officer said on Friday. "The police are searching for an owner of a city-based coaching institute and an employee of a leading IT company," Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (West), Guwahati Suprotive Lal Baruah told PTI. Many people are suspected to be involved in the malpractice and the investigation is on to unearth the racket, another senior police officer said. The state police approached the National Testing Agency, which has conducted the examination across the country, and sought information related to the JEE (Mains) exam to help them in their investigations. The NTA had outsourced the infrastructural and human resources support to an IT company for conducting the examination, the police officer said. Baruah is heading a special investigating team, set up to probe the scam, which came to light on Wednesday after an audio recording of the candidate's purported telephonic conversation with one of his friends went viral on social media. The candidate admitted the fraud to a friend during a phone call which was recorded, police said. The examination was held on September 5. An FIR was filed by a person, identified as Mitradev Sharma, on October 23 in Azara police station here, alleging that the candidate, who scored 99.8 per cent in the JEE (Mains), had used an impersonator to appear for the test on his behalf. Sharma alleged that on the day of the examination, the candidate entered the specified centre at Borjhar area, but came out after completing the biometric attendance with the help of an invigilator and another person wrote the exam. The complainant also alleged that the parents of the candidate had paid Rs 15-20 lakh to the private coaching institute in Guwahati to help him in the examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-39
