17-05-2021||Srinagar||Two terrorists killed in Srinagar encounter affiliated to Al-Badr terror outfit: IGP Vijay Kumar||Two terrorists, who were eliminated in the encounter were affiliated to the Al-Badr terror outfit, said Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Kashmir Vijay Kumar on Monday.“Two terrorists killed in the encounter were from Al-Badr terror outfit”, Kumar told ANI.Earlier in the day, the police said that two unidentified terrorists have been neutralised in an encounter at Khanmoh area of Srinagar.“#SrinagarEncounterUpdate: 01 more unidentified #terrorist killed (toll 02). Search going on. Further details shall follow,” Kashmir Zone Police said in a tweet.The encounter broke out between terrorists and security forces in the early morning hours today.Earlier on Sunday, an improvised explosive device (IED) was detected and neutralised between Sugan and Turkhwangam by alert security forces in the Shopian district.Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Kashmir Vijay Kumar said that the security establishment already had input regarding the planting of IED in the Turkawangam area of Shopian. —ANI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/two-terrorists-killed-in-srinagar-encounter-affiliated-to-al-badr-terror-outfit-igp-vijay-kumar-254121
17-05-2021||Srinagar||Deceased separatist leader’s sons detained||The police have detained two sons of separatist leader Mohammad Ashraf Sehrai, who died earlier this month at a hospital while in custody, officials said on Sunday.They were detained from their residence in Barzulla area of the city late on Saturday evening in connection with a case registered in Kupwara district on May 6 after pro-separatism slogans were raised at the separatist leader’s funeral, officials said.Sehrai, the then Tehreek-e-Hurriyat (TeH) chairman, died at a hospital in Jammu on May 5. The ailing leader was shifted there from Udhampur jail where he was under the PSA detention. Sehrai’s other son – Junaid – was a militant. He was killed in an encounter with security forces here in May last year.People's Conference Chairman Sajad Lone has hit out at the police for the arrests. The police said have appealed to the people to not pay any heed to the rumours. — AgenciesNothing to do with PSA, say police||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/deceased-separatist-leaders-sons-detained-253937
17-05-2021||Srinagar||Detained for anti-Israel protest, 17 released||The police on Sunday released 17 youths, including an artist, a day after they were detained for holding an anti-Israel protest here during the Covid lockdown.Artist Mudasir Gul, who had painted pro-Palestine graffiti, was among 20 people detained by the police on Saturday in the city's Padshahi Bagh area. “Seventeen boys were handed over to families after counselling. They violated Section 51 of the DM Act by participating in protests during the lockdown,” a police official said.The official said that engaging the families is important for preventing youngsters from going astray. Gul, 32, had drawn the face of a weeping woman whose head was draped in a Palestinian flag.The words 'We are Palestine' were written in bold, white letters. “He was released on Sunday evening and has reached his home,” Gul's elder brother Sami-ullah Rather said.Gul's mother said a few local youths came to their home and asked him to draw a mural. She said his son refused to draw the mural at first, but was convinced by the youths that it was a protest to express solidarity with the people of Palestine only and there would not be anything against India.On Saturday, police detained Mudasir Gul and made him deface the graffiti before taking him away. “We are happy he has been released,” he said. The arrest of the youths had drawn a sharp reaction from PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti and the moderate Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq. — PTIPDP questions arrest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/detained-for-anti-israel-protest-17-released-253935
17-05-2021||New Delhi||Pak drone seen along border: BSF||The Border Security Force (BSF) today said a suspected Pakistani drone was seen hovering near the International Border (IB) in Kanachak sector of J&K, which prompted its personnel to conduct a search operation to ascertain if the aerial device had dropped anything. Nothing suspicious was found.Incidentally, it occurs two days after a Pakistani drone dropped an AK-47 rifle, a pistol and some ammunition along the IB in the Samba district. The drone was seen in Kanachak sector here late on Saturday night. Some residents saw a streak of yellow light in the sky for quite some time before it vanished in the darkness, officials said.A search, which began at 5.30 am on Sunday, was carried out by joint teams of the Army, the BSF and the police in a vast area between Panch Talli and Laliyal, about 1,500 metres from the IB.Security forces along the border have been asked to be on high alert to scuttle any attempt by Pakistan to push in terrorists, weapons or narcotics, a senior official said. On June 20 last year, the BSF had shot down a Pakistani hexacopter drone with a payload of 5.5 kg in Kathua district, leading to the recovery of sophisticated arms. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/pak-drone-seen-along-border-bsf-253934
17-05-2021||Jammu||Special  drive for nomadic tribes sought||The Tribal Research and Cultural Foundation (TRCF) on Sunday demanded a special mobile vaccination drive for nomadic Gujjars, Bakarwals, Gaddis and Sippis to safeguard them against the Covid pandemic.TRCF founder Javaid Rahi stressed the need for generating awareness among the nomadic population living in 'dhoks' (mud-houses), pastures and forests about the dreaded disease. “The government should immediately start a special mobile vaccination programme for nomadic Gujjars, Bakarwals, Gaddis and Sippis,” Rahi said at a virtual meeting of the community members here.In some rural areas, he said, tribals were showing hesitancy to get vaccinated against Covid. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/special-drive-for-nomadic-tribes-sought-253933
17-05-2021||New Delhi||Students being deployed at GMC, Jammu: Minister||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Sunday said medical and nursing students are being deployed for ward duty at the Government Medical College (GMC) Hospital in Jammu, which would reinforce patient care and build confidence among relatives of patients.At a meeting to review Covid care facilities at the hospital, he said relatives and attendants of the patients would be given identity card for their convenience. "Similarly, following the decision in the earlier meeting, medical and nursing students are being deployed for ward work, which will reinforce the patient care and also build confidence among the patients' relatives,” said Singh, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).An MP from the Udhampur constituency, Jitendra was informed during the meeting that Chopra Nursing Home, affiliated to the GMC, would start functioning with 100 bed capacity to begin with. At the same time, it will be ensured that the senior consultants take regular rounds of the wards and are available as and when required, he was informed.An exercise has been initiated to audit oxygen and ventilators also, the minister said. "The ventilators issued through PM CARES fund are to be utilised optimally and in case any ventilator is not functioning, it will be identified on real time basis and rectified,” he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/students-being-deployed-at-gmc-jammu-minister-253932
17-05-2021||Srinagar||4,141 fresh Covid cases, 59 deaths in J&K||J&K on Sunday recorded 4,141 fresh Covid cases, raising the tally to 2,44,608, while 59 more deaths pushed the fatality count to 3,149. Of the fresh cases, 1,690 were reported from Jammu division and 2,451 from Kashmir division, officials said.Srinagar district recorded the highest of 831 cases, followed by 625 in Jammu district and 320 in Budgam district.The active cases are 51,623 in the UT, while 1,89,836 patients have recovered so far. The death toll rose to 3,149 with 59 fresh deaths in the past 24 hours.Meanwhile, amid reports of shortage of vaccines in Kashmir, no jab was administered across the 10 districts in the Valley on Sunday.Ladakh's Covid tally mounted to 16,333 with 177 fresh cases while the death toll climbed to 165 as two more people succumbed to the viral disease. Of the latest deaths, one each was reported from Leh and Kargil districts, officials said.So far, Leh has reported 119 deaths and Kargil 46. — PTI177 new cases, 2 deaths in LadakhLeh: Ladakh’s Covid tally mounted to 16,333 with 177 fresh cases while the death toll climbed to 165 as two more people succumbed, officials said. So far, Leh has reported 119 deaths and Kargil 46. Leh reported 174 of the fresh cases and Kargil three, officials said. The active cases are 1,549. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/4-141-fresh-covid-cases-59-deaths-in-jk-253929
17-05-2021||Jammu||Fully prepared to tackle virus: J&K L-G||The administration is fully prepared in the fight against Covid, Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha said on Sunday, as he lauded the efforts of frontline and healthcare workers in helping to combat the pandemic.Sinha was speaking during ‘Awaam ki Awaaz’, a radio programme aimed at making the process of governance more participatory and people-centric by giving a platform to the public to share their suggestions and views.More oxygen plantsFourteen oxygen plants will be added by the end of this month and additional 34 oxygen generation plants will be installed within six months. — Manoj Sinha, Lieutenant GovernorThe Lieutenant Governor dedicated the second run of the radio programme to Covid warriors and expressed his gratitude towards them for putting their lives at risk for the service of the people. While sharing suggestions received to strengthen the infrastructure, Sinha said the UT administration was fully prepared in the fight against the pandemic.In the next six months, the L-G said, J&K would have a total of 99 oxygen plants in the medical facilities to serve the general public. “We are still in a better position than many developed countries when it comes to health infrastructure. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a need to improve primary health centres right now,” the Lieutenant Governor added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/fully-prepared-to-tackle-virus-jk-l-g-253927
17-05-2021||Leh||After J&K, Ladakh extends Covid lockdown till May 24||The lockdown imposed in Ladakh to contain the Covid spread has been extended by another week till May 24, a day after J&K made a similar announcement.The extension of the lockdown, which was scheduled to end on May 17, was ordered by the district magistrates of Leh and Kargil in separate orders, officials said.As of Sunday, Ladakh’s Covid tally stands at 16,333 and the death toll is 165.In his order, Leh District Magistrate Shrikant Balasaheb Suse said the extension of restrictions, which are already in place, was meant to avoid the further spread of the infection.“… restrictions imposed on all kind of movements/activities across Leh district shall be extended from May 17 (5 am) and shall remain in force till May 24 (7 am),” he statedAll shops selling groceries, vegetable and fruit, chicken, milk, dairy products, automobile spare parts, confectionery items and tyre repair shops would be allowed to open from 7 am to 2 pm. The supply and distribution of essential commodities by wholesale distributors would be allowed between 5 am and 9 am and their movement will be allowed on the production of a valid trade license or registration certificate, the order stated.All government employees, staff of public sector undertakings, autonomous bodies, universities and other such offices would be allowed to commute to and from their workplace on the production of a valid identity card and duty roster issued by the concerned heads of departments.The order stated that developmental activities and construction work would be allowed only when the labourers are present at the site and adequate facilities for their stay are available at the worksite. Similarly, agricultural activities would be allowed with strict observance of standard operating procedure, it said.In a separate order, Kargil District Magistrate Santosh Sukhadeve said a detailed review of the current Covid situation was conducted by the District Disaster Management Authority. The administration is of the view that stringent containment measures are required at a macro level in order to restrict the movement and intermingling of people. The restrictions would be extended till 7 am on May 24 and there would be no curbs on activities that are already allowed, he said. — PTISchool head, deputy booked for virus-related death||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/after-jk-ladakh-extends-covid-lockdown-till-may-24-253913
