23-05-2021||Srinagar||J-K: Narco-terror module busted in Kupwara, heroin worth Rs 50 crore seized||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Sunday busted a Pakistan-sponsored narco-terror module in Kupwara district and seized heroin worth Rs 50 crore, an official said.During the operation, a militant associate identified as Mujasir Ahmad Lone, a resident of Karen Bala area of the north Kashmir district, was arrested, a police official said.He said incriminating material and eight kgs of heroin worth Rs 50 crore were seized.The other accused have also been identified and efforts are on to arrest them, the official said.“The module was in close connection with Pakistan-based terrorist handlers and was involved in drug trade and financially assisting active terrorists in the Valley. The recoveries also exposed the inter-connection between drug dealers and terrorists,” he said.He said the module was working for militants to strengthen their activities in the Kashmir Valley and was “misguiding and motivating the local youth of the Valley to join militant ranks”.A case has been registered and investigation has been taken up, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/j-k-narco-terror-module-busted-in-kupwara-heroin-worth-rs-50-crore-seized-257322
23-05-2021||Jammu||Army helps douse major forest fire near LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||The Indian Army on Sunday doused a major fire near the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, preventing damage to seasonal crops in two villages, officials said.The fire in Lam forest in Nowshera sector started around 12.30 am and took the army and the locals several hours to put it off, the officials said."The Indian Army at Lam undauntingly, regardless of personal safety went over the steep hillocks by midnight around 0030 hrs and helped douse the forest fire spread preventing damage to seasonal crops of residents of Kallar nd Gunni villages," Army's Jammu-based White Knight Corps said in a tweet.The officials said the fire spread fast, threatening the standing wheat crops, but timely intervention by the Army averted a major tragedy.A defence spokesman said the army, in a separate case, extinguished a house fire and also provided relief to the affected family in Mangat area of Ramban district."At midnight of May 22, a major fire broke out in the house of Mohammad Yusuf Wani at Mangat. Army personnel from Mohubal immediately rushed for assistance and doused the fire using their fire extinguishers," the spokesman said.He said the quick response by the Army and locals could control the fire and its spread to neighbouring houses after five hours of efforts."Army personnel entered the house and successfully retrieved important household items as well. The upper floor of the house was completely damaged, however, the lower floor was saved due to the joint efforts," he said.The spokesman said no one was injured in the incident.Later, the Army also provided relief material to the house owner and his family, the spokesman said, adding the village is remotely located, where such incidents are mostly handled by joint efforts. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/army-helps-douse-major-forest-fire-near-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-257241
23-05-2021||Udhampur||Faced no complications after vaccination, says 120-year-old Kashmir woman||Dholi Devi, a centenarian in Dudu village of Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur district who got herself vaccinated against COVID-19 on Saturday said that she has felt no complications after getting her vaccine jab.Devi, a resident of village Katiyas of Sub Division Dudu, said, “Taking the vaccine is safe, I feel good. If I can get vaccinated, then why not everybody?”She also added that vaccines were the only way out of the pandemic and stressed on wearing masks and staying at home besides following other Covid SOPs issued by the Government.#LtGenYKJoshi, #ArmyCdrNC felicitated 120 Year old Smt Dholi Devi of remote village Dudu #Udhampur. A living legend & inspiration for villagers to undergo #CovidVaccine inoculation. #ArmyCdr appreciates frontline workers for undertaking #COVIDVaccination drive to remotest areas. pic.twitter.com/MHcUzFsM8k  Pardeep Kumar, great-grandson of Dholi Devi said, “Grandmother said that there was no adverse effect after the vaccination. She feels very good".“Everybody should get vaccinated. If a 120-year-old woman did not face any complications after getting the vaccine, there is no reason for any unfounded fear,” he added.Northern Army Commander Lieutenant General Yogesh Kumar Joshi on Friday felicitated her for becoming an inspiration for people at her village to do the same.Northern Command, Indian Army taking to Twitter said,” Lt Gen YK Joshi, ArmyCdr NC felicitate 120-year-old Dholi Devi of remote village Dudu Udhampur. A living legend and inspiration for villagers to undergo Covid Vaccine inoculation. Army Cdr appreciates frontline workers for undertaking COVID Vaccination drive to remotest areas.” (ANI)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/faced-no-complications-after-vaccination-says-120-year-old-kashmir-woman-257236
23-05-2021||Srinagar||Strawberry farmers in Kashmir losing out due to lockdown||There has been a bumper strawberry crop in Kashmir this year; farmers are busy in their fields harvesting their produce and packing it in small boxes but the growers are incurring losses despite the bumper crop due to the lockdown following the coronavirus pandemic.Shabir Ahmad, a farmer at Gassu village in Srinagar which is famous for its strawberry cultivation, said tourists were major buyers of the fruit in Kashmir. But with tourist inflow dropping drastically during the lockdown, buyers are hard to come by."Tourists were major buyers of strawberries in Kashmir but with the surge in Covid cases there has been a sharp decline in the tourist inflow, which has severely impacted the strawberry farmers of Kashmir," Ahmad said.Strawberries have emerged as an important cash crop in Kashmir. Over the years many vegetable farmers have switched to strawberry cultivation. But back to back lockdowns in Kashmir during the last two years have acted as a major dampener, bringing down the profits.Even as the vendors are closed during the lockdown, the administration's decision to allow the movement of produce in fruit mandis has raised the hopes of farmers to make up for the losses."Strawberries have a very short lifespan of just a couple of days. We are thankful to the administration for permitting us to move our produce to the mandi. We hope to get good returns hereon," Ahmad said.Kashmir produces 2,000 to 2,500 metric tonnes of strawberries each year. The cool weather makes it suitable for strawberry cultivation. Harvesting started a month late in May this year due to frequent rains. After harvesting the fruit needs to be quickly transported for consumption due to its perishable nature and extremely short shelf life."Lot of people associated with strawberry cultivation are now feeling disappointed," said a strawberry farmer."We are not getting good returns for our produce even after putting in a lot of hard work." Director Horticulture, Kashmir, Aejaz Ahmad Bhat told IANS that the department knows about the problems being faced by strawberry growers.The department has proposed to allow the establishment of selling points and marketing facilities for strawberry growers."We are apprised of the problems faced by strawberry growers and are ready to help in every possible way," he said.— IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/strawberry-farmers-in-kashmir-losing-out-due-to-lockdown-257214
23-05-2021||New Delhi||Over 10 % positivity rate in 382 districts||Small gains notwithstanding, Covid-19 continues to pose a massive public health challenge with half of India’s districts reporting a positivity rate of over 10 per cent. The World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends continuous containment and ramping up tests till the rate falls below 5 per cent.Oxygen trains leave for PunjabTwo 'Oxygen Express' trains carrying 52 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen left from Hazira near Surat in Gujarat for Punjab and Delhi, a Western Railway official said.Government data shows that 382 of India’s 756 districts have a positivity rate of more than 10 per cent requiring local lockdowns and restrictions to break the chain of transmission. Among these districts are Punjab’s 14, Haryana’s 18, Himachal and JK’s 12 each and Chandigarh and Ladakh. Punjab is also among states reporting a high fatality rate.Family members can get jabs at workplaces: CentreThe Centre has clarified to states that family members and dependents of workers can also be covered in vax drives at workplaces.Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, UP and Tamil Nadu are reporting the bulk of the daily deaths in the country.“The pandemic is stabilising. Active cases have declined for 20 days and now constitute 11.12% of the total cases as against 17.13% on May 3. Recoveries are up (87.76%). We have seen nine straight days of recoveries exceeding new cases with 22 states now reporting more daily recoveries than cases. These are good signs but 382 districts still have above 10 per cent positivity rate. We have a long way to go to contain the pandemic,” said VK Paul, Member, Health, NITI Aayog.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/over-10-positivity-rate-in-382-districts-256940
23-05-2021||Srinagar||Two cops face suspension||Two cops in Baramulla district were on Saturday suspended and an inquiry was initiated against a station house officer (SHO) after a video of police interrogation surfaced on social media.The video is regarding investigation of a blind murder case involving Pattan police station which was solved last month. Both the accused appearing in the video were held for the murder of the husband of the woman shown in the video,” an official said.He said the cops’ action in the video was “highly unprofessional and unbecoming of a disciplined force”. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/two-cops-face-suspension-257091
23-05-2021||Jammu/Leh||Curbs extended till May 31||The J&K administration on Saturday extended till May 31 the lockdown imposed across the Union Territory to curb the Covid spread. The restrictions were scheduled to end on May 24. Ladakh has decided to extend the restrictions till 7 am on June 7.RAT mandatory for those reaching LadakhThe Department of Information and Public Relations mentioned in a tweet that the curbs in all 20 districts had been extended till 7 am on May 31. “Curfew will be strict barring a few essential services. Deputy commissioners were being given limited flexibility to ensure economic activities didn’t suffer,” it stated.Meanwhile, J&K recorded 3,408 fresh Covid cases, taking the caseload to 2,67,313, while 48 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 3,513.Ladakh registered 121 fresh cases and one fatality on Saturday, taking its infection tally to 17,146 and death toll to 173. The rapid antigen test (RAT) has been made mandatory for all incoming passengers, including tourists, irrespective of negative RT-PCR reports, officials said. “Every person/tourist on arrival, irrespective of having an RT-PCR negative test report, will mandatorily be subjected to RAT test at the point of arrival. Such person, if found positive, shall be isolated at the place of stay or Covid care centre,” an official order issued here read. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/curbs-extended-till-may-31-257089
