30-05-2021||Islamabad||Pak would hold talks with India if New Delhi restores Kashmir’s pre-Aug 2019 status: Imran||Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Sunday that Pakistan would hold talks with India if New Delhi restores the pre-August 5, 2019 status of Jammu and Kashmir.India abrogated the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 on August 5, 2019 and bifurcated it into two Union territories.“If Pakistan revives its relations with India (without the latter restoring the status of Kashmir), it will be similar to turning our back on the Kashmiris,” Khan said during a live questions and answers session with the people.Khan said that if India takes back the steps it took on August 5, “then we can definitely hold talks”.New Delhi has repeatedly said Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of India and the country is capable of solving its own problems.India has told Pakistan that it desires normal neighbourly relations with it in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. India has said the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility.Ties between India and Pakistan nosedived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in the neighbouring country. Subsequent attacks, including one on Indian Army camp in Uri, further deteriorated the relationship.The relationship dipped further after India’s war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed.The relations deteriorated after India announced withdrawing special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcation of the state into two union territories.However, lately there has been some improvement when the two countries agreed in February to restore peace on the Line of Control. It is said that the rival officials have been interacting through the back channel diplomacy to ease tension.Khan also responded to several questions about domestic issues including inflation and promised that his government was working hard to bring down prices of commodities. He also said that Pakistan will continue to achieve economic growth in the days to come as he termed the process gradual and one that would take time. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/pak-would-hold-talks-with-india-if-new-delhi-restores-kashmirs-pre-aug-2019-status-imran-260757
30-05-2021||---||J-K lockdown extended till June 15 with some relaxations||Srinagar, May 30The Jammu and Kashmir government on Sunday issued fresh lockdown guidelines, effective from Monday, for all the 20 districts of the Union Territory with partial relaxation in some public activities.The fresh guidelines have been issued under section 24 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.As per the revised guidelines, all universities, colleges, and technical/skill development institutions in J&K shall remain closed for imparting on-campus/in-person education to the students till June 15.All schools and coaching centres will remain closed till June 15.All cinemas, multiplexes, clubs, gyms, spas, massage centres and paid parks shall continue to remain closed.Barber shops, and saloons/parlours shall remain open on three days in a week except Saturdays and Sundays.All religious places will remain open, subject to the SOPs already in place.Night curfew will be imposed from 8 p.m. till 7 a.m. while weekend curfew will be imposed from 8 p.m. each Friday till 7 a.m. on Monday.Restaurants and hotels will remain open only for in-house guests and home delivery.In the five districts classified as 'Red', public transport will remain closed. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/j-k-lockdown-extended-till-june-15-with-some-relaxations-260755
30-05-2021||Jammu||Families of Covid victims to get pension||The Jammu and Kashmir Administrative Council headed by Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday approved financial relief through the Special Assistance Scheme for Covid Mortalities (SASCM/Saksham) for families of victims, an official spokesman said.DRDO’s 500-bed hospital opens in JammuA 500-bed Covid-19 hospital built by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) was on Saturday inaugurated in Jammu by Lt Governor Manoj Sinha. Of the total 500 beds at the centre, located in Bhagwati Nagar, 125 will be ICU beds, while the others will have 24-hour oxygen facility. The hospital will be equipped with ventilators, monitors, in-house pharmacy, diagnostic facility, X-Ray and CT scan machines. “I must congratulate and appreciate DRDO Chairman G Satheesh Reddy and his team for working round the clock to set up this medical facility in a record time,” Sinha said. The hospital is expected to become fully operational in three-four days. PTIThe scheme aims to ensure sustenance of families that have lost their sole breadwinners to Covid. At a meeting chaired by Sinha here, the council also approved the creation of a special cell in the Social Welfare Department for handholding the families of Covid victims and facilitating the extension of benefits under different government schemes.Under ‘Saksham’, the surviving spouse and one eldest surviving member of affected families would receive a special monthly pension of Rs 1,000 through direct bank transfer (DBT), provided they are not receiving pension under other schemes, the spokesman said. Additionally, he said the scheme would also provide special scholarships to children who have lost their earning parent(s) /sibling(s) /guardian(s) to Covid-19.A special scholarship of Rs 20,000 and Rs 40,000 through DBT would be paid annually to children studying up to class XII and pursing higher education, respectively, the spokesman said.He said Jammu and Kashmir was the first Union Territory to provide relief to Covid-affected families. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/families-of-covid-victims-to-get-pension-260613
30-05-2021||Leh||Ladakh gets nod for transmission lines at revised cost of Rs1,310 crore||The central government has approved intra-state transmission works at a revised cost of Rs 1,309.71 crore to link far-flung villages of Ladakh to the grid and phase out diesel generator sets towards achieving carbon neutrality in the union territory, a top official said on Saturday.The project on completion would also provide the Army and the far-flung villages with clean power round the clock. The cost of the projects has been revised from Rs 354.74 crore to Rs 1,309.71 crore by the Central Electricity Authority.Congratulating the people of Ladakh on the approval of the project, Lt Governor RK Mathur said the intra-state transmission works had been sanctioned by the Union Ministry of Power. He expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Power Minister RK Singh.Secretary Power, UT Ladakh, Ravinder Kumar said the projects were part of the Prime Ministers Development Package (PMDP), 2015, which could not be taken up then due to various issues.“However, due to the painstaking efforts of the Lt Governor, his administration and public representatives, it is now approved,” Kumar said.He said REC Transmission Projects Company Limited was the project implementing agency for executing the transmission works in Ladakh, while Power Grid Corporation India Limited was the project management agency.“The transmission lines will link far-flung villages to the grid and phase out diesel generator sets used in far-flung villages, thus taking one more step towards achieving carbon neutrality in Ladakh. This will also provide the Army and far-flung villages with clean power round the clock,” he noted. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/ladakh-gets-nod-for-transmission-lines-at-revised-cost-of-rs1-310-crore-260614
30-05-2021||Jammu||Arrested intruder dies, body handed over to Pak Rangers||A Pakistani intruder who was arrested recently in an injured condition after being shot at by Border Security Force (BSF) personnel along the International border (IB) in the Samba sector succumbed to injuries at a hospital here.His body was handed over to the Pakistan Rangers by the BSF at a flag meeting along the IB in Samba district. Syed Raja Aasim (27), a resident of Lahore, received multiple bullet injuries when he ignored repeated warnings by the BSF while trying to sneak in on May 18. “The Pakistani national succumbed to injuries on Friday while undergoing treatment at GMCH, Jammu,” an official said. The official said nothing objectionable was seized from the deceased. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/arrested-intruder-dies-body-handed-over-to-pak-rangers-260616
30-05-2021||New Delhi||NIA chargesheets two for helping Hizb ultras||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a supplementary chargesheet against two Hizbul Mujahideen overground workers in a case related to a criminal conspiracy to carry out terror attacks in Uttar Pradesh and other parts of the country.Officials said the chargesheet had been filed in a special Lucknow court against Nisar Ahmad Sheikh and Nishad Ahmad Butt, both residents of Kishtwar district of J&K. The NIA said Hizb terrorist Osama Bin Javed was assisted by the two accused. Javed was later killed in an encounter. “While Sheikh would arrange safe transport, Butt would provide shelter and other logistic support to Javed and other Hizb terrorists. Butt had also constructed a hideout in his own house to provide shelter to terrorists,” said a senior NIA official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/nia-chargesheets-two-for-helping-hizb-ultras-260618
