04-10-2021||Ludhiana is a home to world famous brands especially in textiles and bicycles. In recent years||OPEN HOUSE: What should be cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s priority areas for Ludhiana?||Dr Harpreet SinghSolve issues of different sectorsAlthough Ludhiana is a smart city, there are many areas, which still need attention. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu should focus on the neglected areas and the first is education sector. Teachers are always on strike. Teachers are nation builder and they should be listened to properly. Second area, which needs attention, is the agriculture sector. Farmers are on protest. He should visit houses of those farmers, who lost their lives during struggle against the three farm acts and offer all possible help. Third area is industry, which is at mercy after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. Rehabilitation packages must be introduced to boost industry. The minister should also make efforts to promote tourism in the city so that sufficient revenue can be generated to meet expenses of the smart city. Also minister’s focus must be on cleanliness and reducing pollution in the city. Free Wi-Fi facility must be provided to the needy especially students, who attend online classes.Ritu PriyaResidents facing many problemsIt’s good for the city that the two time Ludhiana (West) MLA, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, has managed to retain his Cabinet berth in new Punjab Chief Minister’s government. There are many problems faced by residents of Ludhiana. The priority of the minister must be to solve the traffic problem, which is aggravating with each passing day and reduce the rising pollution level, in the industrial town. It’s not surprising that if one has to go from one corner of the city to other, it might take him/her more than two hours or so due to traffic snarls. Normally, this distance can be covered in about half an hour. Ludhiana is an industrial hub, but this tag in itself has become a major problem for its residents. Air pollution has spread respiratory problems. Therefore, the minister has to address these two core issues, which if solved, will surely help him retain seat in the upcoming Assembly elections.Bir Devinder Singh BediInstall CCTVs in streetsThere are many areas, which need Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s immediate attention. To improve security in the city CCTV cameras must be installed in all streets. Also, watchmen should be deployed in all parts of the city during night. Watchmen can be recruited by the Municipal Corporation. These steps will reduce crime in the city. Another important issue, which needs minister’s attention, is the rising stray dog-bite cases in the city. Arrangements must be made to catch and sterilise strays and keep them in specially built canine houses in different parts of the city. Also, the minister needs to focus on medical treatment and entertainment of senior citizens.Gautam DevEarly release of farmers’ paymentsThe Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu should assure farmers for the early release of payment from the FCI for selling their produce. Proper arrangements should be made for procurement of crops in grain markets. Solving waterlogging problem and repair of broken roads should be topmost priority of the minister. He should warn MC officials to immediately carry out road repairs or face consequences. Many projects for the smart city need minister’s attention. No laxity in such works should be tolerated and smart city ranking of Ludhiana should be improved. Five fire stations in the city are not enough. More fire stations should be set up in the industrial town. Firemen should be provided latest firefighting equipment. The leisure valley is in dire need of repairs. The work on Sidhwan Canal waterfront project should be completed at the earlier. A senior citizens home coming up near leisure valley should be provided with state of the art facilities for elderly. The minister should focus on all these issues keeping in view the upcoming Assembly poll next year.RS SembhiEvery locality must have parkCabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has been allotted the Food and Civil Supplies Ministry. Residents of Ludhiana have some expectations from him. He must address their problems. The minister must look into the problem of broken roads. He must ensure that a place is reserved for park in each locality where children can play and others can go out for walk. Some areas like Haibowal are deprived of such facilities. He must make provision of street-level clinics. The minister must improve conditions of Civil Hospitals and educational institutions. He must address problems of the industry. Cleaning of Buddha Nullah is also the need of the hour. He must compel the Education Department to fulfil long-pending demand of teachers. He can also ask the Electricity Department to lay underground power supply lines. Besides, every household in the city should have sewerage and portable water facilities.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiA lot is expected from ministerLudhiana was to be developed as smart city. Even after six years the city doesn’t have even a little bit semblance with what was desired and dreamt of. City residents expect a lot from Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Roads should be on par with the best in the country. Frequent traffic jams on certain roads need urgent redressal. Stray dogs are wreaking havoc in the city. The sanitary conditions in the city are deplorable. Garbage dumps are visible in every nook and corner of the city. All these issues need minister’s attention.Dr Sunil ChopraTimely completion of projectsResidents of Ludhiana have many expectations from Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Minister of Food and Civil Supplies. He should pay attention on the beautification of the city. The minister must ensure completion of various projects, which are under construction. There has to be a check on illegal colonies mushrooming up in the vicinity of Ludhiana. Carpeting of roads is also must. Industrial units in streets and densely populated areas should be shifted to city outskirts. Encroachments in front of shops should be removed. Some place in different localities should be earmarked for hawkers and fruit and vegetable sellers. The minister must plan to develop parks in different localities. Under passes and over bridges should be constructed to streamline the flow of traffic in the city. Fences should be erected on road sides to restrict the entry of stray animals. Parking places should be earmarked in all markets to ease of movement of the public.Farzana KhanAllot space to roadside vendorsTo resolve the problem of traffic jams, the police removed roadside vendors and ‘rehriwalas’ and registered cases against erring shopkeepers last year. Frequent traffic snarls can’t be prevented as such unless an alternative place is allotted on a reasonable lease basis to such persons, who can’t afford to buy or rent shops to earn their livelihood. Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu should help vendors in getting space where they can carry on their business legally. Similarly, the concept of ‘Apni Mandi’ can be used for other trades and vocations as well.Sagar GambhirProper disposal of rainwaterThe priority areas, which need Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s attention, are proper disposal of rainwater and solving frequent traffic jam issue in city. Broken roads inconvenience commuters. The minister should instruct the Municipal Corporation to carry out road repairs regularly.Adish SoodSpecial vision for development of cityCabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu should have a special vision for the development of Ludhiana. Timely completion of rainwater drainage system, removal of encroachments in the entire city, especially from main markets, proper garbage disposal, timely completion of projects related to smart city, construction of the elevated stretch from the Ferozepur road and starting electric buses and auto-rickshaws to reduce air and sound pollution should be on the minister’s priority list. Also the minister should pay more attention to cleaning of Buddha Nullah, which pollutes city. The minister can get a proposal for the construction of multi-storey car parking in various parts of the city passed in the MC House.Dr Sukhdev SharmaExpedite development works in cityBharat Bhushan Ashu is known for his straightforward attitude. With the Assembly elections coming up in 2022, Punjab Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs minister should expedite development projects. Efforts should be made to make city more clean and green. The MC should undertake massive plantation on vacant plots in the city.Anu JoshiQUESTIONWith the next Assembly elections approaching near, the ruling and the opposition parties have started luring the electorate with freebies. Should the sops or good governance be the priority for seeking votes?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-what-should-be-cabinet-minister-bharat-bhushan-ashus-priority-areas-for-ludhiana-319707
04-10-2021||Ludhiana||4 two-wheelers stolen from Ludhiana||Two arrested for fraudLudhiana: The police have arrested two persons, Ramesh Chand of Sherpur and Manjit Singh of Bhikhiwind while two others, Harmandeep Singh and his father Joga Singh, residents of Preet Nagar, have been booked under Sections 406, 420, 473 and 120-B of the IPC on the complaint of Sarbjit Singh of Ratangarh in Sangrur district. The complainant said due to financial issues, he had given his truck (bearing registration no PB 13Y 8747) to Ramesh Chand who had engaged the truck in the transport business of Sandhu Transport on the promise that he would repay installments of the outstanding loan on the vehicle which was financed by HDVS Finance Company at Barnala. However, the accused stopped repayment of installments and got the registration number of the truck changed by forging documents and the vehicle was used for transport business by keeping him in the dark, he said. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-two-wheelers-stolen-from-ludhiana-319710
04-10-2021||Ludhiana||Jarkhar academy to take part in national hockey meet||Mata Sahib Kaur Hockey Academy, Jarkhar, along with 25 other top hockey academies will be vying for top honours in the inaugural edition of the Sub-Junior National Academies Hockey Tournament, scheduled to be held from October 4 to 13 at the Sports Authority of India (SAI), Bhopal, in Madhya Pradesh.The 10-day tournament is being organised by Hockey India to catch talented players at the grass-roots level, provide them an opportunity to showcase their skills and train them for future competitions.Jagroop Singh Jarkhar, director of the Jarkhar academy, said talented and promising players from across the country would be seen in action during the tournament. They would get a chance to compete against each other and know their shortcomings.Teams namely Mata Sahib Kaur Hockey Academy, Jarkhar, besides Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), Amritsar, Citizen Hockey XI, Namdhari Hockey Academy, Bhaini Sahib, Madhya Pradesh Hockey Academy, Cheema Hockey Academy, Gurdaspur, Bhai Bahlo Hockey Acdemy, Bhai Bhagatan, Malwa Academy, Hanumangarh, Olympian Vivek Singh Hockey Academy, Har Hockey Academy, Him Hockey Academy, Himachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu Hockey Hockey, SAI Academy, Bhopal, TATA Hockey Academy, Odisha, TAT Hockey Academy, Jamshedhpur, Dhyan Chand Hockey Academy, Lucknow, Jai Bharat Hockey Academy and Round Glass Hockey Academy, Jalandhar, will be participating in the meet.After the tournament, talented players would be shortlisted to train them at a specialised camp for junior national hockey competitions.Hockey India, in addition to this, will organise Junior National Hockey Championship (U-18) at Bhopal from October 18 to 27 in which the Jarkhar academy would also take part. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jarkhar-academy-to-take-part-in-national-hockey-meet-319708
04-10-2021||Ludhiana||Inter-District cricket: Deepin Chitkara stars in Moga’s win over Ludhiana||Skipper Deepin Chitkara led from the front and performed exceedingly well to steer Moga to five wickets win over Ludhiana in the first league match of group B in the Punjab State Inter-District (U-25) One Day Cricket Tournament, played at Kips Samadh Ground, Moga, on Sunday.Right-arm off spinner and middle order batsman Deepin sent down eight overs, gave away only 21 runs and scalped seven victims to contain Ludhiana innings to 72 runs and then played a useful innings of 23 runs to enable hosts Moga achieve the target in 18th over. Deepin won the toss and chose to field. Ludhiana innings folded at 72 runs in 24.2 overs. Only two batsmen, Harshit Takkar and Tiksahan Tangri could reach double figure, contributing 23 and 16 runs, respectively.For Moga, Deepin captured seven wickets while Gurmehar Singh claimed two wickets for 18 runs in seven overs and Azad Pal Singh secured one wicket without conceding a run.Moga too had a shaky start, losing two wickets with only eight runs on board in the third over. However, Deepin rose to the occasion as he along with wicketkeeper batsman Gurjot Singh held the fort intact. Deepin made 23 runs off 18 balls with the help of four hits over the fence and one six while Gurjot scored 31 runs, including three sixes and one four. Prabhjot Singh remained not out on 10 runs. Moga made the required runs in 17.3 overs after losing five wickets and wrapped up the issue comfortably.For visitors, Siddhant Om Tiwari grabbed four wickets for 32 runs and Yogjit Singh took one for 19. Deepin Chitkara was adjudged player of the match for his contribution. — OC5 players of winning team belong to LudhianaDeepin Chitkara, besides Gurmehar Singh (left-arm spinner), Gurjot Singh (wicketkeeper and batsman), Gobindjot Singh (right-arm medium pacer U-19) and Jaish Jain (opening batsman) represented Moga district today. All of them belong to Ludhiana, who used to play for the city since they took up the game as their career. They are established players and have played pivot role in many matches to help Ludhiana overpower its opponents. However, lately they shifted to Moga district alleging indifferent attitude of certain office-bearers, coaches and selectors of the Ludhiana District Cricket Association towards them. They alleged that these office-bearers humiliated them repeatedly in the presence of other players, forcing them to obtain no objection certificate (NOC) and opting to play for the Moga district. In the first match, today, they proved their credentials. They played stellar role in the match against their erstwhile team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/inter-district-cricket-deepin-chitkara-stars-in-mogas-win-over-ludhiana-319709
04-10-2021||---||Paddy procurement begins at Khanna mandi||Ludhiana, October 3Punjab Food, Civil and Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Industry Minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli kick-started paddy procurement at the grain market in Khanna on Sunday.The cabinet ministers during their visit to the grain market said, “Elaborate arrangements have been made by the state government and directions issued to make sure that every single grain of paddy is procured and lifted without any delay.” Ministers asked officials of all procurement agencies, Mandi Board and respective district administrations in the state to ensure timely payment of produce to farmers.Arrangements for saving produce from rain were already in place, said ministers. Around 17.53 lakh MT paddy was expected to arrive in grain markets, ministers added. Besides 108 regular grain markets in the district, 94 temporary and 203 mandi yards in mills had also been identified to decongest markets, said ministers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/paddy-procurement-begins-at-khanna-mandi-319711
04-10-2021||---||Cyclothon, walkathon mark Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav||Ludhiana, October 3The district administration and the Municipal Corporation organised events, including cyclothon and walkathon, as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav here on Sunday.A large number of people, along with Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and Municipal Corporation Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal participated in the event to celebrate 75 years of India’s Independence.Ashu said this mass movement was aimed to celebrate 75 years of country’s freedom and pay tribute to freedom fighters and those, who laid down their lives, during the freedom struggle.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, and MC Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “The life and sacrifices of martyrs act as a lighthouse and will always inspire for rendering selfless service to the community, society, state and the country.”They also thanked the people for extending fulsome support and cooperation to them in this noble cause. They expressed hope that with the active support and cooperation of the people Ludhiana would soon emerge as a clean, green, and pollution-free district.Meanwhile, 10.2-km cyclothon was flagged off from Water Front, Phase 2, behind the MCL, Zone D, Sarabha Nagar. Hundreds of cycling enthusiasts from various cycling clubs participated in the event. A 2-km walkathon, which followed the cycling event, was flagged off from Water Front, Phase 2. Many dignitaries and residents took part in the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cyclothon-walkathon-mark-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-319712
04-10-2021||---||Raja Warring begins cleanliness drive at Ludhiana bus stand||Ludhiana, October 3Punjab Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring kick-started a major cleanliness drive at Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Stand here on Sunday. The minister and officials cleaned the waste from various spots at the bus station.To change the face of bus stands in the state, Raja Warring on Sunday ordered a vigorous cleanliness drive at all bus terminals of the state, besides focusing on making bus stands free of dirt and filth.He said the drive was aimed at creating clean and hygienic surroundings in bus stands and told the officials to make cleanliness a daily routine.The minister called upon people to give support to such initiatives as no such effort can be successful without their cooperation. He directed general managers of all bus stands in the state to leave no stone unturned in making these places clean and said any kind of callousness would attract strict action. Later, speaking to the media, Warring said he would launch a WhatsApp number in the next few days through which people could register their complaints against any bus or staff member and others by sharing pictures/videos along with locations or timings.He said all complaints would be settled within a stipulated time frame and asserted that all efforts would be made to streamline the working of buses so that common people did not face any hassle while commuting.He also appealed to unions to call off their proposed strike and help him in making Punjab public road transport entities profitable.Meanwhile, Jaswinder Singh Grewal, general secretary of the Small Scale District Bus Operators Association, Punjab, has also demanded from the minister to take action against violations at the bus stand. Grewal alleged that a private contractor at the bus stand had been violating the norms as the authorities concerned turned a blind eye towards the same. He also raised questions that how benefit was being given to some influential private transporters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/raja-warring-begins-cleanliness-drive-at-ludhiana-bus-stand-319700
04-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Rs 2 lakh, jewellery stolen from house in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, October 3Thieves broke into a locked house when its occupants were away and stole cash and valuables while the police claimed to have arrested three snatchers and two thieves in separate incidents.A house in Friends Colony was burgled on the intervening night of September 30 and October 1 when the occupants were away. Thieves broke open a window of the locked house and decamped with cash and other valuables. In a complaint lodged with the police, Rita Pal, a resident of Friends Colony, said she had gone to the Delhi airport on September 30, after locking the house.“When I returned on October 2, I found that a window was open and locker of an almirah was also ransacked and Rs 2 lakh in cash and gold ornaments were missing,” she said.The police have registered a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC in this regard on Saturday.The police claimed to have nabbed three snatchers, Karnail Singh, Ritik Mishra, both residents of Mand Chaunta, and Harish Kumar, a resident of Model Colony, Jagirpur, who have been charged under Sections 379 of the IPC, yesterday. The police said they were nabbed from the T-Point at Bajra on Rahon Road on the basis of a tip-off that they were involved in several incidents of snatchings and loots. On the basis of information provided by them, the police had recovered a stolen Hero Deluxe motorcycle (bearing registration no. PB 10HA 5398), 15 mobile phones and a daat (sword).Three thieves were caught in another incident by staff of a resort on Barewal Road and the public on Saturday. While two of them were overpowered, their third accomplice managed to escape. In a complaint to police, director of Apna Punjab Resort said the staff had found three persons stealing scrap and other items from the resort where the construction work was being carried out. Two out of the trio, Vicky, resident of Panj Peer Road, and Akshay, resident of Lal Kothi, Haibowal, were nabbed while another accused identified as Sunny of Panj Peer Road had managed to escape. The police had booked all three accused under Section 379 of the IPC and had recovered plastic pipes, iron scrap and two bags of plastic material from them.Mobile snatchedTwo motorcycle-borne youths snatched a mobile phone from Suchita Dixit, a resident of Sector 39, Moti Nagar, on Saturday when the woman was returning home on foot after consultation with a doctor at Aykai Hospital on Ludhiana-Chandigarh Road. The victim said the snatchers came from the rear and fled after snatching her mobile phone. The police had registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rs-2-lakh-jewellery-stolen-from-house-in-ludhiana-319699
04-10-2021||Harshraj Singh||Finally, Railways allots construction work of ROB over Ludhiana-Dhuri tracks||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 3After residents raised questions over too much delay in the construction of the railway overbridge (ROB) over Ludhiana-Dhuri railway tracks near Gill village, finally, the railways has issued the work order for construction of the ROB. A railway official claimed the work would be started soon on the site.The ROB is a part of GLADA’s ‘Missing Link 2’ project for which the land was acquired around a decade ago. The project has not been completed till date even after missing deadlines.Notably, GLADA had earlier constructed a road stretch from Dhandra Road to Dhuri railway tracks and then another stretch on the Gill village side under the same project a few years ago. In 2019, GLADA had released around Rs 21.84 crore to railways for the construction of the ROB. But the construction of the railway overbridge, which has to connect these two road stretches, was being delayed.Sanjay Tiwari, a resident, said: “We had moved the court as the construction of the ROB was being delayed. The court had then ordered the authorities concerned to float tenders for the construction of the ROB. Tenders were floated around four months ago by the railways but the work is yet to be started at the ground level. The railways and GLADA must ensure completion of the ROB construction work on time.”A shopkeeper, Jashanpreet Singh, said, “We demand from the railways to construct the ROB in its jurisdiction at the earliest. GLADA should also complete ROB-related works (bridge approaches) under its jurisdiction without any further delay. All these works must be completed within six months.”According to information, the work for the ‘Missing Link 2’ project was divided into three parts – Dhandra Road to Dhuri Railway line, Dhuri Railway line to Malerkotla Road and then Malerkotla Road to Southern Bypass road (alongside Sidhwan Canal). Once this ROB is constructed, commuters can travel between Malerkotla Road (Gill Road) and Ferozepur Road (via Dhandra Road intersection, Phullanwal Chowk and Lodhi Club Road) in less time.“The work on a stretch that is to connect Malerkotla Road with Southern Bypass road near Lohara was also lying incomplete. It should be completed too,” Jashanpreet said.A railway official said the tender for the ROB construction work had been allotted to a successful bidder and it would start soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/finally-railways-allots-construction-work-of-rob-over-ludhiana-dhuri-tracks-319701
04-10-2021||---||Covid-19: One fresh case of virus reported from Ludhiana||Ludhiana, October 3One fresh case of Covid-19 has been reported from the Ludhiana district on Sunday. The patient with influenza-like illness visited the Flu Corner. Besides, three cases that belong to other districts or states were also confirmed here today.The Health Department confirmed that 87,544 patients of Ludhiana district and 11,682 patients of other districts or states have tested positive for the virus till date.A total of 2,102 patients of Ludhiana district and 1,051 patients of other districts or states have died of the virus till date as per the claims of the Health Department.A total of 25,31,297 samples have been taken so far, of which 24,32,071 were found negative. As many as 6,226 samples were collected today.Residents of the city have been told to adhere to all safety protocols of the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-19-one-fresh-case-of-virus-reported-from-ludhiana-319713
04-10-2021||Nitin Jain||Covid positivity rate down to 0.04 per cent in Ludhiana district||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 3The weekly average Covid positivity rate, a key indicator of virus surge, has dipped to 0.04 per cent last week, which was four times less than 0.15 per cent recorded during August in Ludhiana, the government has confirmed.The district’s hit rate was almost half than state’s average of 0.1 per cent but was more than five other districts in the state, which have registered zero positivity, the official figures have revealed.OfficialspeakWe are constantly working to keep the Covid situation under control and continuing with the five-pronged strategy of test, trace, treat, vaccinate and strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour to avert the resurgence of the deadly infection, especially ahead of the festival season. Varinder Kumar Sharma, DCThe average positivity rate between September 22 and 28 compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, which is available with The Tribune, showed that Pathankot remained the worst-hit district with the highest hit rate of 0.3 per cent while Barnala, Nawanshahr, Mansa, Kapurthala, and Muktsar remained the safest districts with zero positivity rate during the last week of September.While Ropar, Fazilka, Mohali, and Faridkot stood second with 0.2 per cent hit rate, Moga, Sangrur, Ferozepur, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Fatehgarh Sahib, Patiala, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur shared the positivity rate of 0.1 per cent on a par with the state average.Ludhiana, being the biggest and largest district in terms of area and maximum population of almost 4 million in the state remained the worst-hit during the deadly second Covid wave, had made a remarkable turnaround from being the worst-hit to the safest district in the state.The safe trend persists for the past three months when the district had made a remarkable turnaround by recording the daily positivity rate even below 1 per cent.The development holds significance as Ludhiana had earlier assumed the dubious distinction of being the worst-hit district with the maximum number of daily Covid cases and deaths till May.If it was mayhem in May when the second Covid wave had rapidly slid into a devastating crisis with the health facilities unbearably falling short, oxygen supplies running low and many dying even without seeing a doctor, June had given a sigh of relief with the signs of gradual retreat and impact of deadly virus plateauing and the safe trend continued in July, August, and September when the hit rate further dipped to as low as 0.04 per cent last week. This U-turn was all the more significant as the daily positivity rate has dropped by a whopping 19.53 per cent from the highest-ever ratio of 19.57 per cent in the past three months. The district had touched its peak of virus surge on May 2.The daily hit rate has been plummeting constantly since the last week of May.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/covid-positivity-rate-down-to-0-04-per-cent-in-ludhiana-district-319697
04-10-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Ludhiana Improvement Trust awards work worth Rs 3 cr to contractor facing probe||Ludhiana, October 3Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) is again in the news for all the wrong reasons. Remaining true to a common belief that senior officials of the Trust are showering favours on certain ‘select’ contractors, a work for laying interlocking tiles worth approximately Rs 3 crore has been awarded to a ‘tainted’ contractor who is already facing probe for submission of wrong documents about turnover of the past five years and works executed by his firm.As if this was not enough, the work awarded to the contractor for laying interlocking tiles on Rahon Road, falling in the Ludhiana East Assembly segment, has commenced and was inaugurated with fanfare by Congress legislator Sanjay Talwar even before the formal work order had been issued to the contractor.Highly placed sources in the LIT revealed that out of three e-bids received for the work in question, two were rejected on the basis of not fulfilling conditions of turnover and bid capacity. “However, the successful bidder for the work was already facing a probe for filing bogus figures of turnover and executed works in the Municipal Corporation.“In this regard, yet another complaint has also been filed by Agyapal Singh Guliani against the same contractor with the Principal Secretary, Local Government, Punjab, that the said contractor had shown different figures of turnover in documents submitted with the MC and the LIT for different works. List of executed works submitted by the contractor was also inflated and fudged,” the sources said.LIT officials confirmed that the work order for laying interlocking tiles on Rahon Road was yet to be issued to the contractor. When asked as to how the work could commence without a formal work order, officials said they would check the site and then revert back.Earlier, a city-based social activist, Ramesh Nayyar, had alleged in a complaint that certain contractors were submitting bogus/inflated turnover certificates for the past five years in complicity with MC and LIT officials for showing eligibility to offer bids for tenders worth over Rs 1 crore. Fudged figures of pending works with civic bodies and other government departments were being produced by some contractors but surprisingly, the officials did not care to cross-check the figures for obvious reasons.Work begins without work orderThe work awarded to the contractor for laying interlocking tiles on Rahon Road, falling in the Ludhiana East Assembly segment, has commenced and was inaugurated with fanfare by Congress legislator Sanjay Talwar even before the formal work order had been issued to the contractor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-improvement-trust-awards-work-worth-rs-3-cr-to-contractor-facing-probe-319696
04-10-2021||Ludhiana||In Ludhiana, 40 illegal private buses impounded||Following the directions of Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, officials of the Regional Transport Authority, Ludhiana, and the police jointly impounded 40 illegal tourist buses near Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Stand here.These buses have been plying from Ludhiana to other states for a long period.Time to end mafiaThis is the beginning of the transport mafia’s end from the state. Every bus plying in the state without a permit and indulging in tax evasion will be impounded. Raja Warring, Transport MinisterThe Transport Minister visited the city bus stand on Sunday morning to participate in a cleanliness drive. He then visited the site where the illegal buses were parked and ordered the officials concerned to take action against the violations. Raja Warring said such violations would not be tolerated at any cost and added that those flouting the rules would face the music.The minister said the directions had been issued to all transport authorities to take action against the illegal operation of buses in the state.He said a probe would be carried out and the officials found helping illegal transporters would be dealt with an iron hand. He further said all officials must discharge their duties without getting influenced by anyone and rein in defaulters in the transport sector. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/in-ludhiana-40-illegal-private-buses-impounded-319691
