07-10-2021||Ludhiana||GADVASU starts training programme for goat farming||The Department of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Extension, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), is organising training programme on goat farming under the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav till Friday.Dr RK Sharma, HoD, said improved goat production through better housing and feeding practices had direct implication on the income of millions of households as well as national food security.“Goat is gaining popularity in the state as it can consume wide variety of feed resources, requires less capital or investment, has fast sexual maturity (9-12 months) and proliferation,” he added.“Goat production suits unemployed youth, women and ex-servicemen due to lower input requirements. There is scope in value addition and processing of goat milk and meat, which can further enhance income,” he said. The training programme is being held at the Farmer Information Centre. For more information, one can contact helpline No. 0161- 2414026 during working hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/gadvasu-starts-training-programme-for-goat-farming-321374
07-10-2021||Ludhiana||Seven minor boys caught with cigarettes, tobacco in Ludhiana||Cigarettes and packets of tobacco were recovered from seven minor boys staying in the Observation Home, located on Gill Road, Shimlapuri.On the complaint of the home authorities, the Shimlapuri police have registered a case under Sections 42 and 52-A, Prison Act, against boys.The complainant in the case, Tarun Aggarwal, superintendent of the home, said on October 3, on the directions of the boys, some unknown persons had thrown one packet each of cigarettes, beedis, and tobacco on the home premises. When the same fell inside, supervisors seized them.Even the boys, who had gone to collect packets were identified and produced before the higher authorities. ASI Ajmer Singh said it could be possible that the boys staying in the home had asked somebody to throw cigarettes and tobacco over the outer wall. Questioning of the boys was on to identify those involved in the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seven-minor-boys-caught-with-cigarettes-tobacco-in-ludhiana-321373
07-10-2021||Ludhiana||CPI demands arrest of union minister Ajay Mishra’s son||The Communist Party of India (CPI) district unit held a rally and demonstration today to demand arrest of Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister for State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra, in connection with killings of peacefully protesting farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri.Speaking on the occasion several activists demanded that the minister should be immediately removed from the Cabinet and his son be arrested and prosecuted for murder as per the law. Silence of Prime Minister on such a heinous crime was intriguing and smacked of his agreement with such killings, protesters added.“This is not for the first time. Such incidents occur in Uttar Pradesh day in and day out. Muslims are being labelled as Pakistanis and now Sikhs as Khalistanis. All those, who oppose government policies, are termed as anti-nationals. Ordinary citizens like Manish Gupta, a trader, was killed by the police. Inspector Subodh Kumar was killed by mob. The UP government should be immediately dismissed,” said protesters.Dr Arun Mitra said, “Such events reflect the mind-set of the BJP and its leaders, who are out to create anarchy in the country through lawlessness hence spreading communal disharmony. It may be noted here that Union Home Minister for State Ajay Mishra had recently said that it was a two minutes job to remove farmers. This strengthened his son and he committed such heinous crime.”“UP Chief Minister is spreading communal venom. Chief Minister of Haryana had recently asked his party men to carry sticks and throw farmers away. Such utterances by those at the top encourage murderers. There is a danger that if this state of affairs continues, anarchy will prevail in the country with the point of no return,” Dr Mitra added.A memorandum to the effect was sent to the Prime Minister through the Deputy Commissioner Office, Ludhiana.MCPI (U) seeks stern action against accusedDoraha: The Marxist Communist Party of India (United) has strongly condemned murders of peacefully agitating farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district. The general secretary, MCPI (U), Kuldip Singh and the state committee secretary, Pawan Kumar Kaushal, in a joint statement today said, “The brutal murders and provocative statement of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar put together has exposed the Fascist face of the RSS backed BJP.”“Such incidents point towards poor law and order conditions in the state,” they added. Demanding stern action against the accused, they urged the President of India to dismiss the BJP Government as the state government had lost the moral and constitutional authority to govern and to maintain law, order in UP. They further said the Prime Minister should also own responsibility for the incident due to the involvement of minister and his son. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cpi-demands-arrest-of-union-minister-ajay-mishras-son-321372
07-10-2021||Ludhiana||Indus World School students splash to victory in junior swimming c’ship||Students of Indus World Senior Secondary School, Rajgadh Estates, near South City, annexed 16 medals, including seven gold in the 44th Junior Punjab State Swimming Championship, held in Mohali from October 2 to 4.Four students from the school, including Ojus Sund, Gunika Prabhakar, Divneet Kaur and Aradhya Prabhakar, took part in this competition, organised by the Punjab Swimming Association and reaped a rich haul of medals to bring glory to their school and parents.Ojus Sund gave a good account of himself by clinching five gold medals. He came out triumphant in the 100m back stroke, 100m free style, 50m back stroke 50m free style and 50m butterfly events.In fact, Ojus stamped his superiority by setting new meet records in all these events and was selected to take part in the Junior National Aquatic Championship to be held from October 19 to 24 in Bengaluru.Another school student Gunika Prabhakar proved her class by winning eight medals, including one gold. She clinched gold medal in the 4x200m free style relay, besides securing three silver medals in the 400m free style and 100m and 200m butterfly events.Gunika also won bronze medals in the 800m free style, 4x100m free style relay, 50m butterfly and 4x100m medley relay events. Divneet Kaur secured gold medal in the 4x200m free style relay in addition to a bronze medal in the 400m individual medley.Aradhya Pranhakar, the youngest competitor in this championship, made her presence felt by finishing at the victory podium. She participated in the 50m free style event. School Principal Neetu Dandi appreciated students, their mentors and parents on this feat. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/indus-world-school-students-splash-to-victory-in-junior-swimming-cship-321371
07-10-2021||---||Teachers up in arms against Punjab government||Ludhiana, October 6The Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO) organised a protest rally on the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) campus today against the decision of the state government to deviate from the UGC pay scales applicable uniformly throughout the country.The protesters said Punjab, a leading state until now, was lagging behind in the implementation of pay scales.Teachers from PAU, GADVASU, government and private colleges from Ludhiana, Moga and Doraha participated in the rally. The rally was addressed by executive members of PAUTA, GADVASUTA, and Kuldeep Batta, district president, PCCTU, representing government and private colleges and the PFUCTO leadership, including Dr HS Kingra, president, PFUCTO, and Dr KS Sangha, general secretary, PAUTA.The speakers condemned vociferously the decision of the Punjab Government to delink scales of teachers. They said, “This move is a prelude to deviation the government is planning from the UGC regulation regarding pay scales, promotion policy and service conditions, which are otherwise mandated by the UGC to be accepted completely as a package.”“This deviation will lead to financial loss and also affect the academic careers of teachers. University and college teachers will get lower pays than their counterparts in other state institutions across India. The inter- institutional mobility of teachers on deputation and career progression will be curtailed severely. High caliber teachers/academicians/academic administrators will not prefer to join any assignments in Punjab state,” they added.Dr HS Kingra, president, PFUCTO, said, “The state government, which is already in financial stress, is likely to lose out on grants/funds tied to the acceptance of the UGC pay package in Toto, a precondition for release of financial help imposed by the GOI.”“When the GOI, under the new NEP is talking about granting of autonomy to institutions with respect to curriculum, fee and pay structure for hiring/attracting illustrious faculty from international foras, this step of the state government is highly regressive, retrograde and demeaning to the faculty in universities and colleges,” he added.The leadership has decided to further intensify the agitation by organising campus rallies and candle marches to houses of ministers in the each constituency of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-up-in-arms-against-punjab-government-321370
07-10-2021||Ludhiana||Lakhimpur Kheri killings: UP Govt draws flak||The Punjab Medium Industrial Development Board chairman and senior Congress leader, Amarjeet Singh Tikka, on Wednesday condemned the BJP-led UP Government over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. He demanded imposition of President’s rule as there was a ‘Jungle Raj’ in UP.Besides, Tikka demanded dismissal of the Union Minister of State in Ministry of Home affairs, Ajay Mishra, over allegations that his son Ashish Mishra ran over farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Sunday. The minister’s son, Ashish Mishra, should be immediately arrested, Tikka added.Tikka also lashed out at UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for illegal detention of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi and Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and sought immediate intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi into the matter.He also demanded arrest of all the accused involved in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. “Farmers are on roads since last 11 months against the three farm laws. They are seeking repeal of these contentious laws, but the Union Government is not listening to their repeated pleas,” said Tikka. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/lakhimpur-kheri-killings-up-govt-draws-flak-321369
07-10-2021||Sahnewal||Sahnewal: Youth Cong  holds candle march against Lakhimpur Kheri violence||The District Youth Congress (Rural), under its president Lucky Sandhu, held a candle march to show its resentment against violence unleashed on farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri, on Sunday. A prayer session was organised and two minute silence observed in the memory of those, who lost their lives in the farmer struggle, on the occasion.Sandhu, along with Nirbhai Singh, Manjinder Singh Bhola, Sandeep Bhatia, Kulwinder Singh Bhimro and Master Jagdish Singh, all councillors, and Iqbal Jandiali, Kuljit Singh, both block samiti members, and Bhinda Kanech, Balwinder Pawa and Balvir Majara, all sarpanches, and the young brigade raised slogans against the BJP government in the UP as they marched through the town to show solidarity with families of the deceased and condemn the brutal show of unbridled power exhibited by the saffron party.“Nothing can be more heart rendering than this incident at Lakhimpur Kheri, which is highly deplorable. This heinous crime against peacefully protesting farmers is a crime against humanity. It has drawn flak from all quarters. Rather than giving justice to the peacefully protesting famers for the past one year, they are being run over by vehicles and killed brutally,” said protesters.“Poor farmers have been sitting on Delhi borders and demanding their rightful due. Many have lost their lives during the struggle. But, the Lakhimpur incident has tested farmers’ patience in the real sense. Killing silent protesters is a crime, which can never be pardoned at any cost. The pain and agony of the bereaved families can never be understood by the BJP government, which has remained unperturbed,” protesters added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/sahnewal-youth-cong-holds-candle-march-against-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-321368
07-10-2021||---||Bizmen protest regular hike in steel prices||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 6Industrialists, who own furnace units in the city, are worried over continuous hike in steel prices. To show their resentment they protested against wrong practices and monopoly of those selling steel at exorbitant prices, here at Cycle Market today.The protest was organised by the Fastener Manufacturer Association of India, All Industries and Trade Forum, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association and Fastener Suppliers Association of India.The protesters said public and private main plants had increased prices of steel by around Rs6000 per tonne in last eight days.Following large producers secondary steel plants of Punjab also increased prices of ingot from Rs43,800 to Rs49,500 just in last 10 days. The effigies of the Finance Minister and the Steel Minister were also burnt during the protest.In the last one year the prices of steel have increased by Rs20,000 per tonne. The main reason behind the hike is cartel of Indian steel companies formed under the name of Indian Steel Alliance. Shockingly, the government steel companies are also part of this cartel. The Government of India and the Steel Ministry is silent on the issues due to their vested interests.“Local steel furnaces and rolling mills are working under the SMS cartel and keep on changing prices in every hour. Whenever they have to procure scrap they reduce prices of the SMS and after procuring the scrap from market they increase prices of the steel,” said Badish Jindal.Blaming the government, associations said when Indian companies had their own steel plants then why they were allowed to manipulate prices.“Now steel companies and the government is making excuses of hike in coal prices due to the Chinese factor. But, India has ample stocks of coal and can manage the scarcity for a long period,” he added.“The margins of the industry are not above 5 per cent. So, under such circumstances it is hard for the industry to absorb the 12 per cent hike in steel prices. The industry will have to stop production if steel prices are not controlled,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/bizmen-protest-regular-hike-in-steel-prices-321367
07-10-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||80 trucks of companies evading GST impounded||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 6The tax-evasion of a few lakh rupees is certainly going to cost dear to companies, whose stocks loaded in almost 80 trucks, was confiscated by the mobile wing of the state GST Department.While trying to evade 18 per cent Goods and Services Tax (GST), now these companies without bills and documents will shell out 18 per cent state GST, 18 per cent Central GST and 100 per cent penalty.A highly placed source in the department, wishing not to be quoted, said it was too early to say anything about penalties right now as assessment of everything was going on.“But, the department is going to get whopping amount of GST from these tax evaders. Loud and clear message has been conveyed to those evading taxes that they will not be spared,” said the official.Since these trucks have been confiscated from various parts of Punjab, the consignee will have to face maximum music.Maximum of these companies are in Mandi Gobindgarh. A few companies, whose goods have been confiscated, include Shri NR Steel Trading, Shiva Casting Private Limited, Jai Ambey Alloys, Steeltech Alloys Private Limited Ludhiana, Taksus Steels, Shyam Traders and others. Many of these trucks loaded with iron scrap are without bills and relevant documents.The official informed,” The scrap has come from outside state too. We are certainly going to impose maximum penalty on the receiver, who got stocks without bills.”These raids were conducted by the department on Monday night in which loaded vehicles were detained. There are some trucks, whose drivers ran away, but now these vehicles are in the custody of the department.Under the campaign, “No tolerance against tax evasion drive”, Taxation Commissioner Nilkanth S Avhad and Additional Commissioner Showkat Ahmed Parray had issued orders to launch a drive, which began under Director (Investigation) HPS Ghotra, along with heavy police force and teams of officials.Eighty trucks of iron scrap (mostly) were confiscated by the department from various roads adjoining Ludhiana, Mandi Gobindgarh and other places. There is huge demand of iron scrap in the industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/80-trucks-of-companies-evading-gst-impounded-321366
07-10-2021||---||Biker crushed to death under truck in Samrala||Ludhiana, October 6A motorcycle-borne youth was crushed to death by a rashly driven truck in Samrala last night. The truck driver fled the spot after the incident.The police have registered a case of negligent driving against the unknown truck driver and CCTV cameras were being scanned to get any clue about the accused.The deceased has been identified as Mandeep Singh of Bardhala village near Samrala.Complainant Jaspal Singh of Samrala told the police that on Tuesday night, Mandeep was heading towards his village on his motorcycle and when he was about to cross the T-Point in Samrala city, he was hit by a speeding and rashly driven truck from the rear.He said the deceased had suffered injuries in the accident and died on the spot.ASI Balwinder Singh said a case of negligent driving under Section 304-A of the IPC was registered against the accused and a probe was on to identify him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/biker-crushed-to-death-under-truck-in-samrala-321365
07-10-2021||---||Snatcher flees from police custody in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, October 6Two snatchers, identified as Deepak Kumar and Manjit Kumar, attempted to flee from the police custody while they were being taken to the court for hearing today. One of the snatchers, Deepak, was arrested by the police after a brief chase while Manjit managed to give them the slip.Deepak and Manjit were nabbed by the police two days ago. The incident was reportedly captured in CCTV cameras installed at the petrol station in Chawni Mohalla.According to information, two officials of the Daresi police station were taking the accused to court in their car. On the way, they stopped at a petrol pump in Chawni Mohalla to buy fuel for their car. When the car slowed down, both accused pushed the cop sitting with them aside and fled the spot. The police managed to nab Deepak while Manjit escaped from the spot.Daresi police station SHO Davinder Singh said a case was registered against both accused. Action could also be taken against cops for negligence, the SHO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/snatcher-flees-from-police-custody-in-ludhiana-321364
07-10-2021||---||Three months on, Ludhiana MC fails to resolve water shortage issue||Ludhiana, October 6Residents are still suffering due to erratic water supply in the Basti Mani Singh area near Jodhewal Basti for the past three months. They have made repeated complaints to the civic body but the issue has not been resolved.Around a month ago, MC officials had claimed that a new water tube well was installed and it would be made functional once the power supply connection and meter were installed. But, the ube well has not been made functional till date in the absence of power supply connection.A resident of Basti Mani Singh, Najibullah, said: “Residents of the area have been facing a lot of issues due to water shortage in the area for over three months. Water is often supplied after 11 pm. I work as a labourer and go to work in the morning. After returning from work, I could not sleep on time as water is supplied during late hours daily. Our voice is not being heard by the authorities concerned.”Another resident said: “We are forced to bring water from other locations. It is difficult for us to arrange water in the morning. We don’t know as to why the Municipal Corporation is ignoring the issue. We were earlier assured that a new tube well has been installed but it is not being made operational. Our elected representatives too failed to resolve the matter till date.”MC Superintending Engineer Rajinder Singh said the civic body had submitted an application to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited for getting a power supply connection to run the water tube well. Sandeep Sharma, SDO concerned, said once the tube well was made operational, there would be no water supply problem in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-months-on-ludhiana-mc-fails-to-resolve-water-shortage-issue-321363
07-10-2021||---||1,609 waste collectors for 2.56L households, 61K shops in Ludhiana: Survey||Ludhiana, October 6A preliminary survey report prepared by the Municipal Corporation’s health branch revealed that there are 1,609 waste collectors for the door-to-door lifting of garbage in 1,678 colonies or mohallas. There are 2,56,765 households and 61,077 shops in these areas.As per the report, there is less number of waste collectors available for Zone C areas as compared to other zones. Only 82 waste collectors are available for 42,088 households in 143 colonies and 11,453 shops in Zone C of the MC. On an average, a collector has to cover 654 households and shops.As per the report, there are 449 waste collectors for 505 colonies having 56,496 households and 22,874 shops in Zone A while there are 434 collectors for 76,817 households and 17,062 shops in 442 colonies of Zone B.There are 644 maximum collectors for 588 colonies covering 81,364 households and 9,688 shops in Zone D as per the report.Now, the civic body authorities is planning to streamline the door-to-door garbage lifting in the city.MC’s Joint Commissioner Ankur Mahindroo said a physical verification regarding door-to-door collection would be done in the city by the civic body. Once the verification process was done, required steps would be taken to improve the door-to-door collection system, he added.Physical verification to be done in city: officialMC’s Joint Commissioner Ankur Mahindroo said a physical verification regarding door-to-door collection would be done in the city by the civic body. Once the verification process was done, required steps would be taken to improve the door-to-door collection system, the civic body official added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/1-609-waste-collectors-for-2-56l-households-61k-shops-in-ludhiana-survey-321362
07-10-2021||---||Ludhiana Civic body demolishes illegal portion of multi-storey building||Ludhiana, October 6The Municipal Corporation on Wednesday demolished an illegal part of a multi-storey building at Mohalla Naughara here.MC’s Assistant Town Planner at Zone A, Mohan Singh said the top storey of the building was being constructed in an illegal manner without any approval.He said a civic body team in the presence of police personnel demolished the illegal portion in the building today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-civic-body-demolishes-illegal-portion-of-multi-storey-building-321361
07-10-2021||---||Ludhiana Administration celebrates as three million vaccine doses administered||Ludhiana, October 6The district administration on Thursday celebrated the record-breaking achievement of administering 3 millionth anti-Covid vaccine dose on Tuesday in Ludhiana.Congratulating health warriors, including doctors and paramedics for their remarkable efforts in the rare feat, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC)-cum-Nodal Officer, vaccination, Dr Nayan and councillor Mamta Ashu said it would further strengthen our endeavour in the fight against Covid-19.They said Ludhiana was already the leading district in the state by administering 30,41,898 shots to people, including 21,58,459 eligible beneficiaries with the first dose and 88,34,39 people got both doses till October 5 since the vaccination started on January 16 which means 82 per cent population of Ludhiana has received the first dose of the vaccine and nearly 34 per cent are now fully vaccinated.They said vaccine was the only way to conquer the virus and was helping society in returning to normalcy. They said the district administration was leaving no stone unturned by vaccinating every eligible person at the earliest.Two fresh cases of virus reported from districtTwo fresh cases of Covid-19 have been confirmed in Ludhiana district on Wednesday. Of them, one patient came in contact with a Covid patient while another patient is suffering from severe acute respiratory illness.At present, there are 14 active cases in the district.Assistant Civil Surgeon Vivek Kataria said a total of 87,550 patients of Ludhiana district and 11,683 of other districts or states had tested positive for the virus. The Health Department confirmed that 2,103 patients of Ludhiana district and 1,052 patients of other districts or states have died of Covid till date. As many as 6,437 samples were collected for Covid testing today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-administration-celebrates-as-three-million-vaccine-doses-administered-321360
07-10-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district shows the way, leads Punjab in Covid testing||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 6Ludhiana, being the biggest and largest district in terms of area and maximum population of almost 4 million, has been leading the state in the Covid testing, with an average of 7,706 tests daily in September, the government has confirmed.Against the state’s average of 48 per cent, Ludhiana district has been conducting 51 per cent RT-PCR tests of the total testing done daily, official figures have revealed.The daily testing figures compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department, a copy of which is with The Tribune, showed that Ludhiana conducted 51 per cent RT-PCR and 49 per cent rapid antigen tests (RATs) daily between September 22 and 28. However, the state’s average of antigen testing was 52 per cent. A total of 2,31,190 tests were conducted in the district during September.The district-wise tally indicated that Gurdaspur conducted the maximum of 89 per cent antigen and the minimum of 11 per cent RT-PCR tests while Fazilka conducted the maximum of 98 per cent RT-PCR and the minimum of 2 per cent antigen tests in the state.Among other districts, Hoshiarpur conducted 79 per cent antigen and 21 per cent RT-PCR, Faridkot 76 pc antigen 24 pc RT-PCR, Muktsar 73 pc antigen 27 pc RT-PCR, Jalandhar 65 pc antigen 35 pc RT-PCR, Kapurthala 56 pc antigen 44 pc RT-PCR, Moga 51 pc antigen 49 pc RT-PCR, Mohali and Tarn Taran 49 pc antigen 71 pc RT-PCR, Pathankot 42 pc antigen 58 pc RT-PCR, Amritsar 38 pc antigen 62 pc RT-PCR, Nawanshahr 36 pc antigen 64 pc RT-PCR, Patiala 35 pc antigen 65 pc RT-PCR, Barnala 34 pc antigen 66 pc RT-PCR, Fatehgarh Sahib 32 pc antigen 68 pc RT-PCR, Sangrur 30 pc antigen 70 pc RT-PCR, Bathinda 26 pc antigen 74 pc RT-PCR, Ferozepur 25 pc antigen 75 pc RT-PCR, Mansa and Ropar 14 pc antigen 86 pc RT-PCR, and Fazilka conducted 2 pc antigen and 98 pc RT-PCR tests.The differenceRT-PCR: The Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test was considered the most recommended for tracing the infection in individuals suffering from influenza-like symptoms. It uses real-time reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR diagnostic panels for detecting the presence of viral RNA, which was quite accurate. Swab samples were analysed for reagents to identify the presence of the virus. This test can detect the virus even before the emergence of symptoms and aid in isolation, preventing the further spread of infection.RAT: The rapid antigen test (RAT) comes in handy only while detecting symptomatic patients. It was also done by collecting samples from the nose or throat with a swab. Though results can be revealed within 30 minutes, the test was not considered accurate, as it may not read into vital proteins that are part of Covid at initial stages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-shows-the-way-leads-punjab-in-covid-testing-321359
07-10-2021||---||Cracked 94% cases of chain snatching in 13 days, says Ludhiana CP||Ludhiana, October 6The Ludhiana Commissionerate claimed to have solved 94 per cent cases of chain snatching reported in 13 days in the industrial hub.The Commissionerate Police led by Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, who took over the charge on September 22, has been able to considerably control the incidents of chain snatching and trace 94 per cent of the cases with the arrest of 42 accused and 100 per cent recovery of the stolen property.As per details, 51 incidents of chain snatching took place in Ludhiana from September 1 to 21 which was reduced to 18 cases from September 22 to October 4. Besides, the tracing percentage was only 33.33 per cent in the first 21 days of September which increased to 94 per cent in the next 13 days.The police have also recovered stolen property worth Rs 48.34 lakh.The CP said a multi-pronged strategy had been adopted to curb snatching incidents in Ludhiana and a special thrust was being laid on eliminating such incidents by marking hot spots, including Ghumar Mandi Road, DMC Road, Kipps Market, Sarabha Nagar, Urban Estate Dugri, Jalandhar Bypass, Gill Road, Sherpur and Giaspura Chowk, and increasing surveillance through CCTVs and vigil on criminals got bails recently.PCR teams of the city police had been told to be more responsive, prompt and effective for dealing with crime. PCR teams have a lot of responsibility in dealing with any crime as they had been mandated with the job of reaching the crime spot as soon as they get information, Bhullar said.He revealed that special focus was also being laid to ensure prompt and speedy response by police stations and the PCR to any call made by people regarding a crime or mishap.The CP said vigil had also been stepped up in the city and senior officers had been asked to monitor nakas in their area and ensure that every officer discharges their duty efficaciously.“It is just a baby step and the ultimate goal is to make city crime-free. With the active support and cooperation of the public, this target will be achieved in the days to come,” asserted Bhullar.Stolen property worth Rs48.34L recoveredAs per details, 51 incidents of chain snatching took place in Ludhiana from September 1 to 21 which was reduced to 18 cases from September 22 to October 4. Besides, the tracing percentage was only 33.33 per cent in the first 21 days of September which increased to 94 per cent in the next 13 days. The police have also recovered stolen property worth Rs 48.34 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cracked-94-cases-of-chain-snatching-in-13-days-says-ludhiana-cp-321358
