09-10-2021||---||47,044 MT of paddy procured in dist: DC||Ludhiana, October 8 Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Friday said the district administration has so far procured 47,044 metric tonne (MT) of paddy from grain markets in this procurement season that was started on October 3. Divulging details about the procurement and lifting of paddy in the grain markets across the district, Sharma said till date, a total of 51,331 MT of paddy has arrived in the markets, out of which 47,044 MT has already been procured by various procurement agencies, including Pungrain, Markfed, Punsup, Punjab State Warehouse Corporation and the FCI. He said in the last 48 hours, 100 per cent procured paddy has been lifted from the markets. Further, payments worth Rs 44.82 crore have also been made to the farmers, he added. The Deputy Commissioner said paddy has been cultivated on around 2.57 lakh hectare in Ludhiana and around 17.53 lakh MT of paddy is expected to arrive in the grain markets. He said 17.28 lakh MT of paddy was procured in district in the last procurement season. He said apart from 108 regular grain markets in Ludhiana, the administration have also marked 94 temporary yards and 203 mandi yards in mills to decongest the markets for maintaining social distancing during the operations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/47-044-mt-of-paddy-procured-in-dist-dc-322262
09-10-2021||---||Two test positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, October 8Two persons tested positive for Covid, while no death due to the disease was reported in the district today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.58 per cent. Today 14 patients were sent for home isolation, while there are 16 active cases in the district.Till date, a total of 25,56,551 samples have been taken, of which 24,57,314 were found negative. Now the total number of patients belonging to Ludhiana is 87,554, while 11,683 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives to the disease is 2,103 from Ludhiana and 1,052 from other districts.Samples of 5,784 suspected Covid patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the residents to adhere to all safety protocols, like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently of the Punjab Government to not only save themselves but keep everyone around safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-322263
09-10-2021||---||Amritsar man nabbed with 100-gm heroin||Ludhiana, October 8The Anti-Narcotic Cell of the police nabbed a smuggler and recovered 100 gram of heroin from his possession. The smuggler was on the way to deliver the consignment of drugs to his clients.The smuggler has been identified as Manjinder Singh, alias Ravi, resident of Jandiala Guru, Amritsar.Inspector Rajesh Kumar, in-charge of the Anti-Narcotic Cell, said a police party, led by ASI Major Singh, was present near the Tajpur chowk, where on suspicion Manjinder was stopped for checking. During the checking of his belongings 100 gram of heroin was recovered from him.Inspector Rajesh said Manjinder had a notorious past as he was also booked by the Jandiala Guru police in a drug case in 2020. After coming out on bail, Manjinder again started drug smuggling.Manjinder was a daily wager and he started the notorious trade to become rich in a short span of time.Inspector Rajesh said Manjinder had bought the drug from some big heroin smuggler, namely Saab, living in Jandiala Guru, and now he had to sell the same to his clients in the Ludhiana district.A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against Manjinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/amritsar-man-nabbed-with-100-gm-heroin-322264
09-10-2021||---||Robber who fled from police custody nabbed||Ludhiana, October 8The police nabbed a robber who had fled from their custody about two days back.The robber has been identified as Deepak, alias Deepu, resident of Chitti Colony, Salem Tabri.Additional DCP-I Pragya Jain in a statement said on October 4 Deepak was arrested by the Daresi police and then the police had also recovered one motorcycle, two mobile phones from him.The ADCP said he was remanded in two-day police custody. On October 6, when his police remand ended, he was being taken to court in a private vehicle by two policemen. The moment car reached a petrol pump for refilling fuel at Chawni Mohalla, Deepak pushed the policemen away and fled with the handcuffs on.“We launched a hunt to trace him. Several private CCTV cameras and smart city cameras were minutely scanned to get clues about him. Our efforts bore fruit when our team zeroed in on the accused at Bhattian village on Thursday evening and he was arrested,” added ADCP Jain.The ADCP said after escaping from the custody of the police, Deepak had also stolen a bicycle from Chawni Mohalla. The police also recovered the stolen bicycle from him.The police had already registered a fresh case against Deepak on the day he escaped from police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/robber-who-fled-from-police-custody-nabbed-322265
09-10-2021||Legal Correspondent||Man gets 10-year rigorous imprisonment for rape||Ludhiana, October 8Additional Sessions Judge Rashmi Sharma has convicted Manpreet Singh, alias Mani, resident of Mohalla New Kuldeep Nagar, Basti Jodhewal, Ludhiana. He was facing accusations of alluring and taking a girl to a local hotel on the pretext of interview for a job and then raping her.He was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years. A fine of Rs 20,000 was also imposed upon the convict. The court also made recommendations to the District Legal Services Authority for providing suitable compensation under the Victim Compensation Scheme.Divulging details, Special Public Prosecutor SS Haider said the prosecution examined 13 witnesses to prove the guilt of the accused.A case against Manpreet Singh was registered on September 1, 2019 at the Division No 7 police station following the complaint of the victim.The complainant had stated to the police that Manpreet Singh met her on July 11, 2019, on Tajpur Road, Ludhiana, and allured her by getting her a job. Manpreet Singh also gave her his mobile number. She called him in connection with the job. Thereafter they continued to have telephonic conversation with each other.On July 23, 2019, Manpreet Singh took her and her brother from their house. Near Shivpuri, Manpreet Singh dropped her brother from Activa. He then took her to a hotel near Bus Stand. Then she was taken to the third floor of the hotel in a room by proclaiming that an employer would come there for job interview. When she refused to enter the room, Manpreet Singh caught hold of her arm, dragged her inside and bolted the door. Manpreet Singh raped her, made a video and started blackmailing her. Manpreet Singh also threatened to kill her and her brother, added the complainant.However, Manpreet Singh pleaded innocence and claimed false implication. But after appreciating the evidence on record, the court found him guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-gets-10-year-rigorous-imprisonment-for-rape-322267
09-10-2021||---||EPFO to organise camp for Aadhaar card amendments||Ludhiana, October 8The Employees Provident Fund Office (EPFO) will organise a camp for the PF members facing issues of Aadhaar card amendment. The camp will be organised on October 12-13 and people wanting amendments to Aadhaar cards can get the same done.Regional Provident Fund Commissioner Dheeraj Gupta said PF members are being communicated about the camp through various mediums. The camp would be organised from 10 am to 5 pm.Gupta said due to the lack of amendment to Aadhaar cards, many PF members are not able to file monthly electronic challan-cum-return.“Many PF members have raised issues that since there Aadhaar cards are not updated, their PF record is also not being updated. We will try to amend maximum number of Aadhaar cards in the two-day camp. We urge all PF members to take benefit of the camp and set their PF record in order,” revealed Regional Provident Fund Commissioner Dheeraj Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/epfo-to-organise-camp-for-aadhaar-card-amendments-322268
09-10-2021||Nitin Jain||Big push to state paediatric healthcare on the anvil||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 8To thwart the possible third Covid wave and strengthen the existing healthcare system, a big push to the paediatric health services is on the anvil in the state, the government has said.A whopping 1,114 additional beds, including 790 level 2 and 324 level 3, will be added to district hospitals and medical colleges across the state, a senior government functionary told The Tribune, here on Friday. The development assumes significance as a large number of critical and serious patients in dire need of hospitalisation and life support were not able to get hospital beds during the devastating second Covid wave as the health infrastructure was completely hard-pressed with both government and private hospitals left with no vacant beds, mainly in May.According to the proposal prepared by the state government, a copy of which is with The Tribune, as many as 946 beds, including 670 level 2 and 276 level 3, will be added to district hospitals while 168 more beds, comprising 120 level 2 and 48 level 3, will be supplemented to the four medical colleges in the state, exclusively for the paediatric health services.At present, there are 90 level 2 beds for paediatric care in the district hospitals while 91 beds, including 54 NICU and 37 PICU, were available in the three medical colleges in the state.Under the proposed bed augmentation, 30 level 2 beds and 12 level 3 beds will be added to each of the total 23 district hospitals and all four medical colleges in Amritsar, Faridkot, Patiala, and Mohali (upcoming).Besides, the government has also proposed to add 3,518 level 2 beds and 145 level 3 beds for adult patients to the district hospitals of the state.With this, the total bed count will reach 14,701 level 2, including 11,183 existing and 3,518 proposed, and 3,163 level 3, including 3,018 existing and 145 proposed at both government and private hospitals in the state.“The private sector is being encouraged to add more level 2 and 3 beds to facilitate the maximum patients requiring hospitalisation in case of any emergency,” the official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/big-push-to-state-paediatric-healthcare-on-the-anvil-322269
09-10-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||Chaos as primary students told to attend classes at pvt school||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 8A ruckus was witnessed at BCM School, Shastri Nagar, today as the school management asked students of primary classes to attend the school physically from today onwards.A huge rush of students and parents was witnessed in the school during which all Covid norms were thrown to the winds during school hours.Parents of a student said the school had made it mandatory for primary students to attend physical classes. Not only that, they had stopped the online classes in an abrupt manner.The students were jostling with each other to reach their classes. The parents looked panicky and many of them condemned the school management for the “mismanagement” as the students looked confused.Another parent said: ”They have opened physical classes from Class II to V. There should not be any pressure to attend the classes. Moreover, they could have asked students to come to school turn wise or day wise. Look at the rush, how can we feel safe for our kids?”.Principal Paramjit Kaur, however, said students came to school after over 18 months and the school authorities were helpless as equal number of parents turned up at the school to ensure safety of the children.“We had to manage both parents and students. But from Monday onwards, we will call students of only a few classes and proper social distancing will be maintained among students. As far as online classes are concerned, these will continue,” the principal said.‘will call students of few classes from monday’“We had to manage both parents and students on Friday. But from Monday onwards, we will call students of only a few classes and proper social distancing will be maintained among students. As far as online classes are concerned, these will continue,” Principal Paramjit Kaur said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/chaos-as-primary-students-told-to-attend-classes-at-pvt-school-322270
09-10-2021||Mahesh Sharma||Reach Lakhimpur Kheri for bhog of ‘martyred’ farmers: SKM to people||Mandi Ahmedgarh/Raikot/ Payal, October 8Office-bearers and activists of various constituents of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) have started persuading sympathisers of the ongoing farmers’ struggle for participation in a joint bhog ceremony of four farmers and a journalist who were killed in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri incident on Sunday.Activists of various outfits supporting the farmers’ struggle to get three controversial laws repealed are expected to gather at the venue of the bhog ceremony, where the next plan of action will be drafted by SKM leaders.President, Bhartiya Kissan Union (Kadian), Harmeet Singh Kadian said final decision on the national-level protest would be taken at Lakhimpur Kheri on Tuesday after paying tributes to four farmers and one journalist who were mowed down by vehicles driven and occupied by BJP activists, led by Union Minister of State Ajay Mishra’s son on Sunday.“As the UP Government has failed to satisfy farmers by arresting the main accused Ashish Mishra and has been trying to shield him, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha will be compelled to intensify the stir, further action plan of which be drafted at Lakhimpur Kheri after the bhog ceremony of martyred farmers,” said Kadian, maintaining that the government should hold a transparent probe by judicial committee under supervision of a Supreme Court Judge after removing Ajay Mishra from the Union Government.All India Kisan Sabha leader Baldev Singh Latala said the office-bearers and activists of various constituents of the Samyukt Kisan Morchahad already started organising meeting to persuade masses to reach Lakhimpur Kheri on October 12 to participate in a joint bhog ceremony of ‘martyred’ farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/reach-lakhimpur-kheri-for-bhog-of-martyred-farmers-skm-to-people-322271
09-10-2021||Ludhiana||UP Govt trying to protect culprits of Lakhimpur Kheri violence, says BKU||Condemning the violence against peacefully protesting farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, the Bharti Kisan Union-Kadian (BKU) has alleged that the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in Uttar Pradesh was making nefarious efforts to protect real culprits. Rather than registering cases against the perpetrators, the state police had helped Ashish Mishra in escaping from the spot and even now, sincere efforts were not being made to apprehend Ashish Mishra and other culprits, said BKU president Harmeet Singh Kadian.The BKU president said three police teams formed in Uttar Pradesh was just an eyewash to befool the public and the aggrieved farmers.“Real purpose of these police teams is to save the culprits, and especially Ashish Mishra, son of the Union Minister of State,” he said.Kadian demanded a judicial probe of the killing of farmers under the supervision of the apex court, immediate arrest of Ashish and other culprits and dismissal of the Union Minister of State from the Cabinet as till he remained in the office, an impartial probe into the incident was not possible.The BKU leader said farmers’ bodies would chalk out a strategy for further agitation to seek justice after the bhog and ‘antim ardas’ of the martyred farmers on October 12. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/up-govt-trying-to-protect-culprits-of-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-says-bku-322272
09-10-2021||Manav Mander
||City boy assembles electric cart for his school||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, October 8 City boy Abhisaar Chetan Sudhakar has designed and assembled an electric golf cart, utilising his free time during the Covid-induced lockdown. As a Class XII student of The Doon School, he has seen parents and grandparents walking long distances on the school campus to meet their wards. This was the reason he came up with an idea of a golf cart. Being a science student, he has always enjoyed mechanics and the idea of practising his passion sustainably was something he was really excited about. “I had done initial research on developing a hydrogen-powered vehicle for my school community. However, considering potential risks associated with hydrogen as a fuel made me drop the idea. Electric vehicle industry is an upcoming market, which motivated me to instead make an electric powered vehicle as this too would belong to the sustainable category,” said Sudhakar. He got the idea of the electric vehicle approved from the school and the funding was also ready. However, the school closed down a few days later due to Covid. “I still wanted to work on the project and restarted my research in my hometown to find spare parts. I found parts from a Maruti 800 car and borrowed an auto-rickshaw body as welding the whole body was not easy for me. I took training on welding and grinding in a factory after which I assembled my own electric vehicle at home. The entire process was carried out at home, except the paint process for which it went to another factory,” he shared. Sudhakar is really excited about the project and now, the cart has been taken to his school. “I live on a 70-acre campus in Dehradun and this is what had motivated me to develop a fully functional vehicle for the school. Students’ parents and grandparents often visit the school and, hence, it can be used as a transportation tool for them on the premises. Not only for visitors, but it can also be used in case of an emergency. My project can be of great value to my alma mater,” he said. Sharing his future plans, he said he plans to further enhance his vehicle by powering it with solar panels which would reduce its running cost and make it completely sustainable with no dependence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/city-boy-assembles-electric-cart-for-his-school-322273
09-10-2021||---||Fulfil employees’ demands: Assn||Ludhiana, October 8Members of the Punjab State Khajana Karamchari Association submitted a memorandum, addressed to the Punjab Government, of their demands to District Treasury Officer Rashpal Singh Sidhu today.Tejinder Singh Dhillon, president of the Ludhiana district unit of the association, said the demands of employees were pending for a long period.They demanded the promotion of treasury officials, superintendents, clerks and other staff members at the Treasury Office. They also demanded the recruitment of employees to fill the vacant posts in the office. Besides, they also highlighted their other pending demands in the memorandum.The members said they had sent reminders many times to the government but their demands had not been fulfilled till date. In the memorandum, they demanded from the government to meet their demands at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fulfil-employees-demands-assn-322274
09-10-2021||Harshraj Singh
||‘Political parties must list out environmental manifestoes’||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, October 8 Ahead of the state Assembly elections to be held in early 2022, political parties have intensified their activities to attract voters. Most political parties, however, are least bothered regarding various issues related to the environment. Now, a member of the Special Task Force for Buddha Dariya, Col Jasjit Singh Gill (retd) has sought from all political parties to list out their ‘environmental manifestoes’ for the upcoming Assembly elections. He wants that concrete steps must be taken to control air, water and soil pollution and the political parties should clear their stand in this regard. “Environmental manifesto should be a legal sworn document with clauses for penalty and losing ones mandate if legal commitments are not fulfilled as per the time-bound plan. The manifesto blueprint should have commitment clauses to resolve environment-related issues. The parties should make commitment to follow the message as enunciated by Guru Nanak Dev putting the environment at the same pedestal as our dear parents.” He said: “The political parties should disclose how they are going to stop pollution of Punjab’s waters? What are plans to provide clean breathable air to citizens of the state. How the party thinks to stop the degradation of soil and improve the soil health?” Notably, untreated sewage, industrial, dairy and solid waste is being dumped in Buddha Nullah for decades and it further pollutes the Sutlej. Environmental activists are also opposing the state government’s proposed modern industrial park to be set up near Mattewara Forest and the Sutlej as they said if any industry was set up at this eco-sensitive zone, it would harm the environment. Colonel Gill said political parties should also plan to ensure the transparent functioning of the Punjab Pollution Control Board. Those polluting Punjab drinking and irrigation waters should be strictly dealt with. He said the parties should disclose that if they were interested in establishing green courts and environmental police stations to stop pollution-related crimes. They must share their plan to increase the green cover in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/political-parties-must-list-out-environmental-manifestoes-322275
09-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Teachers burning paddy stubble to face action||Mandi Ahmedgarh/ Raikot/ Payal, October 8To execute anti-stubble burning measures more effectively at the grass-roots level, the state government, led by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, has also involved senior functionaries of the Department of School Education, making them accountable against burning of crop residue in fields owned by employees and teachers working under them.Teachers and employees of all government and private schools have been told to refrain from burning agricultural wastes in fields owned or cultivated by them. Violators have been warned of disciplinary action, as per rules and regulations of the department.School heads of the area affirmed that the employees had already been advised to shun stubble burning and play an active role in spreading awareness regarding the same.Perusal of a circular received at offices of District Education Officers and all heads of schools of the region falling under Ludhiana and Malerkotla districts, said the Secretary, School Education, had advised all stakeholders to ensure that agricultural wastes in fields should not disposed of by burning.“In pursuance of guidelines of the Department of Science, Technology and Environment, it is being written that no employee or teacher of the Education Department should burn paddy stubble and students should be educated about deleterious effects of burning of the menace. Teachers and employees violating these guidelines will face disciplinary action,” reads the circular. It was learnt that the circular was written following a meeting of senior functionaries of various departments that was held to review action-taken reports by stakeholder departments and preparedness for checking and controlling stubble burning in the border state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/teachers-burning-paddy-stubble-to-face-action-322276
09-10-2021||---||Shiv Sena leader held for using fake number plate||Ludhiana, October 8The Crime Wing today arrested Shiv Sena leader Rahul Dua for using a fake number plate on his Toyota Fortuner.The CIA-II Wing of the city police on a tip-off nabbed Rahul Dua at a naka.Inspector Parveen Kumar, in-charge, CIA-II Wing, said Rahul Dua had recently purchased the Fortuner on which a bank loan of Rs 7.5 lakh was pending.Despite knowing that bank loan is pending on the vehicle, Rahul Dua purchased it thinking that being a Shiv Sena leader he has influence in the society and he could easily befool the bank and police, Inspector Parveen Kumar said.After buying the vehicle, Rahul Dua put a fake number, PB10EX0005, on it, whereas the number belongs to another Fortuner, owned by Vishesh Arora of Moti Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/shiv-sena-leader-held-for-using-fake-number-plate-322277
