10-10-2021||Ludhiana||CME dwells on tropical fever||Infections pertaining to ‘tropical fever’ are quite common in different parts of country. Some of these occur throughout the year and some especially in rainy and post-rainy season. It gives really a tough time to healthcare givers, including doctors and nurses, to manage this disease.To address complications and consequences of this troublesome scenario, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital under the guidance of Professor and head, Microbiology, Dr Veenu Gupta, held a CME on “Tropical fever-An update”, which was attended by around 200 delegates from different medical colleges of the country.Addressing the CME, Dr Gupta said, “Every year different parts of India are hit by seasonal fevers in the post monsoon period. These fevers include dengue, malaria, scrub typhus, leptospirosis, typhoid and some other fevers, leading to high morbidity and mortality. A large number of patients require intensive care like mechanical ventilation, renal replacements therapy, vasopressor support, blood and blood component therapy due to single or multi-organ failure.”During the CME, scientific sessions on various issues pertaining to tropical fever were moderated by faculty members from various medical institutions, including Dr Gagandeep Singh Grover, Assistant Director, State Programme Officer, Dr Manisha Biswal from the PGIMER, Chandigarh, and others from the Department of Medicine and Community Medicine, DMCH. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/cme-dwells-on-tropical-fever-322672
10-10-2021||---||Police foil dacoity, 5 nabbed||Ludhiana, October 9The city police have busted a gang of robbers who were planning to commit a major dacoity in the city and arrested five of its members.The accused have been identified as Rajinder Kumar of Ram Nagar, Vikas, alias Kekra, of Prem Nagar, Ranbir Singh, alias Bunty, of Jaspal Bangar, Shiv Kumar, alias Shiva, of the Dhillon chowk area and Ashish Kumar, a resident of Mahadev Nagar.ADCP Jaskiranjit Singh Teja while addressing a press conference said a tip-off was received that the gang was planning to commit a major dacoity in some bank and the accused were sitting at some isolated place near Kanganwal.Accordingly, the police conducted a raid and nabbed the accused. The police also recovered several sharp weapons, four mobile phones and two motorcycles from the gang members. The recovered motorcycles were stolen by the accused from city areas in the past.During questioning, the accused confessed that they had formed a gang of robbers and had committed many loot incidents in city areas, including Shimlapuri, Daba, Dehlon and Sahnewal in the past, the ADCP said.All accused had a notorious past as cases of loot were already registered against them at city police stations and now after coming out on bail, they again started committing crime.Weapons, cell phones, 2 bikes recoveredThe police recovered several sharp weapons, four mobile phones and two motorcycles from the five gang members. The recovered motorcycles were stolen by them from city areas in the past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/police-foil-dacoity-5-nabbed-322660
10-10-2021||Our Correspondent||3 held with 128 fake gold coins||Doraha, October 9In a special campaign initiated by the Khanna police against drug trafficking and misdemeanours, the Doraha police succeeded in busting a gang of miscreants engaged in the business of duping innocent people by selling fake gold coins to them and arresting all three members of the gang.Under the guidelines of Khanna SSP Gursharandeep Singh Grewal, SP (I), Khanna, Manpreet Singh, and Payal DSP Devinder Kumar, Doraha SHO Nachattar Singh and SI Hardam Singh laid a naka near Rajwant Hospital, Doraha, when on a tip-off, they stopped a white Mahindra scorpio vehicle (bearing registration no. RJ 02 UA 8734) and caught hold of three persons from Rajasthan and seized 128 fake gold coins from them. They have been identified as Majahid Khan and Ins Khan, residents of Karoli in Rajasthan, and Rakesh Kumar of Kishangarh in Rajasthan.They used to enter houses and ask residents to purchase gold coins from them in return for their hard- earned money. They were coming from the Khanna side and going towards Doraha to sell the fake coins.Doraha SHO Nachattar Singh said a case under Sections 419, 420, 467 and 468 of the IPC had been registered against the accused, who were presented before the court today. They have been sent to a one-day police remand.“In the past few days, the police have achieved major success in its campaign against drug trafficking and misdemeanours. Huge quantities of intoxicating drugs, including heroin, ganja and other habit- forming drugs were also seized,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/3-held-with-128-fake-gold-coins-322661
10-10-2021||---||Three of snatchers’ gang arrested||Ludhiana, October 9The city police have busted a gang of snatchers and arrested three of its members. The police also recovered a motorcycle, 10 mobile phones and two sharp weapons from the accused.The accused have been identified as Ishant Srivastav (20) of Dada Motors street, Tibba; Sunny Singh, alias Bhatha (23), of Meharban and Mani Kumar of Shimlapuri.ADCP Rupinder Kaur Sra and ACP Davinder Chaudhary, conducted a press meet regarding the matter.The ADCP said a tip-off was received that the accused were running a gang of snatchers and they were roaming near the Subash Nagar chowk to sell snatched mobile phones. Later, the police party laid a naka at a strategic point where the accused were arrested.She said the accused also had a notorious past as they were booked by the Basti Jodhewal and Jamalpur police in snatching cases registered in the past.Revealing about the modus operandi of the gang, the ADCP said the gang used to target women and migrant labourers during night or wee hours. After looting phones, the gang used to sell the same at some mobile shops or to their fixed clients.She said the police would identify all persons to whom the gang had sold the snatched phones and the same would be recovered to hand over to their real owners.The police remand of the accused would be sought to inquire about their role in the past incidents of snatching.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/three-of-snatchers-gang-arrested-322662
10-10-2021||---||Two fresh cases in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, October 9Two persons tested positive for Covid while no death was reported in the district today. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.58 per cent. Fifteen persons were sent for home isolation while there are 17 active cases. At present, no patient is undergoing treatment for Covid at any hospital in the district.A total of four patients (two new patients from Ludhiana district and two from other states/districts) have tested positive in the past 24 hours.Till date, a total of 25,69,607 samples have been taken, of which 24,70,366 samples were found negative. The total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,556 while 11,685 patients belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,103 persons from Ludhiana and 1,052 from other districts.Whenever the district administration or the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out about any positive or suspected Covid patients, their samples are sent for testing. As many as 7,272 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-fresh-cases-in-ludhiana-district-322663
10-10-2021||Ludhiana||Convict among two held with 820-gm heroin||The Special Task Force (STF) wing of Ludhiana nabbed two persons and recovered 820 gram of heroin and Rs 22,500 drug money from their possession. One of the smugglers is a convict in a drug case.The accused have been identified as Harjit Singh Happy (30) of Phullawan and Gurpreet Singh Billu (28) of Satjot Nagar. Ludhiana STF in-charge Inspector Harbans Singh said acting on a tip-off, a raid was conducted at Satjot Nagar from where the accused were nabbed by the STF team. The duo had concealed drugs in the dicky of a Honda Activa scooter. Inspector Harbans said both smugglers were drug addicts and they were into the illegal trade for many years.Harjit had a notorious past as he was already convicted in a drug case registered at the Dugri police station. About two years ago, he had come out on parole but he did not return to jail and was declared a proclaimed offender by court. Harbans said further probe was on to bust the e||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/convict-among-two-held-with-820-gm-heroin-322664
10-10-2021||Ludhiana||Unhygienic meat: Civic body issues 19 challans||The MC on Saturday issued 19 challans against sale of illegally slaughtered and unhygienic meat. MC teams also seized nearly three quintal of meat from shops in the city. On the instructions of MC Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, the civic body has started a special drive to check the sale of unhygienic meat, said Harbans Dhalla, MC’s senior veterinary officer. A team conducted inspections in Zone C and D while another visited Zone A and B. Dr Dhalla said 15 challans were issued in Zone C & D and  four in Zone A & B. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu has urged meat shop owners to avail facilities at the MC’s Modern Slaughter House which had been upgraded with modern facilities. The drive would be continued and action would be taken against violators. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/unhygienic-meat-civic-body-issues-19-challans-322665
10-10-2021||---||Intensify fogging in city, minister tells MC staff||Ludhiana, October 9To check the spread of vector-borne diseases, including dengue, Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu today issued strict instructions to Municipal Corporation (MC) officials to intensify fogging in all wards of the city.He also directed Health Department officials to carry out a special checking against dengue larvae.A special meeting in this regard was chaired by the Cabinet Minister at the Mayor Camp office here today. The meeting was also attended by Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, councillors and officials of the MC and the Health Department.Ashu also directed the MC and Health Department officials for carrying out a survey to check dengue larvae in residential and commercial parts of the city. He also directed them to form special teams in this regard and generate awareness among people in the city to prevent the spread of dengue.Ashu directed the officials to intensify fogging in all wards of the city, focussing on streets and vacant plots to kill mosquitoes and destroy the larvae breeding in stagnant water.He said vulnerable places where the larvae of mosquitoes could breed easily must be identified and action must be taken immediately. Besides the checking drive, residents must be made aware of breeding grounds of mosquitoes such as air coolers, tea cups, old utensils among others.Ashu also assured residents that he was personally keeping a close watch to check the spread of dengue.No fogging in many areas, complain residentsResidents in different areas complained that fogging was not being conducted in their respective streets. Sher Singh, president of the Environmental and Welfare Association of New Janta Nagar and Shimlapuri, said: “I live in street number 7 of New Janta Nagar. Fogging has not been done in our street. It is the responsibility of the MC and other departments concerned to take requisite steps for the prevention of dengue.”Sukhwinder Singh of Dhandari Khurd in Ward 28 said: “The MC did nothing to resolve the problem of overflowing sewage in village streets while no fogging was conducted here for the prevention of dengue this season.”Notably, Dhandari Khurd is a sensitive area.Councillor from ward number 2 Gurmail Singh Jajji said the big fogging machine was sent to the ward a few times this season. A number of areas are yet to be covered with the big fogging machine by the MC.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said fogging was being done in all areas of the city. All councillors had been given small fogging machines.“If residents have any complaints, they should ask their ward councillor to get fogging conducted,” he said.‘identify high-risk areas’Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu directed MC officials to identify high-risk areas and give special attention to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/intensify-fogging-in-city-minister-tells-mc-staff-322666
10-10-2021||Harshraj Singh||Unscheduled power cuts in  district add to residents’ woes||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 9Unscheduled power cuts imposed in various parts of the district have made life difficult for residents. In several areas, power cuts are imposed for up to five hours at different intervals. Residents said no prior information regarding such power cuts was provided to them by the authorities concerned.Meanwhile, in a message Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) shared “There is an acute shortage of coal in the country”. The PSPCL appealed to consumers to conserve power by switching off lights, devices and air conditioners when not required.A resident of Punjab Mata Nagar, Satish Sachdeva said, “Power cuts are imposed without providing any prior information to us. Thus, people are forced to bear inconvenience. The government and the PSPCL authorities must take required steps to resolve the problem at the earliest.”A resident of Aggar Nagar Enclave, Jaswinder Kaur said, “We faced power cut up to five hours at different intervals till today evening. It’s inconvenient for us. The government must take required steps to improve power supply.”Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, many people work online from homes while many students study online too. A resident of BRS Nagar, Satinder Singh said, “Power cuts were imposed multiple times since today morning. Although we have an inverter for power backup, but it can be used for only limited hours. Besides, its usage depends upon the battery performance. Children have to study online too. If the situation continues to remain same, we will suffer more in the coming days.”A resident of Baddowal village, Lakhvir Singh said, “Power cuts are being imposed for the past few days in our village. No information is provided to us as to why power supply is cut during the season.”Notably, long scheduled power cuts for maintenance are also imposed in some parts of the city. Sources in the PSPCL said, “Power cuts are being imposed across the state due to shortage of coal to run thermal power plants.” The Chief Engineer, Ludhiana, Bhupinder Khosla, could not be contacted for his comments on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/unscheduled-power-cuts-in-district-add-to-residents-woes-322667
10-10-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj
||Man kidnaps mediator’s son after rejection of marriage proposal by Canada-based girl||Tribune News Service Ludhiana, October 9 After a marriage proposal with Canada-based Indian girl turned ugly a man kidnapped mediator’s son. The incident happened when the mediator refused to return Rs5 lakh taken in advance from the boy for getting the marriage finalised, but the deal could not be completed. The Jagraon police registered a kidnapping case against the boy and his aides. The accused has been identified as Gaurav Goyal of Jagraon. His accomplices involved in the crime have been identified as Sanjiv Kumar, Lalli Dhillon, Soni, and Shebi, all residents of Jagraon.  Complainant Manpreet Kaur of Jagraon told the police that her cousin lives in Canada and she had finalised her marriage with Gaurav. In lieu, a deal of Rs30 lakh was finalised and the accused had given Rs5 lakh in advance to her. “Due to some reasons marriage proposal was rejected by my cousin. Now, the accused is demanding his Rs5 lakh back, but I could not return the amount. On October 8, the accused kidnapped my son from Jagraon. His aide, Sanjiv called and informed me that my son would be returned only if I gave them Rs5 lakh,” alleged complainant. Investigation officer ASI Balvir Chand said after registering a case yesterday, Gaurav and Sanjiv were arrested and kidnapped boy was recovered safely. Raids were on to nab the remaining accused, he added. In another case, one Ajay Singh of Canada was booked by the Dakha police on the charge of dumping his spouse in India after marriage. Complainant Manjit Kaur of Shimlapuri, Ludhiana, told the police that she solemnised marriage with the accused in January 2020. In February 2020, the accused, along with his family members, returned to Canada. The complainant alleged that a few months ago she had arguments with the accused over his dowry demands due to which he stopped the proceedings of her visa application for Canada.  Investigation officer ASI Pritam Masih said after registering a case against the NRI, further probe was launched.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-kidnaps-mediators-son-after-rejection-of-marriage-proposal-by-canada-based-girl-322668
10-10-2021||Ludhiana||Anti-sabotage team steps up vigil, checks rly station, bus stand, mall||The anti-sabotage team of the city police today conducted a surprise checking at various places in view of the festive season. Dog and bomb squads thoroughly checked the bus stand, railway station, Pavillion Mall, and Kips Market today. Even security arrangements by management of these places were also reviewed.The anti-sabotage team led by the SHO, police division No. 4, Jaspal Singh, also conducted checking at the Daresi ground where Dasehra celebrations are already on.The SHO said, “Dasehra is celebrated with fervour at the Daresi ground. The police today checked every nook and corner of the ground. Persons present at the ground were frisked and their ID proofs checked.” Cops had been deployed in civvies in and around the Daresi ground to keep eye on anti-social elements, the SHO added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/anti-sabotage-team-steps-up-vigil-checks-rly-station-bus-stand-mall-322669
10-10-2021||Sprots Correspondent||Ludhiana script 8-wkt facile win over Ropar||Ludhiana, October 9Hosts Ludhiana scripted a facile victory by eight wickets over Ropar in the fourth and last group B league encounter of the Punjab State Inter-District (U-25) One Day Cricket Tournament, played at GRD Academy ground, on Hambran Road, here on Saturday.This was second win for Ludhiana. They were already out of contention in the ongoing tournament. Mohali with three wins from as many matches tops the table while Moga with two victories after three ties, followed them at the second spot whereas Ropar with one win and Fatehgarh Sahib yet to open their account too have made an exit.Batting first, Ropar scored 188 runs in 47.2 overs in which the main contributions came through Nitin Kamboj, Resham Sharma, Kunwarjeet Singh and skipper Madhav Pathania, who chipped in with 74, 26, 24 and 20 runs, respectively.For Ludhiana, Rishi was the main wicket taker, scalping four victims after conceding 38 runs in 10 overs. Sanyam Gill accounted for two wickets for seven runs while Harshit Takkar, Aradhya Shukla, Nehal Wadhera and Siddhant Om Tiwari captured one wicket each.Ludhiana required 33.2 overs to achieve the target. They accomplished the task after losing two wickets. Skipper, former India U-19 player, Nehal Wadhera led from the front, playing a fiery innings of 83 runs off 52 balls, studded with 11 boundaries and four sixes.Tikshan Tangri remained unbeaten on 59 runs while Bharat Madhok contributed 28 runs and Harshit Takkar was not out on 10. The two wickets were shared between Kawalpreet Singh and Resham Sharma. Resham claimed one for 25 and Singh took one for 15. For his useful batting contribution of 83 runs, Ludhiana skipper Nehal Wadhera was adjudged the player of the match.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-script-8-wkt-facile-win-over-ropar-322670
10-10-2021||Ahmedgarh||30 teachers attend skill development workshop||Lions Club Greater in association with Lions Quest in India Foundation organised “Skill for adolescence” (SFA), a comprehensive workshop at Dyanand Adarsh Vidyalya Senior Secondary School here on Saturday. The event, inaugurated by Dr Sunit Hind, aimed to train teachers of various schools to develop social, emotional and intellectual skills in students, besides tackling problems arising during adolescence.Ravinder Verma and Sat Pal Jindal chaired inaugural and concluding sessions of the workshop. The training was conducted by international quest trainer Rekha Shah.Gagan Singh, event convener, informed that 30 teachers participated in the programme. Rekha Shah said there were more chances of students losing in competitive world if they were not provided confidence, thrust and guidance by their teachers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/30-teachers-attend-skill-development-workshop-322671
