11-10-2021||A card to lure voters||Open House: Should sops or good governance be priority of political parties for seeking votes?||Playing the promise card with an aim to lure voters, every political party, in its election manifesto offers freebies. Whatever be the reason, people living in poor economic conditions just walk into political trap. As instant gratification like free electricity, ration etc are offered by political parties. Today, society needs a virtuous, consensus oriented and not a demagogic leader. Therefore, while opting for a candidate, good governance should take precedence over freebies.Novin ChristopherKeep non-performers out of pollsPolitical offer freebies before elections to win loyalty of voters. However, this practice shakes roots of free and fair polls. Parties should seek votes on the basis of good governance and past performance. Non-performers are supposed to be kept out of elections whether for Assembly or for parliament, which are ‘The temples of Indian democracy’.Sagar GambhirNot good for welfare of stateLuring electorate is not a good for the welfare of the state. Good governance is the need of the hour. Candidates, who work with for the well-being of the public can easily draw attention of voters. No doubt, laws are there to prevent such activities, but these are not implemented properly. It has been seen in many cases that even alcohol and drugs are offered to the electorate. Political parties should refrain themselves from offering freebies during polls. Besides, such kinds of activities should be strictly banned.Ritu PriyaTemporary refuge from problemsFor sure, we must prioritise good governance over freebies. It is true that many politicians try to draw voters by offering them free sops. This is a wrong practice. These sops are a temporary refuge from our problems. The permanent solution to our problems is election of an honest, sincere and gentle candidate, who is truly be worried about his constituency. He/she will be genuinely interested in the public welfare and not about his own selfish motive of just winning the elections by hook or crook. The ones, who offer sops during the election must be politely refused by the public. Instead, the public should demand good governance. The freebies, if any, must be only for the poor.Bir Devinder Singh BediA practise uncalled forAlthough all parties and leaders are well aware of the financial condition of the state, they are announcing multiple freebies to woo voters for upcoming Assembly elections. This practise is totally unwanted and uncalled for and is nothing short of hitting below the belt. Only good governance can pay rich dividends.Dr Sunil ChopraResist such practise of politiciansEach political party prepares an election manifesto giving details of promises like free electricity or water or low taxes to garner votes it will fulfil once elected. Some parties even pay cash to voters staying in slums while others distribute blankets or goods needed by them. However, none is sure if all listed promises will be fulfilled after the political party concerned come to power in the state. Such practise of luring voters with financial incentives was not in vogue in previous elections. Perhaps earlier politicians were strong individuals. The Indian electorate is mature and must resist such practices of politicians. It will help in controlling this menace.Gautam DevParties’ only concern is winning electionsLudhiana is industry capital of Punjab. The main problems of this city are mushrooming illegal colonies, which are disturbing nature and wildlife, under the garb of development supported by ruling dispensations, copying alien cultures not suitable for a country like India, which has its own rich culture, history and traditions, unending traffic snarls and pollution. Instead of solving such issues politicians and their parties are more concerned about wining in the Assembly elections by offering freebies to voters. Good governance has taken a back seat. These self-serving politicians should follow the path of Prime Ministers like Jawaharlal Nehru and Lal Bahadur Shastri and Punjab Chief Minister Partap Singh Kairon, who were true Congressmen.Bobby WiseguyLot of expectations from leadersThere are a lot of expectations from elected leaders. People cast their votes for development of their respective areas. They must vote on the basis of merit, credibility and personality of the candidate irrespective of the party line. Leader, who fails to fulfil genuine demands of people, should be rejected. There must be provision to recall elected candidate if he/she fails to fulfil his/her promises. People need regular and uninterpreted water and electricity supply at affordable rates and not as freebies. Don’t vote for candidates who offer sops. People only want development, education, health facilities, good roads and pollution-free city and nothing else.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiState exchequer will be in redDespite knowing the fact that freebies will put state exchequer in the red zone, political parties are competing with each other to lure voters by following this practise. There are examples like state gives phones, laptops, grinders, bicycles, free electricity and water and transportation to voters. Winning elections and good governance are two different things. Providing healthcare, affordable education and housing and uninterrupted essential services like electricity and water are responsibilities of any elected government. Using freebies to lure voters is not good practise. Voters’ greediness creates problem in electing a good leader. If we don’t have a good leader, democracy will turn into mockery.RS SembhiLeaders must commit to fulfil promisesVoters should demand list of previous promises made by leaders and those fulfilled. Leaders, who don’t come up to voters’ expectations, should not be allowed to stand in elections. People should demand regular supply of water, electricity, loan at nominal rates, good education and treatment in hospitals at affordable prices. They must seek commitment from leaders to fulfil promises made by them in written once elected to Assembly. If leaders fail to keep their promise, they should be forced to quit party and politics. People must cast vote for an honest leader and not for those, who lures them with sops.Farzana KhanIt’s poor who vote for sopsOffering freebies during elections is common practise in a country in which politicians manipulate voters’ choice. Both ruling and opposition parties bribe voters through sops. Many uneducated and poor electorate vote for leaders in the hope of getting free services and goods. The electorate needs to be aware of nefarious agendas of political parties. Citizens should vote for leaders, who have kept their promises and improved their living standards. They should give priority to good governance rather than sops.SamPrefer secular party above petty politicsOnly good governess is the key word. People from different walks of life are of the view that the party, which has worked for the people for five years, is the natural choice for casting their votes. There is no denying the fact that other factors do work in every election. Money or muscle power do affect our elections, but these have a limited effect. City residents should side with a party, which is above petty politics and secular.JBS NandaMain objective is coming to powerIn democracy every political party’s main objective is coming to power. This greed of power forces parties to offer freebies to voters. This is a wrong trend. Sops discourage people from work. Instead, people should demand good governance. This must include employment, good infrastructure, crime and drug free society, affordable healthcare, education and justice, besides accountability of public servants. It also holds truth that if we are enjoying freebies, we can’t demand good governance. On the other hand, shunning sops can compel any party for good governance.Sukhdev SharmaCreate Awareness on democratic valuesGood governance should be priority over freebies for seeking votes. Freebies encourage corruption among politicians. People should vote for honest and qualified candidate, who can understand their problems and has no place for communalism. Voters should realise this truth and create awareness on true values of democracy and the power of vote.Adish SoodCountry’s growth still a dreamProviding freebies to underprivileged is the best way of aspiring politicians to garner votes. Such candidates are chosen by a common man keeping in mind that they will bring positive changes in society. They lure people for their votes using inappropriate methods and bribe. These are just false promises, which are never unfulfilled for next five years. Therefore, the growth of country is still a dream and will remain a dream if such level of politics continues.Anu JoshiQUESTIONThe Commissionerate Police claims to have cracked 94 per cent snatching cases with the arrest of 42 accused and total recovery of snatched articles in the past fortnight. What needs to be done to check street crime, especially in the current festival season?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-should-sops-or-good-governance-be-priority-of-political-parties-for-seeking-votes-322979
11-10-2021||---||75th Azadi ka Mahotsav||Ludhiana, October 10Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Kender in cooperation with Bharat Vikas Parishad Charitable Trust, Punjab, organised 75th Azadi ka Mahotsav at Viklang Sahayta Kender, Rishi Nagar, here on Sunday. Free first aids kits were distributed among 75 years and above citizens.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu was chief guest on the occasion. He Appreciated work done under the Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/75th-azadi-ka-mahotsav-322980
11-10-2021||Ludhiana||Awareness walk on Mental Health Day||A non-profit organisation, “Teen It Up”, today observed Mental Health Day by organising a walk. The aim of the walk was to make the masses aware about the importance of the day.Started by young girls Mannat Kalra and Nitya Mahajan, along with a team of 20 like minded teenagers, “Teen It Up”, organised “The Teens stride - Together let’s champion mental health one step at a time”, an mental health awareness walk today. The walk started at 7:30 am and culminated at 9 am covering the stretch from Community Park, BRS Nagar, to Kipps Market, Sarabha Nagar.The cause and effect could be heard in streets of Ludhiana as participants raised slogans like “1, 2, 3 teens cannot be unseen,” and “It’s okay if you’re broke cause mental health is not a joke” during the walk. Eighty teens participated in the walk. Dr Priyanka Kalra motivated all present on the occasion. City teens tried to create awareness keeping in view this year’s theme, “Mental healthcare for all- Let’s make it a reality”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/awareness-walk-on-mental-health-day-322981
11-10-2021||Ludhiana||Free medical, dental checkup camp  marks birth anniversary of Dr Kotnis||DR DN Kotnis Acupuncture Hospital, Salem Tabri, celebrated 111th birth anniversary of Dr Dwarkanath Kotnis, here today. Dr Kotnis was one of the members of Indian medical mission sent to China to serve injured soldiers during the war time. Dr Kotnis sacrificed his life and used his medical knowledge to save a number of soldiers in China.On the occasion of his birth anniversary, a free medical and dental checkup and consultation camp was organised by the hospital. Medical services were provided by Dr Neha Dhingra and dental services by Dr Asif and Dr Ritik at the camp.Eighty patients were checked at the camp. Doctors apprised them about healthy diet and lifestyle interventions to protect themselves from various diseases. They were also guided to follow Covid appropriate behaviour as third wave of pandemic might hit India soon.Hospital director Dr Inderjit Singh said the camp was organised to continue the mission of charity and serve humanity as Dr Kotnis did. Dr Kotnis sacrificed his life to setup new milestone for suffering humanity and international friendship in 1942 in China, he added.The Indian Government issued two postal stamp and named Sholapur railway station in Maharashtra after Dr Kotnis, he said. The Chinese government set up a Martyrs Memorial Park and a tomb in the Shijiazhuang in memory of Dr Kotnis, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/free-medical-dental-checkup-camp-marks-birth-anniversary-of-dr-kotnis-322982
11-10-2021||Manav Mander||Don’t hide depression, says expert||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 10Every year October 10 is observed as World Mental Health Day. This year’s theme for the day is “Mental Health in an unequal world”.Till now, mental health remains to be one of the neglected areas because of social stigma attached to it and also less awareness regarding its importance. Presently Covid-19 has cast a major impact on the mental health of people. The worst affected are students, frontline workers and the elderly.“Covid-19 has caused severe damage to people worldwide after they lost their loved ones, jobs, faced financial issues, poor health, isolation, lockdown and anxiety. Cases of depression and anxiety have increased tremendously since the onset of pandemic,” said Dr Rajeev Gupta, a city -based psychiatrist.Another city-based clinical psychiatrist further added that Covid-19 had turned the world of academics upside down. Both students and parents faced the anxiety that arose due to work from home, he said.“With schools slowly opening we are hopeful that lifestyle is going to change once again. Students must be counselled for what lies ahead and renegotiate their relationship with the outside world,” he added.A workshop for creating mental health awareness was held at the Civil Hospital today. Addressing the workshop, Dr Vivek Goyal, psychiatrist from the Civil Hospital said, “Depression is not a matter of feeling down for a while, but it has long term consequences. Depression and anxiety should not be kept under fold, but should be discussed so that it can be treated at the right time.”“Despite awareness depression is still an issue people don’t like to talk about. One should come out in open and talk about it, seek help and should be encouraged to seek help too,” Dr Goyal added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dont-hide-depression-says-expert-322983
11-10-2021||Payal||Seven nabbed in separate incidents||Teams of the Payal police have arrested seven miscreants in separate cases and recovered huge quantities of banned materials and stolen goods from them.A .32 bore pistol, two motorcycles used in crime, 36 bottles of illicit liquor, electrical conductors stolen from transformers and a mobile phone snatched from a woman were seized from the accused at separate places.Payal DSP Davinder Kumar said police personnel, led by SHO Karnail Singh, had booked all accused in four separate cases.Inderjit Singh of Akbarpur Chhanna in Malerkotla district and Pardeep Singh of Dulachi Majra in Ropar were arrested at a naka at the Barmali T-point near Payal and a .32 pistol and a cartridge was recovered from Pardeep.In another incident, the police recovered 36 bottles of illicit liquor from Buta Singh of Rauni village in the Payal subdivision, when he was going to deliver the consignment to his customers and arrested him.The police also succeeded in solving cases of theft of components of electric transformers installed in fields situated on the outskirts of villages. Huge quantities of electrical conductors stolen from various fields were recovered from Jasvir Singh, Iqbal Singh and Sukhwinder Singh of Dhamot Kalan village. Gurpreet Singh Guri of Ghudani Khurad was booked on the complaint of Ruby of Ranipur and a mobile phone snatched from the latter was recovered from Gurpreet. He was arrested and two motorcycles used in crime were also seized. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/seven-nabbed-in-separate-incidents-322984
11-10-2021||---||Minor boy thrashed by cops in Ludhiana: Woman||Ludhiana, October 10A woman, Rani Dhaliwal, of CRP Colony, Dugri, alleged that her 16-year-old nephew, Rohan, was picked by officials of the Police Division 2 after he had a scuffle with a roadside vendor on Saturday night at Islamganj.The woman, who is a SAD worker, demanded immediate action against guilty police officials.The woman alleged that her son runs a tavern in Islamganj and yesterday her nephew also went there. “My nephew had arguments with the roadside vendor over some issue following which the latter, along with his companions, thrashed him. Later, the anti-narcotics cell inspector-cum-SHO of the Police Division 2 Rajesh Kumar came along with police officials and took my nephew to the police station where he was beaten up by police officials and some civilians,” the woman said.It was only when they reached the police station, the police allowed her nephew to leave by reaching a compromise with the disputing parties, the woman said, adding that the police had badly thrashed the boy as he also suffered some injuries.The woman demanded that action should be taken against the civilians who had also thrashed her nephew inside the police station.She alleged that the police also took two gold earrings and Rs 2,500 from her nephew. Inspector Rajesh, who has the additional charge of the police station, said the minor boy was not beaten up by police officials. The allegations levelled by the police are baseless.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minor-boy-thrashed-by-cops-in-ludhiana-woman-322985
11-10-2021||---||Ludhiana: Safai worker arrested for theft of Rs 4.36 lakh at lab||Ludhiana, October 10The Police Division 8 nabbed a safai worker working with Lal Path lab, located in the NC Complex, Hambran road, on the charges of committing a theft of Rs 4.36 lakh in the lab. He along with his aide had committed the theft on the intervening night of October 8 and 9.The police have recovered Rs 3.5 lakh in cash from the accused.ADCP Sameer Verma, ACP (Civil Lines) Harish Behal addressed a press conference regarding the matter today.On October 9, Jagjit Singh, who is the lab in-charge, had lodged a complaint at a police station in which he stated that he had kept a payment of Rs 4.36 lakh in the main almirah of the laboratory. The next morning, when employees reached the lab, they were shocked to see the broken lock of the main door and cash from the main almirah was missing.The ADCP said when the police started the probe, the role of the lab safai worker, Deepak (26), of Gopal Nagar came under scanner. When he was questioned, he confessed to having committed the crime along with his friend Vishal.The accused admitted that he broke open the main door of the lab. Since he was aware about the almirah where the lab in-charge keeps cash, broke the lock of the almirah and fled with the money.Deepak had been arrested along with Rs 3.5 lakh. The remaining cash was with Vishal and raids were being conducted to nab him, Verma said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-safai-worker-arrested-for-theft-of-rs-4-36-lakh-at-lab-322986
11-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Railways to run 3 special festival trains for Mata Vaishno Devi pilgrims||Ludhiana, October 10To clear extra rush of passengers during the festival season and to cater to demands of pilgrims intending to visit holy shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi, the railways would run three festival special trains for limited duration. These three special trains would provide connectivity of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra with New Delhi, Varanasi and Anand Vihar Terminus (New Delhi).The 01633/01634 New Delhi-Shri Mata Viahno Devi Katra-New Delhi tri-weekly special trains would run from New Delhi on every Wednesday, Friday and Sunday (October 10 to November 21) at 11.30 pm and reach its destination next day at 12 noon.In return journey, the train would operate from Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra on every Thursday, Saturday and Monday (October 11 to November 22) at 9.30 pm and arrive New Delhi at 10.30 am.The train would have commercial halts at Sonepat, Panipat, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Ambala Cantt, Ludhiana, Jalandhar Cantt, Pathankot Cantt, Jammu Tawi and Udhampur.The 01654/01653 Varanasi-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-Varanasi weekly special train would depart from Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra on every Sunday (October 10 to November 21) at 11.20 pm and reach Varanasi next day at 11.45 pm.In return direction, the train would leave Varanasi on every Tuesday (October 12 to November 23) at 6.10 am and reach Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra next day at 10.55 am.The train would have stoppages at Udhampur, Jammu Tawi, Pathankot Cantt, Jalandhar Cantt, Ludhiana, Ambala Cantt, Saharanpur, Moradabad, Bareilly, Lucknow and Sultanpur.The 01671/01672 Ananad Vihar Terminus (AVT)-Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra-AVT bi-weekly special train would leave AVT on every Monday and Thursday (October 11 to November 18) at 11 pm and arrive at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra the next day at 1.30 pm.On return journey, the train would depart from Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra on every Tuesday and Friday (October 12 to November 19) at 9.10 pm to reach the AVT the next day at 10.45 am.Enroute, the train would halt at Udhampur, Jammu Tawi, Pathankot Cantt, Jalandhar Cantt, Ludhiana, Ambala Cantt, Yamuna Nagar Jagadhri, Saharnpur, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut City and Ghaziabad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/railways-to-run-3-special-festival-trains-for-mata-vaishno-devi-pilgrims-322987
11-10-2021||---||Two more test positive in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, October 10Two persons tested positive for Covid while no death was reported in the district today. Recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.58 per cent. Seventeen people were sent for home isolation while there were 19 active cases in the district. At present, no patient is undergoing treatment for Covid at any hospital in Ludhiana district.Till date, 25,76,185 samples had been collected for testing Covid of which 24,76,942 were found negative.The total number of Covid patients related to Ludhiana is 87,558, while 11,685 patients belong to other districts/states.The number of persons, who lost their lives to Covid include 2,103 from Ludhiana and 1,052 from other districts.Whenever the district administration and the Health Department find any positive or suspected Covid patients, their samples are immediately sent for testing.As many as 6,578 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today. Their results are expected shortly.Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner has appealed to residents to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing to save themselves and others from the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/two-more-test-positive-in-ludhiana-district-322988
11-10-2021||Nitin Jain||Ludhiana district has 4,448 cylinders to store 32 MT medical oxygen||Tribune News ServiceLUDHIANA, OCTOBER 10Even as Ludhiana is still short of 61 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen to meet the peak demand for Covid and non-Covid patients, the district leads the state when it comes to cylinders and their storage capacity, claims the administration.“Already having 4,448 cylinders with a capacity to store 32 MT of life-saving gas, the district has proposed to further acquire 1,316 more oxygen cylinders with an additional capacity of 10.9 MT,” officials said.OfficialspeakWe will be adding 1,316 more oxygen cylinders with a capacity to store 10.9 MT more life-saving gas. The health infrastructure is being further ramped up to meet exigency, if any, in future. Varinder Kumar Sharma, Deputy CommissionerThe district-wise current and projected oxygen storage in cylinders compiled by the state government, a copy of which is available with The Tribune, revealed that Ludhiana has 1,292 cylinders with 9.8 MT storage capacity in government hospitals while the private sector has 3,156 cylinders storing 22.2 MT of life-saving gas.While there was no plan to expand the cylinder storage capacity in the government sector, the district has proposed to add 1,316 more cylinders with a storage capacity of 10.9 MT.The state has a total of 30,016 oxygen cylinders, including 13,271 in government and 16,745 in private hospitals, with a storage capacity of 229.9 MT, comprising 94.7 MT in government and 135.2 MT in private sector.Further, Punjab has proposed to acquire 6,564 more cylinders, including 1,228 in government and 5,336 in the private sector, with an additional capacity to store 54.5 MT of life-saving gas, comprising 9.2 MT in government and 45.3 MT in private hospitals.The district-wise breakup showed that barring Jalandhar, all other districts were behind Ludhiana in the number of oxygen cylinders and storage capacity.Jalandhar has 5,344 cylinders with storage capacity of 47.8 MT while it proposed to add 1,481 more cylinders with an additional capacity of 13.3 MT.Among other district, Amritsar’s existing status was 3,028 with 25.3 MT capacity and proposal to add 569 cylinders with 4.6 MT, Barnala existing 332 cylinders with 2 MT capacity, Bathinda 1,500 with 10.6 MT and proposed 958 with 8.1 MT, Faridkot 697 with 5.4 MT, Fatehgarh Sahib 454 with 3.2 MT, Fazilka 348 with 3.2 MT and proposed 206 with 1.9 MT, Ferozepur 769 with 4.7 MT proposed 46 with 0.4 MT, Gurdaspur 846 with 4.6 MT and proposed 125 with 2.2 MT, Hoshiarpur 761 with 6.4 MT and proposed 42 with 0.4 MT, Kapurthala 938 with 8 MT and proposed 27 with 0.2 MT, Mansa 452 with 4.1 MT and proposed 16 with 0.1 MT, Moga 997 with 7.8 MT and proposed 211 with 1.9 MT, Muktsar 594 with 4.3 MT, Pathankot 785 with 6.2 MT and proposed 341 with 2.7 MT, Patiala 2,654 with 19 MT and proposed 735 with 6.5 MT, Ropar 1,085 with 7.3 MT and proposed 60 with 0.6 MT, Mohali 1,709 with 12.5 MT and proposed 355 with 3.1 MT, Sangrur 490 with 3.4 MT and proposed one cylinder, Nawanshahr 875 with 5.6 MT and proposed eight cylinders, and Tarn Taran has 910 cylinders with 6.2 MT storage capacity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-district-has-4-448-cylinders-to-store-32-mt-medical-oxygen-322989
11-10-2021||Shivani Bhakoo||44 per cent candidates appear for UPSC preliminary examination in Ludhiana||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 10The preliminary examination of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) was held at various centres in the district today. Around 44 per cent candidates appeared for the exam today.The UPSC had set up 20 centres for the convenience of the candidates in the district. In all, 6,590 candidates had registered for the test, which was conducted in two shifts.The morning shift started at 9:30 am while in the evening the exam began at 2:30 pm. As many as 3,774 candidates appeared for the exam in the morning shift while 3,784 came in the evening shift.One of the top officials said some candidates just came to get an experience of writing the exam. This was a common phenomenon and the attendance each year hovered around 50 per cent, he added.Earlier, the exam was scheduled for June, but due to second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, it got deferred. The UPSC prelims are being held in 77 cities of the country.As per a few aspirants, the morning shift paper was balanced. Unlike the past two years, over 20 questions were asked from history, most of them from modern history and art and culture. Candidates said a few questions were from sports too in the paper.6,590 candidates registered for testThe UPSC had set up 20 centres for the convenience of candidates in the district. In all, 6,590 candidates had registered for test, which was held in two shifts. The morning shift started at 9:30 am while in the evening the exam began at 2:30 pm. As many as 3,774 candidates appeared for the exam in the morning shift while 3,784 came in the evening shift.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/44-per-cent-candidates-appear-for-upsc-preliminary-examination-in-ludhiana-322990
