18-10-2021||---||Jamalpur police crack youth’s murder with arrest of three||Ludhiana, October 17The Jamalpur police claimed to have solved a murder case in which a youth was killed by three persons on the night of October 15.The police have registered a murder case against three persons, Deepak Sharma of Pipal chowk, Sahnewal, Munish Kumar of Avon Colony, Bhamian Kalan, and Ashish Pandey of Jamalpur. The accused were arrested late on Saturday night.Station House Officer (SHO), Jamalpur police station, Inspector Kulwant Singh Malli, said on October 15 night, deceased Deepak Kumar’s friend Badal had come to the his house and took him along on a motorcycle. They went to Deepak’s brother-in-law’s house from where the trio went outside, somewhere in the city.“At around 11 pm when they were crossing the Bhamian road to return home, they stopped on the road as the three accused had parked their motorcycle in the middle of the road, blocking the way. The deceased had asked the accused to remove their motorcycle from the place but the latter didn’t pay heed. Afterwards, arguments started between both groups,” the SHO said.Kulwant said deceased’s friend Badal pacified him after which they were about to leave the spot when Deepak hurled abuses at the accused following which they attacked the victim badly.To save their lives, deceased’s friend and brother-in-law escaped from the spot. After some time, when the assailants fled the spot leaving the victim almost dead, the duo returned and rushed Deepak to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, the SHO said.The police said so far no past criminal record of the arrested accused has come to the fore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jamalpur-police-crack-youths-murder-with-arrest-of-three-326111
18-10-2021||Our Correspondent||9 pairs of trains cancelled from December 1||Ludhiana, October 17The Northern Railways have announced cancellation of nine pairs of trains operating in the Ferozepur railway division for a period of two months from December 1 to February 28, 2022. Apparently, this step has been taken in anticipation of bad weather and poor visibility which is a regular feature during the winter season which was about to begin in the region.It was officially stated that the trains to remain cancelled during this period would include 02053/54 Haridwar-Amritsar-Haridwar Jan Shatabdi Express, 04537/38 Nangal Dam-Amritsar-Nangal Dam Express, 04605/06 Rishikesh-Jammu Tawi-Rishikesh Weekly Express, 04683/84 Lal Kuan-Amritsar-Lal Kuan Weekly Express, 04673/74 Jaynagar-Amritsar-Jaynagar Shaheed Express (four days a week), 04923/24 Gorakhpur-Chandigarh-Gorakhpur Weekly Express, 02357/58 Kolkata-Amritsar-Kolkata Biweekly Durgiana Express, 05933/34 New Tinsukia-Amritsar-New Tinsukia Weekly Express and 08103/04 Tatanagar-Amritsar-Tatanagar Biweekly Jallianwala Bagh Express.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/9-pairs-of-trains-cancelled-from-december-1-326112
18-10-2021||---||4 test +ve for Covid in Ludhiana district||Ludhiana, October 17Four persons tested positive for Covid and no death was reported due to the disease in the district today.The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has reached 97.57 per cent. Today, 17 persons were sent for home isolation while there are 21 active cases in the district. At present, three patients from other districts are undergoing treatment for Covid in Ludhiana district.Till date, a total of 26,20,002 samples have been taken, of which 25,20,741 were found negative. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,573 while 11,688 belong to other districts or states.The total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,104 persons from Ludhiana and 1,052 from other districts.Whenever the district administration or the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out about any positive or suspected Covid patients, their samples are sent for testing. As many as 6,308 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/4-test-ve-for-covid-in-ludhiana-district-326113
18-10-2021||Harshraj Singh||Inadequate parking in Ludhiana irks commuters amid festive season||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 17Amid the festive season, visitors are facing inconveniences at major markets in the city in the absence of parking lots. No concrete step has been taken by the Municipal Corporation, Ludhiana, to find out a permanent solution to parking and traffic-related issues at the markets despite demands of residents.Commuters are generally forced to park their vehicles on roads due to lack of parking lots or designated space for parking of vehicles at prominent markets, including Ghumar Mandi, Model Town, Field Ganj, College Road and Old City markets. Also, most of the buildings at such markets lack parking arrangements.Sanjay Goyal, chairman of the Indian Institute of Architects, Punjab chapter, and one of the directors of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL), said: “Traffic snarls and lack of parking lots are major issues in the city. There is no parking arrangement at many prominent markets of Ludhiana city. The city needs at least 20 multilevel parking lots for various markets here.”Notably, the civic body and Ludhiana Smart City Limited had earlier planned for the construction of a few parking lots under the Smart City Mission but these projects could not see the light of day. The LSCL had proposed to construct a multilevel parking lot at Feroze Gandhi Market but nothing has been done at the ground level.Goyal said: “During the festive season, a huge rush is witnessed at markets. The departments concerned should make parking arrangements to control the situation and ensure smooth flow of traffic.”The commuters also face inconveniences due to the lack of parking arrangements on Ferozepur Road, Pakhowal Road, Deep Hospital Road and other roads. Even in residential areas such as BRS Nagar, Sarabha Nagar and Model Town, commercial units have come up in violation of the norms but under the nose of the corporation or other departments concerned. Most of these units also lack parking arrangements.A road safety activist, Rahul Verma, said: “In recent meetings between police, MC, LIT and GLADA officials, the police had asked the departments concerned to identify vacant government land to be used as parking space to ease the traffic during the festive season. There are several identified sites in the city where parking arrangements can be made to ease the traffic congestion during the festive season. But, it seems that local bodies and GLADA were not interested in managing the traffic as no steps have been taken by them in this regard.”Commuters forced to park vehicles on roadsCommuters are generally forced to park their vehicles on roads in the absence of designated space for parking at prominent markets of the city, including Ghumar Mandi, Model Town, Field Ganj, College Road and Old City markets. Also, most of the buildings at such markets have no parking arrangements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/inadequate-parking-in-ludhiana-irks-commuters-amid-festive-season-326114
18-10-2021||Nikhil Bhardwaj||Act against illegal lottery operators: Cong leader to Ludhiana CP||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 17Senior Congress leader-cum-OSD to Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu Parminder Mehta alleged that the illegal lottery business had again started in the city and the police were not taking action.Mehta has written to Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Commissioner of Police (CP), Ludhiana, and has demanded immediate action against illegal lottery operators.“The day you have joined here as the Commissioner of Police, illegal lottery operators have again started their operations and have been looting the hard-earned money of the labour class. The lottery operators lure poor people to buy lottery and become rich in a short span of time. Even some politicians have also been backing the lottery operators due to which the police are not taking any action,” alleged the Congress leader.Mehta alleged that some corrupt policemen were also hand in glove with the lottery operators and the top cop should identify such officials.He said if no action was taken against the lottery operators, he would meet the Chief Minister and apprise him of the issue.The areas where the illegal business is going on with impunity are Janakpuri, Vijay Nagar, Transport Nagar, Samrala Chowk, Shivpuri, Hargobind Nagar, local bus stand and some old city areas.Notably, during the tenure of former Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, the illegal lottery business was completely wiped out from the city. After his transfer, some of the operators have again started the illegal trade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/act-against-illegal-lottery-operators-cong-leader-to-ludhiana-cp-326115
18-10-2021||---||Jilted lover booked for damaging married woman’s car with axe||Ludhiana, October 17A jilted lover was booked by the Khanna police on the charges of damaging the car of a married woman and attempting to outrage her modesty after she refused a proposal of the accused.The police have registered a case against Simranjot Singh Gill, a resident of Rahaun village, near Khanna, yesterday. He is yet to be arrested.The complainant, Jaspreet Kaur of Wazir Nagar, Fatehgarh Sahib, told the police that yesterday she had come to attend IELTS class at GTB Market, Khanna, and after attending the same, she was going towards her car.“When I reached near my car, the accused came on a motorcycle near my vehicle. He first proposed me for friendship and then asked my phone number and Facebook ID. When I refused, the accused forced me to sit on his motorcycle,” the complainant alleged. The woman alleged that she raised an alarm after which passers-by gathered on the spot. Later, her husband also reached the place.She alleged that afterwards, when she along with her husband sat in their car, the accused again came and damaged the vehicle with an axe.ASI Charanjit Singh, the investigating officer in the case, said raids were being conducted to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/jilted-lover-booked-for-damaging-married-womans-car-with-axe-326116
18-10-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Hospital running in residential area for yrs as GLADA turns a blind eye||Ludhiana, October 17The Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) has virtually turned into a ‘paper tiger’ where taking action against illegal change of land use of residential properties in its colonies is concerned.In a classic example of ‘inaction’ against defaulting allottees, the GLADA authorities have merely issued a couple of notices and sought site report from its building branch without taking any follow-up action for a blatant violation, where a hospital was running in a residential house in Urban Estate Phase I, Dhandari Kalan, for years together.The complaint lodged with senior GLADA officials about illegal change of land use and commercial use of residential house for running a hospital was also highlighted in these columns in March this year.Information obtained from GLADA under the Right to Information Act about the property by an area resident, Sukhbir Sekhon, has indicated that the GLADA Estate Officer had issued at least three notices between December 2020 and August 2021 to the allottee of the residential plot — marking each one of these as ‘final notice’ — for immediate discontinuation of commercial use of the property, failing which allotment of the plot would be cancelled. But no worthwhile follow-up action was taken as per terms and conditions of the allotment as required under relevant provisions of the Punjab Regional and Development Act.Interestingly, a report was also sought from the engineering branch twice, in November 2020 and September 2021, with regard to the complaint about a hospital having been set up in a residential area by the GLADA authorities and both times the official concerned reported that the hospital was still operational and the allottee had not discontinued the commercial use of the residential property, stated the informaion provided by GLADA under the RTI Act.Failure in taking appropriate action by the GLADA authorities as per rules, which provide for cancellation of such allotment where change of land use was involved, gives credence to allegations levelled by the complainant that field staff of GLADA was in cahoots with the defaulting allottee, who had been given a long rope even after commercial use of residential property had been proved beyond any shadow of doubt.In another representation to the authorities, the complainant has called for immediate action in this matter as the allottee had been given ample opportunities for personal appearance and discontinuation of commercial use of residential house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/hospital-running-in-residential-area-for-yrs-as-glada-turns-a-blind-eye-326117
18-10-2021||Increase patrolling in city streets||Open house: What needs to be done to check street crime in the festival season?||It’s a stark reality that snatchings are a gateway to the crime world. That’s why it is so common today. In a bid to make quick money, snatchers target high-end phones and women wearing jewellery. They move on motor bikes for quick manoeuvring and to escape after committing the crime. In order to curb snatching incidents in the city, the police need to increase street patrolling, keep vigil on vulnerable stretches and enforce laws strictly. Citizens on their part must be aware and alert about how to carry their belongings on streets and walk only in well-lit areas.Novin ChristopherMaintain vigil during festival seasonThe Ludhiana police deserves accolades for cracking 94 per cent snatching cases. There is a need to be vigilant during the ongoing festival season. The people should themselves be alert of snatchers. As far as possible carry they should carry least valuable articles. Women must avoid wearing expensive jewellery. The CCTV cameras installed in various parts of the city and outside shops should be in working condition. More police patrolling parties should be deployed in crowded areas. Keeping an eye on anti-social elements will help in curbing crime. Cops must deal sternly with snatchers.Bir Devinder Singh BediFocus should be on controlling crimeThe Ludhiana police should focus on controlling crime in order to to instil confidence among citizens. Crime can be contained and prevented by ensuring sustained cooperation and support between the police personnel and members of the community. Emphasis should be laid on community policing through groups and committees within all police station limits. The police with a pro-active approach should attempt to solve problems through mutual understanding. Surveillance should be increased on criminals. Anti-drug drive should be intensified. The PCR should be more responsive to deal with any sort of exigency. SHOs should be accountable. They must ensure that there is no illegal activity in their respective jurisdictions.RS SembhiMake snatching a non-bailable offenceSnatchings are common in the city. No doubt, due to efficiency of the Police Department many snatching cases have been solved. The main aim of the police should be to wipe out this menace from society. First, snatching must be made a non-bailable offence. Culprits must face punishment. CCTV cameras must be installed in every nook and corner of the city. In the current festival season, huge rush is seen in markets, which help snatchers target vulnerable residents. The police must be vigilant round-the-clock.Ritu PriyaForm panels to keep vigil in mohallasExtra care must be taken during the festival season as the crime rate increases in the city irrespective of the tall claims of the police. We can reduce crime just by taking some precautions in our daily life. When we park cars or scooters make sure to remove all valuables from vehicles. Close doors and windows before leaving home. Avoid keeping spare keys in your car. The administration should install CCTV cameras at prime locations in the city. Parks should be well lit. Special police patrolling should be undertaken in sensitive areas during night in the city. Mohalla committees should be formed to keep a tab on suspicious activities if any in surroundings. Emergency numbers must be displayed at some prime locations so that people can report crime immediately.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiLaws have to be strengthenedThe Ludhiana police are leaving no stone unturned in curtailing snatching incidents in the city. Laws need to be further strengthened to tackle crime. Culprits should be given exemplary punishment for crimes committed by them. To intensify campaign against crime the police should deploy more patrolling vans and bikes in the city during the ongoing festival season. The Municipal Corporation should install street lights in every nook and corner of the city so that miscreants cannot escape while taking advantage of darkness.Dr Sunil ChopraSevere punishment for committing crimeIt is responsibility of the police to check crime in the city. More cops in civvies should be deployed in market places and malls. The police should reduce traffic jams at main crossings in the city. Police vans equipped with public addressing system should move around the city to apprise general public about precautions to be taken to prevent crime in the city. Those caught for committing crime must be severely punished.Gautam DevGovt can’t provide security to allIncidents of crimes such as burglary, chain snatchings and theft are increasing with each passing day. There are many reasons behind increase in the crime rate. Unemployment and lack of proper guidance force people to commit crime. This is an alarming situation for residents as no one is secure. The government cannot provide security to each and every person. As a rational citizen one must remain vigilant to prevent crime. The administration should install CCTV cameras at prime places, homes, markets and malls in the city. Expensive items and other valuables must be kept under lock and key. Search lights must be installed in streets and markets. There should not be any big trees outside homes/shops. Burglars may scale tree and enter a home/shop. While going out of station switch on some lights at home.Farzana KhanPeople cannot shun their responsibilitySnatching incidents are a chronic problem in the industrial town. To reduce this kind of crime multidisciplinary approach is needed. The police should undertake more patrolling in high-risk areas. Criminals should be tracked, traced and convicted. The Municipal Corporation should install more CCTV cameras at isolated and congested points for effective surveillance. People cannot shun their responsibility. They should wear least possible gold ornaments. If possible artificial jewellery should be used. People should use busy streets where they can get help easily.Dr Sukhdev SharmaInstal burglar alarms to curb crimeTo keep a check on crime during the festival season, the administration should install CCTV cameras, which can help the police identify culprits. Burglar alarms can deter culprits from committing crime. Regular patrolling and presence of security guards at sensitive places can also curb crime rate in the city.Adish SoodAdd more bikes, cars to pcr fleetA lot has been done by the police and the administration to curb crime in the city. People should avoid wearing gold ornaments while visiting crowded places. More PCR bikes and cars should be added to the Police Department fleet for 24x7 road surveillance and to keep a check on criminals. More check posts can be established for routine checking of vehicles in the city. Promotions should be given to those policemen, who solve criminal cases. The top three police stations having least cases of crime in their respective jurisdictions should be awarded.Vikas SharmaDeploy guards at vulnerable spotsStreet crime like snatching, burglaries and thefts is most common in the city. Cops on patrol duty are first to reach the crime scene. Facts gathered by them during preliminary investigation help in conducting further probe. It’s responsibility of cops and residents to prevent crime in the city. CCTV cameras must be installed in localities, mohallas, streets, markets and malls to enhance surveillance. Security guards can be deployed at vulnerable spots in the city.Anu JoshiNo cash, only digital paymentsWe all need to play a part in keeping ourselves safe during the festival season. The police should be more active in order to maintain law and order in the city. Use of digital payment methods instead of carrying cash, more police visibility on the ground and intensified night patrolling in areas witnessing heavy rush can help control street crime in the city.Shruti SaggarQUESTIONThe Commissionerate Police have launched a special drive to ensure smooth flow of vehicular traffic on city roads, especially during the current festive season. Wrong parking of vehicles, temporary encroachments, illegal cuts on roads and wrong side driving add to commuters’ woes. What all needs to be done to solve traffic congestion on Ludhiana roads, which have the dubious distinction of witnessing maximum accidents due to the highest vehicle density?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-what-needs-to-be-done-to-check-street-crime-in-the-festival-season-326118
18-10-2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: BJP Mahila Morcha district chief, Kisan Morcha vice-prez join Cong||District president of the Mahila Morcha (women wing) of the BJP, Maninder Kaur Ghuman, who is also councillor from Ward No. 77, her husband Davinder Singh Ghuman, vice-president of the BJP Kisan Morcha, along with many of their supporters, today joined the Congress while stating the they were disillusioned due to anti-people policies of the Saffron party.Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and other leaders welcomed new entrants to the party fold. Ghuman was the only non-Congress councillor to have won out of 17 wards falling in Ludhiana (West) constituency represented by Cabinet Minister Ashu.Ghumman said her close circle of supporters were feeling alienated from the masses as their party leadership had been working merely to safeguard the interests of a select corporate houses rather than for the welfare of the common people. “BJP has lost the vision and will to serve the common man,” she remarked.On the ongoing agitation by farmers, she said the way the BJP had handled the farmers’ issue, the party was in no position to face the common man and that was why its leaders were facing protests wherever they went.“Listening to our conscience, we have decided to join the Congress,” she said while asserting that under the leadership of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, the Congress government belonged to the masses.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, the DCC president, Ludhiana (Urban), Ashwani Sharma, Senior Deputy Mayor Shyam Sunder Malhotra, councillors Mamta Ashu, Narinder Sharma, Sunny Bhalla and Maharaj Singh Raji and senior Congress leaders Sunil Kapoor, Munish Shah were also present on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/ludhiana-bjp-mahila-morcha-district-chief-kisan-morcha-vice-prez-join-cong-326119
18-10-2021||Our Correspondent||DPI’s order to permit  fully vaccinated college students in classes draws flak||Doraha, October 17Directions issued by the DPI (Colleges) to adopt offline mode of instructions with immediate effect has left colleges in a fix. As per the DPI instructions, colleges, coaching centres and other institutions of higher learning can remain open subject to the condition that only fully vaccinated or Covid recovered teaching, non-teaching staff and students are allowed to be physically present in classes.The order has not gone down well with principals, the staff and students of various colleges. The staff, both teaching and non-teaching, is almost fully vaccinated in majority of colleges. As far as students are concerned, most have been partially vaccinated. Their next doze of vaccine is due in November or December or in some cases in January.When contacted the Principal, AS College, Khanna, Dr RS Jhanji, said, “There are three points on which the order should be rectified with immediate effect. The DPI has mentioned the physical presence of only fully vaccinated students in classes, which is almost next to impossible at least at this stage. Awareness to get vaccinated dawned upon students at a later stage. The staff of colleges fulfils all conditions. In case of students it is just partial fulfillment of conditions.”“Moreover, colleges cannot force students to get vaccinated. It entirely depends on parents consent. Besides, the order is silent about students, who are below 18 years and not eligible for inoculation,” Dr Jhanji added.“There is simply no doubt that studies of students have been adversely affected due to the pandemic. So, the order of beginning offline classes is a welcome step in every way, but at the same time the DPI should allow partially vaccinated students to attend classes so that they may begin their studies without any further delay,” said Dr Jhanji.A final year student of a local college said, “Earlier my parents were reluctant as far as my vaccination was concerned. When majority of students started getting jabbed against Covid they allowed me to get vaccinated. It was just 15 days ago. My second doze of vaccine is due in December end. This means that I will not be able to attend offline classes for this semester.”“I am in the final year of my bachelors’ course. The current semester is important for me. Technical glitches remain in online mode and the work remains half done. Students, who are partially vaccinated, should be allowed to attend offline classes. Otherwise, their results may be far from satisfactory as they have been taking online exams from the past one and half years,” he added.A college professor said, “It is a problem for teachers too as they have to teach simultaneously through both modes. Their attention is diverted at both ends. The purpose of making students comfortable with the course gets defeated. Moreover, offline classes have become almost a necessity as students have been sitting at home from the past one-and-a-half semester. They have even forgotten how to read and write. With offline exams ahead, attending classes in person is a must if students want to fare well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/dpis-order-to-permit-fully-vaccinated-college-students-in-classes-draws-flak-326120
18-10-2021||Ludhiana||Drive to recruit 6,635 ETT teachers in Punjab begins||It seems that woes of ETT aspirants are coming to end as the state government has conducted recruitment examination for 6,635 posts of ETT teacher recently. As many as 19,963 candidates appeared for the examination at 95 centres all over Punjab.One of the ETT teachers’ said, “In 2001 and 2008, teachers were recruited, but those were BEd candidates hired for primary schools. We struggled long for our recruitment for primary class teachers of government schools. Recently, a recruitment examination was conducted by the government. We hope that all vacancies will be filled soon.”Sources in the Education Department said, “The department has started the process for the recruitment of 18,900 teachers, which will be completed soon. Appointment letters will be handed over to selected candidates.”The SCERT Director and Recruitment Board Officer, Dr Jarnail Singh Kaleke, said 95 examination centres were set up in seven districts of the state. Out of 22,982 candidates, 19,963 appeared for the examination, he added. Two candidates were caught for impersonation at at the Jalalabad and Abohar examination centres, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/drive-to-recruit-6-635-ett-teachers-in-punjab-begins-326121
18-10-2021||---||Transplant is the best option for kidney failure among children, say doctors||Ludhiana, October 17Kidney failure can have a negative impact on child’s growth and also affect his/her brain development and function, causing learning disabilities. Kidney transplant is the best option as it will not disrupt child’s normal school and social life. Nephrotic syndrome is 15 per cent more common in children than adults and kidney transplant is the best solution for this problem.During a CME on kidney transplant in kids, Dr Vivek Anand Jha, director, nephrology, Aykai Hospital, talked about increasing incidence of the diseases of kidney in children during the recent years.He discussed a condition of nephrotic syndrome which is 15 per cent more common in children than adults. The disease commonly affects children ranging from one and half year to six years. In this condition the kidney tissue get damaged resulting in release of too much protein into urine causing swelling of the face specially the under eye puffiness, which is followed by swelling of the entire body.“Diseases like diabetes, bacterial and viral infections, malaria and untreated strept infections of throat and skin, even taking certain medicines can lead to a child developing nepthrotic syndrome. These children complain like blood in urine, symptoms of infection such as fever, lethargy, irritability, loss of appetite or abdominal pain, decreased urine output and sometimes increased blood pressure,” said Dr Jha.“Parents should not feel anxious while showing child to nephrologist thanks to the advancement in the modern medical science. It can be treated by medications or kidney transplant and a child can have a healthy normal life afterwards,” Dr Jha added.Dr Baldev Singh Aulakh, director, urology and kidney transplant surgery, Aykai Hospital, while discussing about kidney transplant in children pointed out how its failure due to any reason can have a negative impact on a child’s growth, sexual maturity, bone strength and can affect brain development and function, causing social and academic learning disabilities.Dr Aulakh said, “Having a kidney transplant is the best option, which means a child will not require dialysis, which takes up lots of time and could disrupt his/her social and school life. Children for any matter should not go through a disabling childhood specially when condition can be tackled. Parents should not feel apprehended while opting for child’s kidney transplant.”Dr Aulakh highlighed that donors for children were often their parents and rarely siblings or other family members. “Parents are the best donors because they often have the same blood type and tissue match,” he added.Further, informing about the transplant, he mentioned that a child older than two years of age can get an adult kidney, as long it fits in his/her body. Only following a limited post transplant precautions of not allowing the child near people who are sick, modifying lifestyle and taking timely medications gets child’s quality of life back on the track.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/transplant-is-the-best-option-for-kidney-failure-among-children-say-doctors-326122
