25-10-2021||Ahmedgarh||Healthcare workers felicitated||Identifying healthcare workers of the Health Department as unsung heroes, who played an important role in eradicating polio from the region, office-bearers of various units of Rotary International District 3090 today felicitated the paramedical staff of health centres on occasion of the World Polio Eradication Day. Ajay Jain presided over the felicitation function held at the primary health centre at Ahmedgarh.The chairman, District Pulse Polio Committee, Rajiv Garg, said activists organised events to recognise partners in fight against polio. Elaborating on the theme of the World Polio Day 2021 “A win against polio is a win for global health” DG Parveen Jindal, Dr Ravinder Sharma and said victory over polio had proved persistent fight could crush any pathogen. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/healthcare-workers-felicitated-329377
25-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Army recruitment scam accused booked after 16 months||Ahmedgarh, October 24After shuttling between many offices for 16 months a youth of Phallewal village in Ludhiana district has succeeded in getting a swindler booked for allegedly duping several persons of the region of Rs23.7 lakh on pretext of getting them recruited in the Army.The accused, who is already languishing in Aligarh Jail in Uttar Pradesh, in connection with a similar case registered at the Iglas police station has been identified as Sarwan Singh, alias Pardeep, alias Peeru, of Nurpur Bet town in Ludhiana district.Though complainants led by Chanan Singh of Phallewal village had lodged a formal complaint on August 25, 2020, at the office of the Senior Superintendent of Police at Jagraon, a case under Section 420 and 406, IPC, was registered at the Jodhan police station on the intervention of the SSP, Ludhiana (Rural), Rajbachan Singh.Investigation officer Jagrup Singh informed further action would be taken after bringing the accused on production warrants.The Ludhiana (Rural) police has initiated a probe into the fake Army employment scam in which the swindler posing as a senior Army official had not only duped dozens of youth of the region on pretext on recruitment, but also invited them to Indian Air Force Station, Halwara, to board an Army airplane to reach their place of posting on July 17, 2020.It was then suspected that around 100 youth of Malwa had shelled out approximately Rs50 lakh for serving the nation in various wings of the Army. Interestingly, no advertisement for recruitment was published. All victims were lured through messages for recruitment.Having failed to get recruited in Army in 52 attempts, despite being an athlete Chanan Singh was lured by the uniformed swindler, who introduced himself as Lt-Col Sandeep Gill. Impressed by his disposition Chanan persuaded other youth of his village to reach Guru Nanak Stadium, Ludhiana, for initial screening and then Jallandhar for appearing in written examination for the final selection.“Though no examination was held when we reached Jallandhar , Gill informed us telephonically that things had been managed otherwise,” Chanan told the Sudhar police during preliminary investigation, when he along with other victims, visited the police station to lodge a complaint on July 17, 2020.Victims were provided kits containing trousers and T shirts and asked to get ready for reporting at respective units soon thereafter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/army-recruitment-scam-accused-booked-after-16-months-329303
25-10-2021||Manav Mander||Fasting, celebrations mark Karva Chauth||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, October 24After an year that was low on celebrations due to the Covid-19 pandemic, this year gave a chance to city women to splurge on festivities and celebrate Karva Chauth with fervour.While majority of women had already applied mehndi, some were seen getting their hands inked at the last moment. City markets were abuzz with activity from the last few days. Artists could be seen working at mehndi stalls till wee hours.Rohini Datta from the South City said last year was a low key affair. She even applied mehndi at home. “As Covid cases subsided, I got myself a new dress, a designer applied mehndi on my hands and celebrated the festival with fervour,” she said.A group of women from BRS Nagar, who celebrate the festival together every year, said, “Karva Chauth is a ritual. We performed ‘pooja’ and listen to ‘katha’ together in the evening. Last year was different as we had an online puja ceremony, but this year we were back to our old routine, listened to ‘katha’, performed ‘pooja’ and exchanged ‘thalis’.”“The happiness and excitement of festivals increases when celebrated together,” said Manreet from BRS Nagar.For Aprajita, it was a special occasion as it was her first Karva Chauth. “I was excited. My husband gifted me a ring and my in-laws made me feel so special today. My first experience of keeping fast went well as everyone in the family pampered me with gifts,” she said.Meanwhile, there are some exceptional couples like Surinder and Bimal, who have been fasting together from the past 20 years. “It is a ritual for us. Both of us keep fast together. Right from my first Karva Chauth till today, we have kept fast together. It makes our bond stronger,” said Bimal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/fasting-celebrations-mark-karva-chauth-329304
25-10-2021||Unified traffic mgmt system required||Open house: What all needs to be done to reduce traffic congestion on city roads?||Reckless drivers in city have the right of the way. Overtaking from any direction and halting without giving signal seems to be their driving code. While most people inch their way through peak traffic hours, reckless drivers try to zip through rush while scraping any vehicle within distance. Though the traffic police do penalise reckless drivers, certain measures still need to be introduced to stop them from breaking rules. The traffic police should strictly implement rules without prejudice to ensure safety of commuters on roads. A unified traffic management system comprising proper infrastructure, safety compliance by drivers, curtailing the number of vehicles and widening roads is the need of the hour.Novin ChristopherCooperate with traffic policeLudhiana faces the problem of severe traffic congestion. Valuable time of commuters is wasted in frequent traffic jams. The problem aggravates during festival season. The administration should not allow wrong parking in the city. People violating traffic rules should be dealt with strictly. Residents should cooperate with the traffic police by following rules and avoid parking vehicles on roads.JBS NandaVolunteers can help in managing trafficLudhiana is known for its traffic, which is difficult to manage during the festival season. The police are making efforts to solve traffic congestion in the city, but moral responsibility lies on us too. Shopkeepers should make arrangements for the parking of vehicles of their customers. Don’t take vehicle to a market, which witnesses huge rush. Volunteers should also come forward to control the traffic in the city. The administration should designate parking space in all markets so that commuters can do shopping without any hassle. The MC should remove encroachments in the city. Rehriwalas should be allotted space to carry on their businesses.Ritu PriyaMetro can decongest roads in cityThe traffic congestion in Ludhiana is getting worse with each passing day. We cannot blame the authorities concerned for insufficient roads. Rather commuters are to be blamed, who take their vehicles to places hardly at walking distance from their residences. There has been a steep rise in the number of vehicles in the city. Every rich and middle class family has at least one or more cars. There is too pressure of vehicles on city roads. How can we expect fast growth of infrastructure in the city? But, we have to find a concrete solution to this problem. The commuters should opt for carpooling, walk to offices and use public transport instead of private vehicles. The administration should arrange more means of public transport for commuters. Also, the administration can increase parking rates to discourage people from using their own private vehicles. A Metro can decongest city roads.Bir Devinder Singh BediPay for parking at workplaceThe problem of traffic congestion aggravates during the festival season. It can be reduced to some extent by commuters, who drive their vehicles. The authorities concerned are doing their bit through various means to reduce traffic snarls in the city. Optimising traffic lights management, using CCTVs to monitor road conditions and vehicles, enforcing traffic laws strictly, improving public transport, reducing travel ticket price, increasing car parking fee, promoting car pooling, charging for parking at work place, removing encroachments and issuing challans for traffic rule violations will certainly reduce traffic chaos in the ongoing festival season. This is possible only with cooperation of the general public.RV SinghCongestion due to ongoing projectsTraffic chaos is more during morning and evening hours. During night, heavy vehicles create traffic snarls. Besides, traffic congestion has increased due to the ongoing construction activity of many development projects under the Ludhiana Smart City. The Municipal Corporation and the police should prepare a traffic management plan for the city. The MC should clear encroachments to reduce traffic congestion. CCTVs installed in the city should be in working condition to keep a check on traffic rule violations. PCR personnel should be deployed at points witnessing frequent traffic congestion. Commuters should be made awareness of traffic rules through rallies and seminars. Traffic signals should be installed at roundabouts at busy chowks.RS SembhiCCTV cameras to monitor vehiclesThe administration should use CCTV cameras to monitor vehicles on roads in the city. People should religiously follow traffic rules. Carpooling can reduce the number of vehicles on city roads. Automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) system can help in traffic management and improve commuters’ safety. Traffic signals should be installed in the areas witnessing traffic congestion.Devna MunjalTake traffic rule violators to taskThe special drive launched to reduce traffic congestion in city should be implemented in true letter and spirit. If anyone flouts traffic rules, he/she must be taken to task and punished. The police must ensure that there are no traffic jams in main markets, including malls, and important crossings at the city entry points. The police should make sure that people follow traffic rules while commuting on city roads.Gautam DevCops should work honestlyNo parking means no parking. It should be implemented strictly in the city. Traffic police should do their duty honestly. They should tow away vehicles from no parking areas. There should be check on speed of vehicles. Cops should keep a watch on roads witnessing less traffic as people indulge in speeding vehicles on these stretches thus increasing chances of accidents. Wrong side driving should not go unpunished.Raji Kaurmulti-storey parking lots in marketsMulti-pronged strategy is needed for traffic management during the festive season in Ludhiana. All encroachments should be removed from roads and markets. The Municipal Corporation should construct multi-storey parking lots in the market areas. The police patrolling should be enhanced to reduce traffic snarls. The traffic police should challan speeding vehicles every day. The public should be made aware about benefits of following traffic rules. The administration should promote use of public transport. Residents should be discouraged from using private vehicles.Sukhdev SharmaUse smart signal technologyInnovative steps can reduce traffic congestion in the city. Movable barriers can be placed on roads to change vehicle lanes on requirement basis. Smart signal technology can be used to adjust time for the green light as per the flow of traffic. Advanced traffic advisory should be provided to commuters so that they can avoid congested roads. Carpooling is a good option to reduce number of vehicles on roads. Residents should use public transport.Anmol BatraSynchronise traffic signals in cityLudhiana desperately needs more parking spaces. In the absence of the public transport system everyone uses personal vehicles to commute, which leads to traffic congestion. The city also needs an intelligent traffic management system. Traffic signals should be synchronised to reduce traffic bottlenecks and streamline flow of vehicles. The police should not allow encroachments on roads during the festival season. Those blatantly violating traffic rules should be dealt with strictly.Dr Sunil Chopralanes for specific type of vehiclesThe condition roads is dismal in Ludhiana. There are so many jams, which commuters face in the city due to faculty network of roads. Some underpasses and flyovers have been constructed in the city to lessen traffic congestions. Each lane should be earmarked for particular type of vehicles to smoothen the flow of traffic. A central control room should be established to monitor and sort out traffic problems in different areas of the city.Dr Mohd Saleem FarooquiPromote use of bicyclesTo solve the problem of traffic congestion, Smart City Ludhiana needs more parking areas across major markets and improve cycling infrastructure to promote use of bicycles instead of motorised vehicles. Use of public transport should be encouraged as it significantly reduces density of private vehicles on roads in the city.Sagar GambhirLudhiana is densely populated districtResidents are struggling to cope with frequent traffic snarls and lack of parking space in the city. Ludhiana being a hub of hosiery is a densely populated district. People from all parts of the country come to the city for employment. This has led to increase in number of vehicles in the city and traffic congestion roads. The authorities concerned should take help of the police to manage traffic in the city. But that does not happen many times.Anu JoshiCarpool is good optionMost people use their private vehicles to commute on same routes. This increases traffic congestion on roads in the city. If going to the same area people must carpool to reduce traffic congestion and save money. This will also save fuel and time of commuters.Yashika ThakurQUESTIONWith dreaded dengue fever continuing to spread its tentacles fast and wide, Ludhiana has fallen under the high burden districts in the state. The rising number of daily cases has hard pressed the health infrastructure, which has started falling short for the needy. Are we heading to another health emergency similar to Covid? Has the Health Department once again been found wanting?How can we tackle the current situation?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to ludhiana.feedback@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/open-house-what-all-needs-to-be-done-to-reduce-traffic-congestion-on-city-roads-329305
25-10-2021||Kuldip Bhatia||Parking woes irk Malhar Road, Kipps Market traders, visitors||Ludhiana, October 24Though the development of Malhar Road as a ‘smart road’ and retrofitting of adjoining Kipps Market in Sarabha Nagar under the ‘Smart City Mission’ are yet to be completed after missing a couple of deadlines, shopkeepers other commercial establishments and visitors to these places have already started facing parking woes due to poor design of the project.Both Malhar Road and Kipps Market, being high-end commercial centres and located in a posh and affluent area (Sarabha Nagar), have a heavy footfall and were already facing issues due to inadequate parking space.Now that retrofitting project in Kipps Market was being undertaken and width of Malhar Road had been cut down for laying interlocking tiles on both sides of the road along footpaths, problems of traffic congestion and parking have further aggravated.To make the matters worse, most of the parking space provided on tiled pavements on both sides of Malhar Road has been encroached upon by owners of showrooms and other commercial complexes by placing traffic cones or even putting a chain fence to deny access of vehicles of shoppers or other visitors.“How are city residents supposed to visit the ‘smart’ Malhar Road or for that matter Kipps Market if no parking space has been made available at these places,” wonders a city resident, Sukhbir Sekhon, who have had to grapple with parking problem on Malhar Road.Parking space on Malhar Road was far too inadequate to cope with increased volume of traffic after the road had been transformed as ‘smart road’ and on the other, traffic police were targeting vehicles of customers or at times, even those of the shopkeepers if vehicles were even a shade outside the earmarked spaces, complained a showroom owner on Malhar Road.MC officials admitted that a couple of projects for providing additional parking space for vehicles were put on hold because selected sites were partly or fully dug up for other ongoing projects. However, no parking project had been planned for Sarabha Nagar or Malhar Road under the ‘Smart City Mission’, admitted an official.Meanwhile, a senior BJP leader Bikram Singh Sidhu has flayed the MC and the Ludhiana Smart City Limited for faulty design of Kipps Market and Malhar Road redesigning projects while alleging that Rs 38.63 crore had been spent on the development of these two areas. But in reality, the actual blueprint for redesigning the market and having a multi-storey parking, had been completely ignored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/parking-woes-irk-malhar-road-kipps-market-traders-visitors-329307
25-10-2021||Our Correspondent||Rain leaves many Ludhiana city areas flooded||Ludhiana, October 24Moderate to heavy rain, accompanied by high-velocity winds, lashed the city since late last evening and showers persisted almost through the night.On the Sunday morning, residents in several localities in the city woke up to find rain water accumulated all over streets, roads and markets. Low-lying areas and many residential localities on both sides of the Buddha Nullah were worst affected.In the overflowing water of the Buddha Nullah in New Shivpuri, a scooter was nearly washed away and passers-by, who had gathered in a large number, saved the two-wheeler and its rider after facing some difficult time.On the Haibowal main road, a car was half sunk in a big pit due to the cave-in of a portion of road which had undergone extensive repairs recently. The occupant of the vehicle had a miraculous escape. Later, the Municipal Corporation repaired the caved-in portion of the road.Though MC officials attribute accumulation of rainwater as a regular feature during rains and justify the same on the ground that the city had either little or no rainwater drainage system, the fact remained that the submerged areas, especially posh and fully developed localities, had exposed tall claims of development of urban infrastructure in the city and host of projects under the so-called ‘Smart City Mission.’“If residents are made to live with waterlogging during rains, overflowing sewers, poor sanitation, bad roads and erratic power supply, then what kind of smart city is being developed for people,” said a resident of BRS Nagar.Affected areasSeveral areas on Ferozepur Road — where construction work for the elevated road was under way, parts of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, Sarabha Nagar, Malhar Road, Old GT Road, Hambran Road, Dairy Complex, Partap Singhwala, Chander Nagar, New Kundanpuri, Chhawni Mohalla, Dholewal Chowk, Focal Point and some areas in the old city remained under water till late Sunday morning when the spell of rain had waned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/rain-leaves-many-ludhiana-city-areas-flooded-329308
25-10-2021||---||Showers to continue today in Ludhiana: Met||Ludhiana, October 24Weather in Ludhiana has suddenly taken a U-turn after rainfall last night. The city saw 31 mm rainfall and there is a chill in the air. With hilly areas also receiving rainfall and snowfall, the weather conditions in plains have also affected.Dr Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, Principal Scientist, Agricultural Metrological Department, Punjab Agricultural University, said such conditions would continue till tomorrow and after that weather would remain cleared.“Light rain can occur at some places tomorrow and after that weather will remain cleared,” she said.The maximum temperature recorded today was 21°C while the minimum temperature was 17°C. Humidity was 92 per cent.Meanwhile, rain has brought huge loss to farmers who had their paddy for procurement at grain markets. The unexpected rain led to huge loss as their produce was damped.“Moisture will be added to the produce and we will be unable to fetch the desired price. Unexpected rainfall will cause us huge losses as we were not prepared for such a weather and not expecting a downpour,” said a farmer at a grain market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/showers-to-continue-today-in-ludhiana-met-329309
25-10-2021||---||Man arrested for robbery bid||Ludhiana, October 24The Police Division 4 solved the Gandhi Nagar robbery attempt case with the arrest of one person. Two miscreants had attempted to loot a migrant hosiery worker early on Saturday morning.The arrested accused has been identified as Neeraj of New Balmik Nagar. The second accused is yet to be identified. A case was registered in this regard on Saturday.Investigating officer ASI Hardeep Singh said yesterday when the incident came to the fore, the police during a probe checked the CCTV camera footage of the crime. Later, the police checked other CCTV cameras which helped the police in identifying one of the accused.The ASI said after identifying the accused, the police nabbed him on Saturday night and soon the other accused would also be arrested.Meanwhile, Gandhi Nagar market manufacturers and shopkeepers had raised safety concern.They alleged that if criminals continue to commit loot, their businesses would get affected. Since this market was known for hosiery goods and it had a huge footfall of traders and businessmen, the police should increase patrolling in the area.Meanwhile, the police have also asked all businessmen to install CCTV cameras on the premises of their outlets as it would help check crime in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/man-arrested-for-robbery-bid-329311
25-10-2021||Ludhiana||Four nabbed on gambling charge||The CIA wing of the Jagraon police yesterday nabbed four persons on the charges of gambling and for running an illegal lottery racket in separate cases. Cases under the Gambling Act were registered in both incidents.In the first incident, the police nabbed Hansraj, alias Hansa, and Jaswant Singh, alias Santa, both residents of Kothe Khajure, Jagraon.ASI Randhir Singh said a tip-off was received that the accused were running illegal lottery. The police laid a trap and nabbed the accused red-handed. In the other case, the police nabbed Karamjit Singh, alias Bittu, and Kulbhushan Kumar of Jagraon red- handed when they were asking people to invest in ‘darra satta’ (illegal lottery) and were promising handsome returns. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/four-nabbed-on-gambling-charge-329312
25-10-2021||Ludhiana||No fresh Covid case in Ludhiana district||No person tested positive for Covid and no death was reported in the district today. At present, recovery rate of Covid patients has reached 97.57 per cent and there are 27 active patients in the district. A total of eight patients are undergoing treatment for Covid at various city hospitals and of these, four belong to Ludhiana district and the remaining to other districts.Till date, a total of 26,70,999 samples have been taken, of which 25,71,707 were tested negative. Now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 87,592 while 11,700 belong to other districts/states.The total number of persons who lost their lives include 2,105 persons from Ludhiana and 1,053 from other districts.Whenever the district administration or the Health Department, Ludhiana, finds out about any positive or suspected Covid-19 person, their samples are sent for testing. As many as 7,933 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing today and their results are expected shortly.DC Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to residents to adhere to all Covid safety protocols of the state government to not only save themselves but also keep everyone around them safe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/no-fresh-covid-case-in-ludhiana-district-329313
25-10-2021||---||Minor girl among three go missing in Ludhiana||Ludhiana, October 24Three persons went missing under mysterious circumstances from the industrial hub. After registering cases yesterday, the police have launched a manhunt in this regard.The first case was registered at Police Division 7 in which Gopal Singh of Adarsh Nagar told the police that on October 4, he had dropped his 25-year-old daughter Ranju near Greenland School on the Chandigarh road but she did not reach home. He suspected that his daughter could have kept under wrongful confinement by some unknown persons.In the second incident, Saroj Kumar of Farid Nagar told the police that on October 13, his brother Dhiraj Kumar (37) had gone to work at a factory in Madhopuri but he did not return home. He got registered a case at Police Division 3 following which the police launched a search.In another case, 16-year-old girl Kanchan had left home without informing any family members. Her father Ravinder Kumar Thakur suspected that his daughter might had been abducted by somebody and the police should speed up probe to trace her. The Police Division 3 had registered a case under Section 346 (wrongful confinement) of the IPC against unknown persons. CCTV cameras near the victim’s house were also being scanned by the police to get any clue in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/ludhiana/minor-girl-among-three-go-missing-in-ludhiana-329314
