01-05-2020||Comment||Coronavirus: BBMP, prioritise public health||City municipal budgets attract little attention at the best of times, much less now when the world is preoccupied with a deadly pandemic. But the pandemic is precisely the reason local budgets and local action become important. Public health is a major responsibility of every municipality and it is distressing to see BBMP allocate a meagre Rs 131.78 crore under this head out of the total outlay of Rs 10,899 crore in its budget for 2020-21. It is unfortunate that BBMP has missed the opportunity of according due priority to this crucial sector at this critical juncture. In fact, COVID-19 does not figure in its budget except for a brief mention about a contribution of Rs 49.5 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Public health is fundamental to the prevention of disease and promotion of health, with linkages to other sectors. At the core of addressing its issues is the scientific discipline of epidemiology. The BBMP has either been unable to appreciate the epidemiological challenges we are facing or it has chosen to ignore them. How then do you explain its decision to pay a paltry amount of Rs 33,600 per month to the epidemiologists it intends to recruit. No wonder, four of them who were employed with the civic body quit their posts. Epidemiology is the study of disease in populations. It investigates outbreaks of diseases and tries to identify the risk factors of zoonotic (transmitted from animal to human) diseases in human and animal populations. COVID-19 only underlines the importance of this discipline. True, research on such issues requires huge resources and scientific manpower which are beyond the reach of local governments. But cities have their own role to play in the prevention and the spread of a disease. Under the law, public health is an obligatory function of the local government. The Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act devotes an entire chapter to ‘Prevention of Diseases.’ It is mandatory on the part of the municipal corporation to notify dangerous diseases and undertake preventive measures such as disinfection of buildings and articles. It can order closure of places of public entertainment and destruction of birds and animals causing danger to human health. It has a duty to regulate slaughterhouses, public markets and places for washing and bathing of animals. While the corporation and other government agencies may be working overtime to control the disease currently, it is important that they pay adequate attention to public health issues during normal times. Matters like cleaning of streets and drains, waste management, water quality, maintenance of public toilets and sanitation, considered routine functions, are crucial for the health and safety of the people. A broad analysis of the BBMP budget reveals that the priorities for expenditure are lopsided. While health accounts for a mere 1.2% of the budget, infrastructure items like roads, flyovers, subways, stormwater drain development and other construction works claim 49%. It’s interesting to note that the amount earmarked for the Mayor’s discretionary fund -- Rs 150 crore -- exceeds the provision for health (Rs 131 crore). Add to that the discretionary funds of the Deputy Mayor, Chairman of the Taxation and Finance Committee and the Leader of the Ruling Party and the total rises to a whopping Rs 325 crore (3% of the budget). It is not my intention to undertake a detailed review of the budget here but to draw attention to the reality that the impact of COVID-19 will last not just for the next few months but for the next couple of years. This is the opportune time for BBMP to establish a primary healthcare system for Bengaluru. Unfortunately, in India, unlike in rural areas, urban primary healthcare has been ignored for long. In 2013, a National Urban Health Mission was created with the intention of addressing the special health needs of the urban population, but it was slow in taking off and hardly made any impact. The National Health Policy of 2017 speaks about moving from token intervention to assured intervention to organise primary healthcare to cover the entire urban population. Such interventions should deal with matters such as vector-borne diseases (mosquitoes and malaria), respiratory diseases, water-borne diseases, air and water pollution, road accidents and trauma. This is also the time to initiate measures for a comprehensive clean-up of the city. This would include a plan for systematic cleaning of stormwater drains and to prevent entry of sewage into the lakes which, in turn, would help rejuvenate the water bodies, keeping the streets and public places free from filth and squalor and regular cleaning of public markets, especially meat and fish markets. I strongly suggest that BBMP set up an Urban Primary Healthcare Centre and draw up a plan for short-term and long-term care, especially keeping in view the needs of the vulnerable sections of the population, including migrant labourers. This would no doubt require adequate resources and professional manpower, which the civic body lacks. To begin with, funds can be pooled from within the BBMP budget. It would be a great gesture on the part of the Mayor to give up 50% of the discretionary funds at his disposal and persuade his other privileged colleagues to follow suit for a bigger cause. Some proposed schemes like the construction of Kempegowda welcome arches can be deferred. Thus, about Rs 250 crore can be sourced internally which can be used as seed fund to start the primary healthcare centre. More money can be mobilised through government grants and from external sources. BBMP should work in coordination with other agencies like BWSSB, Pollution Control Board, professional bodies and the community to create a model urban healthcare system for the technology hub of India. (The writer is a former Chief Secretary, Govt of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/coronavirus-bbmp-prioritise-public-health-832116.html
01-05-2020||First Edit||An unnecessary political drama brews in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Governor BS Koshyari has gone in for a complicated solution to an issue that he could have been solved easily. He has requested the Election Commission to hold elections to the nine vacant seats in the Legislative Council soon, and if Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray wins a seat in these elections, he can continue as chief minister beyond May 28. Thackeray has to become a member of the Assembly or the Council before that date if he has to continue in office. The state cabinet had requested the Governor to nominate Thackeray to one of the vacant seats under the Governor's quota. But the Governor wrongly refused to do so. Instead, he has passed the buck to the EC at a time when the commission has held all elections in abeyance in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Governor could instead have nominated Thackeray to the seat and ended all uncertainty and recrimination.  It is strange that the Governor took this course because he has no discretion to nominate a person of his choice or to reject the cabinet’s recommendation. The Calcutta High Court has ruled in a similar case that the Governor has to go by the aid and advice of the cabinet in the case of nominations. Moreover, this is an extraordinary situation as the EC has decided not to hold any election for the time being. By refusing to nominate Thackeray to the Council, the Governor was pushing the state into a constitutional and political crisis. It may be argued that the coalition can elect another leader, but the Governor has no right to create such a situation. It is tantamount to attempting to dismiss a ministry, or staging a coup.  The Election Commission’s response is not known. It can still stick to its decision of not holding the elections, in which case Maharashtra will be subject to further political uncertainty. The state cannot afford such uncertainty or a leadership change now when it is in the midst of its fight against COVID-19. It is the worst-hit state in the country and needs political stability and uninterrupted leadership to sustain the campaign. It is unlikely that the Governor was acting on his own. He could only have been acting at the behest of the Centre. Thackeray had to seek the Prime Minister’s intervention in the matter. But there is still no satisfactory solution to the issue. Is all this political drama necessary in the midst of a raging pandemic?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/an-unnecessary-political-drama-brews-in-maharashtra-832115.html
01-05-2020||First Edit||Punished for mere suggestions  ||The government’s response to the suggestions made by a group of 50 Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officers on ways to cope with the economic impact of the fight against the coronavirus and to raise resources for a recovery was unduly harsh and excessive. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has charge-sheeted three senior officers for "misguiding" the young officers who prepared a report that called for a hike in taxes to fund the recovery plan and for “unauthorisedly’’ making it public. The report, named FORCE (Fiscal Options & Response to the Covid-19 Epidemic), had called for an increase in tax rates and imposition of wealth tax, inheritance tax and a Covid-19 surcharge. The CBDT is said to have found that the senior officers, who included two office-bearers of the IRS Association, got the juniors to prepare the report and then had it released through the association’s twitter account without taking permission from the government.  There may technically be a violation of conduct rules and service conditions involved in the officers’ action. But the government’s reaction showed that it was too prickly and sensitive about it. The officers’ intentions were good, and they only wanted to give some suggestions about how the country can cope with the emerging situation. They wanted the government to consider them, and the government could have benefitted from a public discussion on them. Governments sometimes undertake such exercises to test the mood of the public or to find out people’s responses to certain decisions or policies. The government has itself sought suggestions and proposals from the people on various matters. When 50 specialists made a collective effort to aid the national response to the pandemic, the government need not have come down on them with such a heavy hand.  It should be noted that the officers did not criticise any policies and decisions of the government. Indeed, this very government has toyed with similar tax proposals in the past and some had even to be rolled back from previous budgets. The Income Tax Department has said that the report did not represent the views of the government. It could simply have stated that and left the matter at that. If it was not pleased with the presentation of the proposals in the public realm it could have stated that too. There is an unprecedented situation facing the country and all ideas may be debated in formulating the right response to it. An act done in good faith and out of concern for the country should not have been met with such disproportionately harsh response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/punished-for-mere-suggestions-832472.html
01-05-2020||In Perspective||A vaccine will matter only if it’s available to all||If an effective and safe coronavirus vaccine were available today, would it be enough to stop this pandemic? That would depend on whether everyone who needs it can get it. But if what took place during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic happens again, then the answer is no. As swine flu swept across the globe, the vaccines that were developed ended up mostly in wealthy countries, while the rest of the world went without them. That’s what goes wrong when manufacturing agreements or domestic export policies in countries producing vaccines place restrictions on their international availability. The first priority for any country, of course, is to protect its own citizens. But countries must think globally when the world faces an infectious disease. An outbreak anywhere is a risk everywhere. World leaders need to act now to ensure that everyone who needs the vaccine when it becomes available gets it. The potential for outbreaks to spread uncontrollably is particularly high in low-income countries where inadequate public health systems are unable to effectively track and respond to new diseases or to treat people who are infected. These countries are also limited in their ability to pay for vaccines, which is why the organisation I run, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, provides subsidies to countries to purchase them. Even so, substantially more financial help will be required if large numbers of vulnerable people are to be vaccinated. Otherwise, reservoirs of the virus will remain and continue to spread. With cases of coronavirus infection now confirmed in more than five dozen lower-income countries, that is a big concern. At least 89 coronavirus vaccines are in development, according to the World Health Organisation, and possibly double that number. So, when the first gets regulatory approval for widespread use, how do we ensure equal access? Initially, the challenge will be how to distribute the limited number of doses that are available. The danger is that richer nations will buy up the supply for their own use or prevent exports of vaccines developed within their borders as countries scramble to protect their citizens or stockpile for future outbreaks. Another concern is that manufacturers might restrict sales to the highest bidder. In the long term, this may point to the need to expand the vaccine manufacturing base to a wider range of countries and regions. Because it is likely that the first vaccines will be produced in wealthy countries, we will fall short of producing a global supply if we rely only on their manufacturing capabilities. What we will need is a technology transfer to manufacturers around the world if we have any hope of having adequate quantities and global access. For now, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations is trying to expedite the development of vaccines against emerging infectious diseases. The coalition has kickstarted the development of at least nine coronavirus vaccines but needs to raise $2 billion to help up to three of these candidates make it through the regulatory and quality requirements and to complete efficacy trials. The world would then need to ensure funds to guarantee manufacturing capacity for global production to make billions of doses available within the next 18-24 months. In addition to this, the coalition is working to create a mechanism to ensure equal access to these vaccines. It is unclear precisely how this would be achieved and whether, for dozens of other vaccines under development through other efforts, others making vaccines will follow suit once a mechanism is developed. It is also unclear how poorer countries will pay for them. But in global health crises where emergency vaccines are a global public good that keeps us all safe, the answer has to be largely through public funding. That is why it is encouraging that the health ministers of the G-20 wealthy nations called for accelerating the development, manufacturing and equitable distribution of vaccines against the coronavirus at its April 19 meeting and that last Friday, more than 15 heads of state, the president of the European Union, the director general of the WHO and leaders of other international institutions committed to join together to do the same. For the governments of high-income donor countries, many of which are already scrambling to divert funds from other uses to cope with the coronavirus crisis within their borders, raising additional billions of dollars will be difficult. But to keep the global population safe, it must be done. Innovative financing mechanisms exist that can translate long-term government commitments into immediate funding by issuing bonds on capital markets. The Ebola vaccine we have today was made possible by such an approach. A broad range of partners, including biomedical research institutions and health agencies in the US, the EU, China and the pharmaceutical industry, working in coordination offers the best chance at developing a vaccine or vaccines. The best of those vaccines then need to be moved into advanced clinical trials to see what works, along with the scaling up of production capabilities to meet the global need. Estimates put the cost of Covid-19 to the global economy at up to $2 trillion this year. If we can advance the mass distribution of an effective vaccine or vaccines by as little as two weeks, not only would we save countless lives, but the effort would almost pay for itself by getting the world back to work. But that also means ensuring that affordability and access do not become barriers to widespread availability. Only by protecting everyone at risk will we end this outbreak and respond effectively to future outbreaks. In the race to develop a coronavirus vaccine, everyone everywhere should be winners. (The writer, a medical doctor and epidemiologist, is CEO of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, a public-private partnership that helps provide vaccines to developing countries)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-vaccine-will-matter-only-if-it-s-available-to-all-832121.html
01-05-2020||In Perspective||COVID-19: Life after lockdown||What will life be like when India and the rest of the world lift the lockdown completely? Will life as we knew it before Covid-19 return? Well, with the extension of the nation-wide lockdown for another two weeks, albeit with significant relaxations, we will have to wait for some more time to find out.   We have had a lockdown for nearly six weeks now. The Karnataka government has partially lifted the lockdown since last week, allowing IT and IT-enabled services, among others, to operate with minimum staff, while the rest would still work from home. “To mitigate hardship to the public, select additional activities have been allowed, which will come into effect from 00:00 hours of April 23,” said Karnataka government’s Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar. This does not mean life goes back to normal – the companies have to make all the preparatory arrangements to maintain social distancing in the offices. However, the insane traffic jams in Bengaluru city, since last Friday, tell us that people probably think that the danger of Covid-19 is already past. We have no reliable data to tell us when the pandemic will end. The new normal of social distancing, masks, gloves and washing of our hands is here to stay. Even if all restrictions are lifted, until a vaccine is found, we have to remember that the virus is still among us.  If photographs from China showing huge crowds at all tourist places, as soon as the country lifted the lockdown, are any indication, it’s not going to be any different in India. There are news reports of a second wave of the coronavirus in China and lockdown measures have been put in place in many regions.    So, unless we continue to follow social distancing norms, we are going to see a spurt in cases in India. Do expect identification of hotspots to continue and cluster shutdowns. There will probably also be temperature sensors at public places and quarantine measures will be put in place if an infection is detected in a workplace. Middle seats won’t be sold in flights; every other seat will be empty in theatres – perhaps forcing the managements to hike ticket prices. One good thing that may come out of lifting the lockdown partially is that migrant labour and house maids may be able to go back to work, but whether factory workers in the non-essential sectors would be able to go back soon is still an open question. Lockdown lessons When humans went into a lockdown, the earth quietly went about reclaiming itself. On the 50th anniversary of the World Earth Day on April 22 this year, the World Health Organisation Chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said, “Covid-19 is reminding us of a simple but vital truth: we are one species, sharing one planet.”   The lockdown may have made us insular, but it also brought the world closer. We adapted to our forced new life in lockdown fairly quickly. We went digital and took to technology, reaching out to the community outside our insular lives. Young working couples adapted to ‘Work From Home’ (WFH), home-schooled their children, and used video-conferencing for work calls and family socials. Online streaming platforms were our saviours when it came to entertainment – offering us a range of options.  And while we stayed locked inside our homes, the birds came back to our gardens, the air became cleaner and the sky clearer. The smog in most of our cities lifted, with no vehicles to spew toxic gases. For instance, the Air Quality Index (AQI) for Bengaluru City Railway Station on April 23 was in the green zone, 47 (good) in the index, according to the AQICN.org website. But with the partial opening up and rising traffic, it took only two days for the AQI reading to spike up to the yellow zone, 60 (moderate) on the index on April 25. Reuters posted ‘before’ and ‘after’ pictures of major cities -- from the Grand Canal in Venice, Italy to high rise buildings in Jakarta to the India Gate war memorial in New Delhi -- to show how the lockdown had reduced air pollution drastically. We also learnt to live simple lives and concentrate on what mattered. In India, with no maids to help us run our homes, we learned to keep our homes clean and cook healthy meals for our families. With no way to visit a supermarket, we learned to manage with the essential products available in the local kirana shop. The lockdown showed us that less is more.  In an interview with Stephen Colbert on the Late Show, on Earth Day, award winning documentary filmmaker Michael Moore said, “Look, nature’s given us this warning…It’s putting us right now in our time-out room. And we should be using this time to think, when we come out of this, how we’re going to treat this planet, how we’re going to treat nature.” And post-lockdown, mindful of the fact that the virus is still among us, we should work on crafting a simpler, yet fulfilling way of life that promises a fair and equitable future for all. We are all in this together, for the virus cares nothing about race, caste, class or borders. Never has it become more necessary to do this -- to give time for humanity and the earth to heal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-19-life-after-lockdown-832473.html
01-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Elephant electrocuted in coffee estate at Karnataka's Chennayyakote||An elephant was electrocuted in a coffee estate at Chennayyakote in Siddapura on Thursday night.  The elephant had come in contact with a live wire. The male elephant must have been eight to 10 years old and was found dead in the coffee estate owned by Arun.  According to forest officials, the elephant must have strayed into the village in search of food when the mishap occurred.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-electrocuted-in-coffee-estate-at-karnatakas-chennayyakote-832126.html
01-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19 cases in Mandya spike as 8 test positive||At a time when COVID-19 active cases were declining in Mysuru, unexpectedly, the neighbouring Mandya district has reported eight new cases, on Friday.  Three cases include P566, a 25-year-old man, P567 a 24-year-old woman and P568, a 27-year-old man, from Mandya. They have a travel history of Mumbai, Maharashtra. P569, a 30-year-old woman, is from K R Pet, and has a contact history with P 566, 567 and 568. P570 to 573 are from Malavalli and have a contact history with P179. This includes a three male, aged 12, 13 and 19, and a 32-year-old woman. Meanwhile, there was a commotion in Melkote taluk, alleging that four members of the same family, is suspected of infected with coronavirus at B Koodagahalli village. It is said that the body of a person, who died in Maharashtra was brought to Koodagahalli, in an ambulance around 10 days ago. Six persons, including his family members, accompanied the body and were kept under quarantine. Four among them are alleged to have tested positive. A pourakarmika, who was part of the funeral, has not been quarantined and has created panic among the residents. However, the district administration is yet to clarify the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-cases-in-mandya-spike-as-8-test-positive-832230.html
01-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown: 150 Karnataka students return from Rajasthan, quarantined||Students from Belagavi, Bidar, Kalaburgi, Shivamogga and other districts had been to Rajasthan to prepare for engineering and medical courses entrance examinations. They were stranded in the northern state due to the lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19.  They were brought to the city in four buses and housed in lodges for the quarantine period. Residents from Khade Bazaar had opposed quarantine of COVID-19 suspects on Thursday but had relented after being informed by police that the persons to be kept in the lodges in the area were students stranded in Rajasthan who had to be kept in observation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-150-karnataka-students-return-from-rajasthan-quarantined-832243.html
01-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Plasma therapy to be continued in state'||Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu said that as 'Plasma therapy' has been successfully tried on Covid-19 patients, the treatment would be continued in the state. Plasma therapy aims at using antibodies from the blood of a recovered Covid-19 patient to treat those critically affected by the virus and will also be used to immunise those at high risk, like health workers and other high-risk contacts. Speaking to reporters here, on Friday, Sriramulu said, "Covid patients are recovering due to plasma therapy. Studying the pros and cons of the treatment, a decision would be taken on extending the treatment to other districts." Covid tests would be made easier in future. As per the advise of experts, arrangements would be made for a medical team, to reach the houses of suspected in an ambulance, and collect samples, he said. As blood banks are facing shortage, all deputy commissioners have been directed to take steps to increase voluntary blood donation. Blood donation will be made easier for donors. Those interested can call the toll-free number. The district administration would make arrangements to pick and drop them, after blood donation, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/plasma-therapy-to-be-continued-in-state-832423.html
01-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Assault on corona warriors invites 5-yr jail term’||Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu, on Friday, said, “A new Act has been introduced in the state for the protection of corona warriors. Those, who assault policemen, medical and para-medical staff, anganwadi volunteers, Asha workers and journalists on duty will face five years jail term.” Speaking to reporters, after a meeting, he said, the Union government would take a decision on the relaxation of lockdown after May 3. “The situation would be ‘status quo’ in the districts under red zone. Financial activities have already commenced in the green zone.” “The people should not lose their patience after May 4, if there is any extension. It is not easy to eradicate Covid-19 totally and the people should learn to live with the virus for the next one year. It is necessary for everyone to be cautious,” he advised. MLA Preetham J Gowda, Deputy Commissioner R Girish and Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/assault-on-corona-warriors-invites-5-yr-jail-term-832425.html
01-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Spike in Covid cases from 18 to 26 in Mandya||All focus is now on Mandya district, which has seen a spike in Covid-19 cases on Friday, with new eight confirmed cases. With this, the number of cases has suddenly gone up from 18 to 26. At a time when Covid-19 active cases are declining in Mysuru, the neigbouring Mandya district reported eight new cases on a single day, on Friday. Three cases P566, a 25-year-old man, P567, a 24-year-old woman and P568, a 2.7 year-old child, are from Koodagalli, Pandavapura taluk, and have a travel history of Mumbai in Maharashtra. Patient 569, a 30-year-old woman is from KR Pet with contact history with P566, 567 and 568. All the above four patients are from the same family. Patient 570, 571, 572 and 573 are from Malavalli, and has a contact history with P179 and Tablighi jamaatis. P570 is a 19-year-old boy, P571 a 32-year-old woman, P572 is a 13-year-old boy and P 573 is a 12-year-old boy. Patient 179 has a contact history with 10 religious clerics from Delhi, who had visited Malavalli. His primary contacts, his mother, daughter, nephew and a tea-seller too have contracted the infection. Now, four more primary contacts of P179 have tested positive. Meanwhile, there was panic in Koodagalli in Pandavapura taluk, after four of the same family from Mumbai, tested positive for Covid-19. Assuring that there is no need for panic, as precautionary measures are taken, Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh clarified that the body of a person, declared dead in Mumbai, was shifted to B Koodagalli in Pandavapura taluk in a government ambulance and the last rites were performed, a week ago. Now, four of his family members have tested positive for Covid-19. The deceased's son, two daughters (one of them is a KR Pet resident) and 2.7 year old grandson have tested positive. A resident of Santa Cruz in Mumbai, the person had died of heart attack on April 23. His last rites were performed at Koodagalli on April 24. Those who participated in the funeral were immediately sent to a quarantine facility, in a hostel and were not allowed to visit the village. On April 28, all their blood and throat swab samples were taken and sent for testing. While four, who accompanied the body in an ambulance tested positive, the deceased's wife has tested negative. The DC said, "The Mumbai City Corporation has certified that the death was due to cardiac arrest. The body was shifted to Karnataka, after getting a transit pass from the corporation authorities. However, the cause of the death and genuinity of the certificate would be verified with the Mumbai counterparts. A letter would be written to Mumbai corporation, seeking a comprehensive report." The body was embalmed before the transit. Hence, no tests were conducted locally. The Health department personnel have followed the protocol and all those who participated in the last rites were quarantined, he said. Around 19 cases have been reported from Malavalli, two from Mandya, one from Nagamangala, one from KR Pet and three from Pandavapura. While the total number of cases in Mandya, as on May 1 was 26, seven people have been cured, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/spike-in-covid-cases-from-18-to-26-in-mandya-832426.html
01-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Pvt school teachers under financial crisis||The staff members, both teaching and non-teaching, of a few private schools in the district are under financial crisis as the institutions have not paid their salaries for the last two months. Many teachers have not paid their house rent and it has become difficult for them to spend on household expenditure. A teacher said that she has not received her salary from the last two months and it has become very difficult to bare the daily expenses. “I don’t have any other source of income, except the salary,” she said, adding that she has borrowed money from her friend to pay the house rent. The teacher said, her children study in another school and the school authorities are exerting pressure on her to pay the fees. “When I have not received my salary, how can I pay the fees. The school management must understand the situation of teachers and should release at least half of the salary,” she said. Another school teacher, who stays at a paying guest accommodation said, “It’s been two months since I received my last salary. I have not paid my PG rent. I have no money to spend on other expenses. I am forced to cut my expenses.” Not only teachers, even non-teaching staff members are facing the heat, as they have not received their payment. “We understand the situation. But, the authorities must understand our condition. A majority of the non-teaching staff are from economically weaker sections. We are not demanding to pay full salary,” he says.  However, a school principal said, due to Covid-19 lockdown, the school is facing shortage of funds. The school management has decided to accept fees in installments. “We are not exerting pressure on any parent to pay the fees. But, we have requested a few to pay the fees if it is possible for them,” he said. An officer of the Education department said that the schools must release the salary on time and strict action will be taken against the management, if we receive any complaint from teachers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pvt-school-teachers-under-financial-crisis-832428.html
01-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Lockdown: Betel farmers may need a few years to recover||Farmers complained that betel leaves farms may need a few years to recover from the lockdown effect. Mysuru betel leaves are well-known and received the Geographical Indications (GI) tag in 2005 itself. The betel leaves have not been harvested since five weeks in the farms, located mainly around Mysuru city in Udbur, Marballi, T Katur, Gumachanahalli and Kellahalli. Mysuru betel leaves has a variety of heart shaped betel (piper betel) leaf, grown in and around the region of Mysuru. Mysuru betel leaves differ from other betel leaves, because of their smooth texture and hot taste. The Horticulture department of Karnataka government had proposed the registration of Mysuru betel leaf to the Office of the Controller-General of Patents, Designs and Trademarks, Chennai, under the Geographical Indications of Goods Act (1999). This was done so that the farmers of Mysuru exclusively have the right to brand their product, using the term ‘Mysuru betel leaf’. It was granted the GI status in 2005 and the certificate was issued on January 30, 2006, which is valid up to March 30, 2025. Traditionally, in the Mysuru region, a sheaf (bundle) of betel leaves is offered as a mark of respect and during auspicious beginnings. Besides, its use in Ayurveda, people consume it after special meals and during special occasions. For some, consuming betel leaves is a habit. Farmers Revanna, Choowdaiah, Kempachowda, Hemavathi, Kempadevamma, Sillappa, Purushotham and others said that the vines are full of mature leaves, but they have not been harvested due to the 40-day lockdown. “Meanwhile, there have been rains. It rained on Tuesday night also. There are also high speed winds. If the present climate continues, the vines will collapse due to the weight of the leaves. If the vines come down, it will take at least five years to restore the farms to the present condition,” they said. The major betel leaves market is in Udbur near Mysuru, which is closed due to the lockdown. Our produce have huge demand in neighbouring states. Now, the traders should be allowed to come to our farms and buy the leaves, if the market cannot be opened. Otherwise, our future will be shattered, the farmers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lockdown-betel-farmers-may-need-a-few-years-to-recover-832429.html
01-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Why govt spending money on unnecessary progs?||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Friday questioned the state government’s need to spend money on unnecessary programmes. “The government is concerned about lockdown. It is not concerned about common people, farmers and working class,” he alleged. He was speaking to reporters after inaugurating a programme to distribute free food kits at Srinivas Kalyan Mantap organized by Samruddhi Srinivas Abhimani Balaga. He said that it was not time to fight against failures of the government. He would attempt to rectify errors of the government being a leader of the one of the opposition parties. “I don’t indulge in rivalry. The BJP government has continued the scheme introduced by me,” he said. Kumaraswamy said that the Chief Minister’s office had too many advisors who could provide advise to the entire nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/why-govt-spending-money-on-unnecessary-progs-832329.html
01-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||COVID-19: Lockdown reintroduced in Kolar district||The district administration has tightened lockdown guidelines based on revised instructions from the government. As the district was in the list of green zone, the government had relaxed guidelines. However, people thronged public places in large numbers. They competed with each other to buy materials at stores without following the social distancing norm. Most of them violated all guidelines. Deputy commissioner C Satyabhama conducted rounds on Thursday night and witnessed heavy congestion. She directed the officials to continue the lockdown.Of Friday, only medical stores, fruits stalls, vegetable outlets and provision stores were permitted to carry out operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/covid-19-lockdown-reintroduced-in-kolar-district-832340.html
01-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Modi slapped govt twice over liquor issue: DK Suresh||MP D K Suresh on Friday charged that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi slapped the State government twice over reopening of liquor outlets in the State. “The government’s priority is to get money for treasury, but not health of the people. It twice made a request to permit the reopening of the liquor outlets before Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, Modi slapped the government,” he alleged after buying 50 tonnes of grapes at Rs 18 per kg for the free distribution among people of Bangalore rural lok sabha constituency. He bought the grapes from Chowda Reddy, a farmer from Haristhala. The grapes were sent by six trucks. “The government has completely failed to handle Covid-19 situation. There is confusion among ministers. Barring free rice, the government hasn’t given anything to people,” he alleged. Suresh said that the government had not distributed free masks and sanitiser. The officials warn of imposing penalty for coming out without wearing masks. How could poor people buy masks? He said that he decided to buy the grapes to help farmers. District units president K N Keshav Reddy, leaders Nandi Anjinappa, K V Naveen Kiran, P Munegowda and Addagal Sridhar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/modi-slapped-govt-twice-over-liquor-issue-dk-suresh-832376.html
01-05-2020||Main Article|| Case for a ‘green’ stimulus||Covid-19 has uprooted lives, livelihoods and economies in most countries, rich and poor. Governments and citizens are struggling to cope with the consequences, both immediate and long-term. It is a global pandemic, requiring global actions. But most actions are currently at the national level, with little cooperation and coordination. The one organisation that should have played a critical role to promote a coordinated global response, the World Health Organisation, stands discredited or ineffective, perhaps despite its best effort. The world will fight this virus in the short term through lockdowns and better healthcare for the infected and in the long term through vaccine development, which hopefully will be available at least for some later this year and may be for all by 2021. There is another global crisis that has gone into the background -- climate change. There is some jubilation, though short-lived, that greenhouse gas emissions and concentrations are falling -- due to lockdown of transport, industries and many other sectors. Temporarily, climate change is off the agenda of governments. But there is no escape from it: It is a long-term, slow and irreversible challenge. Climate change in the coming decades could lead to devastating droughts, floods, sea level rise, inundation of coastal areas, and increased vector-borne diseases such malaria, dengue and many unknown diseases. These impacts will be on a much larger scale, covering every continent, country and region. Covid-19 can be controlled with one magic bullet -- a good vaccine that could give long-term or permanent immunity to humans from the virus. But climate change has no single silver bullet and it cannot be addressed in one year by a set of famous laboratories or universities or governments or corporates. Addressing climate change requires long-term and sustainable fundamental transformation of energy and transportation systems, industries, urban waste management, land and forest management, etc. These will require trillions of dollars of investment, system-level changes and changes in behaviour and lifestyles. These changes have to be long-term and sustained, which governments find challenging, expensive and may be politically unpopular. How the response to Covid-19 will benefit or damage climate change is one of the important challenges facing researchers, policymakers, corporates and political leaders. Surely, prime ministers and presidents in democracies will be totally focussed on how to restart all industries -- transportation, hotels, tourism, small businesses, etc., with all possible economic stimuli and incentives, with minimal hindrance, especially environmental. The main goal would be to generate jobs, incomes, consumer demand and spending, to generate economic activity and GDP. Even local environmental consequences such as air pollution, water contamination, land degradation, ground water depletion and urban congestion will probably be ignored. Many economists are saying that India could easily spend at least 5% of GDP as economic stimulus to kickstart the economy. Where will this large-scale investment go? What kind of transport, industries, energy and construction systems and businesses will benefit? What is likely to happen is that governments, in a hurry to jumpstart the economy and job-creation, will put money into large-scale projects and into the hands of citizens, hoping that they will spend it on consumer goods from cars and scooters to refrigerators and television sets, and start booking train and airline tickets and fill up hotels, hire taxis, etc. One cannot fault the governments for such an approach, since they are familiar and know what to expect and systems exist to absorb such an investment or incentives easily. In all likelihood, governments will go down such well-tested paths. But there is another way, one that addresses the climate change challenge. There is emerging knowledge that shows that responding to Covid-19 through massive and unprecedented economic stimuli, investment, infrastructure development, etc., provides an excellent opportunity to shift to a sustainable development path. Investments in renewable energy, public transport (such as metro rail), recycling of all wastes, sustainable tourism, etc., will create more jobs per million dollars of investment. Such investments will reduce damage to local environment with reduced air and water pollution and land degradation, restored biodiversity and nature, etc. Who does not want clean air, lakes, ponds and rivers, the absence of traffic jams and so on? The global climate change convention planned towards the end of 2020 in Glasgow, where governments were expected to come up with higher ambition and targets to reduce greenhouse gas or carbon emissions, has been postponed indefinitely. But there is a glimmer of hope that if the US elects a Democrat as its next president in the November elections, global climate negotiations will get a boost with the positive participation of the world’s second largest greenhouse gas emitter. The challenge is for the economists, climate change experts, influential think-tanks and progressive corporates and fund managers, etc., to come with adequate and compelling analysis soon to show that every million Rupees or Dollars or Euros invested in climate-friendly, low greenhouse gas emitting and environment-friendly interventions will create more jobs and sustained incomes and also drive demand for energy-efficient appliances, renewable energy systems such as solar panels, public transport, eco-friendly tourism, locally produced and fresh foods, and also protect local and regional environment, with benefits such as reduced air and water pollution, clean rivers and restored natural ecosystems. Of course, even if good economic arguments, analysis and evidence exist, the main challenge is how to convince policymakers at state and national levels, not only in a country such as India but also in even larger and more advanced economies such as the US and China. (The writer is a former Professor, Centre for Sustainable Technologies, Indian Institute of Science)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/case-for-a-green-stimulus-832474.html
01-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi holds series of meetings to boost economy amid coronavirus crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a series of meetings to discuss strategies to boost the economy amid the COVID-19 pandemic, and attract more foreign investments into India as well as promote local investments. He reviewed the state of investments, the defence and aerospace sector and the mine and mineral sector. An official statement said various strategies to bring investments into India on a fast-track mode and to promote Indian domestic sectors were discussed in the first meeting. The high-level meetings come amid the ongoing global backlash against China. Several companies are now looking for new bases to set up their businesses, according to reports. Detailed discussions were also held on guiding states to evolve their strategies and to be more proactive in attracting investments, the statement said. Reform initiatives undertaken by the various ministries should continue unabated and action should be taken in a time-bound manner to remove any obstacles which impede promotion of investment and industrial growth, the statement said, citing the discussions. The meeting also discussed that a scheme should be developed to promote more "plug and play" infrastructure in the existing industrial lands, plots or estates in the country and provide necessary financing support. During the meeting, Modi directed all concerned that action should be taken for a more proactive approach to "handhold" the investors, to look into their problems and help them in getting all the necessary central and state clearances in a time-bound manner.  Given the increasingly worrying economic uncertainty, the government has moved to reassure both global and local investor community with focus on encouraging infrastructure and manufacturing sector investments. While chairing the meet on defence and aerospace, he said India should reduce dependence on imports and take forward the "Make in India" initiative to build its domestic capabilities for designing, developing and manufacturing state-of-the-art defence equipment. The meeting also discussed the potential reforms to ensure a robust and self-reliant defence industry in India that caters to short and long term needs of the armed forces.  The meet also discussed initiatives to give a boost to the economy in the backdrop of COVID-19, an official statement said. The discussions involved reforming of the functioning of the ordnance factories, streamlining procurement procedures, focused resource allocation and encouraging research and development. Attracting investment in critical defence technologies and promotion of exports also came up in the meet. The prime minister laid emphasis on positioning India among the top countries of the world in defence and aerospace sectors, from design to production, with active participation of public and private sector fulfilling the twin objectives of self-reliance and exports. He reviewed the proposed reforms for attracting domestic and foreign investment in defence sector. It was discussed that defence expenditure be "economised" and the savings be channelised for strategic defence capital acquisition. Reviewing the mines and mineral sector, Modi laid special focus on improving the country's self-reliance in production of minerals and their in-country processing. Auctioning of additional blocks, encouraging wider participation in auctions, increasing the production of mineral resources, reducing the cost of mining and cost of transporting formed part of the discussion. The deliberations also focussed on increasing ease of doing business while also reducing carbon footprint with environmentally sustainable development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-holds-series-of-meetings-to-boost-economy-amid-coronavirus-crisis-832097.html
01-05-2020||National||It is propaganda: India on social media posts alleging harassment of Muslims||India on Thursday called as "propaganda" certain social media posts from the Arab world alleging harassment of Muslims in several parts of the country in the name of containing the spread of coronavirus. Strongly rebutting the charges, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the Gulf countries are deeply committed to friendly relations with India and they are even seeking bilateral talks on the post-COVID-19 economic recovery. Talking about India's close and traditional ties with the Arab countries, he said New Delhi is ensuring uninterrupted supply of food and essential commodities to the region during Ramzan as part of its deep-rooted friendship. Srivastava said the countries in the region do not support any interference in India's internal affairs. "Much of what you see is propaganda by interested parties. Stray tweets can not be used to characterise our bilateral ties with these countries. The real picture of these relations is very much different," he said during an online media briefing. There has been a wave of angry reactions on Twitter by leading citizens and rights activists from various Arab countries following allegations that Muslims are being blamed for spreading COVID-19 in several parts of India. The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, a powerful bloc of 57 countries, recently accused India of "Islamophobia". India rejected the charges as regrettable. "We have been making special efforts to ensure uninterrupted supply of food and essential commodities which are required during the Ramzan period in these countries, and this is something which has been greatly appreciated. These countries also want a priority discussion with India on the post-COVID-19 economic recovery," Srivastava said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar have been in regular touch with their counterparts from the region in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. "In these discussions, there have been requests for sending medicines and medical teams to these countries. We already deployed a Rapid Response Team in Kuwait. There is also a request to send doctors and nurses from India," said Srivastava. "What comes out clearly is that these countries are deeply committed to friendly relations with India. They also do not support any interference in internal matters of India. It is, therefore, important that the friendly and cooperative nature of our relations is accurately recognised and the misuse of social media is not given credence," he added. Asked about reports of an order issued by Oman's Finance Ministry asking all state-owned companies to replace foreign workers with qualified local Omanis, Srivastava said it is not aimed at Indians working in the Gulf nation. "The policy is a decades-old one and not specific to India. It does not target the Indians in any way," he said. There have been apprehensions that the order will render thousands of Indians working in state-run firms in Oman jobless. "They greatly value relationship with India. Government of Oman is taking special care of Indians which included free testing for coronavirus, its treatment, providing food," the MEA spokesperson said. Oman government is also extending certain categories of visas of Indians. Srivastava said India has been in touch with its friends and partners across the world as part of the collaborative approach to dealing with the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-is-propaganda-india-on-social-media-posts-alleging-harassment-of-muslims-832109.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Centre tweaks criteria to classify red and orange zones in districts||Days before the lockdown is expected to end, the Centre on Thursday relaxed the criteria to classify red and orange zones in districts having one or more municipal corporations. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba with Chief Secretaries and Health Secretaries of states. Districts having one or more municipal corporations can move to one level lower in zonal classification if one or more units do not report a COVID-19 case for 21 days. Earlier, such a classification was done if a district or a unit did not report a fresh case for 28 days.  As per the list prepared by the Centre, for the week beginning May 3. Country's 130 districts have been placed in the red zone 284 in the orange zone and 319 in the green zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-centre-tweaks-criteria-to-classify-red-and-orange-zones-in-districts-832110.html
01-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 1, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Download the e-paper to read today’s edition and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-1-2020-edition-832111.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 1||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 36,950 as of May 1. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 1,210     Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 7797 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-1-832113.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Modi calls up leaders in neighbourhood, as India tries to thwart China’s new 'Health Silk Road' initiative||New Delhi is also extending a currency swap facility to its neighbours to help them mitigate the impact of the crisis on their economies, in addition to providing them with Paracetamol and Hydroxychloroquine tablets as well as protective gears for healthcare professionals, face masks and other medical equipment.  The Prime Minister spoke to Myanmar’s state counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi over the phone on Thursday. He underlined the “importance of Myanmar as a vital pillar of Neighbourhood First policy of India”, according to a press release issued by his office. He conveyed to her that India would stand ready to provide all possible support to Myanmar for mitigating the health and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the travel and transport curbs as well as the lockdowns imposed by many nations around the world to contain it. Modi spoke to Suu Kyi just days after China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) sent a military medical team to Myanmar to help the South East Asian nation to deal with the pandemic. This was the second medical team Beijing sent to help Nay Pyi Daw deal with the COVID-19 outbreak in Myanmar.     New Delhi took note of the arrival of China’s military medical team in Myanmar, where the armed forces continued to hold sway even after the victory of the Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy in the landmark elections in 2015. The two other nations China sent its military medical teams are Laos and its “iron brother” Pakistan. The Prime Minister also pledged India’s consistent support to Bangladesh to deal with the crisis when he called up his counterpart in the neighbouring country, Sheikh Hasina, on Wednesday. China is sending a medical team to Bangladesh too – responding to a request from Hasina’s Government. What caused unease for New Delhi is that Bangladesh asked China to send a team of doctors and nurses, although India had assured all other South Asian nations itself that its “Rapid Response Teams” of healthcare professionals would be on standby to be deployed in any neighbouring country. Modi, himself, had promised to send the teams on request from any South Asian nations, when he had held a video-conference with Hasina and other leaders of the SAARC on March 15 to work out a strategy to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. The only neighbouring country where New Delhi so far deployed its Rapid Response Team of healthcare professionals is the Maldives. India, however, sent two consignments of medicines, gloves and masks to Bangladesh to help it respond to the pandemic. Besides, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bhuvaneshwar will conduct a series of online courses in Bangla on the management of the COVID-19 for the healthcare professionals of Bangladesh on May 12 and 13. New Delhi, earlier, arranged similar webinars in English for all the SAARC nations. Not only Suu Kyi and Hasina, but the Prime Minister also spoke to Maldives President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih and Nepalese Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli earlier this month. He reached out to Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc of Vietnam, President Joco Widodo of Indonesia and Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong of Singapore over the past few days. He is also likely to speak to Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa soon. Modi’s calls to the leaders of South Asia and South-East Asia are just continuation of the process he started as early as on March 15, when he convened a video conference of the leaders of the SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation) to work out a strategy to contain the COVID-19 pandemic and to deal with its economic implications. A senior official in New Delhi said that the Modi government had anticipated that China would try to use the crisis to expand its footprints around the world and that was why India had moved fast to counter as much as possible the communist country’s bid in its neighbourhood. India recently activated a currency swap facility of $ 150 million for Maldives. It was activated as a component of the $ 400 million currency swap agreement India earlier inked with Maldives in July 2019. The agreement was a part of the $1.4 billion economic assistance package New Delhi had announced for Maldives in December 2018 to help the just-installed Solih Government pull the tiny island nation out of a $ 3 billion debt-trap with China. The erstwhile regime led by Abdulla Yameen Gayoom had put Maldives into the debt-trap by awarding the state-owned companies of China contracts to build several infrastructure projects, mostly on unsustainable loan terms. China of late extended support to Maldives to expeditiously build a facility to quarantine suspected COVID-19 patients. It also sent medical supplies to the Indian Ocean archipelago. Even as the Solih Government in Male expressed its gratitude to Beijing, China’s envoy to Maldives, Zhang Lizhong, utilized the opportunity to seek continuation of the projects, which the communist country’s state-owned companies had embarked on the tiny nation as part of its ambitious and controversial cross-continental connectivity projects under the Belt-and-Road Initiative.  The Reserve Bank of India is also working with the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to finalise a $400 million currency swap agreement for the neighbouring island nation. China already provided a preliminary $500 million concessional loan to Sri Lanka to help it cushion the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Sri Lanka had to lease out the Hambantota Port to China for 99 years after its construction by a company based in the communist country resulted in a huge debt burden on the tiny Indian Ocean nation. After the return of the ‘Rajapaksa Clan’ to power in Colombo – Gotabaya Rajapaksa as President and Mahinda Rajapaksa as Prime Minister, China has renewed its interests in projects in Sri Lanka, particularly focusing on the ones it could use to expand its geo-strategic influence over the island nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-modi-calls-up-leaders-in-neighbourhood-as-india-tries-to-thwart-china-s-new-health-silk-road-initiative-832122.html
01-05-2020||National||BJP takes swipe at Rahul Gandhi over his reference to 'authoritarian model'||The BJP on Thursday took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi over his reference to "authoritarian model" in his interaction with former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan, saying those who had put in place an "accidental model" will pass off any show of "decisiveness and determination" as authoritarian.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-takes-swipe-at-rahul-gandhi-over-his-reference-to-authoritarian-model-832125.html
01-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi wishes Russian PM speedy recovery from COVID-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday hoped that Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin recovered soon from the novel coronavirus. "My best wishes to Russian PM Mishustin for early recovery and good health," Modi tweeted in Russian and English. "We stand with our close friend Russia in efforts to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic." Mishustin had said on Thursday that he tested positive for COVID-19 and he would will self-isolate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-wishes-russian-pm-speedy-recovery-from-covid-19-832143.html
01-05-2020||National||Maharashtra foundation day celebrations subdued due to COVID-19||The 60th foundation day celebrations of the state of Maharashtra were subdued on Friday due to the coronavirus pandemic withGovernorB S Koshyari hoisting the national flag at the Raj Bhavan here instead of Shivaji Park in central Mumbai, where the ceremony is annually held. The governor unfurled the tricolour at the Raj Bhavan this morning, after which the national anthem was sung. Officers and staff of the Raj Bhavan, personnel of the Mumbai Police and the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) were present. No ceremonial parade was held on the occasion. In a separate ceremony held at the Mantralaya, the state secretariat, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray unfurled the national flag and garlanded the portraits of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, B R Ambedkar, Rajmata Jijabai. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, state Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta and others were present on the occasion. Thackeray himself drove his car from his residence 'Matoshree' in suburban Bandra and took a stop at Hutatma Chowk before proceeding to Mantralaya. He paid floral tributes at the martyrs' memorial at Hutatma Chowk built in honour of the 105 members of the Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti, who lost their lives while fighting for a separate Maharashtra state. This is for the first time that the flag-hoisting functions on the state's foundation day were held at Shivaji Park and Mantralaya. As per the general practice, the chief minister hoists the tricolour at Mantralaya on the Independence Day, while the governor hoists the flag at Raj Bhavan in Pune on that day. Governor hoists the tricolor at Shivaji Park on Republic Day and Maharashtra Day. The present-day Maharashtra came into being on this day in 1960.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-foundation-day-celebrations-subdued-due-to-covid-19-832156.html
01-05-2020||National||Tarun Bajaj takes over as Economic Affairs Secretary||Tarun Bajaj, an old hand at the Finance Ministry, on Friday assumed charge as the Economic Affairs Secretary. He comes back to North Block at a time when the economy is facing headwinds due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Prior to taking over this post, he was the Additional Secretary in Prime Minister's Office. Bajaj, a 1988 batch IAS officer, replaces Atanu Chakraborty, who retired on Thursday. "Shri Tarun Bajaj takes over as the new Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs (DEA), here today after superannuation of Shri Atanu Chakraborty on 30.04.2020," the Finance Ministry said in a tweet. Before joining Prime Minister's Office in 2015, Bajaj was Joint Secretary in Economic Affairs Department, looking after multilateral funding agencies division. He worked as Joint Secretary and Director in Department of Financial Services. As a Joint Secretary in Department of Financial Services for four years, he was looking after insurance division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tarun-bajaj-takes-over-as-economic-affairs-secretary-832160.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Full list of Red, Orange and Green Zones in India, state-wise and district-wise||As the second phase of lockdown nears its end, the Union Health Ministry has listed 130 districts across the country in the red zone, 284 in the orange zone and 319 in green zones based on the incidence of cases of COVID-19, doubling rate, the extent of testing and surveillance feedback. This classification of districts is to be followed by states and UTs for a week post-May 3 for containment operations. Metropolitan cities like Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Pune, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad have been designated as red zones in the new classification. The new classification of districts was announced following a video conference chaired by the Cabinet Secretary on April 30 with the Chief Secretaries and Health secretaries of states.  "It is important to ensure that we identify pockets of critical interventions for a focused management of COVID -19 at the field level," Union Health Ministry Secretary Preeti Sudan said in a letter to the Chief Secretaries of all states and UTs. She said the districts were earlier designated as hotspots/red-zones, orange zones and green zones primarily based on the cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate. "Since recovery rates have gone up, the districts are now being designated across various zones duly broad-basing the criteria. This classification is multi-factorial and takes into consideration the incidence of cases, doubling rate, the extent of testing and surveillance feedback to classify the districts," Sudan said in her letter. A district will be considered under green zone if there have been no confirmed cases of COVID-19 so far or there is no reported case since last 21 days in the district, according to the letter.  Here’s the full list of districts across India’s states classified as Red Zone, Orange Zone and Green Zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-full-list-of-red-orange-and-green-zones-in-india-state-wise-and-district-wise-832161.html
01-05-2020||National||UP man cycles 100 km alone to marry, rides double with bride on way back||Undeterred by the coronavirus lockdown, a 23-year-old man in Uttar Pradesh kept his marriage date even if he had to pedal some 100 km to reach his bride's home, all alone -- no family members in tow. Kalku Prajapati of Pauthiya village in Hamirpur district was waiting till the last minute for permission from the administration for his marriage on April 25. But on finding that it was not coming, he decided to go all alone on his bicycle to his bride Rinki's place at Puniya village in neighbouring Mahoba district, 230 km south of Lucknow. "We were not getting permission from the local police for the marriage. I was left with no option but to go on bicycle, all alone, to reach there," Prajapati, who studied till Class X and a farmer by profession, said. "Those people (in-laws) had also got wedding cards printed and were ready for the wedding on the decided date," Kalku told PTI over the phone. The marriage was fixed four-five months ago. The bride's family had phoned for the ceremony and Kalku went for it, according to Prajapati's father. "Though I have a motorcycle, I have no driving licence. The bicycle was most handy," Prajapati said. "With a handkerchief around my mouth to save myself from any infection, as advised by all, I set off in the morning in jeans and T-shirt." Interestingly, the wedding was performed in a village temple with both the bride and the groom posing before camera in their normal attires with mouths covered, a picture for posterity of the times prevailing during their wedding. Only the most necessary of ceremonies were held and the couple now awaits for the lifting of the coronavirus lockdown for the remaining functions, including a feast for the villagers, to be completed.  "We will get the cards printed and invite all those who had been inviting us since years and also complete the remaining ceremonies," Prajapati said. If anything, the return journey after the marriage was even more arduous for Prajapati who had to carry his newlywed wife as pillion. "I pedalled all the way back with double load. Even in my dream, I had not thought that my legs will have such pain. I could not sleep and had to take pills to ease it," he recalled, adding that both the families were happy that the marriage had been solemnised. On why Prajapati did not wait for lifting of the lockdown, he said there were problems at his home with his mother keeping unwell and there being no one to cook for the family. "Besides, we do not know how long it will take for the lockdown to be lifted," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-man-cycles-100-km-alone-to-marry-rides-double-with-bride-on-way-back-832163.html
01-05-2020||National||Three more COVID-19 deaths in Rajasthan||Rajasthan recorded three more coronavirus deaths on Friday, while 33 fresh cases of the virus were reported, an official said. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said while two people died in Jaipur, one died in Nagaur. The death toll due to the virus in the state has climbed to 61. Jaipur alone has reported 34 deaths. As many as 33 new cases, including 11 in Ajmer, seven each in Chittorgarh and Kota, six in Jaipur and one each in Jodhpur and Rajsamand have been reported, the Health Department official said. The state now has 2,617 confirmed cases of COVID-19, out of which 644 have been discharged from hospitals. There are 1,656 active cases, Singh said. Jaipur has reported the highest number of cases with 913 infections, followed by 511 in Jodhpur. The COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan include two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran, who have been put up in Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-more-covid-19-deaths-in-rajasthan-832166.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: 12 Tablighi Jamaat members sent to temporary jail after quarantine||Twelve Tablighi Jamaat members, including nine from Thailand, were sent to a temporary jail in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur district after they completed their quarantine, police said on Friday. The 12 people, including nine from Thailand and two from Tamil Nadu, were held on April 2 from a mosque where they were hiding. Their samples and that of a local were sent for testing, an officer said. One of the persons from Thailand tested positive and was referred to as Bareilly. He was later brought here after his report was negative, Superintendent of Police (City) Dinesh Tripathi told PTI. After they completed 28 days in quarantine, they were sent to a temporary jail on Thursday. The passports of the foreigners were already seized and the Ministry of External Affairs has been informed, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-12-tablighi-jamaat-members-sent-to-temporary-jail-after-quarantine-832168.html
01-05-2020||National||Known for Banarasi sarees, Uttar Pradesh town gets new identity as coronavirus hotspot||Once famous for its Banarasi sarees – Mubarakpur in Uttar Pradesh has got a new identity as a coronavirus hotspot, making lives difficult for the town's weavers and their families. Looms here were shut since March 22 to check the spread of coronavirus, however, after COVID-19 cases were found in Chaksikathi locality an April 11, the entire town was sealed, a weaver said. Left with no means to earn a livelihood, thousands of weavers are scraping the bottom of the barrel as their meagre savings have almost exhausted. "Fights are increasing as people are getting frustrated. Businessmen are taking sarees from us without paying... The businessmen are happy but weavers are not," Javed, a local weaver, said in a video that he recently posted on social media to seek help from the government. In the 2.45 minute video, Javed complained that the weavers were sitting idle and becoming financially weak with each passing day following which the local MLA approached district magistrate N P Singh for help. According to another weaver, Masood Akhtar, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had put the industry under ‘one district, one product’ scheme of the state government but due to the coronavirus outbreak, nothing concrete could be done to improve their financial condition. Taking note of the plight of the weavers, MLA Shah Alam wrote a letter to the district magistrate and sent him a list of 27,000 weavers seeking help for them. Acting on it, the DM held a meeting with weavers' committees and public representatives and directed that an assistance of Rs 1,000 be given to each weaver according to the list. "We have met the locals and public representatives. As Mubarakpur area is sealed, we are ensuring the people here do not have any problems and we are giving relief to them," Singh said. The weavers, however, are are still awaiting the help and praying for their condition to improve.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/known-for-banarasi-sarees-uttar-pradesh-town-gets-new-identity-as-coronavirus-hotspot-832169.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Red zone districts reduce from 170 to 130 in a fortnight||The number of red zone districts in India has reduced from 170 a fortnight ago to 130 with population-dense cities – Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad – making it to the list where restrictions would continue beyond May 3. In Karnataka, Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru and Bengaluru Rural districts have been designated in the red zone, as per the letter written by Health Secretary Preeti Sudan to Chief Secretaries and Health Secretaries of states following their meeting with Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Thursday.  As on Friday, the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases across the country had risen to 35,365 with the death toll spiking up by 77 to touch 1152. The number of orange zones has increased from 207 to 284, with 13 districts of Karnataka figuring in the list. The other prominent cities in the Red Zone include Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Faridabad, Noida, Lucknow, Agra, Pune, Jaipur and Bhopal. The Centre also tweaked a key criterion used to classify the green, orange and red zones. From now on, a district that remains disease-free for 21 days as against the 28 days earlier. “The districts were earlier designated as hotspots/red-zones, orange zones and green zones primarily based on the cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate. Since recovery rates have gone up, the districts are now being designated across various zones duly broad-basing the criteria." “This classification is multi-factorial and takes into consideration incidence of cases, doubling rate, the extent of testing and surveillance feedback to classify the districts,” the Union Health Secretary said.  “It is critical to ensure necessary action for containment to break the chain of transmission of the virus in both red and orange zone districts reporting confirmed cases,” Sudan said listing out measures for stringent perimeter control of containment zone by establishing clear entry and exit points, no movement except for medical emergencies and essential goods and services, no unchecked influx of population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-red-zone-districts-reduce-from-170-to-130-in-a-fortnight-832171.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Indian Railways deploys first special train to transport migrant workers||An unreserved train with 24 coaches left Lingampalli in Telangana at 5.30 am to Hatia in Jharkhand carrying 1,200 migrant workers. The non-stop train will reach Hatia near Ranchi today at 11 pm. The train will only make technical halts for crew changing and watering. Only 54 people are allowed in each coach. Food and water will be provided. All passengers are asked to wear masks and gloves. Railway Protection Force ( RPF) staff has been deployed in each coach, said Railways officials.  "Today morning a One-off special train was run from Lingampalli to Hatia on request of the State Government of Telangana and as per the directions of Ministry of Railways. All necessary precautions such prior screening of passengers, maintaining social distancing at station and in the train were followed", R D Bajpai, spokesperson of Indian Railways, said. "This was only a "One-off Special train" and any further trains shall be planned only as per the directions of Ministry of Railways and on request from both the originating and destination state governments, he said.  The railways run to special train after meeting of home and health ministry officials on Thursday night. Separately Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan meeting at Prime Minister Office official on transportation of migrant workers, sources said. The Centre has been under pressure from states for deploying special trains to transport stranded migrants, students, tourists and pilgrims.  States including Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Bihar have asked the Centre to deploy special trains. However, Home Ministry on Thursday said only buses should be  used to  ferry  workers. Several states have used buses and transported thousands of workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-indian-railways-deploys-first-special-train-to-transport-migrant-workers-832177.html
01-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: How COVID-19 can change the food and beverage industry||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-how-covid-19-can-change-the-food-and-beverage-industry-832178.html
01-05-2020||National||No state foundation day events in Gujarat due to COVID-19||The Gujarat government did not hold any event in celebration of the 60th foundation day of the state on Friday in view of the coronavirus pandemic. In his video message, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani urged the people to take a pledge on the state's foundation day that they will wear masks, practice social distancing and wash hands regularly to keep coronavirus at bay. He urged the people to celebrate the day at home and called upon them to come together to defeat the virus. Rupani also asked the people to upload their videos of taking the pledge to fight COVID-19 on social media and share it with the hashtag 'VijaySankalp'. In a video message, Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel urged the people to come together and free Gujarat from the pandemic by observing social distancing norms and wearing masks.  Among many other leaders, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished the people of the state on the occasion. "Many congratulations to the people of Gujarat on the Foundation Day. People of Gujarat are known for their determination. Gujaratis gave their special contribution in many fields. I wish that Gujarat keeps achieving new milestones in the future too. Jay Jay Garvi Gujarat," he said. Gujarat was carved out of Bombay State on this day in 1960.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-state-foundation-day-events-in-gujarat-due-to-covid-19-832180.html
01-05-2020||National||2 fresh COVID-19 deaths, 60 cases reported in Andhra Pradesh||After a gap of about a week, Andhra Pradesh reported two COVID-19 deaths while 60 others tested positive for the contagion in the last 24 hours ending 9 am on Friday, the state government said. With this, the toll due to the disease has risen to 33 and aggregate of the positive cases to 1,463, a bulletin said. Of the fresh fatalities, Kurnool and SPS Nellore District accounted for one death each. Eighty-two people were discharged after recovery, taking the total to 403. Two red zone districts Kurnool and Guntur registered 25 and 19 new cases respectively during the period, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-fresh-covid-19-deaths-60-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-832184.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Animal lovers take to streets to feed strays||Tails are already wagging as Priyanka Gusain stops her car, sacks of cattle fodder and dog pellets on her back seat and water in the boot for her evening rounds in Delhi. Gusain and her mother Vilochna are serving in an army of Indian animal lovers that has emerged to feed millions of strays left hungry and thirsty by the coronavirus lockdown in the world's second-most populous nation. Used to scavenging scraps from hotels, restaurants and roadside stalls, the animals were left without sustenance as people withdrew to their homes in late March. "No-one is taking care of them. That thought made me do all of this," Gusain, who designs and sells her own line of footwear, told AFP. An estimated 30 million stray dogs and five million stray cattle roam India's usually bustling streets -- weaving in and out of traffic and sheltering under highway overpasses during the scorching summer afternoons. But as the virus lockdown took hold, many urban areas turned into virtual ghost towns, leaving the animals to fend for themselves. In the southern city of Chennai, Vinod Kumar -- of the animal welfare charity Blue Cross of India -- said the situation was desperate. "In many cases, the dogs... in places where there are not many residences, they actually starve," he told AFP.  Stray cattle, left to roam the streets by their owners or abandoned when they get old, are also struggling to survive. Even working animals have become casualties. With tourism and mining having ground to a halt, horses, donkeys and ponies were being "thrown out left, right and centre", said Gauri Maulekhi of People for Animals India. Compounding the problem, pets are being abandoned for fear they could spread coronavirus to their human owners, several shelters told AFP. Animal activists have pressed local authorities to issue "feeding passes" that will allow them outside to help the animals at risk. Many launched online campaigns to raise funds and set up WhatsApp chat groups to coordinate feeding runs. On one feeding mission, an AFP reporter saw cows, dogs and crows all descend on an offering of dried food. The mercy missions are not universally popular. Gusain, who obtained a pass through a Delhi shelter organisation, has faced pushback from people who snap at her: "You are doing so much for dogs, what about humans?" But animal lovers like Maulekhi are not discouraged. "If there are a hundred mouths to feed, we are perhaps able to feed only 10," she told AFP. "There is never enough. There is a huge shortage."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-animal-lovers-take-to-streets-to-feed-strays-832190.html
01-05-2020||National||SC grants protection to lawyer Prashant Bhushan||The Supreme Court Friday granted protection to activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan from any coercive action in an FIR lodged against him at Rajkot in Gujarat for allegedly hurting religious sentiments of the Hindus. The FIR was lodged by former Army personnel Jaidev Rajnikant Joshi at Rajkot alleging that Bhushan hurt religious sentiments of Hindus by tweeting against re-telecast of the Ramayana and the Mahabharata serials on DD during the coronavirus lockdown in the country. While granting interim relief and protection to Bhushan, the apex court said, "anybody can watch anything on TV" and questioned as to how one can ask people not to watch a particular programme. A bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and Sanjiv Khanna, in the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, issued notice to the Gujarat Police and listed Bhushan's plea after two weeks. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Bhushan, sought quashing of the FIR lodged against the activist lawyer and sought interim protection against any coercive measure for the time being. In his complaint, Joshi had accused Bhushan of using word 'opium' for Ramayana and Mahabharata in a tweet on March 28 which “hurt the sentiments of many Hindu people” “As crores starve & walk hundreds of miles home due to forced lockdown, our heartless ministers celebrate consuming & feeding the opium of Ramayana & Mahabharata to the people,” reads Bhushan’s tweet. Dave said he was not on the issue of as to what people should watch on TV, but was arguing against registration of the FIR. Bhushan had filed the plea on Thursday and it was listed a day after the bench, the registry sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-protection-to-lawyer-prashant-bhushan-832208.html
01-05-2020||National||Terrorists inciting people via fake news, J&K tells SC; opposes 4G internet in UT||Terror modules operating within Jammu and Kashmir and their handlers from across the border incite people by transmission of fake news, the UT administration has told the Supreme Court while opposing restoration of 4G services in the Union Territory. It said there were well founded apprehensions of misuse of internet for propagation of terror activities and incitement through the circulation of inflammatory material – particularly fake videos and photos as also co-ordination of activities that are inimical to security and public order. "The terror modules operating within the UTs and handlers from across the border aid and incite people by transmission of fake news and targeted messages through use of internet to propagate terrorism, co-ordinate and plan terror attacks," an affidavit filed by the UT's administration said. The submissions were made in response to a plea filed by Foundation for Media Professionals seeking restoration of 4G internet services in the Union Territory in view of prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. "Pakistan based terrorism handlers like The Resistance Front (TRF) and Tehreeki-Milat-i-Islami (TMI), instigating youth to join terrorism, are using messaging applications to communicate as also to raise the morale of terrorists; however 2G mobile data services considerably restrict the use of such Applications," the affidavit said. Restoration of 4G mobile data services will substantially increase the use of social media and other online platforms in uploading/downloading of videos and other propaganda material and their faster circulation, deteriorating the law and order situation in Kashmir Valley, it said. The internet is being used to support fallacious proxy wars by raising money, recruiting and spreading propaganda/ideologies and prevalence of the internet provides an easy inroad to young impressionable minds, J&K said. It said that till April 25, 108 terrorism-related incidents took place with 99 Incidents reported from the Kashmir Province while 9 others from Jammu province. "30 civilians lost their lives, while 114 civilians were injured in terrorist-related incidents". The affidavit said that even the top court has not been spared of the ill effects of habitual fake news propaganda which took place very recently involving a fake order purporting to be a Record of Proceeding of this court. It had falsely reflected that administration of J&K has been ordered to take a quick review within 24 hours to restore full internet communication in the region. It said that an FIR under sections 465 (forgery), 466 (forgery of court record) and 471 (using forged document as genuine) of the IPC was filed in this regard at the Cyber Police Station, Kashmir Zone. It said that umpteen rumours relating to number of positive COVID-19 cases/deaths, creating chaos and panic; health related fake news of prominent people in Jammu & Kashmir like that of Chairman, All Party Hurriyat, Syed Ali Shah Geelani, shutdown call by JKLF on the eve of death anniversary of Mohd. Maqbool Bhat and Afzal Guru, to observe Republic Day as black day have been doing the rounds. The J&K administration told the apex court that a very reasonable quantum of restrictions have been imposed by reducing the speed of internet to protect the sovereignty, integrity and security of the country. The dispensation told the top court that even when internet services were restored only with white-listed URLs, it was found that miscreants were using different VPNs but because of low speed mobile data services, were not able to upload files of heavy data containing incriminating and other objectionable videos.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/terrorists-inciting-people-via-fake-news-jk-tells-sc-opposes-4g-internet-in-ut-832211.html
01-05-2020||National||SC seeks Delhi govt's response on plea of Sharjeel Imam for clubbing of 5 FIRs||The Supreme Court Friday sought Delhi government's reply on a plea by JNU student and anti-CAA activist Sharjeel Imam seeking clubbing of multiple FIRs levelling sedition charges against him for allegedly making inflammatory speeches. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and Sanjiv Khanna, hearing the matter through video conferencing, sought response from the Delhi government within 10 days on Imam's plea. Senior advocate Siddharth Dave, appearing for Imam, said that there are five FIRs registered against him in different states in connection with two speeches given in Delhi and in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh. The bench said that there is nothing wrong in registration of FIR by police, if they come to know about some cognizable offence. Dave referred to the recent order of the apex court in the case of senior journalist Arnab Goswami in which court had stayed the multiple FIRs against him except for one and said that similar relief can be granted to him. He said that FIRs are lodged against Imam in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh and he has been booked under sedition charges. Recently, Delhi Police has booked Imam under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), he said. The bench asked Dave to serve the copy of petition on the standing counsel of Delhi government and posted the matter for further hearing after 10 days. Imam in his plea had sought clubbing of all five FIRs lodged in different states and transferring them to Delhi for probe by a single agency. On April 24, the top court had stayed three FIRs and 11 complaints except for one lodged in different states against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami over his alleged defamatory statements against Congress Chief Sonia Gandhi during news shows on the recent Palghar lynching incident in Maharashtra. On January 28, Imam was arrested by Delhi Police's crime branch from Bihar's Jehanabad in a sedition case for allegedly making inflammatory speeches in Jamia Milia Islamia and Aligarh. The PhD student at the Jawaharlal Nehru University's (JNU) Centre for Historical Studies has been booked on sedition and other charges after purported videos of his alleged inflammatory speeches made during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) were circulated on social media. An FIR was registered against him by Delhi Police on January 25 under IPC sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A (promoting or attempting to promote disharmony or feelings of enmity on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, caste or community or any other ground whatsoever) among others. "Two videos came to light, one was on December 13 at Jamia Milia Islamia and other was on January 16 at Aligarh, where it was noticed that Imam had delivered very inflammatory speeches in opposition to the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens and such comments can potentially affect religious harmony and weaken the unity and integrity of the country," police had said. A graduate in computer science from IIT-Mumbai, Imam had shifted to Delhi for pursuing research at the Centre for Historical Studies at the JNU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-delhi-govts-response-on-plea-of-sharjeel-imam-for-clubbing-of-5-firs-832215.html
01-05-2020||National||'Significant' increase in cybercrime against women during coronavirus lockdown: Experts||There has been a significant increase in cybercrime against women, especially sextortion, during the COVID-19-induced lockdown with "caged criminals" targeting them online, say experts. The nationwide lockdown imposed from March 25 to April 14, and then extended to May 3, aims at preventing the spread of the novel coronavirus that has claimed 1,147 lives and infected 35,043 people in the country. According to National Commission for Women (NCW) data, 54 cybercrime complaints were received online in April in comparison to 37 complaints – received online and by post -- in March, and 21 complaints in February. The panel is taking complaints online due to the lockdown. Cyber experts, however, said the numbers are just the “tip of the iceberg”. "We received a total of 412 genuine complaints of cyber abuse from March 25 till April 25. Out of these, as many as 396 complaints were serious ones from women, (and these) ranged from abuse, indecent exposure, unsolicited obscene pictures, threats, malicious emails claiming their account was hacked, ransom demands, blackmail and more," said the founder of the Akancha Foundation, Akancha Srivastava. The organisation works for education and empowerment of people by imparting knowledge on cyber safety. Srivastava said on an average she has been getting 20-25 such complaints daily, while before the lockdown the number was less than 10 per day. This is a "significant" increase, she said. "This is just the frustration and anger that is coming to the fore as there is no other release right now. This is a form of frustration as they (cyber criminals) are caged right now," she said. "Men are morphing images and threatening women. There is a whole racket going on where women are getting these emails that your phone and laptop has been hacked, and if you don't deposit money my account I will send your morphed images, and share it with all your contacts," Srivastava added. Vineet Kumar, founder and president of Cyber Peace Foundation, said specially the cases of “sextortion” have increased during the lockdown. Sextortion is extorting money or sexual favours from someone by threatening to reveal evidence of their sexual activity through means like morphed images. "People are getting into relationships online as they are under lockdown and sextortion cases are being reported to us," he said. Kumar said in these times people are connecting through technology but forgetting the security component. "Immediately after lockdown, we saw a rise in cases of misinformation, fake news and women getting duped online when they click on malware links which gets all their information on phone, turns on the camera and microphone, and captures their intimate moments. These are then used for blackmailing," he added. Many women do not want to make official complaints in these cases, he said. "Cyber Peace has been receiving complaints through its channels and it has been seen that people are reluctant in filing complaints. They want us to handle things unofficially," Kumar said. "Whatever official figure that is being quoted is just the tip of the iceberg as a majority of women do not report cybercrime because they worry about the social stigma associated with it," he said. Vandana Verma, founder of InfoSec Girls, said when the whole country is locked down, people are working from home and spending a lot of time on the internet. So, even cyber criminals are becoming innovative and craftier in their techniques, she said . "Like sending specific phishing emails or themed emails for the current COVID-19 situation to people and getting their confidential details like address, phone numbers. These emails appear to have come from legitimate sources like the government in the form of advisories when they are not at all related to the government in any form," Verma said. "Creation of fake profiles, cyber bullying, online stalking are bigger challenges at this time. Insensitive comments on posts are also intimidating," she said. Verma advised that such cybercrimes can be prevented through education on technology. "How to securely use the digital media, creating strong a password and spreading awareness on phishing emails, fake videos and securely sharing content on the internet can help a lot in safeguarding women," she said. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said often it is seen there is lack of awareness among women on where to reach out when something happens. "There is cyber police in every district who they can contact. They can reach out to us also if they need help," she said. She advised women to remain careful in the cyber space. "We are talking to women on how to protect themselves in cyber space. We advice women to not share their personal pictures or details on social media as it’s not safe. Women should realise that at times people known to them can also take advantage," said Verma. CSC e-Governance Services India, which holds the license for providing internet services, recorded an increase in data consumption to 4.7 terabyte (TB) as on March 30 from 2.7 TB on March 10. "Based on the growth trend, data consumption on the CSC SPV network is estimated to have increased by close to 100 per cent till date," CSC SPV CEO Dinesh Tyagi told PTI on April 5. He said that a major spike in data consumption has been recorded since the time lockdown started. There are more than 60 crore internet users in India and out of this about 29 crore are in rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/significant-increase-in-cybercrime-against-women-during-coronavirus-lockdown-experts-832225.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Delhi-Gurugram border sealed by Haryana Police||While the Haryana government has said that people associated with essential services will be allowed to enter Gurugram, several of them claimed that despite having passes, the police did not allow them to cross the border. "I am a nursing staff in a hospital at IFFCO chowk in Gurugram but they are not allowing me to cross the border. Earlier, the police would see my identity card and let me through but now they are not," said Rahul Singh, a resident of Rajokri in Delhi, who was stopped at the Delhi-Gurugram border near Sehraul. Another regular commuter from Delhi to Gurugram, Dipak Kumar, a hardware engineer with an internet service provider alleged his pass was not accepted by the police.  "I am waiting for more than hour but police are not letting me in. I have been using a pass provided to me by my company to go from Delhi to Gurugram but now they are not allowing me to enter,” he said.  A Haryana Police officer at the border said that entry of vehicles and others without proper passes has been stopped from 10 am on Friday till further orders. "We are only following the DC order and only those associated with essentially services are being allowed in," he said. Haryana's home and health minister Anil Vij had a few days ago said that borders of the state with Delhi have been "sealed" and stricter restrictions will be imposed on those coming in from the national capital while only those associated with essential services will be allowed to enter. Haryana will be in a "comfortable position" as far as COVID-19 cases are concerned if the borders stay sealed for 15-20 days, Vij had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-delhi-gurugram-border-sealed-by-haryana-police-832229.html
01-05-2020||National||13 undertrials escape from sub-jail in Gujarat||At least 13 undertrial prisoners lodged in a sub-jail in Dahod district of Gujarat escaped after breaking the door locks of their rooms and barrack early on Friday, officials said. The incident took place around 3 am in the sub-jail of Devgadh-Baria town in Dahod district when 13 undertrial prisoners facing serious charges, such as rape and murder, escaped after breaking the locks of their rooms and barrack, District Superintendent of Police, Hitesh Joysar, said. "They first broke the locks and then escaped by jumping over the wall of the sub-jail. The incident happened despite the presence of jail guards. We have launched a massive search operation to nab the escaped inmates," Joysar said. In-charge jailor of Devgadh-Baria sub-jail, Punamchand Rana, later lodged a police complaint against the 13 prisoners. "Out of around the 80 prisoners lodged in the sub-jail, 13 inmates kept in room number 3 and 4 of barrack number 1 broke the locks on the doors of their rooms and barrack to escape," he said. In the complaint, Rana also sought action against four jail guards for their negligence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-undertrials-escape-from-sub-jail-in-gujarat-832232.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Over 32,000 Indians in UAE register to return home||More than 32,000 Indians in the UAE, who wish to return home amidst the coronavirus lockdown, have registered with the Indian missions here on day one of the opening of the online registration process, according to a media report. On Wednesday night, the Indian Embassy in Abu Dhabi announced the details of data collection through the website of the Indian Consulate in Dubai. Within minutes, the site faced technical issues, prompting the missions to delete the tweet about it and repost it hours later. In a tweet posted in the wee hours of Thursday, the Indian Consulate asked applicants “to bear with it if it takes time for the page to load due to high traffic.” “As of 5pm on Thursday, we received more than 32,000 registrations,” Consul General of India in Dubai Vipul told the Gulf News. Vipul said the technical issues took place because of the huge rush of people trying to access the webpage on the Consulate’s site for registration. Though the mission is yet to analyse the data to know the “compelling reasons” for the applicants to travel home, Vipul said the applications comprise various emergency cases including that of pregnant women. “We understand that people want to go home for various reasons. People should be ready for travel by keeping in mind the overall restrictions on travel given the pandemic situation. Those who wish to go urgently should keep trying to register on the website in the next few days,” he said.  He said the registration would be open for some days and the data collected by the Indian missions in various countries would be provided to Indian states for making preparations for their travel. The Consul General reiterated that the registration in the databank does not guarantee a seat on the initial flights that would be arranged to repatriate the most deserving categories of people. “Workers in acute distress, medical cases, pregnant women, the elderly and the group of Indians stranded in Dubai Airport,” are likely to get first priority when the government resumes services for repatriation, he said. Since there is no guidance from the Indian government on the conditions for travelling, he said, it is not yet clear how the COVID-19 status of an applicant would impact the journey. When asked about media reports that said 500 Air India flights and three warships of the Indian Navy are on standby for evacuating stranded Indians abroad, Vipul said he had no knowledge about warships being readied for the process. “I am sure Air India will be involved. I have no information about the warships,” he said. Meanwhile, the government of Kerala on Thursday said the total number of registrations it received from Malayalis living in 201 countries has reached 3,53,468. The Consul General urged Keralites in the UAE, who have already registered with Norka (The Non Resident Keralites Affairs), to also register with the missions since it would help the central government to make arrangements for flight operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-over-32000-indians-in-uae-register-to-return-home-832237.html
01-05-2020||National||'Significant' increase in cybercrime against women during lockdown: Experts||There has been a significant increase in cybercrime against women, especially sextortion, during the COVID-19-induced lockdown with "caged criminals" targeting them online, say experts. The nationwide lockdown imposed from March 25 to April 14, and then extended to May 3, aims at preventing the spread of the novel coronavirus that has claimed 1,147 lives and infected 35,043 people in the country. According to National Commission for Women (NCW) data, 54 cybercrime complaints were received online in April in comparison to 37 complaints – received online and by post -- in March, and 21 complaints in February. The panel is taking complaints online due to the lockdown. Cyber experts, however, said the numbers are just the “tip of the iceberg”. "We received a total of 412 genuine complaints of cyber abuse from March 25 till April 25. Out of these, as many as 396 complaints were serious ones from women, (and these) ranged from abuse, indecent exposure, unsolicited obscene pictures, threats, malicious emails claiming their account was hacked, ransom demands, blackmail and more," said the founder of the Akancha Foundation, Akancha Srivastava. The organisation works for education and empowerment of people by imparting knowledge on cyber safety. Srivastava said on an average she has been getting 20-25 such complaints daily, while before the lockdown the number was less than 10 per day. This is a "significant" increase, she said.  "This is just the frustration and anger that is coming to the fore as there is no other release right now. This is a form of frustration as they (cyber criminals) are caged right now," she said. "Men are morphing images and threatening women. There is a whole racket going on where women are getting these emails that your phone and laptop has been hacked, and if you don't deposit money my account I will send your morphed images, and share it with all your contacts," Srivastava added. Vineet Kumar, founder and president of Cyber Peace Foundation, said especially the cases of “sextortion” have increased during the lockdown. Sextortion is extorting money or sexual favours from someone by threatening to reveal evidence of their sexual activity through means like morphed images. "People are getting into relationships online as they are under lockdown and sextortion cases are being reported to us," he said. Kumar said in these times people are connecting through technology but forgetting the security component. "Immediately after lockdown, we saw a rise in cases of misinformation, fake news and women getting duped online when they click on malware links which gets all their information on phone, turns on the camera and microphone, and captures their intimate moments. These are then used for blackmailing," he added.     Many women do not want to make official complaints in these cases, he said. "Cyber Peace has been receiving complaints through its channels and it has been seen that people are reluctant in filing complaints. They want us to handle things unofficially," Kumar said. "Whatever official figure that is being quoted is just the tip of the iceberg as a majority of women do not report cybercrime because they worry about the social stigma associated with it," he said. Vandana Verma, founder of InfoSec Girls, said when the whole country is locked down, people are working from home and spending a lot of time on the internet. So, even cyber criminals are becoming innovative and craftier in their techniques, she said . "Like sending specific phishing emails or themed emails for the current COVID-19 situation to people and getting their confidential details like address, phone numbers. These emails appear to have come from legitimate sources like the government in the form of advisories when they are not at all related to the government in any form," Verma said. "Creation of fake profiles, cyber bullying, online stalking are bigger challenges at this time. Insensitive comments on posts are also intimidating," she said. Verma advised that such cybercrimes can be prevented through education on technology. "How to securely use the digital media, creating strong a password and spreading awareness on phishing emails, fake videos and securely sharing content on the internet can help a lot in safeguarding women," she said. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said often it is seen there is lack of awareness among women on where to reach out when something happens. "There is cyber police in every district who they can contact. They can reach out to us also if they need help," she said. She advised women to remain careful in the cyber space. "We are talking to women on how to protect themselves in cyber space. We advice women to not share their personal pictures or details on social media as it’s not safe. Women should realise that at times people known to them can also take advantage," said Verma. CSC e-Governance Services India, which holds the license for providing internet services, recorded an increase in data consumption to 4.7 terabyte (TB) as on March 30 from 2.7 TB on March 10. "Based on the growth trend, data consumption on the CSC SPV network is estimated to have increased by close to 100 per cent till date," CSC SPV CEO Dinesh Tyagi told PTI on April 5. He said that a major spike in data consumption has been recorded since the time lockdown started. There are more than 60 crore internet users in India and out of this about 29 crore are in rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/significant-increase-in-cybercrime-against-women-during-lockdown-experts-832239.html
01-05-2020||National||Freeing Maharashtra from COVID-19 biggest challenge before govt: Guv||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Friday said that the biggest challenge before the state government was to free the state from the coronavirus pandemic and improve its economic growth rate. In his televised address on the 60th foundation day of Maharashtra, Koshyari said the government was doing its best to deal with these two issues. In his speech made in Marathi, Koshyari appealed to the people to follow the protocol of social distancing, lockdown rules and all safety precautions. He sought support and cooperation of citizens to achieve the goal of making the state strong and prosperous and freeing it from the coronavirus pandemic at the earliest. The governor paid tributes to the martyrs of the Sanyukta Maharashtra movement. "Maharashtra is stepping into the 61st year of its existence in the backdrop of a different kind of war. The state is fighting this war with strong determination. It has a tradition of fighting against all odds and winning," he said. "The occasion of 60th year should have been celebrated with pomp and gaiety all over the state. The government had planned several programmes to mark the occasion," Koshyari added. Several government and semi-government employees, health workers, police personnel are working round-the-clock to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, he said, adding, "I thank them all. The government is doing its best to curb the spread of the virus."  He highlighted the measures being taken by the government to ease the hardships of the people due to the lockdown and permissions given to industries in green zones, where no coronavirus case has been reported, to resume their operations. "This is necessary to keep the cycle of economic activity moving," he said. He also greeted the state on the occasion of Labour Day and hailed the contribution of the workforce in nation building and development of the state. He said the labour force was fighting the COVID-19 pandemic on various fronts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/freeing-maharashtra-from-covid-19-biggest-challenge-before-govt-guv-832245.html
01-05-2020||National||Anti-Muslim incidents bound to attract negative attention abroad; need to change domestic reality: Shashi Tharoor||Asserting that incidents and comments against Muslims were bound to attract negative reactions abroad, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Friday said it is more important to change the domestic reality than do damage control while referring to India's criticism in the Arab states over alleged "Islamophobia". What matters is not what the government says but how it is perceived because of what it does, or let others do, Tharoor said, and alleged that the Modi government has "shamefully failed" to curb the appalling behaviour of many of its "most rabid supporters", including some in high positions. "Let us not forget that 'Ramzade/Hara.....' comment came from a minister, and the latest remark from a BJP MLA in UP telling people not to buy vegetables from a Muslim vendor," Tharoor said. His remarks were an apparent reference to 2014 comments reportedly made by Union minister Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, and the recent controversy triggered by Uttar Pradesh BJP MLA Suresh Tewari who allegedly asked people not to buy vegetables from Muslim vendors. The BJP on Tuesday issued a show cause notice to Tewari for his remarks. In an interview to PTI, Tharoor alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has, throughout the last six years, been too slow to "condemn his party’s bigotry and has condoned overt expressions of Islamophobia from his own camp". "The attitude that India loves Muslims so long as they are outside India, but insults them at home, is not tenable in a world of instant global communications. The mounting number of incidents and statements against Muslims in India was bound to attract negative attention abroad," the former Union minister said. His remarks came in the backdrop of angry reactions from UAE royal princess, Kuwait government and other leading citizens from various Arab countries after some people blamed Muslims for spreading COVID-19 in several parts of India following a spurt in coronavirus cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamuddin here. Also, the 57-member prominent international Muslim grouping, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), recently accused India of "Islamophobia".  Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday dismissed all such allegations and highlighted Prime Minister Modi and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's regular conversations with their counterparts from the region in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, to stress the closeness in ties. Responding to the criticism in Gulf nations and by the OIC, Tharoor said the backlash is not surprising. "While I welcome the PM’s and the Foreign Minister’s attempts at damage control, it is far more important to change the domestic reality than to issue reassuring statements," the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. Asked about plea by several Indians stuck in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries and his request to the prime minister and the external affairs minister to expedite their evacuation, Tharoor said every nation has a responsibility towards its citizens. He claimed that the government's argument is that a large number of travellers from abroad would place an unsustainable degree of strain on the country’s healthcare and quarantine facilities. "If that was true 40 days ago, it is no longer true now. We must bring our own citizens back. It is not just a matter of their rights, but of what’s right – morally, emotionally and constitutionally," the Congress leader said. Tharoor also demanded that in these difficult times of the pandemic, the Centre must give the state governments their dues.  It is shocking that GST dues have not been paid despite states, and the Congress calling for this for more than two months, he said. "Give the states their own money, so they don’t have to beg for resources to combat the virus. In addition, yes, extra support will be needed for those states facing a larger COVID-19 burden," Tharoor said. "The ordinary people of our country also need financial help so they can help themselves. We have been calling for Rs 7,500 to be put into every Jan Dhan account. This is far from happening, several weeks after we suggested it," he said. Asked about Kerala doing well in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and whether other states need to emulate its model, Tharoor said Kerala has been a model state in terms of its social development indicators for a long time, but the practices and systems it has built up take generations to entrench.  Kerala spends a large portion of its state resources on health care and public education, promotes literacy and women’s empowerment, and gives village-level local authorities autonomy and funds, he said. Other states should emulate it, but it will take them a long time to reorient their current practices to get there, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anti-muslim-incidents-bound-to-attract-negative-attention-abroad-need-to-change-domestic-reality-shashi-tharoor-832247.html
01-05-2020||National||Mayawati asks Centre, state govt to take meaningful steps to help workers hit by coronavirus lockdown||BSP supremo Mayawati on Friday asked the Centre and state government to take meaningful steps to help labourers hit by the coronavirus lockdown. In a message on the occasion of Labour Day, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said labourers are facing a threat to their livelihood due to the lockdown and the government should help them come out of the crisis.   "International Labour Day is celebrated by labourers and labour class every year but this time due to corona pandemic and lockdown there is a threat to their livelihood. At this time Centre and state government's role has become important as a welfare government," she said in a tweet in Hindi. The BSP chief appealed to both the Centre and state government to take meaningful steps in the interest of crores of labourers. "They (government) should also take cognisance of private firms, which are deducting salaries of employees," she said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mayawati-asks-centre-state-govt-to-take-meaningful-steps-to-help-workers-hit-by-coronavirus-lockdown-832248.html
01-05-2020||National||SC seeks probe report from Maharashtra in Palghar lynching case||The Supreme Court Friday sought a report from the Maharashtra government on the ongoing investigation in the Palghar incident in which two sadhus and their driver were allegedly lynched by a mob on the night of April 16. The apex court, which refused to stay the investigation in the case, asked the petitioner to serve a copy of the plea to standing counsel for Maharashtra and said that state would file a probe report within four weeks. The plea, filed through his counsel Rashi Bansal, has sought a direction to the authorities to constitute an apex court monitored SIT or a judicial commission headed by a retired top court judge to deal with the case. It has also sought CBI investigation into the matter and registration of FIR against concerned police officials for their failure to prevent the incident. The three victims from Kandivali in Mumbai were travelling in a car to attend a funeral in Surat in Gujarat amid the lockdown when they were attacked and killed by a mob in Gadchinchile village on the night of April 16 in the presence of a police team. The victims were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70), Sushil Giri Maharaj (35) and the driver Nilesh Telgade (30). During the hearing, the counsel appearing for petitioner Shashank Shekhar Jha referred to the media reports and claimed that police was complicit in the incident as they did not use force to prevent it. "This happened despite of the fact that whole country is under Lockdown since March 25 and that no person is allowed to be out of their house and everyone has been asked to follow social distancing which raises a huge suspicion on part of local police," the plea said. "During this whole incident, Police did not take any concrete step to protect these innocent men which could be proved by the fact that they did not use any force to disperse the crowd and one of the video even shows that one of the police official actually pushed saints to the crowd when they were asking for the protection," it claimed. The plea has alleged that the whole incident was "pre-planned and there could be police involvement as well". It has also sought transfer of trial in the case from Palghar to a fast track court in Delhi. The police has arrested as many as 110 persons in connection with the case. Nine of the accused are minors and have been sent to juvenile home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-probe-report-from-maharashtra-in-palghar-lynching-case-832249.html
01-05-2020||National||CM Baghel writes to PM seeking relaxation in borrowing limit for Chhattisgarh||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday sought relaxation in the state's borrowing limit to six per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) this year in view of the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. Baghel also requested that the fiscal deficit of the state be made equal to five per cent of the GSDP as an exception. These, he said, will help achieve the objective of raising more economic resources for development activities in the state and providing relief to the needy. The chief minister in the letter also drew Prime Minister Modi’s attention towards the financial difficulties being faced by Chhattisgarh due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Baghel said that all economic activities in the state are stopped since March 22 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. He said the lockdown has not only led to revenue loss for the state but also badly affected the economically weaker section of society, including daily wagers, labourers, small shopkeepers and rural households. Since it is the harvesting season, farmers are also facing difficulty in harvesting and selling crops, the chief minister said. He said extraordinary measures are required at the time of crisis, so the state should be given the approval to relax the borrowing limit to six per cent of the GSDP this year. The financial deficit of the state should also be approved to be kept equal to five per cent of the GSDP as an exception this year, Baghel said. The chief minister informed that the budget allocation for 2020-21 fiscal has already been released to all the departments of the state and there is a need for financial resources for expenditure for basic needs. He said that the Union Finance Ministry's consent to the state for borrowing Rs 5,375 crore from the market, which is equal to 50 per cent of the state's net lending limit for the first nine months of this financial year, is insufficient to meet the expenditure in this period. Baghel said as the state's revenue receipts are expected to fall this year, relaxation is necessary in the state's net borrowing limit and the fiscal deficit limit (three per cent of the GSDP) as determined by provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act. He said Chhattisgarh has been a state that has ensured strict adherence to financial discipline since its formation. Currently, it has the lowest debt burden (19.2 per cent of GSDP) and lowest interest payments (7.4 per cent of total revenue receipts). The chief minister expressed hope that in these difficult times, the Centre will consider his legitimate demands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-baghel-writes-to-pm-seeking-relaxation-in-borrowing-limit-for-chhattisgarh-832250.html
01-05-2020||National||Cong says it backs Haryana govt's fight against COVID-19, but will oppose 'anti-people' decisions||Main opposition Congress on Friday said the party was extending its cooperation to the BJP-JJP government in Haryana to fight COVID-19 but it will oppose if the ruling dispensation takes “anti-people decisions”. The Congress slammed the state government for hiking bus fares by 15 paise per km and increasing VAT on petrol by Re 1 and that on diesel by Rs 1.1 per litre, and also deciding to impose one per cent market fee and one per cent Haryana Rural Development Fund cess on the sale of fruits and vegetables in 'mandis'. The party’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala, and state unit president Kumari Selja said while other governments were putting money in people's hand during the crisis caused by the pandemic, the BJP-JJP dispensation was “burdening the people by taking anti-people decisions”. Surjewala and Selja were addressing a press briefing through video-conferencing. Surjewala slammed the Khattar government, saying the state Cabinet took the “anti-people” decisions on Thursday, hours after opposition parties, including the Congress, reiterated their support to the government in its fight against COVID-19. He said had the chief minister, who chaired an all-party meeting shortly before the Cabinet meeting on Thursday, taken the opposition into confidence that the government was planning to effect these hikes, they would have told him this was not the time to burden the common people. “Hours after the all-party meeting, the government took these anti-people decisions. Is this not proof of political dishonesty? If Khattar had to increase these prices, was it not his duty to put these facts before the all-party meet,” asked Surjewala. “These decisions will break the backs of the common people,” he said, demanding an immediate rollback of these decisions. “We have said that we extended full cooperation to the government in the fight against COVID, but if they continue to burden people like this, then we will have to raise our voices and oppose,” Selja said. Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda issued a statement on Friday, saying that he had assured Manohar Lal Khattar of his support in the fight against the pandemic but “if they take such decisions, which are anti-people, then we will oppose these”. Hooda, who is the Leader of the Opposition, had represented the Congress in the all-party meeting convened on the COVID-19 situation. Referring to the Khattar cabinet's decisions taken on Thursday evening, Selja said, “The BJP has a history of taking anti-people decisions during evening hours … demonetisation is one such example.” She said the Haryana government should ask for its share of GST from the Centre and not increase prices. On the state’s sources of revenue during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, Surjewala said, “The state government presented its budget last month. This is just the start of the fiscal year, it is not that they have exhausted all funds during one month. “The chief minister, who also holds the Finance portfolio, had last month said that our coffers are full. Have they exhausted all the money in one month,” he asked. Selja, meanwhile, said the government was forming committees at district levels in which BJP workers were being appointed to coordinate in the ongoing relief works and no opposition member was being called despite promises by the ruling dispensation to include them in these committees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-says-it-backs-haryana-govts-fight-against-covid-19-but-will-oppose-anti-people-decisions-832256.html
01-05-2020||National||Migrant labourers mercilessly abandoned by Centre, says Congress||The Congress on Friday accused the Centre of "mercilessly" and "cruelly" abandoning the entire category of migrant labour and termed as a cruel joke the order on inter-state movement of workers. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the "mismanagement" of migrant labour shows the approach the central government has adopted towards the poor of the country. "The Centre has mercilessly, cruelly and without second thought abandoned the entire category of migrant labour," he said addressing a press conference through video conferencing. He said a 'fiscal injection' specially designed for the labour class was the need of the hour to help them tide over the current crisis due to the lockdown over COVID-19. Singhvi also called for providing more money to the states to provide for the migrant labour as lakhs of them are currently stranded at state borders or are forced to walk several kilometres to reach their homes. The Congress leader also termed the running of one train for transporting such labour from Telangana to Jharkhand as a "knee-jerk" reaction and said it was "too little, too late". He alleged that "clearly there is avoidance technique and shifting of responsibility by the central government in taking steps to ensure the labour force reach their homes". "It is complete hypocrisy and contradiction on the part of the Centre," he charged. Various state governments are coordinating to bring back migrant labourers after the Centre gave the go-ahead for the inter-state movement of labourers hit by the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus.  Singhvi also said that the April 29 order of the Home Ministry on inter-state movement of labourers is a 'tuglaqi farmaan' (royal order), which is "very quaint and funny". "It is as if it was issued by an ignorant and uncaring person and constituting a cruel joke on the migrant workers," he said. Singhvi said "it is on the backs of these migrant labour that we enjoy our infrastructure". He said labourers were given only four hours notice before implementing the lockdown and they needed food and water before travelling to their home towns. The Government has not given the states any money on this front, he said, adding that migrant labour is the most vulnerable and weakest section of the informal sector||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-labourers-mercilessly-abandoned-by-centre-says-congress-832257.html
01-05-2020||National||Jharkhand govt has plan in place to ensure safe return of migrant workers: CM||Assuring migrant labourers stuck outside Jharkhand that efforts were being made to bring them home, Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Friday said the hardships and pain endured by them amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown would soon come to end. Taking to Twitter, Soren, on the occasion of May Day, said his government has prepared a plan to ensure the safe return of the labourers and students stranded outside. "Best wishes to all labourers on May Day. I know they have endured paid in the midst of the the lockdown. The government is working for your safe return and for your betterment," Soren tweeted. May 1 is celebrated as International Workers' Day or Labour Day across the globe. Asserting that the Jharkhand government had on various occasions sought permission from the Centre to bring back the stranded migrants, the CM, in a video message, said, "Now that permission has been granted, it is our responsibility to get you (workers) home. A work plan to bring back the students and the mazdoor has been prepared. The state government will reach out to each of the stranded workers and make sure that they get to return home safely, Soren said. Meanwhile, Arun Kumar, the director general of the Railway Protection Force (RPF), told PTI that a 24-coach train left Telangana for Hatia in Jharkhand at 4.50 am with 1,200 migrant labourers. It remains to be seen how many from Hatia board the train for their journey to Telangana. On Thursday night, the state government had sent buses to West Bengal carrying migrants from the neighbouring state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-govt-has-plan-in-place-to-ensure-safe-return-of-migrant-workers-cm-832260.html
01-05-2020||National||HRD formulating safety guidelines for schools, colleges to ensure social distancing amid coronavirus pandemic when they reopen||New seating matrix, staggered classes, different mess and library rules, revamped hostels and canteens, could be part of students' socially distant lives in schools and colleges when they return, with the HRD Ministry forming safety guidelines to be followed whenever classroom learning is resumed. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the central government announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. Later, a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which was extended till May 3. According to HRD Ministry officials, whenever schools and colleges reopen, proper social distancing norms will have to be followed as health and safety of students has to be the priority. The guidelines are being formed by the Ministry's Department of School Education and Literacy for schools and by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for universities and higher education institutions. While the UGC, has already recommended that academic session for freshers may begin in September and for enrolled students in August, schools are also doing teaching learning activities through different virtual mediums. "The guidelines will include a checklist and recommended measures to ensure student and staff safety. However, the COVID-19 situation in a particular area will also be have to kept in mind and the institutions will have flexibility to adapt to the guidelines accordingly. The minister has reiterated many times that the safety and health of students has to be prioritised," a senior official told PTI. "The guidelines are being formed and will also be shared with states so they can prepare accordingly before reopening schools and colleges. Districts will be tasked with the implementation of the guidelines and certain spaces in the campuses will have to be revamped to ensure social distancing," the official added. HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' had also deliberated upon the issue of safety guidelines in a meeting with state education ministers last week. For schools, suspension of morning assemblies and sports activities in the playground, norms for school buses, do's and dont's in washrooms and cafeterias and regular disinfection of entire buildings, could be part of the guidelines and masks will be mandatory part of school uniforms. For residential schools, guidelines will detail social distancing norms to be followed in mess and hostels. Several Indian Institute of Technology (IITs) are also working on chalking out ways for students to follow social distancing, including restricting entry of visitors, classes in shifts and staggered laboratory timings. As per UGC recommendations, semester exams can be conducted in July either online or offline. "So, far the exams happening online, the safety guidelines will have to be followed and same will apply to conduct of competitive examinations," the official said. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has reiterated that it will conduct pending class 10 and 12 board exams in 29 subjects but has not announced the schedule yet. The death toll due to the novel coronavirus pandemic rose to 1,147 with 72 more fatalities and the number of cases climbed to 35,043 in the country on Friday, the Union Health Ministry said. The active COVID-19 cases stands at 25,007, while 8,888 people have recovered, and one patient has migrated. The total number of 35,043 cases includes 111 foreign nationals, according to ministry data updated in the morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hrd-formulating-safety-guidelines-for-schools-colleges-to-ensure-social-distancing-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-when-they-reopen-832262.html
01-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Audi to give complimentary vehicle service to customers working on front line||German luxury car manufacturer Audi on Friday announced complimentary disinfection and general check-up of vehicles for the customers engaged in fighting the coronavirus pandemic from the front line. Audi customers who are leading the battle against COVID-19 from the front line can avail of a complimentary disinfection/cleaning of interiors, exterior cleaning and general check-up of their Audi, along with a courtesy car pick-up and drop, Audi India said in a statement. The offer is being made under the 'Salute to COVID-19 Warriors' initiative in gratitude of the services rendered by essential workers, it added. "As we continue to battle this unprecedented crisis, we are pleased to announce that all Audi India dealerships across the country will prioritise vehicle servicing for essential workers," Audi India Head Balbir Singh Dhillon said. The company has announced an extension of extended warranty and service plans in India for all the customers whose extended warranty or service packages were set to expire during the lockdown period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-audi-to-give-complimentary-vehicle-service-to-customers-working-on-front-line-832265.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Mathura Police helps differently-abled woman in cremation of her father||The police in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura district helped a differently-abled woman in the cremation of her father when no one responded to her cries for help amid fears over the novel coronavirus. Acting on a call, Constable Nitin Mullick reached her house in Vrindaban along with a home guard on Wednesday. The teenager, Mohini Chhatra, narrated to Mullick about the demise of her 60-year-old father and her inability to perform his last rites. According to Chhatra, after the death of her father, she cried for help but nobody responded apparently due to the COVID-19 scare, prompting her to take the assistance of the police. Mullick said since the hearse was not available due to the lockdown, he had to hire an e-rickshaw and the last rites were performed at a cremation site. "Whatever amount we may get from Dial 112, we will donate to the girl," the constable said.  In another incident, police celebrated the birthday of a one-year-old girl in Mathura. Over half-a-dozen police personnel in four motorbikes, two cars with balloons unfurling in the air and cake reached the Mahavidya colony of Mathura. The move came after a tweet by Sangita Singh expressing the disappointment of not being able to celebrate her daughter's birthday due to lockdown came to the police's notice. "I never could imagine that the police would help us in celebrating the first birthday of my daughter," said Singh, whose husband is in the Navy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-mathura-police-helps-differently-abled-woman-in-cremation-of-her-father-832272.html
01-05-2020||National||COVID-19 patient dies after consuming toxic liquid in Uttar Pradesh||A coronavirus patient died at a hospital here on Friday allegedly after consuming some toxic liquid at the community health centre he was admitted to in Sarsaul in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur Dehat district, a health official said. Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) hospital's Chief Medical Superintendent, Dr RK Maurya, confirmed the victim was COVID-19 positive and shifted to the facility on Thursday night. He, however, refused to share any further details regarding the patient's death. It was not immediately clear whether the patient attempted suicide. Chief Medical Officer (Kanpur Dehat), Dr Rajesh Katiyar, said the man, a resident of Jharkhand, along with other labourers were travelling in a truck that was intercepted by police in Pukhrayan on April 23. "The victim was kept at the district hospital where he was screened. He tested positive for COVID-19, following which he was taken to an isolation ward of the CHC in Sarsaul on Wednesday night," the CMO added. CHC's Superintendent, Dr SL Verma, said the patient allegedly drank something after which his condition started deteriorating. He was also a patient of epilepsy and might have been suffering from mental illness as well, the CMO added. He held Kanpur Dehat authorities responsible for the patient's death, claiming there was no such protocol to shift any COVID-19 positive patient at CHCs of any other district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-patient-dies-after-consuming-toxic-liquid-in-uttar-pradesh-832277.html
01-05-2020||National||Ensure UP borders are sealed to stop entry of 'coronavirus carriers': Adityanath to officials||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked officials to ensure that Uttar Pradesh's borders remain sealed so that people who maybe "coronavirus carriers" cannot enter the state. He gave the directions at a review meeting. "It should be ensured that the borders of the state remain sealed. There should be alertness in border areas. No one should enter the state without permission as there is a possibility that they can be coronavirus carriers," an official release issued here quoted Adityanath as saying. He said the state government is committed to the welfare of labourers and has initiated a number of measures in their interest. "The government is taking steps to ensure return of labourers stuck in other states in a phased manner," he said. The chief minister reiterated that four lakh migrant labourers from Delhi and 12,000 from Haryana have returned to the state safely. He said directives have been issued to ensure that those coming to the state undergo a health checkup and are sent to home quarantine for 14 days with a ration kit. Adityanath also gave directions to increase pool testing and procure quality testing kits. As of Thursday, the number of coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh stood at 2,211 and the death toll due to the infection was 40.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-up-borders-are-sealed-to-stop-entry-of-coronavirus-carriers-adityanath-to-officials-832283.html
01-05-2020||National||Chhattisgarh won't open borders till COVID-19 situation normalises: Baghel||With the second spell of the nationwide lockdown scheduled to end on May 3, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel Friday said the state's boundaries will not be opened up till the COVID-19 pandemic situation normalises. Indicating continued restrictions in the Congress-ruled state, he said he preferred gradual relaxation of lockdown norms and state governments should be given the right to decide which districts to open depending on the local disease burden and containment efforts. "The state boundaries will remain shut even after May 3. Chhattisgarh will not open its borders till the COVID-19 situation improves and normalises," Baghel told PTI in an interview. "After all, state governments also have responsibilities towards their people. They have been elected by the people," he said. Another Congress-ruled state of Punjab has already announced continuation of the lockdown for two more weeks beyond May 3. Baghel, however, said goods carriers will be allowed to operate along inter-state routes to ensure a smooth supply chain. On the issue of stranded migrants, the Chhattisgarh chief minister said the Centre must run point-to-point trains to bring the labourers back home as it is difficult to deploy buses to ferry all of them from long distances. He said the state has 1.5 to 2 lakh migrant labourers stranded across different states and they cannot be brought back through buses alone. "The central government should deploy sanitised point-to-point trains for their safe return," he said. Baghel admitted that there were dangers involved in the return of migrants amid the evolving COVID-19 pandemic, but asked, "can we allow our own people to remain away from their homes for months". He also said allowing migrants to walk miles without food, water and safety was a "worrisome and a wrong practice". He said the question was how can people be brought back safely, and noted that in Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala alone there were thousands of Chhattisgarh migrants waiting to return home. Baghel said he has urged Home Minister Amit Shah to allow running special point-to-point trains to bring them back. "There has been no assurance in this regard so far," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-wont-open-borders-till-covid-19-situation-normalises-baghel-832287.html
01-05-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh reports 70 new coronavirus cases, total rises to 2,281||Uttar Pradesh reported 70 fresh coronavirus cases on  Friday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state to 2,281, a senior official said. So far, 2,281 cases have been reported in the state from 63 districts, Principal Secretary, Medical Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said. Fourty-one deaths have so far been reported while the number of active cases is 1,685, he said. As many as 555 patients have been treated and discharged, he added. Prasad said pool testing has started in the state which was the first one in the country to do so. Stressing that there is no need for people to panic, the senior official said those who have gone in for testing and sought medical aid at an early stage have responded well and recovered. "The problems have occurred with cases which have been reported at an advanced stage," he said while making an appeal to all persons to report as soon as they see the symptoms as it would aid in treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-reports-70-new-coronavirus-cases-total-rises-to-2281-832290.html
01-05-2020||National||Conduct rapid antibody tests for surveillance, HC tells Maha||The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has asked the Maharashtra government to undertake rapid antibody tests with reliable kits provided by Indian companies since the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has recognised the utility of such tests for the purpose of surveillance and prevention of COVID-19 outbreak. Justice Manish Pitale was hearing a petition filed by Citizens Forum for Equality through its president Madhukar Kukde and other petitioners. The court was on Thursday informed that rapid antibody tests were not being conducted on the directives of the Union government despite kits being available. However, advocate Tushar Mandlekar, appearing for one of the petitioners, told the court the ICMR, in its letter dated April 27, had said rapid antibody test kits of two Chinese companies ought not to be used, but that the letter did not disclose any policy decision of the ICMR to do away with such tests. Assistant Solicitor General Ulhas Aurangabadkar, appearing for the Union government, said the rapid antibody tests could be used for surveillance, adding that the best test for the diagnosis of COVID-19 continued to be the RT-PCR swab test. The court then noted that the state government was, hence, not justified in refusing to distribute rapid antibody test kits and in not carrying out such tests for surveillance. "In view of the imminent danger of the uncontrolled spread of COVID-19, surveillance could certainly be an important part of the strategy to control the spread," Justice Pitale said. The bench further noted that, in view of the ICMR letter, the state government could certainly undertake rapid antibody tests using kits supplied by Indian firms, at least for the purpose of surveillance. The court also asked the Centre and the Maharashtra government to seriously consider the issue of undertaking RT- PCR tests on a priority basis for frontline staff like doctors, health personnel and police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/conduct-rapid-antibody-tests-for-surveillance-hc-tells-maha-832291.html
01-05-2020||National||5 more states including Bihar, Punjab join 'One Nation-One Ration Card' scheme: Paswan||Five more states, including Bihar and Punjab, have joined the 'One Nation-One Ration Card' system, taking the total ration card portability to 17 states and Union territories helping 60 crore beneficiaries, Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan said on Friday. Under the 'One Nation-One Ration Card' initiative, eligible beneficiaries would be able to avail their entitled foodgrains under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) from any Fair Price Shop in the country using the same ration card. The food ministry is aiming to implement this facility across the country from June 1. "Today, 5 more states -- Bihar, UP, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Daman and Diu -- have been integrated with One Nation-One Ration Card System," Paswan said in a tweet. On January 1 this year, 12 states were integrated among each other and now 17 states are on integrated management of the public distribution system (PDS), also called ration shops/fair price shops, he added. "About 60 crore beneficiaries from 17 states and UTs can benefit from the ration card portability and they can purchase the subsidised foodgrains using the existing ration cards," an official statement said. Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Haryana, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Jharkhand and Tripura are 12 states where ration card portability has been implemented. The beneficiaries can lift 50 per cent of their entitlement. According to the statement, the ministry has decided to integrate the five states after assessing their technical preparedness. The state officials were given technical assistance and training for the same. The five states have been asked to immediately begin monitoring of the new system, it said, and added that the Centre is pursuing with other states to join the ration card portability system at the earliest. There are over 81 crore beneficiaries in the country registered under the NFSA for subsidised foodgrains of 5 kilo per person at Rs 1-3/kg. Recently, the Supreme Court had asked the Centre to consider the feasibility of 'temporarily' adopting the 'one nation, one ration card' scheme during the ongoing coronavirus lockdown period to enable the migrant workers and economically weaker sections (EWS) get subsidised foodgrain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-more-states-including-bihar-punjab-join-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-paswan-832299.html
01-05-2020||National||Ministry of Home Affairs allows movement of stranded migrants, students, pilgrims by special trains||As a logistical nightmare stared at states, the Centre on Friday modified its order allowing the running of special 'Shramik Trains' for the inter-state transportation of stranded people, including migrant workers and students, to their native places by allowing the running of special 'Shramik (Workers) Special Trains', two days after insisting that only buses will be allowed for the purpose. The order was issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) amending its revised guidelines for the COVID-19 lockdown after several state governments strongly argued on Friday that transportation of stranded people using buses would be impractical. It also came hours after the Railways ran a "one-off" special train, the first passenger service operated during the lockdown, from Lingampalli in Telangana to Hatia in Jharkhand with around 1,200 migrant workers, which started its journey at 4:30 AM.  However, the Centre later in the day decided to allow special trains to be operated by the Ministry of Railways, which will issue detailed guidelines for sale of tickets and for social distancing and other safety measures to be observed at railway stations, platforms and within trains.  According to the Ministry of Railways, these special trains will be run from point to point on the request of both the concerned states as per the standard protocols for sending and receiving such stranded persons. Nodal officers will be appointed by both the states and Railways for the smooth operation of these 'Shramik Specials'. On longer routes, the Railways will provide a meal en route during the journey. On arrival, the state government should make arrangements for their screening, quarantine if necessary and further travel from the railway station. Here are the 'Shramik Specials' trains:1. Lingampalli to Hatia2. Aluva to Bhubaneswar 3. Nasik to Lucknow 4. Nasik to Bhopal5. Jaipur to Patna6. Kota to Hatia||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-home-affairs-allows-movement-of-stranded-migrants-students-pilgrims-by-special-trains-832301.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Srinagar among four districts in J&K declared as red zones||Four districts among Srinagar were declared as COVID-19 red zones in Jammu and Kashmir by Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Friday while 12 other districts were confirmed as Orange Zones and rest of the four as Green Zones. According to an order issued by the Ministry Srinagar, north Kashmir’s Bandipora and southern districts of Anantnag and Shopian have been declared as red zones. Most of the cases have been reported from these four districts and they have been classified as hotspots based on total active cases, doubling rate, the extent of testing and surveillance feedback. As per the order, 12 districts have been classified as orange zones which include Baramulla, Kupwara, Ganderbal, Kulgam, Budgam (in Kashmir), Jammu, Udhampur, Samba, Kathua, Rajouri, Ramban and Reasi (in Jammu region) while four districts have been classified as Green Zones which include Pulwama (Kashmir), Kishtwar, Doda and Poonch (Jammu).  On Thursday, the Center had asked all the States and Union Territories to delineate the districts as per the laid down criteria and implement the restrictions accordingly in the areas, post the May 3 scenario. Till April 30, J&K had reported 614 positive cases. However, over 35% of the patients infected with coronavirus have recovered and 216 of them discharged from hospitals. The union territory's recovery rate is much better than the national average of 25%. Eight people have died due to COVID-19 in J&K. Doctors say all of them who died had comorbidity. The number of COVID-19 tests carried out daily in J&K has risen to 1500, which is one of the highest in the country. "J&K will shortly break 2,000 tests per day barrier. J&K is following an aggressive testing strategy. Testing capacity has been increased from one lab to four labs. The testing rate is 1,500 per day, one of the highest in the country,” J&K government spokesperson Rohit Kansal, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-srinagar-among-four-districts-in-jk-declared-as-red-zones-832302.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: SC protects Prashant Bhushan in FIR questioning over comment on Ramayana, Mahabharata||The Supreme Court on Friday granted protection from arrest to advocate Prashant Bhushan in an FIR lodged against him for his comment terming showing of TV serials 'Ramayana' and 'Mahabharata' on Doordarshan as serving of "opium" to the people during the lockdown. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and Sanjiv Khanna issued notice to the Gujarat government on a writ petition filed by Bhushan, who sought quashing of the FIR. During the hearing, the bench asked his counsel senior advocate Dushyant Dave for questioning people's choice to watch particular TV shows. Dave said he was concerned about the FIR only. Bhushan sought quashing of the FIR registered against him in Gujarat’s Rajkot on April 12, 2020 by a retired Army personnel, Jaydev Joshi for “hurting Hindu religious sentiments” by using objectionable language against Ramayana and Mahabharata. He contended the FIR was filed with the intention of harassing him and interfering with his speech and expression. He questioned the validity of the FIR which alleged his retweet of a tweet by journalist Ashlin Mathews of March 29, 2020 and by IAS officer KananGopinathan of March 30, 2020 were part of their common intention of not only insulting religious beliefs but also were “factually misguiding as well as intentionally false”. In the FIR, Joshi accused Bhushan of using word opium with Ramayana and Mahabharata in a tweet made on March 28 which, he alleged, has “hurt the sentiments of many Hindu people”. “As crores starve & walk hundreds of miles home due to forced lockdown, our heartless ministers celebrate consuming & feeding the opium of Ramayana & Mahabharata to the people,” reads Bhushan’s tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-sc-protects-prashant-bhushan-in-fir-questioning-over-comment-on-ramayana-mahabharata-832303.html
01-05-2020||National||Haryana CM approves fresh guidelines to resume economic activities in state||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday approved new guidelines giving conditional relaxations to industry to spur economic activities in the state with immediate effect amid the lockdown. “As per the revised state guidelines, activities shall be allowed after obtaining a self-declaration from the industrial units, commercial establishments and construction projects, online. However, these units will need to comply with the standard operating procedures (SOPs) as provided by the Union Home Affairs Ministry,” a statement issued by the state government here said. These guidelines would be applicable only to units not falling in a containment zone. In 14 districts of Haryana -- Ambala, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Fatehabad, Hisar, Jind, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Mahendergarh, Rewari, Rohtak, Sirsa and Yamunanagar, immediate approvals would be accorded after the application is submitted on the state government portal as per the norms. For industries, industrial establishments, and commercial and private establishments other than IT and ITeS units, if the workforce requirement is up to 20 people, 100 per cent of the requirement would be allowed whereas, in case there is the requirement of more than 20 people, 50 per cent of the workforce or 20 people, whichever is higher, would be allowed. “For IT and ITes units, in case of workforce requirement of up to 20 people, 50 per cent of the requirement would be allowed whereas, in case of requirement of more than 20 people, 33 per cent of the workforce or 10 people, whichever is higher, would be allowed,” the statement said. For construction projects, in every case of in-situ construction projects where the employer can retain the workforce at the site, operations would be allowed with 100 per cent of the total workforce.  However, in case of non-in-situ projects, operations would be allowed with only 50 per cent of the total workforce. In case the number of COVID-19 active cases in any of these 14 districts reaches 15, all industrial units, commercial establishments and construction projects, would have to shut down their operations. In the remaining eight districts of Faridabad, Gurugram, Sonipat, Panipat, Nuh, Palwal, Jhajjar and Panchkula, which have maximum number of active cases, permissions would be granted on the basis of development block/town or zone. If the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the last 28 days in any block/ town or zone reaches 10, then, no industrial unit except essential goods and services would be allowed to operate. Industries, commercial establishments and construction projects employing less than 10 workers in any of the 22 districts of Haryana need not apply to the state government and may resume operations subject to the social distancing norms and other requirements as per the Union Home Ministry guidelines. Also, in all 22 districts, industrial units, commercial establishments and construction projects having in-situ labour would be allowed to operate, with all the workers present in their premises. In all districts in respect of every unit that does not begin functioning within 7 days of approval, the approval would be liable to be cancelled without notice. The district administration would continuously assess the on-ground situation and if new COVID-19 cases arise in the district, the respective deputy commissioners shall review the guidelines. In any district, 100 per cent export-oriented units and those units with 100 per cent in-situ labour would be given preference in issuance of passes and other necessary facilitation required to commence operations. In case the industrial unit or commercial establishment makes arrangement for the labour force to stay in a building near the factory premises or project site, such cases would be treated similar to in-situ labour projects. The statement said that as MHA guidelines lay emphasis on expediting the resumption of industrial operations in rural areas, all officials concerned including the district administration have been encouraged to give preference to units in rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-cm-approves-fresh-guidelines-to-resume-economic-activities-in-state-832305.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Before Lockdown 3.0 Modi huddle to keep economy on rails||60 hours before the Centre announced Lockdown 3.0, Prime Minister Narendra Modi huddled with top policymakers to ensure that the battle to save lives does not wipe away livelihood. In the last two days, the Prime Minister held a series of review meetings with leaders of various sectors and his top ministers to ensure that while life in lockdown is eased, the economy also stays on the rail. Announcement of a fat package to boost the MSME sector is on the anvil, a senior minister said. On Friday morning, the Prime Minister huddled in a high-level meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Health Minister Harshvardhan and Chief of Defence Staff Vipin Rawat among others before the Railways announced running ‘Shrameek Special’ trains to ferry the migrants and the service chiefs of all the three forces announced elaborate plans to felicitate doctors and health workers that included spraying of flower petals from the sky on hospitals. The measures came in the backdrop of a rising number of agitations by migrants from different states, who wanted to go back to their homes and a larger number of medical professionals including doctors contracting Covid-19, which could have dampened their spirit at a time when the positive cases have grown, crossing 35 thousand. Modi also held a comprehensive meeting to review the strategies that could help in making India’s Civil Aviation sector more efficient in which it was decided that the Indian Air Space should be effectively used in such a manner that the flying time is reduced benefitting the traveling public and also helping the airlines to save costs in close co-operation with the Department of Military Affairs. For generating more revenue as well as to bring in more efficiency at the airports, the Ministry of Civil Aviation has been asked to expedite the process of handing over of 6 more airports on PPP basis, by commencing the tender process within three months. The Prime Minister held a separate detailed meeting on the Power Sector and discussed various long-term reforms for enhancing sustainability, resilience, and efficiency of the sector. The discussions included measures regarding ease of doing business; propagation of renewables, flexibility in supply of coal, role of public-private partnerships; and boosting investment in the power sector. On Thursday Modi deliberated upon the potential reforms to ensure a robust and self-reliant defence industry in India that caters to short and long term needs of the armed forces and initiatives to give a boost to the economy in the backdrop of COVID-19. The discussions involved reforming of the functioning of the Ordnance factories, streamlining procurement procedures, focused resource allocation, encouraging Research and Development innovation, attracting investment in critical defence technologies and promotion of exports. A meeting was also held to discuss strategies to attract more foreign investments into India as well as to promote local investments in order to give a boost to the economy against the backdrop of the COVID-19 Pandemic.  It was discussed that a scheme should be developed to promote more plug and play infrastructure in the existing industrial lands, plots, estates in the country and provide necessary financing support.  Various strategies to bring investments into India in a fast-track mode and to promote Indian domestic sectors were discussed. Detailed discussions were held on guiding states to evolve their strategies and be more proactive in attracting investments. Modi has also held deliberations on the potential economic reforms in Mines and Coal Sectors to give a boost to the economy that involved ensuring easy and abundant availability of mineral resources from domestic sources, upscaling exploration, attracting investment and modern technology, to generate large scale employment through transparent and efficient processes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-before-lockdown-30-modi-huddle-to-keep-economy-on-rails-832306.html
01-05-2020||National||Uttarakhand: Coronavirus positive woman dies at AIIMS Rishikesh||A COVID-19 positive woman died at AIIMS, Rishikesh on Friday with the state health department in Dehradun attributing the death to "suddenly reduced blood flow to the heart". The 56-year-old woman from Nainital was admitted to AIIMS on April 22 after suffering a brain stroke and had tested positive for COVID-19 on April 28, nodal officer for coronavirus cases at the facility Madhur Uniyal said. The state health department in a bulletin in Dehradun said the death was not caused by a coronavirus. "The woman died of ventricular tachycardia secondary to ACS (acute coronary syndrome). In simple terms, it means suddenly reduced blood flow to the heart," it said. After suffering stroke, the woman was admitted to a hospital in Nainital and later shifted to a hospital in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh. She was then referred to AIIMS, Rishikesh. Earlier in the day, Uniyal had said that the woman died of multiple organ failure. When asked whether the woman died of COVID-19, Uniyal did not give a direct reply saying she was also suffering from other diseases and several of her vital organs had stopped working before her death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-coronavirus-positive-woman-dies-at-aiims-rishikesh-832308.html
01-05-2020||National||Don't use coronavirus pandemic as political opportunity: BJP to Congress||The BJP asked the Congress on Friday not to use the coronavirus pandemic as a "political opportunity" as it expressed shock at the opposition party criticising the Union Home Ministry guidelines on inter-state movement of workers. Rather than giving any positive suggestion, constant bickering and pessimism during these times are not the solutions, the party said. "The Congress should restrain itself from spreading canards, falsities and misinformation purely for political gain during a pandemic. The MHA guidelines lay down standard operating procedures (SOPs) for states to follow during migrants' transfer. States are in talks with each other to effectively carry forward this mammoth task," BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said. The BJP's response came after the Congress accused the Centre of "cruelly" and "mercilessly" abandoning the entire category of migrant labourers and termed "a cruel joke" the order on inter-state movement of workers. Hitting back, Patra said, "It's astonishing and shocking that senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi sees the MHA guidelines on migrant labourers as a joke." "A few days ago Rahul Gandhi had stated that lockdown is of no help... Our simple suggestion to the Congress is not to use the pandemic as a political opportunity," he said. In his press conference, Singhvi said the "mismanagement" of migrant labour shows the approach the central government has adopted towards the poor of the country. "The Centre has mercilessly, cruelly and without second thought abandoned the entire category of migrant labour," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-use-coronavirus-pandemic-as-political-opportunity-bjp-to-congress-832315.html
01-05-2020||National||Delhi Police receives 817 calls on its helpline regarding lockdown in 24 hrs||The Delhi Police received over 800 calls, including 437 related to movement passes, from 2 pm on Thursday and the same time on Friday, seeking assistance on issues faced during the lockdown, officials said. So far, the police have received 34,305 calls related to the lockdown on its helpline number -- 23469526. Police said they received a total of 817 calls from 2 pm on Thursday to 2 pm on Friday. Out of these, fifty-six calls were related to areas outside Delhi, which were referred to respective state helpline numbers while three calls received were related to no food and no money, which were also forwarded to NGOs.  Nearly 2,73,463 people were served food while 3,046 were given ration through the food delivery network established in all 15 police districts with involvement of nearly 400 NGOs and good samaritans at more than 250 locations, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-receives-817-calls-on-its-helpline-regarding-lockdown-in-24-hrs-832317.html
01-05-2020||National||Election Commission to take call on Rajya Sabha polls deferred due to COVID-19 next week||The Election Commission will take a call next week on the various Rajya Sabha and legislative council polls deferred due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. "The Commission also decided to review other deferred elections in the next week," an EC statement on Friday announcing the schedule for the nine Maharashtra legislative council elections said. In March, the commission had deferred the March 26 Rajya Sabha elections citing threat of the coronavirus and had said a decision will be taken after reviewing the situation. While 17 members from six states retired on April 9, one from Meghalaya retired on April 12. The 18 seats are spread across Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Meghalaya. The election to fill up 55 seats in the Upper House of Parliament was to be held on March 26, but 37 candidates have already been elected without a contest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-to-take-call-on-rajya-sabha-polls-deferred-due-to-covid-19-next-week-832325.html
01-05-2020||National||Lockdown extension by 10-20 days after May 3: Indore official||The coronavirus lockdown in Indore, Madhya Pradesh's commercial capital and most worrying hotspot, will be extended for 10-20 days after the second phase ends as scheduled on May 3, district collector Manish Singh said on Friday. Indore has 1,513 COVID-19 cases, including 72 people who have died of the infection, and 250 who have been discharged after recovery. Speaking to PTI, Singh said. "We held a detailed discussion with medical experts, public representatives and others in view of the current COVID-19 situation. And we have decided that the lockdown will be extended in the district for another 10 to 20 days after May 3." "We have controlled the situation in the city after a lot of hard work, and it has improved by at least 70 per cent now. The lockdown needs to be extended here to normalise the situation completely," Singh added. He said instructions have been given to officials in the administration that the lockdown must be implemented strictly and violators should be arrested. "We will not tolerate lockdown violations. Curfew is already in force in Indore city. Therefore, no separate order is required to extend its duration," the collector said. He said the good news was the the number of new cases was falling while that of people getting discharged after recovery was climbing. The first COVID-19 case was detected here on March 25 after which curfew and lockdown were imposed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-extension-by-10-20-days-after-may-3-indore-official-832327.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: West Bengal govt writes to Centre over 'erroneous' assessment of red zones in state||The number of red zone districts in West Bengal has become the new flashpoint between the state government and the Centre. Refuting the Centre’s tally of 10 red zone districts in Bengal the state government has said that there are only four such districts under the category at present. Refuting the Ministry’s statistics, state Health Secretary Vivek Kumar stated that a presentation made during the Cabinet Secretary’s video conference on April 30 showed that there were 10 red zone districts in West Bengal. Describing it as an “erroneous assessment”, Kumar wrote to the Ministry on April 30 that there were four districts in the state under the red zone category namely Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Paraganas and Purba (East) Medinipur. “Based on the current parameters of Government of India for categorization of areas for COVID-19 the districts in the red zone are only four: Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Paraganas and Purba (East) Medinipur,” stated Kumar. He further stated that as on April 30 there are 11 orange zone districts and eight green zone districts in the state. There was a heated war of words between the state and the Centre over the visit of Central teams for evaluating the implementation of lockdown measures in Bengal. Earlier Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had said that the reason behind sending the teams was “unclear.”  The Secretary to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Preeti Sudan in her letter to all the Chief Secretaries of States and Union Territories on April 30 stated that there are 10 red zone districts in the state. She also stated that it was a “dynamic list” and would be updated on a “weekly basis or earlier” and communicated to the states for “further follow-up action” as per the directions of the Home Ministry issued under Disaster Management Act, 2005. This classification of districts announced at a video conference chaired by the Cabinet Secretary on April 30 with the chief secretaries and health secretaries, will have to be followed by states and Union Territories for a week post-May 3 for containment operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-west-bengal-govt-writes-to-centre-over-erroneous-assessment-of-red-zones-in-state-832328.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: MHA issues orders to extend lockdown for 2 more weeks from May 4||The Government on Friday announced a two-week extension of the coronavirus lockdown beyond May 3, banning the movement of people between 7 pm and 7 am but allowing bus transport and plying of taxis in districts with no cases in 21 days. It also allowed the sale of liquor, the functioning of private offices and industrial and construction activities in rural areas. Once this third edition of lockdown is completed on May 17, the country would see 53 days of restrictions at a stretch since March 25 when it was first imposed for 21 days till April 14. The lockdown was then extended till May 3. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), which issued the orders extending the lockdown, said green and orange zones will enjoy “considerable relaxations” while red zones too get some but with stringent restrictions. The relaxations come as the government did a “risk profiling” of districts into red, orange and green zones, which will be updated weekly by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Red zone districts will be identified depending on the number of cases active cases, doubling rate of infection, the extent of testing and surveillance feedback while a green zone will be marked if it does not have a confirmed case for last 21 days. Those districts which do not fall in either of the categories will be listed in the orange zone. Municipal areas in a district will continue to remain a red or orange zone as identified by the Ministry of Health while the states are allowed to lower the grade to orange or green zone respectively if there are no cases for 21 days in other areas.  Air, rail, metro and interstate road transport, as well as all types of gatherings, continue to be in the ban list while educational institutions and public places like shopping malls, theatres and religious places will remain closed. Except this, all activities are allowed in the green zone. However, buses can ply with only 50% seating capacity within green zones while depots can operate with up to 50% capacity. According to the order, all industrial and construction activities are allowed in rural areas in all zones while such activities have restrictions in urban areas in red zones. Private offices with one-third strength are also allowed to function. Sale of liquor, paan, gutka and tobacco are permitted from May 4 except in containment zones but shopkeepers will have to ensure that no more than five persons are at the shop at a given time and they stand at least six feet apart. Wearing a face mask in public will continue to be compulsory while spitting is prohibited. However, across the country, movement of individuals for non-essential activities will remain "strictly prohibited" between 7 PM and 7 AM. Local authorities should issue orders for curfew or prohibitory orders under Section 144 to ensure this, the MHA order said. Senior citizens above 65 years, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years should remain at home except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes, the order said. In red zones, cycle rickshaws, autos, taxis, cab aggregators and intra-state or inter-district plying of buses are not permitted. Barbershops, spas and salons also will remain closed in these high-risk areas.  However, the movement of individuals and vehicles are allowed for permitted activities in red zones. Four-wheelers can have a maximum of two passengers besides the driver is allowed. Pillion riders are not allowed for two-wheelers. Like in the April 15 guidelines, Special Economic Zones, Export Oriented Units, industrial estates and industrial townships, manufacturing units of essential goods, jute industry and manufacturing of IT hardware among others. All malls, shopping complexes and markets will remain closed in urban areas of a red zone. This time, shops selling essential items in markets and market complexes in urban areas can operate unlike in the April 15 guidelines. Stand-alone shops are also allowed in these areas. All shops in rural areas are allowed to open in a red zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-mha-issues-orders-to-extend-lockdown-for-2-more-weeks-from-may-4-832335.html
01-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi reviews strategies for making India's civil aviation sector more efficient||A meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday decided that the Indian air space should be effectively used in a manner that flying time for travellers is reduced and airlines also save costs. That will be done in close cooperation with the Department of Military Affairs, an official statement said after Modi held a comprehensive meeting to review the strategies that could help in making India's civil aviation sector more efficient. "For generation of more revenue as well as to bring in more efficiency at the airports, the Ministry of Civil Aviation has been asked to expedite the process of handing over of six more airports on PPP basis by commencing the tender process within three months," it said. The meeting, which was attended by Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri among others, also reviewed the e-DGCA project, aimed at bringing in more transparency in the DGCA's office and helping all stakeholders by reducing the processing time for various licences and permissions. "It was also decided that all reform initiatives taken by the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the organizations under it should proceed in a time bound manner," the statement added. The civil aviation sector has been severely hit by the coronavirus pandemic, which forced governments around the world to impose restrictions on the movement of people and virtually shut flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-reviews-strategies-for-making-indias-civil-aviation-sector-more-efficient-832336.html
01-05-2020||National||CSC launches Olympiads to hone rural students academic skills||Providing students in rural areas a platform to hone their academic skills, the Common Service Centre (CSC), a special purpose vehicle (SPV) under the Ministry of Electronics and IT, on Friday launched CSC Olympiads. The Olympiads will be open to school children of classes 3 to 12 through CSC’s online network at 3.65 lakh CSCs across the country. While launching the initiative, CSC SPV CEO  Dinesh Tyagi said: “Through CSC Olympiads, we are providing students in rural areas a platform to test their academic outcomes. Moreover, this will also inculcate a competitive spirit among the students and help them prepare better in future competitive examinations.” The CSC Olympiads are available online in Maths, Science, English, and Hindi subjects. Students can take the exams in both English and Hindi languages, he added. “Currently, we are providing exams in Maths, science, English, and Hindi subjects. However, we also plan to add logical reasoning, cyber Olympiad and general knowledge. Currently, the exams are given in Hindi and English, but in days to come more languages will be added,”  Tyagi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-launches-olympiads-to-hone-rural-students-academic-skills-832343.html
01-05-2020||National||Armed forces to conduct fly-pasts, shower petals on hospitals in gratitude to coronavirus warriors||The armed forces will express their gratitude to all "corona warriors" by conducting fly-pasts, showering petals on hospitals treating COVID-19 patients and illuminating naval vessels, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said on Friday. Addressing a special press briefing along with the three service chiefs, Gen Rawat said the nation stood together and showed resilience in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic.  "We are expressing our gratitude to all 'corona warriors' who are working hard to keep us safe," he said. The Indian Air Force will carry out fly-pasts across the country on May 3 to display gratitude to coronavirus warriors, the CDS said, flanked by Army chief General M M Naravane, Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh and Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria. Gen Rawat said the Indian Air Force will conduct fly-pasts from Srinagar to Thiruvananthapuram, from Dibrugarh to Kutch as thanksgiving to the coronavirus warriors. Fixed wing and fighter aircraft of the IAF will participate in the fly-pasts on May 3 evening, he said. Also, Navy helicopters will shower flower petals on hospitals treating COVID-19 patients, the CDS said.  The Army will conduct mountain band displays along some COVID-19 hospitals in almost every district, while naval ships will conduct special drill and illuminate vessels to convey gratitude to corona warriors, Gen Rawat said. Armed forces are solidly behind those fighting the coronavirus pandemic, he said. Gen Rawat also asserted that no operational task has been affected or will be affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic. He said it is not proper to conclude that the novel coronavirus outbreak is a result of biological warfare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/armed-forces-to-conduct-fly-pasts-shower-petals-on-hospitals-in-gratitude-to-coronavirus-warriors-832346.html
01-05-2020||National||83% COVID-19 patients in Maha are asymptomatic, 20% recovered||As much as 83 per cent of coronavirus patients in Maharashtra are asymptomatic, and 20 per cent of them have recovered, health minister Rajesh Tope said here on Friday. The mortality rate of the epidemic has come down to 3.5 per cent in the state, while the doubling rate of patients is more than the national average, he said in a press release here. Of the 36 districts of Maharashtra,14 are in red zone (signifying high rate of spread of infection), 16 in the orange and six in the green zone, he told reporters in Jalna. In Mumbai, a special 2,000-beds facility has been created where senior citizens with comorbidities (existing health conditions) living in densely populated areas could be quarantined after screening, if needed, Tope said. The state has 733 containment zones at present, he said. The number of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra has risen to more than 10,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/83-covid-19-patients-in-maha-are-asymptomatic-20-recovered-832347.html
01-05-2020||National||Migrant workers continue to trudge home from industrial towns, three workers killed in accident||Three migrant workers were killed in a road accident in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh district, about 400 kilometres from here even as notwithstanding the assurance and arrangements to bring them back, stranded migrant workers, hailing from UP, continued to trudge home from industrial towns in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi and others. According to the police sources here, a group of four migrant workers had started their foot march from Delhi to Fatehpur in UP three days back. On Thursday night, after walking for over 125 kilometres, a tractor driver agreed to transport them a few kilometres, when they reached Aligarh town. Around midnight, a truck rammed into the tractor-trolley killing three migrant workers on the spot and left one seriously injured, police said. Meanwhile, migrant workers from different parts of the country continued to arrive in UP. While some were trying to cycle their way home, some others simply trudged. According to the reports around 300 migrant workers reached UP's Mahoba and Muzaffarnagar districts from Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana on Thursday night. Most of them said that they had not heard about the UP government's decision to arrange transport for them. They simply wanted to reach their native villages as early as possible. Also, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday appealed to the migrant workers not to set off on foot or by any other mode of transport as the state government would be making arrangements to bring them back home from wherever they were.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-workers-continue-to-trudge-home-from-industrial-towns-three-workers-killed-in-accident-832349.html
01-05-2020||National||AAP Karol Bagh MLA Vishesh Ravi tests positive for coronavirus||Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Karol Bagh Vishesh Ravi on Friday said he has tested positive for coronavirus. My brother has also tested positive for the disease, Ravi said. "I am currently in home quarantine. I do not have any symptoms of the disease but I have tested positive for it," he told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-karol-bagh-mla-vishesh-ravi-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-832354.html
01-05-2020||National||Palghar lynching case: SC seeks status report on probe from Maharashtra||The Supreme Court Friday directed the Maharashtra government to submit a status report on investigation in the Palghar incident in which two sadhus and their driver were allegedly lynched by a mob on the night of April 16. A bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and Sanjiv Khanna passed the order while hearing, through video-conferencing, a plea which sought a CBI probe in the case. The plea alleged that the incident was a failure on the part of the police as a mob had gathered in the area in violation of the lockdown rules. Refusing stay on the investigation, the apex court asked the petitioner to serve a copy of the plea to the standing counsel for Maharashtra. "Counsel for the petitioner is permitted to serve a copy of the petition on the standing counsel for the state of Maharashtra, returnable within four weeks. The state of Maharashtra shall submit the report regarding the status of the investigation in the meantime," the bench said in its order. The plea, filed through advocate Rashi Bansal, has sought a direction to the authorities to constitute an apex court monitored SIT or a judicial commission headed by a retired top court judge to deal with the case. The petitioner, Shashank Shekhar Jha, has also sought registration of FIR against concerned police officials for their failure to prevent the incident. The three victims, from Kandivali in Mumbai, were travelling in a car to attend a funeral in Surat in Gujarat amid the nationwide lockdown when their vehicle was stopped and they were attacked and killed by a mob in Gadchinchile village on the night of April 16 in the presence of police. The victims were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70), Sushil Giri Maharaj (35) and driver Nilesh Telgade (30). During the hearing, the petitioner referred to media reports and claimed that police was complicit in the incident as they did not use force to prevent it. "This happened despite of the fact that whole country is under lockdown since March 25 and that no person is allowed to be out of their house and everyone has been asked to follow social distancing which raises a huge suspicion on part of local police," the plea said. "During this whole incident, police did not take any concrete step to protect these innocent men which could be proved by the fact that they did not use any force to disperse the crowd and one of the video even shows that one of the police official actually pushed saints to the crowd when they were asking for the protection," it claimed. The plea, which has sought transfer of trial in the case from Palghar to a fast track court in Delhi, has alleged that the whole incident was "pre-planned and there could be police involvement as well". It has alleged that attack on these sadhus was "more like an attack on our society as a whole and could cause social disturbance". The police has arrested over 100 persons, including nine juvenile, in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/palghar-lynching-case-sc-seeks-status-report-on-probe-from-maharashtra-832356.html
01-05-2020||National||Punjab govt seeks technical support from Israel for COVID-19 management||The Punjab government on Friday sought technical support and expertise from Israel to effectively manage the coronavirus outbreak in the state, an official spokesperson said. Punjab coordinated a special webinar with the Embassy of Israel in India, which was focused on the technological advancements behind Israel's COVID-19 outbreak management, he said. During the webinar, several technological tools were discussed at length, which underscored the need and benefits of an integrated IT tool to not only provide updated information to the citizens, but also assist the state government in effective policy making backed by data and trends.  The spokesperson said this webinar was the latest in a series of continuous engagements between the Punjab and Israel governments to strengthen the state's economy. Israeli experts have been closely working with the state government to develop a water management plan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-govt-seeks-technical-support-from-israel-for-covid-19-management-832357.html
01-05-2020||National||Jagan's balancing act of welfare-centric administration amid COVID-19 mitigation||At a time when the Prime Minister and most other Chief Ministers are engrossed in COVID-19 mitigation, in Andhra Pradesh, Jaganmohan Reddy has adopted an approach prioritising his welfare topped administration alongside the pandemic management. In a televised address to the state’s people at the beginning of this week, when the state's COVID-19 tally neared 1,200 cases, Reddy has appealed that “we have to learn to live with it,” since the SARS-CoV-2 virus could not be eliminated soon. The next day – Tuesday - Reddy launched his promised scheme ‘Jagananna Vidya Deevena’ which reimburses the full fees of regular-professional courses benefiting about 14 lakh students of economically weaker families from across the state. Even as the state’s coffers have dried up due to the COVID-19 lockdown revenue loss and government salaries being paid in half, Reddy released about Rs 4,000 Crore along with Rs 1,880 Crore pending dues from previous TDP government time, for one of his ambitious welfare programmes. The amount is directly credited into the beneficiary students’ mothers’ accounts. On Wednesday, Reddy held a review meeting on Polavaram and other irrigation projects and directed officials to clear the cement, iron availability hurdles and complete the spillway work by June, sticking to the schedule. On Friday, with the help of its nearly 2.4 lakh village/ ward volunteers, Reddy government has distributed old age, widow, etc., pensions to over 58 lakh beneficiaries, spending Rs 1,421 Crore. As a precaution, volunteers used an app for geotagged photo identification instead of biometrics, CMO officials said.  Political gains a priority for Jagan than public health, opposition alleges However, Reddy’s fixated approach to some issues, which the opposition says could wait till the pandemic subsides, is raising eyebrows in the state. TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu has accused Reddy of lacking a focused mission mode approach in controlling the contagion, “resulting in spiraling COVID-19 numbers.” AP has, on Friday morning, 1463 cases, with 33 deaths In an open letter to the public, Naidu questioned the government’s recent orders effectively removing the incumbent State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh. The SEC had postponed the local body polls to be held in March because of the COVID-19 situation, infuriating Reddy, confident of a landslide victory. “The zeal Jagan and his men are showing for polls is absent in virus mitigation and protecting public health. Sacking the SEC for postponing polls due to COVID-19; hurriedly instating a person (a retired judge) from Chennai in his place and the new SEC asking for poll preparedness and YSRCP leaders holding rallies while distributing money and asking for votes –all such activities resulted in the alarming situation in the state,” Naidu said.  In another move, following the AP High Court order last month quashing his move making English medium compulsory in government schools from this academic year, Reddy has launched a massive survey involving the village/ward volunteers who went door to door in the contagion time taking written consent from parents favouring English medium. The government intends to use the 96 percent approval from I-V student parents to make its case stronger in crossing further legal or other hurdles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jagans-balancing-act-of-welfare-centric-administration-amid-covid-19-mitigation-832360.html
01-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Govt orders 60,884 ventilators, of which 59,884 to be made by domestic firms||The government on Friday said it has ordered 60,884 ventilators, of which 59,884 will be made by domestic manufacturers and 1,000 will be imported. The move is aimed at encouraging domestic manufacturing of medical equipment that are required in fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Addressing a press briefing on the COVID-19 situation in the country, Pharma seceratry P D Vaghela, who is the chairman of the Empowered Group-3, said that currently 19,398 ventilators are available in the country. The major domestic players for this include Bharat Electronics Ltd (in collaboration with Skanray) to whom orders for 30,000 ventilators have been placed, AgVa (in collaboration with Maruti Suzuki Ltd) to whom orders for 10,000 ventilators have been awarded and AMTZ (AP Medtech Zone) to whom orders for 13,500 ventilators have been placed, Vaghela said.  Regarding the oxygen and oxygen cylinders, he said the country was self-sufficient in both. The total manufacturing capacity of oxygen is 6,400 MT, of which around 1,000 MT is used for medical oxygen, he said adding that there are 5 big and 600 small manufacturers of oxygen.  About 409 hospitals have their own oxygen generation and there are about 1,050 cryogenic tankers in the country, Vaghela said. "Over 4 lakh oxygen cylinders are available; sufficient for today's requirements. Orders for more than 1 lakh oxygen cylinders have been placed and industrial oxygen is being converted into medical oxygen," he added. The orders for conversion of 60,000 cylinders have already been issued.  On personal protective equipment (PPE), Vaghela said the government has ordered for 2.22 crore PPEs, of which orders to the tune of 1.42 crore have been placed with domestic manufacturers and 80 lakh PPEs are being imported. Earlier, there was no domestic manufacturing of PPEs in the country and almost all of them were imported. Within a short span of time, 107 manufacturers have been identified and facilitated, who have raised their daily production to about 1.87 lakh PPEs, he added. In addition to the existing material testing laboratory, that is  SITRA (South India Textile Research Association), Coimbatore, 9 new laboratories have been added by the Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) and Ordinance Factory Board across various locations in the country, Vaghela said.    Stating that the projected demand of N-95/N-99 masks till June has been estimated to be 2.72 crore, he added that orders to the tune of 2.49 crore of such masks have already been placed, of which orders to the tune of 1.49 crore have been with domestic manufacturers and about 1 crore N- 95 masks are being imported.   About diagnostic kits, Vaghela said that against a demand of 35 lakh combined RT-PCR kits, orders have been placed for 21.35 lakh such kits, out of that orders for 2 lakh kits were awarded to the domestic manufacturers. As of Friday, a total of 13.75 lakh Combined RT-PCR kits have been received, he said. In order to keep a tab on production and supplies of drugs and medical equipment on continuous basis, two control rooms - at Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP) and National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority (NPPA) have been set up for daily monitoring of production and supplies, Vaghela said. On stock availability of Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), he said its production has increased from 12.23 crore tablets to 30 crore per month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-govt-orders-60884-ventilators-of-which-59884-to-be-made-by-domestic-firms-832366.html
01-05-2020||National||Railways to charge states for ferrying migrant workers during coronavirus lockdown||The fare would include cost of sleeper class ticket, superfast charge of Rs 30 and Rs 20 for meals and water per passenger. After more than a month of suspension of services, the railways on Friday, which is also International Labour Day, announced six "Shramik Special" trains for migrant workers, students and others who were stranded due to the lockdown. The first such service was run with 1,200 passengers from Hyderabad to Jharkhand at 4:50 am on Friday. The other five which are scheduled to run include -- Nasik to Lucknow (at 9:30 pm), Aluva to Bhubaneswar (6 pm), Nasik to Bhopal (8 pm), Jaipur to Patna and Kota to Hatia (9 pm). Each train is expected to carry 1,000-1,200 passengers. "Passengers need not buy anything from the railways. State governments will coordinate and pay on their behalf," the railways said. Thousands of migrants were stranded in places across the country since the lockdown was enforced on March 25, many even attempting to walk home hundreds of kilometres away. On Friday, the Ministry of Home Affairs gave permission to the railways to run special trains for migrants and those stranded in different parts of the country. States like Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Bihar, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Telangana have requested special trains to ferry migrant workers back to their home states. "As per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, it has been decided to run 'Shramik Special' trains from 'Labour Day' today to move migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places due to the lockdown. "These special trains will be run from point to point on the request of both the state governments concerned as per the standard protocols for sending and receiving such stranded persons. The railways and state governments shall appoint senior officials as nodal officers for coordination and a smooth operation of these 'Shramik Specials'," the national transporter said. Officials said that a list of hundreds of such services have been planned by zonal railways over the coming days. The railways also clarified that that these are special trains planned for nominated people identified and registered by state governments. "No one under any circumstance should come to Railway station looking for trains. We will not issue any tickets to any individual or entertain any request from any group or individual. We will allow only those passengers to board whom state govt officials will bring to Railway Stations. "State government is the final authority to decide that who will travel in our trains," a railways spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-charge-states-for-ferrying-migrant-workers-during-coronavirus-lockdown-832369.html
01-05-2020||National||Searches zoom for ration dukaan, how to homeschool kids amid COVID-19||People turned to Google to search for ration dukaan (grocery store), how to homeschool kids and even, best trading platforms - with these terms seeing a huge spike in the January-March - as people seek ideas on how they can stay productive indoors amid the coronavirus outbreak. According to data released by Google, "near me" searches have seen a massive uptick, especially queries like "pharmacy near me" (58 per cent rise), "grocery delivery near me" (550 per cent) and "ration dukaan" (300 per cent). It added that unlike 2019 when queries like 'best headset' or best mattress' were popular, 2020 was all about 'best movies' (35 per cent rise) and 'Best trading platforms' (45 per cent jump).  With a majority of users being homebound, there has also been high growth in queries like 'learn online', 'teach online, and 'at-home learning'. In fact, 1 out of every 2 consumers is seeking personalised information from brands by searching for queries like 'how to homeschool kids' and 'how to WFH' (work from home), the data showed. Interestingly, queries in the health category have recently pivoted toward 'immunity' (500 per cent rise). Searches for vitamin C, which grew by 40 per cent in 2019, have surged by over 150 per cent in recent weeks, as have queries for herbs with medicinal properties like giloy (380 per cent rise) and Ayurvedic home remedies like Kadha (90 per cent rise). People are also searching for terms like 'how to pay electric bill online" (180 per cent rise), 'electricity bill check' (80 per cent rise), 'overnight mutual funds' (411 per cent rise) and 'mutual funds to invest now' (249 per cent rise), showing consumers are now relying on online resources to take care of their long- and short-term financial goals.  "As people are jolted out of their routines and forced to re-evaluate decisions that previously required little to no thought, we see dramatic shifts in how people search and what they care about. The report provides early insights on how people's needs and behaviours might evolve as they seek to regain a sense of balance," Sapna Chadha, Senior Country Marketing Director, Google India and Southeast Asia at Google said. She added that while some of these trends are likely to be temporary, they may begin to see the value of sticking with them even after the pandemic is over as people are forced to adopt new behaviours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/searches-zoom-for-ration-dukaan-how-to-homeschool-kids-amid-covid-19-832378.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown 3.0: Here's list of what will remain open and closed across India||The Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement that in view of "significant gains in the COVID-19 situation", areas with few or no cases would see "considerable relaxations". The MHA also issued new guidelines to regulate different activities in this period, based on the risk profiling of the districts of the country into Red (hotspot), Orange, and Green zones. The new guidelines have permitted considerable easing of restrictions in Green and Orange zones. These zones have been classified in terms of districts with either zero confirmed cases till date; or, no confirmed case in the last 21 days. Here is a list of activities that will remain prohibited across all the country irrespective of the zones: 1) Religious places and places of worship will remain shut. 2) Places of large gatherings for political and the cultural meetings are strictly prohibited 3)  Educational, training, coaching institutions, and hospitality services including hotels and restaurants to remain close during the lockdown. 4) Travel by air, rail, metro & inter-state movement by road will remain shut, unless in special cases approved by the home ministry. 5) Schools, colleges and other educational institutions will remain shut. 6) In all zones, persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years, shall stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes. 7) All cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, and auditoriums will remain shut. 8) However, across the country, the movement of individuals for non-essential activities will remain "strictly prohibited" between 7 PM and 7 AM. Local authorities should issue orders for curfew or prohibitory orders under Section 144 to ensure this.    Here is the list of activities that will be permitted in the three zones: Red Zone: 1) Movement of individuals will be allowed only for permitted activities. Four wheeler vehicles will have a maximum of two passengers besides the vehicle driver. 2) All industrial and construction activities in rural areas, including MNREGA, works, food-processing units and brick-kilns are permitted in the red zones.  3) Government offices shall function with senior officers of the level of Deputy Secretary and above at full strength, and the remaining staff attending up to 33% as per requirement. 4) Private offices can operate with up to 33% strength as per the requirement with the remaining persons working from home.  Orange Zones: 1) In Orange Zones, in addition to activities permitted in Red Zone, taxis and cab aggregators will be permitted with 1 driver & 2 passengers only. 2) Inter-district movement of individuals and vehicles will be allowed only for permitted activities. Green Zones:  1) A majority of activities are allowed in the Green zones, including the movement of public for non-essential items from 7 am to 7 pm. 2) Buses and depots can operate with up to 50% seating capacity and bus depots can 3) Liquor stores & pan shops will be allowed to function in green zones while ensuring social distancing, i.e a minimum of six feet distance (2 gaz ki doori) from each other, and no more than 5 persons are allowed to crowd at one time at the stores.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-heres-list-of-what-will-remain-open-and-closed-across-india-832386.html
01-05-2020||National||Ensure uninterrupted electricity supply to consumers during coronavirus lockdown: PM Modi to power sector||Amid the coronavirus crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked officials to work towards ensuring round-the-clock supply of power to all consumers.   At a meeting to review the power sector and the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on it, he also discussed various long-term reforms for enhancing sustainability, resilience, and efficiency of the sector, an official release said.  Underlining the significance of the power sector in propelling country's economy, Modi stressed on the need for effective enforcement of contracts for attracting private investments during the meeting, which was among others attended by Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Minister of State for power, skill and NRE R K Singh, it said. Measures for improving viability of distribution companies, including tariff rationalization and timely release of subsidies along with improved governance were discussed as well, the release said.  Later in a tweet, the prime minister said he discussed ways to further reforms in the power sector. "The focus is on enhancing sustainability, resilience and improving efficiency," Modi said. The statement said discussions included measures regarding ease of doing business, propagation of renewables, flexibility in supply of coal, the role of public-private partnerships and boosting investments in the power sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-uninterrupted-electricity-supply-to-consumers-during-coronavirus-lockdown-pm-modi-to-power-sector-832391.html
01-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Maharashtra police moves to protect staff above 50||Work modifications have been put in place for Maharashtra police personnel above the age of 50 to ensure they are not infected with the novel coronavirus while on frontline duty during the outbreak, a senior official said on Friday. The order by Inspector General (Law and Order) Milind Bharambe stated that this move was brought about because the number of infection among personnel above the age of 50 was found to be more than younger groups. "Personnel in the field are getting infected by novel coronavirus and it has come to notice that percentage of above 50 years of age is more. All unit heads are being directed that personnel above 50 years of age should be given official work at police stations or they should be deployed at places where they do not come in contact with common public," the IG said. Those in the 50-55 age group suffering from ailments like blood pressure, diabetes should also be given similar duties, the order added. As many as 227 police personnel,including 30 officers have tested positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra so far, 66 of them since Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-maharashtra-police-moves-to-protect-staff-above-50-832396.html
01-05-2020||National||North Indian workers leave for home in special train from Hyderabad||A group of 1225 migrant labourers have set out on their journey home to Jharkhand from Hyderabad on Friday morning. The special train – now called Sramik Trains – is reportedly the first such rail transport arrangement after the Narendra Modi government has lifted the restrictions on stranded people’s movement due to the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown. Though the initial approval was for only road travel i.e. buses, union home minister (state) Kishan Reddy said that the permission for rail travel under the central government aegis was provided from Friday. “Migrant workers, tourists or students should contact, would be approached by their respective state nodal authorities making all arrangements. No one should come to the railway stations on their own as it would not help,” Reddy said in a video message in Telugu. The 1225 migrants are a part of about 2400 workers from various north Indian states engaged by two reputed infrastructure firms for the Phase-II building works in IIT Hyderabad, located near Kandi village, about 60 KMs from Hyderabad, in Sanga Reddy district.  These workers went on a rampage on Wednesday demanding their pending March salaries from the construction firms and permission to travel to their home states. On Friday morning, the district officials reportedly brought the men in about 50 buses to the nearby Lingampalli station. They boarded train maintaining queue lines and social distancing norms, while the number of passengers in each coach was also restricted, the South-Central Railway officials said.   Andhra fishermen return from Gujarat Meanwhile, the first batch of over 4000 Andhra fishermen on the way home in buses from Veraval in Gujarat have entered the state on Friday. The Jaganmohan Reddy government has sanctioned Rs three crore for the purpose and arranged about 60 buses. While 2,911 out of 4060 are from Srikakulam district, rest are from Vizianagaram and other coastal districts. “The initial plan was to bring them through the sea route but non-availability of required vessels and possible delays in Coast Guard etc. permissions made us take the bus option,” said AP fisheries minister Mopidevi Venkataramana. They will be put in quarantine in their respective areas and checked for COVID-19 infection before letting them go home, the minister added.  Apart from the provision of food etc., throughout their journey home, fisheries department officials said each of them would be given Rs 2,000 as financial support. Following the centre’s guidelines, AP has also set up a nodal officer for bringing its people stuck in other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-indian-workers-leave-for-home-in-special-train-from-hyderabad-832399.html
01-05-2020||National||First special train from Kerala leaves for Odisha with 1,200 migrants||The first special train for migrant workers from Kerala left for Odisha with around 1,250 persons, including women and children, by Friday night. Five more trains were expected to be operated on Saturday. With Kerala having about 3.6 lakh migrant workers mainly from West Bengal, Odisha, Bihar and UP in camps, the news of operating special trains for migrants have triggered a mad rush of migrant workers to Aluva railway station. The police stepped up vigil at camps and railway station to avoid any law and order problems and announcements were made in different languages that travel arrangements for all migrants would be made in a phased manner.  The first train was operated from Aluva in Ernakulam district (Kochi) as the maximum number of migrants in Kerala were present in the region. Over one lakh migrant workers were staying at over 2,000 camps in the district. The special non-stop train was bound to Bhubaneswar with a travel time of around 34 hours. Sufficient food and water were being arranged in the trains. A social distancing was being ensured during the travel with around 60 passengers in each bogie and all of them wearing masks. Health, labour and police officials conducted medical screening of the migrants at the relief camps and took them to the railway station in buses. Priority was given to women, children and aged persons. Kerala Home Secretary Vishwas Mehta said that five more trains were likely to be operated on Saturday. The passengers would have to meet the base fare.  Kerala was among the states that had been pressing the centre to allow special trains for migrant workers to go to their respective places. Even as centre mooted transportation by road, Kerala cited that it was impractical and risky as social distancing would not be possible. Many key sectors of Kerala, especially the construction sector and hotels, were mainly depended on migrant workers. Earlier studies had estimated the migrant workers population in Kerala to be over 20 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-special-train-from-kerala-leaves-for-odisha-with-1200-migrants-832406.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Liquor, pan stores to open up, confusion over zones applicable||In what could cheer the Finance Ministers of states facing resource crunch, the Centre will allow the sale of liquor from May 4 during the extended period of COVID-19 lockdown. Sale of liquor was not allowed since the lockdown was imposed on March 25, saying that opening of wine shops will lead crowding of people and defeating the purpose social distancing. However, states like Kerala and Punjab were seeking to start the sales of liquor, as it fills the exchequer in a substantial way through the collection of excise duty of alcohol. The loss of excise duty due to the ban on alcohol sales is estimated at around Rs 700 crore. The new order by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) says that shops selling liquor, gutka, paan and tobacco among others are permitted to function in areas except in containment zones. These shops can function if the shopkeeper ensures that no more than five people are present in the shop at a time with all of them keeping a minimum distance of six feet. Liquor shops in malls are not allowed as the facilities across the country are not permitted to function. However, questions were raised over the sale of liquor in red zones as it was not explicitly mentioned in the order. The new guidelines said that stand-alone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to remain open in urban areas “without any distinction of essential or non-essential. In rural areas, all shops irrespective of whether it is essential or non-essential are allowed. This is interpreted by several as a sanction by the Centre to open wine shops. However, it is up to states to decide on whether to open the shops, as the Centre has left it to them to take stricter measures depending on the situation. Incidents of looting of wine shops reported across the country besides incidents of sale of illicit liquor leading to loss to the exchequer were reported during the past five weeks. In Delhi, 147 cases were registered and 155 people arrested between April 1 and 15 on charges of selling illicit liquor. According to Delhi Police, 18,556 bottles of alcohol were recovered from them. Earlier, Kerala had attempted to home delivery alcohol to chronic drinkers during the lockdown but Kerala High Court had disallowed it following a petition. There were also reports of some people taking their own life due to non-availability of alcohol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-liquor-pan-stores-to-open-up-confusion-over-zones-applicable-832407.html
01-05-2020||National||Indian entrepreneurs rise up to meet COVID-19 medical demand||From ventilators to personal protection equipment, Indian manufacturers have risen to the occasion to beef up the supply of medical equipment as the country steps up its fight against COVID-19. From zero production of personal protection equipment and N-95 masks in March, the domestic industry is now supplying nearly two lakh kits of each every day, increasing self-reliance in a sector that was largely import-dependent. Similar was the case with ventilators, the machines that keep critically ill patients breathing. India had 19,398 ventilators as on March 21 and orders have now been placed for 60,884 more such machines. “59,884 ventilators will be manufactured by domestic manufacturers. Bharat Electricals Limited and Skanray have been asked to deliver 30,000, auto major Maruti Suzuki had tied up with AgVA to supply 10,000 and Andhra Pradesh Medtech Zone will be supplying 13,500,” P D Vaghela, Secretary, Department of Pharmaceuticals, told reporters here. Vaghela chairs the Empowered Group-III that is tasked with ensuring the availability of essential medicines and medical equipment to combat COVID-19.  He said Indian manufacturers have also stepped up production of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), a drug that is in great demand across the world, with a number of countries across the globe dependent on India for supplies. Production of HCQ has been increased from 12.23 crore tablets per month to 30 crore tablets per month, given the global demand for the drug which is also used in the treatment of arthritis. He said nine crore HCQ tablets have been released in the market as against the requirement of 2.5 crore tablets and India had also exported the drug to other countries. Vaghela said till March, India used to import its entire requirement of PPEs and N-95 masks, but now has been producing about two lakh pieces every day in the country.  “Demand for PPE kits has been projected at 2.01 crore in India. We have placed orders for 2.22 crore kits out of which 1.42 crore kits are being procured in the domestic market. 1.87 lakh kits are being produced daily in the country,” Vaghela said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been stressing on turning the COVID-19 crisis into an opportunity to become self-reliant in the supply of medical equipment, which is largely import-dependent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-entrepreneurs-rise-up-to-meet-covid-19-medical-demand-832409.html
01-05-2020||National||Bihar reports third COVID-19 death||A 54-year-old COVID-19 patient hailing from East Champaran district breathed his last at a Patna hospital on Friday, taking the death toll to three in the state, a top official said here. Principal Secretary, Home, Sanjay Kumar said the patient had been admitted to the NMCH hospital here on April 27 and his death was caused by cardiac arrest. He also said that the patient had a serious case of terminal oropharyngeal malignancy (cancer of mouth and throat) and he apparently contracted the infection at Mumbai, where he had been eking out a living. The 54-year-old man, a resident of Banjaria in East Champaran, had returned from the western Champaran on April 20 along with two other residents of the village. All of them tested positive for coronavirus on April 26. This is the third instance of a COVID-19 patient dying in Bihar. On March 21, a Munger resident, who also suffered from renal failure, died at AIIMS-Patna, a day before test reports confirmed that he was infected with coronavirus as well. A 35-year-old man from Vaishali district, who suffered from multiple ailments, including tuberculosis, typhoid and brain fever besides having tested positive for COVID 19, died while undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna on April 17. Bihar has reported 466 coronavirus positive cases so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-reports-third-covid-19-death-832410.html
01-05-2020||National||Puducherry CM asks govt employees to be ready to 'make sacrifices'||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Friday hinted at salary cut for government employees, saying they have to be ready to 'make sacrifices' as the state's revenues dwindle due to the ongoing lockdown to contain the COVID-19 spread. Speaking to reporters here, he said the territorial government had paid the employees' salaries in full for the months of March and April. He, however, said "they (government employees) should be prepared to make some sacrifices so that the government could tide over the current fiscal crisis and implement welfare schemes during the current lockdown." Narayanasamy said revenue to the exchequer had fallen due to closure of business establishments and liquor outlets in view of the lockdown. He also pointed out that some states had resorted to pay cuts for government staff. The chief minister also launched a web portal for people of Puducherry who went abroad and to other states and were stranded due to the lockdown. Such people can register at welcomeback.py.gov.in for the governments to make arrangements for their return. Meanwhile, the Centre announced that a "limited" lockdown, including suspension of inter-state travel, air and train services, will continue to remain in force for another two weeks throughout the country from May 4 but some activities would be allowed after classifying areas into Red, Orange and Green zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puducherry-cm-asks-govt-employees-to-be-ready-to-make-sacrifices-832419.html
01-05-2020||National||Movement to workplaces down 41%, retail falls 86% under lockdown: Report||Movement to workplaces, retail stores and transit stations declined significantly after the government imposed nationwide lockdown, a Google COVID-19 Community Mobility report showed. Google said these community mobility reports aim to provide insights into what has changed in response to policies aimed at combating COVID-19.  The reports chart movement trends over time across different categories of places such as retail and recreation, groceries and pharmacies, parks, transit stations, workplaces, and residential. According to the report, movement to workplaces from March 15 to April 26 fell by 41 per cent, while that at retail and recreation spots declined by 86 per cent in the said time frame. Transit stations like subway, bus, and train stations saw movement declining by 66 per cent between March 15-April 26, the report added. Mobility trends for locations such as public beaches, plazas, and public gardens registered a 68 per cent decline during the period, the report said.  For places of residence, movement trends showed a 22 per cent increase. "These reports show how visits and length of stay at different places change compared to a baseline. We calculate these changes using the same kind of aggregated and anonymised data used to show popular times for places in Google Maps," it noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/movement-to-workplaces-down-41-retail-falls-86-under-lockdown-report-832452.html
01-05-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 62 in Rajasthan, cases climb to 2,666||The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 62 in Rajasthan on Friday, with four fresh casualties and the number of cases climbed to 2,666 as 82 more people tested positive for the infection, an official said. While the fresh deaths were reported from three districts, the new cases were reported from six districts. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said two people died in Jaipur and one each in Nagaur and Jodhpur. The death toll due to coronavirus in the state has climbed to 62. Jaipur alone has reported 34 deaths. As many as 82 new coronavirus cases including 35 in Jodhpur, 21 in Jaipur, 11 in Ajmer, seven each in Chittorgarh and Kota, and one in Rajsamand have been reported, Singh said. The state now has 2,666 cases of COVID-19, the disease caused by coronavirus. Out of these, 714 patients have been discharged from hospitals. There are 1,488 active cases in the state, he said. Jaipur has reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases at 928, followed by 545 in Jodhpur. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran and put up in Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-62-in-rajasthan-cases-climb-to-2666-832456.html
01-05-2020||National||Special trains: Railways maintains secrecy to avoid chaos at stations||Indian Railways has maintained secrecy about its decision to operate special trains for stranded migrant workers, students, and tourists,  to avoid mad rush in stations.  The railways got the nod from Union  Ministry of Home Affairs to run special trains for migrants late Thursday (April 27). Message from Railway Ministry to its zone authorising the running of the train went out Thursday at 11:00 pm. Its first special train left on Friday at 5.30 am from Lingampalli station in Telangana to Hatia in Jharkhand ferrying 1,300 migrant workers. Though railway officials maintained silence till the evening the Ministry of Home Affairs' daily media briefing announcing decision to run special trains,  officials in the Rail Bhavan were quick to announce the schedule of five other trains operated on Friday night.  The railways has been making preparation to transport migrant workers and it kept ready 400 special trains and ready to scale up to 1000 special trains. It also asked all its zones to be ready to operate special trains and in touch with states Chief Secretaries about the requirement and make other logistics arrangements, an official in the railways said. Apart from keeping ready with Railway Protection Force ( RPF) on standard operation on maintaining social distancing of passengers at stations and inside stations, it also made arrangements for meals to passengers, said the officials. The railways maintained secrecy on information about operating its first train on Friday early morning because, if the news, of more trains for stranded being planned from various places, is announced, thousands of people might throng stations across India and difficult to handle the situation, said the official. Earlier due to rumours of special trains operating led to large migrant workers gathering at several railway stations in Maharashtra and Gujarat. This time railway kept its decision secret to avoid any repeat of earlier situations, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-trains-railways-maintains-secrecy-to-avoid-chaos-at-stations-832458.html
01-05-2020||National||Ready to contribute in bringing back Indians stranded abroad: Military||The top military brass on Friday said the armed forces were ready to play their role in evacuation of thousands of Indians stranded in the Gulf and other regions as a sizeable number of aircraft and naval ships have been put on stand-by for the mission. The government is working on a mega plan to evacuate the Indians stranded in various parts of the world due to the coronavirus lockdown. "We will extend whatever support is required," Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat said addressing a press conference along with the three service chiefs. Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said a fleet of transport aircraft is on stand-by and his force will undertake any task whenever assigned to it by the government. Officials said the IAF has kept around 30 aircraft ready for the evacuation mission. The IAF has already brought back hundreds of people from China and Iran. It has also been playing a key role in transporting medical supplies to various parts of the country as well as to several friendly nations in the past several weeks. Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh said the Navy is also ready to play its role in evacuation of stranded Indians. "Our ships are ready. We are fully ready," he said. The government has already reached out to several states asking them to make necessary arrangements for the Indians when they are brought back home under the multi-agency operation. The Civil Aviation Ministry has conveyed to the core group planning the operation that it is ready to make available majority of the nearly 650 commercial planes including freighters for the mission, sources said.   The evacuation mission is likely to be the biggest after the 'Operation Raahat' when India brought back over 6,700 people, including citizens from 41 countries, from strife-torn Yemen in 2015. The Navy has identified the INS Jalashwa, an amphibious ship, and two other landing ship tanks for the operation. The INS Jalashwa, capable of carrying out amphibious operations as well as search and rescue missions, can transport over 1,000 people. Indian naval ships Mumbai, Tarkash and Sumitra were part of the 'Operation Raahat'. The sources said the priority will be to evacuate the Indians from the Gulf nation following which the government will try to bring back those stranded in Europe and other parts of the globe. It is not immediately clear how many Indians the government plans to bring back home. As a matter of policy, New Delhi decided not to bring back the stranded Indians from abroad till the nationwide lockdown ends. Around eight million Indians are living in the Gulf countries and there has been growing anxiety among them over their livelihood in view of the pandemic as it has majorly impacted the oil-driven economy of the region. Some of the Indians in the Gulf want to return home. It is learnt that Indian missions in the region have been told to identify people who wants to return home. Almost all Gulf countries have taken a series of drastic measures including imposing total lockdown, travel restrictions and even closing borders to stem the spread of the coronavirus infection. In a video-conference with chief ministers on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said evacuation of Indians has to be done keeping in mind the fact that they don’t get inconvenienced and their families are not under any risk. Over the last few weeks, Modi has been holding consultations with leaders of several Gulf nations, including Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman with whom he spoke on March 17 to discuss the COVID-19 situation. Modi has also spoken to Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Qatar Emir Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad al Thani, Kuwaiti Prime Minister Sheikh Sabah Al-Khaled Al-Hamad Al-Sabah and Bahraini King Hamad Bin Isa Al Khalifa. During these discussions, one of the primary issues raised by Prime Minister Modi was the well-being of the Indian diaspora in these nations, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ready-to-contribute-in-bringing-back-indians-stranded-abroad-military-832461.html
01-05-2020||National||EC throws lifeline to Uddhav, decides to hold council polls on May 21||The Election Commission on Friday decided to hold polls to fill up the nine vacancies in the state legislative council of Maharashtra on May 21 even as the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 pandemic was extended for two more weeks beyond Sunday. The EC’s decision came as a lifeline to Shiv Sena supremo Uddhav Thackeray, who would have to get elected to any of the Houses of the bicameral legislature of Maharashtra by May 27 to continue in the office of the State’s Chief Minister. He is now expected to contest for any of the nine seats in the State Legislative Council. The nine seats fell vacant on April 24 last, but the EC had on April 3 already deferred the elections in view of the COVID-19 outbreak and the lockdown imposed to contain it. With Maharashtra being the worst affected by the outbreak and the lockdown unlikely to be completely withdrawn from the State even after the end of its second phase on Sunday, uncertainty loomed large over the scheduling of the polls and thus over the continuation of Thackeray in the office of the Chief Minister.  The EC, however, came to his rescue on Friday – a day after Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari nudged it to consider holding the polls stating that the ground situation in the state was now contained. The EC announced its decision to hold the polls after the Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora had a video conference with the two other Election Commissioners, Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra, early on Friday. Arora is currently stranded in the United States due to the ban on the arrival of any international commercial passenger aircraft to any airport in India. The EC took note of a letter it received from the State Government, which assured the commission that it was ready to ensure strict adherence to the social distancing norms during the polling, in addition to the measures to maintain hygiene as well as other conditions stipulated by the authorities to stop the spread of the COVID-19 virus. The poll-panel asked the Union Home Secretary and the Maharashtra Chief Secretary to depute an officer each from the Central and the State Governments to ensure that the polling is held with strict adherence to all extant measures enforced by the competent authorities to contain the outbreak. Koshyari wrote to the EC after Thackeray called up Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday and complained to him about an attempt to create political instability in Maharashtra. The Governor had earlier refrained from acting on the recommendations of the State Cabinet headed by Thackeray to nominate the Chief Minister as a member of the legislative council. Thackeray’s call to Modi was followed by Koshyari’s nudge to the EC and finally the poll panel's decision on Friday to go ahead and hold the elections. It is being seen as a sign of a thaw in the Shiv Sena’s relations with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). It came less than six months after the Shiv Sena broke its alliance with the BJP, entered into a coalition with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party, and formed a government in the State.     The EC stated that the notification for polling for the nine seats of the Legislative Council of Maharashtra would be issued on May 4, with the last day for submitting and withdrawal of nominations being May 11 and May 14. The polling would be held on May 21. The votes will be counted and the results will be declared on the same day. The EC stated that it had taken note of the past precedents when it had conducted by-elections to fulfill “similar constitutional requirement” (like the one of Thackeray to get elected to either the Legislative Assembly or the Legislative Council within six months of taking oath as Chief Minister). The commission noted that it had been a consistent practice in the past. The poll-panel also cited the examples of the Prime Ministers and the Chief Ministers it had thrown lifeline to in the past - former Prime Ministers P V Narasimha Rao and H D Deve Gowda in 1991 and 1996 respectively, several Chief Ministers of the States, including Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) in 1991, Rabri Devi (Bihar) in 1997 and Vijay Bhaskar Reddy (Andhra Pradesh) in 1993.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-throws-lifeline-to-uddhav-decides-to-hold-council-polls-on-may-21-832467.html
01-05-2020||National||2 more Delhi Police personnel test positive for coronavirus||Two more Delhi Police personnel who were part of a Crime Branch team probing the Tablighi Jamaat case tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Friday. The two policemen were sent to quarantine centres, they said. Earlier, a Delhi Police constable of the Crime Branch who visited the Nizamuddin headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in south Delhi had tested positive for coronavirus. The constable had visited the Markaz building in connection with the probe into the religious congregation held there last month where many people were reported to have contracted the infection. On March 31, the Crime Branch lodged an FIR against seven people, including Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, on a complaint by the SHO of Nizamuddin for holding a religious congregation here allegedly in violation of the lockdown orders and not maintaining social distancing to contain the spread of coronavirus. After two policemen, who were on lockdown enforcement duty in northeast Delhi, tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday, Special Commissioner of Police (operations) Muktesh Chander wrote a letter to Special CP (armed forces) Robin Hibu informing him about the development. "They were residing at barrack number 5 of the Khajoori Khas police station. In the same barrack, the staff of commissioner of police reserve was also residing. It is important that they are also tested for COVID-19 and are quarantined immediately. Similar precaution need to be taken for all CP reserve staff at other locations too," the letter said. More than 21 Delhi Police personnel have tested positive for coronavirus so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-more-delhi-police-personnel-test-positive-for-coronavirus-832475.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Indian Railways suspends passenger trains operations till May 17||Indian Railways on Friday said the suspension of passengers trains operations will continue till May 17 as the government extended the lockdown period. However, operations of Shramik special train to ferry migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students, and other persons stranded at different places will continue. Even freight and parcel train operations will also continue, the railways said in a statement. The railways suspended its passenger-carrying trains operations from March 22 as part of the government measures to check the spreading of COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-indian-railways-suspends-passenger-trains-operations-till-may-17-832478.html
01-05-2020||National||Armed forces: Navy ready with a evacuation plan for Indians stranded in Gulf||The armed forces are prepared to bring back the Indians stranded at COVID-19 affected countries in West Asia by establishing a sea bridge with the warships and aircraft. “We have a large Diaspora in the Gulf for whom we were told to prepare an evacuation plan. We will go ahead with the evacuation once we receive a go-ahead from the Ministry of External Affairs. The exercise will be carried out in accordance with the plans drawn up by the MEA,” Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh said here on Friday. Admiral Singh said both Indian Air Force and Air India would be a part of the evacuation without disclosing much about the plan. The exercise may involve multiple trips.  However, the number of Indians stranded in the Gulf countries wasn’t shared. The three Service Chiefs and Gen Bipin Rawat, Chief of the Defence Staff addressed the medic sharing the plans of how the Army, Navy, and IAF would express their solidarity with the frontline fighters for the COVID-19 battle. On May 3 – the day lockdown 2.0 ends – the IAF will conduct a flypast from Srinagar to Trivandrum and another one starting from Dibrugarh in Assam to Kutch in Gujarat. The fly-past will include both transport and fighter aircraft. During the fly-past, the aircraft will also shower flower petals at some places. In the same evening, the Navy warships deployed in formations in coastal areas would be lit up. The sea faring force will also shower petals on hospitals using their choppers. The Army will conduct mountain band displays in COVID-19 hospitals in almost every district of the country. The armed forces will also lay a wreath at the police memorial on May 3 in support of the police forces. The plan of action was finalised at a meeting earlier in the day in presence of the Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval. Admiral Singh and Army Chief Gen M M Naravane pointed out that the men infected by the Covid-19 virus had either recovered or were on the path of recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/armed-forces-navy-ready-with-a-evacuation-plan-for-indians-stranded-in-gulf-832481.html
01-05-2020||National||S Jaishankar holds video-conference with Indian envoys in central Asia||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday held a video- conference with Indian envoys in central Asia and discussed preparation for India-Central Asia foreign ministers' meet. "Regional reviews continue. A productive session with Ambassadors of #CentralAsia. Important that our activities are not constrained by #coronavirus. Preparing for the India-Central Asia Foreign Ministers Meeting," Jaishankar said in a tweet. "Looking forward to your follow up of the issues discussed. @amb_tashkent @IndEmbDushanbe @indembastana @IndiaInKyrgyz," he said in another tweet. He also held separate telephonic conversations with his counterparts from Mexico and Saint Lucia and discussed the coronavirus situation. "An insightful conversation with FM @m_ebrard of #Mexico on the #coronavirus response. Also discussed the importance of economic recovery. Looking forward to remaining in touch," he tweeted. "Discussed with FM Sarah Flood-Beaubrun of #StLucia our engagement with the #CARICOM. India will be a reliable partner on medicines. Agreed that in the post #corona situation, we need to focus on recovery challenges. CARICOM has an important place in India's foreign policy," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-holds-video-conference-with-indian-envoys-in-central-asia-832486.html
01-05-2020||National||Gujarat reports highest single-day deaths of 22 due to coronavirus, toll at 236||Gujarat on Friday reported 22 deaths due to coronavirus in the past 24 hours, the highest single-day casualties, increasing the death toll to 236, second highest in the country after Maharashtra which has reported 485 deaths.  Of 22 casualties, Ahmedabad alone reported 16 deaths, taking the city's total to 165, the second-highest number of cases reported in a city, after Mumbai which has reported 290 deaths. The state government's data stated that out of 22 deaths, 10 patients primarily succumbed due to the virus while 12 others patients had pre-existing diseases or co-morbid conditions including hypertension, kidney problem, diabetes, arthritis, heart diseases, among others, who were also infected with the virus.  Meanwhile, Gujarat also recorded 326 fresh cases in past 24 hours that increased the total number of positive cases to 4,721, the second-highest number of cases after Maharashtra which has crossed 11,000 cases.   But, what came as a relief to the state government is the number of patients who were cured and discharged on Friday. The data revealed that in the past 24 hours, 123 persons were discharged from various COVID-19 hospitals and care centres in the state. Till Friday, a total of 736 patients had been cured and discharged, the government data said. So far, 43,871 people are under quarantine, of which 145 persons are under private and 3,600 are under government facilities, the rest 40,126 are home quarantined. The government has conducted 68,774 tests out of which 4,721 have been found coronavirus positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-reports-highest-single-day-deaths-of-22-due-to-coronavirus-toll-at-236-832494.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Aarogya Setu App mandatory for people in containment zones, says MHA||People residing in coronavirus containment zones in the country will have to install 'Aarogya Setu' app that helps in identifying the possibility of contracting the virus infection. This forms part of the new guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) while extending the lockdown for another two weeks from May 4. Detailing the protocol in containment zones, intensive surveillance mechanism as outlined by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare should be established there. "The local authority shall ensure 100% coverage of Aarogya Setu app among the residents of containment zones," it said. These containment zones should be demarcated within red and orange zones by states and district administrations. The boundary of the containment zone should be defined by the district administration taking into account mapping of cases and contacts, geographical dispersion of cases and contacts, area with well-demarcated perimeter and enforceability.  In urban areas, the containment zone could be a residential colony, mohalla, municipal ward, municipal zone, police station or town. In rural areas, this could be a village, a cluster of villages, gram panchayats, a group of police stations or blocks. According to the order, intensive contract tracing should be done in containment zones. Based on the medical assessment, people should be put in-home or institutional quarantine centres.               Testing of all cases of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), Influenza-like Illness (ILI) and all symptoms for COVID-19 should be conducted.       In containment zones, there should be strict perimetre control to ensure that there is no movement of population in or out of these zones except for essential services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-aarogya-setu-app-mandatory-for-people-in-containment-zones-says-mha-832498.html
01-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Impose curfew at night to ensure no movement, MHA directs states||Impose curfew or prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to ensure that people do not venture out between 7 PM and 7 AM and ensure that elderly do not leave the confines of their homes, the government said on Friday. This is part of the new guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for Covid-19 lockdown, which is being extended for another two weeks beyond May 3. "The movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain strictly prohibited between 7 PM to 7 AM. Local authorities shall issue orders under appropriate provisions of law, such as prohibitory orders (curfew) under Section 144 of CrPC, for this purpose, and ensure strict compliance," the order said. In green, orange and red zones, demarcated by the government on the basis of severity of Covid-19 situation, the order said all people above 65 years, people with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years "should stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes".  The out-patient departments in hospitals are also allowed to work across the country, except in containment zones. The order also says all cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums and assembly halls will remain closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-impose-curfew-at-night-to-ensure-no-movement-mha-directs-states-832499.html
01-05-2020||National Politics||'Please call me back,' implores Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury in letter to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal||Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wrote to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday, stating that the minister did not attend to his phone calls over the last four days, and requested him to "call him back" to discuss the movement of migrant workers from West Bengal stranded in other parts of the country due to the lockdown. In the letter, the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha said since the nationwide lockdown was imposed, he had discussed the situation with both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, drawing their attention to the distressing condition of migrant workers and other stranded people. "It is regrettable to note that for the last four consecutive days, I have been seeking a little time from Railway Minister over phone, but to no avail. Railway Minister, again I am imploring to you to grace me by calling me back over phone as I am in urgent need to have a few words with you regarding the return of stranded persons of West Bengal from different states," Chowdhury wrote in the letter to Goyal. The railways started its first train on Friday since the services were stopped in view of the lockdown. The train from Telangana to Jharkhand carried 1,200 migrants and more such trains for workers are being planned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/please-call-me-back-implores-congress-leader-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-in-letter-to-railway-minister-piyush-goyal-832286.html
01-05-2020||National Politics||'Modi Mahals' can wait, says Opposition as govt panel gives NOC for new Parliament building amid coronavirus lockdown||A government-appointed committee giving its nod to go ahead with constructing a new Parliament building amid coronavirus pandemic has attracted criticism with Opposition leaders on Saturday questioning the move with one of them saying "Modi Mahals can and must wait". The reactions came after the minutes of the April 23 meeting of the Central Vista Committee held through video conference came in the public domain.  According to the minutes, some of the members wanted the meeting to be postponed due to the COVID-19 restrictions but it was rejected saying, "keeping in view the importance of the project in nation's interest and time scale for its implementation", it was decided to hold the deliberations as scheduled. Bimal Patel of Gujarat-based HCP Consultants, the architects of the project, made a presentation before the committee through video conference and the members who were present gave "no objection with suggestions that the features of the proposed Parliament building should be in sync with the existing Parliament building." The new Parliament building will have a seating capacity of 900 to 1,200 MPs with computer screens on tables and offices for Union ministers and MPs and is expected to be built by August 2022. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted, "Why can't the Prime Minister shelve the Central Vista project for a few years? How can India afford this extravaganza in this time of crisis?We have repeatedly asked the government to put it on hold. The many 'Modi Mahals' can and must wait! India and Indians first."   Why can't the Prime Minister shelve the Central Vista project for a few years? How can India afford this extravaganza in this time of crisis? We have repeatedly asked the govt to put it on hold. The many 'Modi Mahals' can and must wait!   He also shot off a letter to Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, appealing him to "speak out and support a freeze" on the Central Vista Redevelopment Project. Noting that the salaries and allowances of MPs were cut and MPLADs suspended for two years, he said the project continues "unmindful of the financial crisis staring at the government in its face and unmindful of all objections that have been raised against it". He said, "it is an atrocious sense of priority to embark on a new Parliament building and on new government offices when crores and crores of our people have lost their livelihoods and the economy is in the doldrums."  Emphasising that the country is "grappling" with a pandemic, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said 14 crore people have lost jobs, crores are going hungry and Prime Minister Narendra Modi's priority should be to provide cash and food to the people. "But instead he is focused on new buildings in Central Vista. And this proposal was passed without any non-government member present (at the meeting)!" he tweeted. The Central Vista project, estimated to cost around Rs 20,000 crore and expected to be finished between 2022 and 2024, include construction of a new triangular-shaped Parliament, new residences for the Vice President and Prime Minister and 10 new building blocks to accommodate government offices. The prime minister's residence and office are likely to be shifted near the South Block and the vice-president's new house will be in the vicinity of the North Block. In March, the government had notified the change of land use of around 90-acre land in Lutyen's Delhi near Parliament House, Rashtrapati Bhavan, North Block and South Block to enable the redevelopment of the Central Vista. The project had invited criticism from a number of architects, urban planners, historians and conservationists, who said tinkering with the historical buildings was unacceptable and it was a wasteful expenditure. Several have also questioned the lack of transparency around the project. A section of MPs have also questioned the project with some saying the design of the new Parliament was not inspiring at a meeting called by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-mahals-can-wait-says-opposition-as-govt-panel-gives-noc-for-new-parliament-building-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-832295.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||A Bhim Army leader held for misbehaving with hospital staff||A Bhim Army leader has been arrested for allegedly misbehaving with the medical staff over not providing proper treatment to a patient in a hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district, police said on Friday. Upkar Bawra, the district president of the outfit, entered the emergency ward with several people on Thursday evening and protested over not providing proper treatment to the patient in the district hospital. They allegedly misbehaved with the medical staff, an officer said. Bawra has been arrested and a search is on for the other suspects. A case has been registered under Sections 269, 270, 332, 504, 506 and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, and Sections 3(2) of the Epidemic Diseases Act, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-bhim-army-leader-held-for-misbehaving-with-hospital-staff-832154.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Congress MLA in Rajasthan supports tipplers’ joke on alcohol’s efficacy to kill coronavirus, with all seriousness||If alcohol-based sanitisers can kill coronavirus on hands, there is no reason why alcoholic drinks may not kill the virus in tipplers’ throats, a Congress MLA has argued, seeking reopening of liquor shops in Rajasthan. Congress MLA Bharat Singh Kundanpur put forward the argument in all seriousness in his letter written to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday, while urging him to open liquor shops in the state. It will not only save alcoholics from dying of spurious liquor consumption but also earn the much-needed revenue for the state amid the lockdown-hit economy, he argued. “When alcohol can wash coronavirus off hands, it will dislodge the virus from booze guzzlers' throats as well,” argued the MLA in his letter. Singh is not alone in urging Gehlot to open liquor shops in the state. In his endeavour, he was also joined by his CPI-M colleague Balwan Singh Punia, who had made a similar plea to Gehlot in early April itself, soon after liquor shops were closed down following the Covid-triggered lockdown. Punia is a CPI-M MLA from Bhadra assembly segment in Rajasthan. He had earlier urged Gehlot to resume liquor sale in the state, pointing out that the closure of alcohol shops is leading to flourishing of spurious liquor business, affecting people’s health. “Liquor is a much-maligned commodity,” wrote Kundanpur, the Congress MLA from Sangod constituency in Kota district, to Gehlot in a matter-of-factly tone. “And so, neither the Centre will allow states to open liquor shops, nor the state government will decide on its sale on its own,” wrote Singh. Making a fervent plea for resuming liquor sale in the state, the Congress MLA further wrote that closed liquor shops are both damaging the state economy and furthering the spurious liquor business in the state, leading to loss of lives of people consuming it. “The spurious liquor business is a self-employment scheme for many. With closed liquor shops, it has also emerged as a golden opportunity to earn fast buck,” said Kundanpur. Referring to an incident of Halena village in Bharatpur district, where two persons lost their eye sights and died after consuming country-made liquor, Kundanpur said alcoholics are risking their lives by consuming spurious liquors. Talking of the revenue loss to the state, he said, “Rajasthan had set a target of generating a revenue of Rs 12,500 corers from liquor sale in 2020-21, which, he said, seems to be a distant dream now. “It is better to allow resumption of liquor sale in the state so that the booze lovers can get their favourite drinks and the state, its much needed revenue,” argued Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-mla-in-rajasthan-supports-tipplers-joke-on-alcohol-s-efficacy-to-kill-coronavirus-with-all-seriousness-832164.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Constables lie about coming in contact with COVID-19 patient to avoid duty, get caught||They had an idea -- inform their seniors they came in contact with police personnel who tested positive for COVID-19 and be allowed to quarantine themselves at their homes. But they could not convince their superiors, who made enquiries and found that they were simply lying to avoid duty and be at home with their families. A senior police official said they were suspended for a day on April 29 and now have joined duty at Shastri Park Metro station police station where they are posted. "Such incidents will not be tolerated," the official said on Friday.  The trio, who are posted at the Shastri Park metro station police stations, were deployed for duty in east Delhi. However, at their posting site, they told the officials that they were in contact with a Sub Inspector in Shastri Park metro station who tested positive for COVID-19 on April 28 and be sent for home quarantine. However, a quick enquiry found out that they were not in touch with the Sub Inspector who tested positive. The Sub Inspector was either at his home or at his office room but these personnel did not have any contact with him. "There is a rotation system for personnel so that nobody is overburdened. If they wanted, they could have applied for leave or go for a medical test. They lied and were caught," the official said adding three personnel who were actually in touch with the Sub Inspector has already been sent for home quarantine and their test results are awaited. Around two dozen police personnel from Delhi Police has so far tested positive for COVID-19 since the lockdown was announced on March 25, including 14 from the Central district, six from North-West district and one from Traffic Police. On Thursday, a Sub Inspector from Amar Colony police station deployed at Okhla vegetable market tested positive for the virus, following which 40 personnel who came in contact with him were asked to go on home quarantine. Four personnel from Amar Colony police station have so far tested positive for COVID-19. Delhi Police has sanctioned Rs 1 lakh each to its personnel who have tested positive for COVID-19 while on duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/constables-lie-about-coming-in-contact-with-covid-19-patient-to-avoid-duty-get-caught-832185.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi to continue with plasma therapy as one COVID-19 patient recovers||The patient, who was serious and in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) was discharged from the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) hospital on Friday and sent home. "The initial signs are positive and encouraging for our fight against COVID-19. There were some confusions about plasma therapy after the Centre issued a statement on the efficacy of the treatment. We are only conducting plasma therapy only on those patients who are allowed by the Centre," he said.  Kejriwal said the Centre's statement clearly stated that the therapy was in a trial stage and such treatment should be done by only those who got its approval. The Centre has said that there was no proof about the efficacy of plasma therapy as of now and no one without its approval should venture into treating patients using this line of treatment. "I have got several calls asking if we are stopping this. No, we are not. We are continuing with the trials," he said. He said around 1,100 patients have recovered from COVID-19 and almost all of them have expressed their willingness to donate plasma thinking that it should help other patients. Plasma therapy uses blood donated by recovered patients to introduce antibodies in those who are under treatment. At present, states are only allowed to use the treatment on serious patients even as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) says there is no conclusive proof till now that plasma therapy is effective. Kejriwal also said the Delhi government is sending 40 buses on Saturday to Kota in Rajasthan where students, who were studying in coaching centres for various entrance tests, are stranded so that they could be transported back to their homes in the national capital.  He said, "My hands were tied. The Centre has allowed this only two days ago. I hope the students will be back in their homes by tomorrow," he said, adding his government is coordinating with other states for the transportation of other stranded people from the capital. Delhi government has also doubled the ration from this month for the poor in view of the COVID-19 situation, He said. "We were giving 5 kg ration and it was enhanced to 7.5 kg last week. Now, we have decided to give the need 10 kg ration per person. Also, we are providing a kit with items like soap, oil and salt among others for free besides the usual ration," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-to-continue-with-plasma-therapy-as-one-covid-19-patient-recovers-832192.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court seeks Delhi govt's reply on Sharjeel Imam's plea for clubbing cases||The Supreme Court on Friday sought a response from the Delhi government on a plea by Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam for clubbing of multiple FIRs lodged against him for his controversial comment during an anti-CAA-NPR-NRC protest. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and Sanjiv Khanna decided to consider the petition filed by him for consideration after 10 days. Senior advocate Sidharth Dave, appearing for Sharjeel, submitted that as many as five FIRs have been lodged on the basis of same speech in states of Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh. He also pointed stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act have also been against him. He wanted to club these cases. He also cited the Supreme Court's recent order in the Arnab Goswami case, where the TV journalist was given a similar relief on lodging of over 100 FIRs across the country for his remark against Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Dave submitted that there were two speeches made by him one in Jamia Millia Islamia University and another one in Aligarh Muslim University. The bench, however, said there was nothing wrong in police registering the FIRs, if they came to know about some cognisable offence.  The court asked the counsel to serve the copy of the petition to the Delhi government and put it for hearing after 10 days. Delhi Police have invoked sedition charges against Sharjeel, alleging his speech "promoted enmity" between people that led to riots in and around Delhi's Jamia Milia Islamia University on December 15. He was arrested from his native place at Bihar's Jehanabad district on January 28 after his speech for cutting chicken's neck, connecting India to North East had gone viral. Delhi police filed its charge sheet against him this month only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-seeks-delhi-govts-reply-on-sharjeel-imams-plea-for-clubbing-cases-832204.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court grants Prashant Bhushan protection from arrest for two weeks in Ramayana, Mahabharata telecast case||A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and Sanjiv Khanna issued notice to the Gujarat government and put the matter for consideration after two weeks. During the hearing, the bench asked his counsel senior advocate Dushyant Dave for questioning people's choice to watch particular TV shows. Dave said he was concerned about the FIR only.  Bhushan sought quashing of the FIR registered against him in Gujarat’s Rajkot by a retired Army personnel, Jaydev Joshi for “hurting Hindu religious sentiments” by using objectionable language against Ramayana and Mahabharata. Joshi accused Bhushan of using word 'opium" with Ramayana and Mahabharata in a tweet made on March 28 which, he alleged, has “hurt the sentiments of many Hindu people”. “As crores starve & walk hundreds of miles home due to forced lockdown, our heartless ministers celebrate consuming & feeding the opium of Ramayana & Mahabharata to the people,” reads Bhushan’s tweet||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-grants-prashant-bhushan-protection-from-arrest-for-two-weeks-in-ramayana-mahabharata-telecast-case-832209.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: 3 migrants on walk back home dies in truck accident||Three members of a family of daily-wage labourers, who were walking all the way home to their village in Uttar Pradesh from Delhi were killed in a tragic accident on the outskirts of Aligarh on Friday, police said. The group of five people had left their home in Narela locality of Delhi on Monday for an arduous 500-kilometre walk to their village in Fatehpur district. They covered 130 kilometres to Aligarh in three days, according to the police. The five people crossed the city on Thursday night when the driver of a wheat-laden tractor on G T Road near Madrak area agreed to carry them for a few kilometers as he was going in the same direction, the police said. As they were boarding the tractor-trolley, a truck came up from behind and rammed into the vehicle around 2 am.  Ranjit Singh (44) and his cousin Dinesh (37) died on the spot, while the latter's wife Santkumari (32) was rushed to a hospital where she was declared brought dead. Ranjit's wife Ramwati (40), who escaped unhurt along with her son Bhagirat, told the media at the district hospital that she had three other children in their village, including her daughter Mamta (18), who was set to be married later this month. Police said the family had been informed and were expected to arrive on Friday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-3-migrants-on-walk-back-home-dies-in-truck-accident-832219.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||J&K govt issues SOPs to regulate movement of stranded passengers||As per the order, the government has nominated Shaleen Kabra, Principal Secretary, Home, Government of Jammu and Kashmir as the Nodal Officer of J&K for movement of stranded persons and he shall coordinate with nodal officers of other states. “All inward and outward movement will be undertaken only with the prior permission of the Nodal Officer of Jammu and Kashmir or those designated by him. Any person arriving at borders without permission of the Nodal Officer will be put under administrative quarantine for 21 days at Lakhanpur (entry point to J&K),” reads the order. It adds that those persons coming from red zone and hotspot areas from outside will be medically screened and put under administrative quarantine for 21 days. “Those coming from non-red zones will also be medically screened and put under strict home quarantine for a period of 21 days,” the order reads. It further added that all incoming persons either through regulated movement or otherwise will be tested for COVID-19 and the Health Department will make necessary arrangements for a lifting of samples at Lakhanpur and various districts to meet the requirements and to do pool testing of these samples. “Based on the results of these tests, a decision on shifting persons from administrative quarantine to home quarantine will be taken by concerned DCs/Division Commissioners in consultation with concerned CMOs/DHSs,” reads the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-issues-sops-to-regulate-movement-of-stranded-passengers-832220.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court seeks status report from Maharashtra govt in Palghar lynching case||The Supreme Court on Friday sought a status report from the Maharashtra government in Palghar lynching case, related to killings of two Hindu saints and their driver on April 16. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and Sanjiv Khanna said the incident was a violation of lockdown rules as well. How did the police allow such a crowd to assemble? the court asked. The top court fixed a PIL filed by Shashank Shekhar Jha for hearing after four weeks. The petitioner contended that there was an abject failure of administration during the lockdown. The police did not use any power available to it in preventing the incident. Though state CID is investigating the matter. It comes under ADG of Maharashtra only, there is unlikely to be a fair probe, he contended. The court, deciding not to stay the ongoing investigation, asked the Maharashtra government to file a report within four weeks and put the matter for hearing thereafter. Earlier, during the hearing on Friday, a separate PIL asked the court to direct the Union government to create an awareness campaign against lynchings in the wake of recent incidents in Palghar and Bulandshahr. The top court, however, dismissed it saying people were already aware. There was also a Supreme Court judgement (Tehseen Poonawalla) and no further direction was required, it said. On April 16, two Hindu saints Swami Kalpvrikshya Giri (70) and his disciple Swami Sushil Giri(35) and their driver Neelesh Telghre were lynched by a mob of over 100 villagers when they were going to Surat in Gujarat for last rites for a senior seer from 'Juna Akhada'. The Maharashtra police have arrested over 100 people in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-seeks-status-report-from-maharashtra-govt-in-palghar-lynching-case-832223.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Unsung heroes from south India work 24X7 in Jammu and Kashmir hospitals amid coronavirus pandemic||Away from their homes for the last month and a half, at least 37 biomedical engineers from south India are ensuring that critical-care equipment in government hospitals work properly in Jammu and Kashmir amid COVID-19 pandemic. These unsung heroes shuttle between district hospitals in J&K to repair ventilators, defibrillators and various life-saving and diagnostic machines. They work in J&K under the Biomedical Equipment Management and Maintenance Programme of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The programme is designed by the National Health System Resource Centre for National Health Mission-J&K. Ever since being called to J&K for special duty by Mediciti, a Hyderabad-based company, just a week before the coronavirus lockdown, Rajesh B, 28, from Guntur, Andhra Pradesh, hasn’t visited his home. He is residing along with his colleagues at a private accommodation in Srinagar. “We stay on-call for 24 hours because we handle critical care equipment. Sometimes we work late in the night, depending on the level of urgency,” he said. “Our local colleagues help us feel better as they know the locations and people well.” Recently, Rajesh received a call at 9 pm from militancy-hit Pulwama district in south Kashmir, where a baby warmer had broken down in a hospital. Without caring for their security, Rajesh and his team left for Pulwama in the night to repair the machine and by midnight they rectified the fault. It gives Rajesh and his team a lot of happiness to make a contribution during this pandemic. “People and the government here need us, so we decided to stay back despite health risks,” he added. However, some of them like Ravi Shekhar, a biomedical engineer from Hyderabad, say they also feel scared whenever they get a call from hospitals where COVID-19 positive patients are admitted.  “Sometimes I feel scared to touch the emergency equipment due to COVID-19 risk. My family calls me every day and tells me to come home soon. But I tell them the importance of my work,” he said. Shekhar (31) deals with X-ray machines which are critical in radio-diagnostics, especially during the pandemic. “I have so far repaired ten X-ray machines in different district hospitals. The treatment of patients was otherwise getting affected, so our role is important, which is why we are working despite the health risk,” he added.  Director Health Services Kashmir, Dr Samir Mattoo said these engineers play a vital role in the COVID-19 preparedness of the department. “They are doing the job despite the infection risk and shortage of equipment in hospitals,” he said. Whenever there is an issue with any machine, the Health official calls the toll-free number and the engineers reach the same day to repair the faulty equipment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unsung-heroes-from-south-india-work-24x7-in-jammu-and-kashmir-hospitals-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-832273.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||5 ITBP personnel test positive for COVID-19; at least 90 quarantined||Five personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have tested positive for the novel coronavirus and at least 90 have been quarantined over the last few days, officials said on Friday. These are the first cases of the viral infection in the border-guarding force, which is trained in mountain warfare. Three personnel, involved in essential services at a base of the paramilitary force in the Tigri area of the national capital, have tested positive for coronavirus and have been isolated at a facility in Delhi, the officials said. In another case, an infected sub-inspector and a head constable-rank official of the 50th battalion of the force were sent to the AIIMS in Jhajjar (Haryana) for isolation two days ago. The 50th battalion was deployed in Delhi for rendering law-and-order duties alongside the Delhi Police, the officials said. The entire company of at least 90 personnel has been quarantined, they added. The ITBP is a 90,000-personnel-strong force that is primarily tasked with guarding the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China, apart from rendering other internal security duties in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-itbp-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-least-90-quarantined-832275.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court denies son's custody to father, says minor's welfare lies with mother '||A man, who deserted his wife and son just 16 months after birth, has been denied the custody of the child by the Delhi High Court which said the minor's welfare lies in staying with his mother. The court noted that the woman has remarried three years after her divorce and resides in Dubai with her nine-year-old son and second husband, who is well-paced in life and working in a multinational company there. “There is no reason to direct that his (child) custody be handed over to the appellant (man) on the flimsy excuse that the step-father would be mistreating him or that the respondent (woman) was likely to lose interest in him after she gives birth to a child from the second marriage. These are all surmises and conjectures and are not backed by any evidence,” a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Asha Menon said. The high court dismissed the man's appeal challenging a family court's decision denying him the child's custody. “Children are the first and the most susceptible victims of a shattered interpersonal relationship between the spouses. Much as children would love to always remain in the loving care and custody of both the parents, they are torn between the father and mother due to their matrimonial disputes and the battle for their custody, leaving them helpless and devastated,” it said.  The bench said it had serious reservations in disturbing the minor's custody as the child was just 16 months old when the man gave 'talaq' to his wife in July 2012 and the boy remained with his mother at his maternal grandparents' place in Hyderabad. “Admittedly, the woman had given birth to the child at her parental home at Hyderabad and ever since then, the child has remained in her care and custody and in all this duration, nothing has been placed on record to demonstrate that the man had established contact with the woman and reached out to the child, except for some self-serving bald statements made by him to the effect that he made several efforts to meet the child and that he was better positioned to take care of the needs of the child,” the bench said. The court said it does not find any reason to remove the minor from his mother's custody and direct that he be handed over to the father. "The guardianship petition filed by the man appears to be more a tool to even out a score with the woman, rather than a genuine means to reach out to the child and take over his custody, purely in his best interest and for his well being,” it said. The man and the woman had married in June 2009 in Delhi and were blessed with a baby boy in February 2011. The woman had alleged she was harassed for dowry by her husband and in-laws and had to spend most of her time at her parental house. She had lodged a case for alleged harassment against her husband and in-laws. In May 2013, the man approached a family court here seeking custody of his son and to be declared as his natural guardian. The plea was dismissed by the court after which he moved the high court which also refused to grant him the relief. The high court was informed that during the pendency of the guardianship petition, the man had got remarried but even the second marriage did not last for too long as he had got divorced. The court said if it was to accept the man's plea that the family court has erred in refusing him the child's permanent custody even being aware of the fact that the woman had remarried and taken the child to Dubai and there was a possibility of the step-father mistreating the minor, the same argument would apply to the man who also got remarried. It said there was no guarantee that his second wife would have taken good care of the child from the man's first marriage, as against the biological mother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-denies-sons-custody-to-father-says-minors-welfare-lies-with-mother-832292.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||IIT Delhi to give non-exclusive open licence to companies for its COVID-19 test, place price rider||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi, which has become the first academic institute to develop a COVID-19 testing method, is planning to give non-exclusive open licence to companies for commercialising the test but with a price rider. While over 40 companies have reached out to the premiere institute after it got an approval from the ICMR for the test, IIT will be giving the licence to the companies which meet its quality criteria and the test is expected to be in market within three weeks. "Over 40 companies, including a few big names, have reached out to us to commercialise the test. We will be giving open licences to companies which meet the quality criterion set by us. We also will be giving the licence with a price rider so companies do not hike the price once commercialised. The test is expected to be in the market within three weeks," IIT Delhi Director V Ramgopal Rao told PTI. "We have sent out questionnaires to the companies who have sent expressions of interest. We have set criterion, including quality checks and experience in manufacturing. We will select the companies soon and there will be handholding by the institute. So far we have identified three of them," he added. Elaborating on the price rider, Rao said the test will cost less than Rs 500. "The test method involves a cost of Rs 200-300 per test. So overall, the test should not be more than Rs 500. If some company decides to do the production as a CSR initiative, the price could even be lesser than that," he said. The method to detect COVID-19 which will significantly reduce the cost of testing, making it affordable for a large population in the country, developed by the institute got the ICMR nod last week. IIT Delhi is the first academic institute to have obtained the ICMR approval for a real-time PCR-based diagnostic assay. The development also comes against the backdrop of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) halting the testing for COVID-19 cases through China-made test kits because of massive variation in test results, compounding the challenge to check and contain the pandemic. According to the team, the current testing methods available are "probe-based" while the one developed by the IIT team is a "probe-free" method, which reduces the testing cost without compromising on accuracy. Using comparative sequence analyses, the IITD team identified unique regions (short stretches of RNA sequences) in the COVID-19 and SARS COV-2 genome. RNA or Ribonucleic Acid is one of the major biological macromolecules that is essential for all known forms of life. It performs various important biological roles related to protein synthesis such as transcription, decoding, regulation and expression of genes. "Using comparative sequence analysis, we have identified unique regions in COVID-19. These unique regions are not present in other human coronaviruses providing an opportunity to specifically detect COVID-19," Professor Vivekanandan Perumal, lead member of the team had told PTI. "Primer sets, targeting unique regions in the spike protein of COVID-19, were designed and tested using real time polymerase chain reaction. The primers designed by the group specifically bind to regions conserved in over 200 fully sequenced COVID-19 genomes. The sensitivity of this in-house assay is comparable to that of commercially available kits," he added. The research team includes PhD scholars Prashant Pradhan, Ashutosh Pandey and Praveen Tripathi, post-doctoral fellows Dr Parul Gupta and Dr Akhilesh Mishra and professors Vivekanandan Perumal, Manoj B Menon, James Gomes and Bishwajit Kundu. According to Union Health Ministry, the death toll due to the novel coronavirus pandemic rose to 1,147 with 72 more fatalities and the number of cases climbed to 35,043 in the country on Friday. The active COVID-19 cases stood at 25,007, while 8,888 people have recovered, and one patient has migrated. The total number of 35,043 cases includes 111 foreign nationals, according to ministry data updated in the morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iit-delhi-to-give-non-exclusive-open-licence-to-companies-for-its-covid-19-test-place-price-rider-832309.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Court grants bail to corporate lobbyist Deepak Talwar||A Delhi Court Friday granted bail to corporate lobbyist Deepak Talwar, arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case related to receiving foreign funding illegally. Special judge Ajay Kumar Kuhar gave the relief to Talwar on the condition that he will cooperate with the investigation and not try to influence witness or hamper probe in the case. While seeking bail, the accused had told the court that no purpose will be served by keeping him in custody in the matter. He said he was the only accused arrested in the case and the probe was already over. He further told the court that all the evidence in the case was documentary in nature and has been recovered by the probe agency. ED's advocates Amit Mahajan and Nitesh Rana had told the court that Talwar was accused of a serious economic offence and if granted the relief, he may flee from justice. The agency had further said that the accused was already absconding from justice prior to his arrest and he had to be brought from Dubai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-grants-bail-to-corporate-lobbyist-deepak-talwar-832316.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||With 25 fresh infections, coornavirus cases in Jammu and Kashmir climb to 639||Jammu and Kashmir had 25 new COVID-19 positive cases on Friday as the total number of cases in the Union Territory (UT) reached 639. South Kashmir’s Anantnag District contributed the highest number of cases to Friday’s tally. The district which remained COVID19 free for a long time had 12 new cases taking the total number in the district to 95. “Recoveries overtake new cases- 25 New Cases, 31 Recoveries; Total Cases now 639. Active Cases-384 (Jammu-6, Kashmir -378),” tweeted J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal. From 300 to 600, the COVID-19 cases doubled in 15 days in J&K. While the 300-mark was reached on April 15, exactly two weeks later on April 30, J&K crossed the 600-mark. The doubling rate of 15 days is lower than the all-India average of 11 days. Case doubling rate has increased three times from the second week of April when it took just five days for cases to reach 224 from 109. So-far over 68846 travellers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been enlisted for surveillance which includes 6440 persons in-home quarantine including facilities operated by government, 244 in Hospital Quarantine, 381 in hospital isolation and 8663 under home surveillance. Besides, 53110 persons have completed their surveillance period. The total number of red zones in Kashmir division have reached 105 with Srinagar district having the highest number of such zones. Although the number of patients in Srinagar district has been rising very slowly, it has the highest number of red zones among districts of Kashmir division. As per official data, the district has 22 red zones as on 30 April.  As per officials figures 128 positive cases including one death and 35 recoveries are from Bandipora, 95 positive cases including one death are from are Anantnag, 91  including two deaths and 69 recoveries are from Srinagar, 85  including 26 recoveries and three deaths are from Baramulla, 74 including 17 recoveries are from Shopian, 55 including 19 recoveries are from Kupwara, 21 including 11 recoveries are from Budgam, 14 including 13 recoveries are from Ganderbal, 11 including two recoveries are from Kulgam and seven including three recoveries are from Pulwama.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-25-fresh-infections-coornavirus-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-climb-to-639-832318.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||No mismanagement of coronavirus crisis, no widespread infection in Punjab: Chief Minister Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday rejected the opposition's allegation of mismanagement in the fight against coronavirus, and asked the SAD and AAP not to indulge in petty politics, rather work unitedly in these testing times of the pandemic. In a televised address to the people, the chief minister said there was neither mismanagement of the crisis nor widespread infection in the state, as being alleged by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). "Most of the cases being reported now are those arriving from other states," he said, adding of the new cases only seven were related to local infection while 93 were Punjabis who returned from other states. Singh said this was not the time to indulge in petty politics and appealed to the opposition parties "not to trigger panic among people by spreading misinformation" about the respiratory disease in the state, but to work along with his government to overcome this unprecedented crisis. According to a statement issued by the government, the chief minister urged people not to be worried about sudden spike in numbers that could be expected over the next few days as more people return home from other states following the Centre's decision to allow the movement of stranded people.   Punjab has witnessed a spike in the number of coronavirus cases primarily in the past few days because many of the pilgrims who returned from Nanded in Maharashtra tested positive for the virus. In an apparent reference to the opposition's criticism of his government's handling of the COVID-19 situation, the chief minister said nobody wants to hear negative things at this critical time. "People are already going through very negative times, and want to hear positive things and good news." Urging the opposition to join hands, and work shoulder to shoulder with his government in the interest of Punjab, Singh said, "We have a war at our hands, and it is not the time to score political brownie points, but to show unity."  Warning people of a possible escalation in the number of cases as stranded Punjabis return home, he appealed to people not to be afraid of quarantine, which is just a means to ensure that the returnees do not spread infection. "Quarantine is a way to keep those coming back to Punjab in isolation while they are tested and given a clean chit by doctors," Singh said, making it clear that every person returning to the state would be kept in institutional quarantine as a preventive measure. Amid reports of certain people sneaking through the state borders to get back home, the chief minister appealed to all not to resort to such dangerous measures but to come in through proper channels, with due screening, testing and quarantining. This was imperative to keep the COVID-19 situation in Punjab under control, he said, adding, "Nobody will be allowed to go to their home without the mandatory quarantine and doctor's clearance." On the return of people of other states stranded in Punjab, Singh said the states concerned would have to make arrangements or the Centre should arrange special trains, given that people are returning home in large numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-mismanagement-of-coronavirus-crisis-no-widespread-infection-in-punjab-chief-minister-amarinder-singh-832345.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Social distancing goes for toss at Delhi's Ghazipur mandi||A huge crowd of vegetable vendors and buyers thronged the Ghazipur wholesale fruit and vegetable market here on Friday violating social distancing norms imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus. The crowd gathered at the entrance gate of the mandi even as the officials tried to enforce social distancing with little success. "We have been trying to enforce social distancing in view of coronavirus but it seems people were trying to get past one another instead of maintaining proper distance and coming in queues due to lack of awareness," said Shyamlal, secretary of Ghazipur mandi.  A video showing the massive crowd including vegetable vendors carrying plastic crates jostling for space at the market entrance has surfaced on social media. According to a senior police officer, chaos prevailed at the market as other mandis in the national capital were closed due to restrictions. "A meeting was held on Friday with the agricultural produce market committee (APMC) where it was decided that in order to ensure segregated entry, trucks entering the mandi will be allowed from 6 pm till 3 am and buyers will be given permission to enter the market from 4 am," Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Jasmeet Singh said. Earlier, it was decided in a meeting on Thursday that people coming to the mandi to purchase fruits and vegetables will be allowed entry only after 6 am, Singh said. Since the imposition of lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus pandemic, the agricultural produce marketing committees of various wholesale fruit and vegetable markets in the city are facing problems of overcrowding. At the Azadpur wholesale vegetable and fruit market, 16 people have been found positive for the virus while a trader at the mandi died due to COVID-19 recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-social-distancing-goes-for-toss-at-delhis-ghazipur-mandi-832351.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Over 5k migrant labourers return to UP from Madhya Pradesh||Over 5,000 migrant labourers returned to Uttar Pradesh on Friday from Madhya Pradesh in 155 buses and their medical check-ups were being conducted, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said. He said 5,259 labourers from Madhya Pradesh arrived in the state and 1,341 labourers belonging to MP were sent to their native place in 50 buses.  Awasthi said 6,500 migrant labourers from Rajasthan and 1,500 from Uttarakhand will be returning to UP on Saturday. "The exchange of labourers with Madhya Pradesh has been completed. Their medical examination is being conducted again," he said. Briefing reporters about a high-level meeting held by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Awasthi said so far around four lakh migrant workers have arrived from Delhi and 12,000 from Haryana. "This work is being done in a phased manner," he said. In the meeting, Adityanath asked nodal officers to remain available on phone round-the-clock to ensure smooth return of migrant workers to the state.  The UP chief minister wrote a letter to his counterparts in Punjab, Odisha, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra on Thursday, asking for the details of migrant workers stranded due to the lockdown imposed across the country to contain the spread of coronavirus, Awasthi said. Adityanath reviewed the arrangements made for quarantine of all those returning to the state and stressed that there should not be any laxity in their medical examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-over-5k-migrant-labourers-return-to-up-from-madhya-pradesh-832358.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||90 cases registered, over 2,600 people detained for defying lockdown norms in Delhi||Ninety cases were registered and 2,654 people detained in the national capital on Friday for violating government orders during the lockdown imposed to control the coronavirus outbreak, police said. According to the data shared by the police, 90 cases were registered under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5 pm.  A total of 2,654 people were detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 157 vehicles impounded under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, they stated. A total of 426 movement passes were issued, police said.  Forty-five cases were registered against people for stepping out of their houses without wearing masks. Since March 24, a total of 1,33,158 people have been detained so far for violating orders under section 65 of the Delhi Police Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/90-cases-registered-over-2600-people-detained-for-defying-lockdown-norms-in-delhi-832365.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Special efforts being taken to ensure COVID-19 is contained in red zone districts: Rajasthan Minister||Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma on Friday said special efforts were being taken to make sure coronavirus is contained in eight red zone districts in the state. Eight districts of Rajasthan have been kept in red zone, 19 in orange zone and six in green zone by the central government, he said. "A special action plan is being worked out for the eight districts which have been put in the red zone by the Centre," Sharma said. "Coronavirus infection rate in the state had once reached 75 per cent but due to planned efforts of the Rajasthan government, it has now come down to 4.84 per cent," the health minister said. Sharma said strict legal action will be taken if any private hospital in the state does not provide necessary medical facilities to the patients in OPD, IPD or emergency. "It has come to our notice that private hospitals are not following the rules. Hospitals are recovering money from patients covered under the Ayushman Bharat Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Health Insurance scheme and the National Food Security scheme. This will certainly not be tolerated," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/special-efforts-being-taken-to-ensure-covid-19-is-contained-in-red-zone-districts-rajasthan-minister-832395.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||105 more test positive for coronavirus in Punjab, total cases rise to 585||Punjab continued to witness a steep rise in coronavirus cases as the state's COVID-19 tally rose to 585 on Friday after 105 more people, mostly pilgrims, tested positive for the virus. The state saw a jump of more than 100 confirmed coronavirus cases on the second consecutive day. On Thursday too, 105 people tested positive for COVID-19. According to a medical bulletin, there are 457 active cases in the state. Maximum coronavirus cases were reported from Amritsar with 48 people contracting the infection, the medical bulletin said. Sixteen were reported from Jalandhar, followed by fifteen from Ferozepur, thirteen from Ludhiana, six from Mohali, four from Fazilka and one each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Patiala and Moga, it said. Out of 105 fresh cases on Friday, 91 are pilgrims who returned to Punjab from Nanded in Maharashtra, a health official said. Over 3,500 pilgrims from Hazur Sahib in Nanded in Maharashtra returned to Punjab in the last few days. As of now, a total of 197 Sikh devotees have tested positive for COVID-19, the official said. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has asked people not to worry about the sudden spike in cases and said that most of the new cases were those coming from other states. The Punjab government has already ordered a 21-day quarantine for people coming from outside. All 22 districts of the state now have COVID-19 cases. Jalandhar continued to lead the COVID-19 tally as it has so far reported 105 cases, followed by 92 from Mohali, according to the medical bulletin. Ninety were reported from Amritsar, 76 from Ludhiana, 65 from Patiala, 25 from Pathankot, 23 from SBS Nagar, 17 from Ferozepur, 14 from Tarn Taran, 13 from Mansa, 12 from Kapurthala, 11 from Hoshiarpur, six each from Faridkot, Sangrur and Moga, five from Rupnagar, four each from Gurdaspur, Fazilka and Muktsar, three from Fatehgarh Sahib and two each from Barnala and Bathinda, the bulletin said. Of the total 585 COVID-19 cases, 20 have died while 108 patients have fully recovered, it said. According to the bulletin, one coronavirus patient is critical and is on ventilator support. A total of 23,176 samples have been taken so far in the state. Out of these, 18,222 samples tested negative and reports of 4,369 samples are still awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/105-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-punjab-total-cases-rise-to-585-832398.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||CBI registers case against Delhi-based firm, directors for cheating SBI||The CBI has registered a case against a private company, Ram Dev International Ltd., and its directors for allegedly cheating State Bank of India to the tune of Rs 173 crore, officials said on Friday. The case against the company based in Rohini locality of the national capital and its Directors -- Naresh Kumar, Suresh Kumar and Sangita -- were registered on a complaint received from State Bank of India, Karnal branch, they said. The directors allegedly cheated the bank by way of unauthorised removal of plant and machinery from the factory premises which were hypothecated to the bank. The directors also allegedly showed disbursement of loan from the bank as a capital infusion via circular movement of fund transfers, availed EPC disbursements against same security/ proforma invoices, submitted fake proforma invoices and showed non-existent entities as debtors, CBI spokesperson R K Gaur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-registers-case-against-delhi-based-firm-directors-for-cheating-sbi-832415.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Nearly 1,200 Bihari migrants in Rajasthan to leave for Patna in special train||Nearly 1,200 Bihari migrants stranded in Rajasthan will board a special train from Jaipur to Patna on Friday night. An official of the North Western Railway said only the migrants identified by the state government will be allowed to board the special train after proper screening by medical teams. On Friday, the Ministry of Home Affairs gave permission to the railways to run special trains for migrants and those stranded in different parts of the country. Thousands of migrants were stranded in places across the country since the lockdown was enforced on March 25, many even attempting to walk home hundreds of kilometres away. "Only those who have been identified by the state government will be travelling in the special train. The migrants will be brought to the railway station by state government officials and they will board the train after the screening," NWR CPRO Abhay Sharma said. He said nearly 1,200 migrants are likely to travel in the train where the seating arrangement will be in accordance with social distancing norms. The schedule of the next train will be decided as per the requirement of the state government, the official said. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot welcomed the Centre's decision of running special trains to ferry migrants to their native places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nearly-1200-bihari-migrants-in-rajasthan-to-leave-for-patna-in-special-train-832427.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Treatment to out station patients denied at AIIMS: Delhi High Court seeks Centre, AAP govt stand||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought response of the Centre and AAP government on a PIL seeking free-of-cost medical treatment for over 100 outstation patients at AIIMS which allegedly stopped treating them after COVID-19 outbreak. The plea claimed that the patients were earlier receiving treatment at AIIMS, but after the coronavirus pandemic, the hospital has been converted into a COVID-19 exclusive facility and it stopped providing treatment to these patients. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Yogesh Khanna issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government and AIIMS seeking their stand on the plea which also claimed that these patients and their attendants were being housed in 'rain baseras' (night shelters) where social distancing norms were not being maintained. The lawyers for petitioner Karan Seth, told the bench that many of these patients are suffering from serious ailments, such as cancer, and therefore, their natural immunity was low and they stood the risk of contracting coronavirus if they live in such conditions. Delhi government, represented by advocate Anupam Srivastava, told the bench that the issue of providing accommodation to these patients was the responsibility of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) and therefore, it should also be made a party in the case. The court, thereafter, ordered that DUSIB be made a party and issued notice to it also and listed the matter for further hearing on May 8. It also directed the Centre and Delhi government to "place on record the list of hospitals where these patients could receive treatment for ailments, other than COVID-19, free-of-cost according to their eligibility". The direction came after the petitioner's lawyers said that assistance through Delhi Arogya Kosh (DAK) is only provided to citizens of the national capital and as these patients hail from other parts of the nation, they may not get free-of-cost treatment. Meanwhile, the AIIMS told the bench that its main facility was not an exclusive COVID-19 facility, and the hospital continues to treat patients with other ailments. The court asked AIIMS to state in its reply whether these patients could be provided treatment there, as they were receiving earlier. A direction was also issued to the petitioner to prepare a list of patients in respect of whom the PIL has been preferred.  "The said list should include their name, age, the particular ailment that they are suffering from," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/treatment-to-out-station-patients-denied-at-aiims-delhi-high-court-seeks-centre-aap-govt-stand-832453.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Railway passenger services suspended till May 17 amid coronavirus lockdown||The railways on Friday said all its passenger services will remain suspended till May 17. However, it will run special trains for migrants and others stranded across the country due to the ongoing lockdown. "In continuation of the measures taken in the wake of COVID-19, it has been decided that the cancellation of all passenger train services on Indian Railways shall be extended till May 17, 2020.  "However, movement of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places shall be carried out by 'Shramik' special trains, as required by the state governments, in terms of the guidelines issued by the MHA," the national transporter said in a statement. Freight and parcel train operations shall continue, as at present, it added. The government on Friday extended the nationwide lockdown till May 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railway-passenger-services-suspended-till-may-17-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-832462.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 lockdown: Delhi govt asks police, district authorities to ensure no unlawful assembly of people||The Delhi government on Friday directed police and disaster management authorities to ensure there is no unlawful assembly and movement of people in the national capital following intelligence inputs that certain "anti-social elements" may try to provoke people stranded here, particularly migrant workers. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has issued directions to officials to completely seal inter-state borders and take strict action if any vehicle is found transporting stranded people.  "Intelligence inputs have been received that certain anti-social elements may try to incite and provoke the stranded persons, particularly migrant workers in the undesirable hope of creating some tensions and conflict besides attempting to violate the lockdown measures which shall have devastating consequences in the fight against COVID-19 disease," Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, who is also the DDMA chairman, said in a communication to police and district magistrates. Dev asked officials to set up adequate pickets in areas where migrants are residing to prevent their movement. "Adequate number of pickets should be set up in all the areas where the migrant workers are residing to prevent their movement. The inter-state borders must be completely sealed and a strict vigil should be maintained on inter-state movement of goods carriers too, lest they become a vehicle for illegal transportation of stranded persons.  "Any vehicle found transporting stranded persons should be impounded and strict punitive action as per law should be taken against violators. It should be ensured that no movement of such stranded persons should be allowed at the inter-state borders without following the protocol prescribed by the Home Ministry," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-delhi-govt-asks-police-district-authorities-to-ensure-no-unlawful-assembly-of-people-832465.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||No new coronavirus case in Himachal Pradesh in last 8 days||Himachal Pradesh has not reported any fresh COVID-19 case in the past eight days, a senior state government official said on Friday. So far, 41 coronavirus cases have been reported and the number of active cases in the state is five now, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said. Two people have died of COVID-19 in the state. The fatalities include a 70-year-old Delhi resident who had stayed at a guest house of a factory in Solan''s Baddi and died at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, on April 2. "Of the 340 samples sent for testing today, all tested negative for the infection," he said. These tests are being conducted at five laboratories in the state at Tanda's Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla, Palampur's Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT) in Kangra, Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College (SLBSGMC) Nerchowk in Mandi and Kasauli's Central Research Institute (CRI) in Solan. The active cases are from Una, Chamba and Sirmaur districts of the hill state. Nine out of total of 12 districts of the state are coronavirus-free now. They are Kangra, Hamirpur, Solan, Shimla, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti,  Bilaspur, Mandi and Kullu. Three active cases from Una, one each from Chamba and Sirmaur are being treated at Tanda's RPGMC, Bhota Charitable Hospital in Hamirpur and Katha's ESIC in Solan district. A total of 30 patients including 13 from Una district, 5 each from Solan and Chamba, 4 from Kangra, 2 from Hamirpur and one patient from Sirmaur district have recovered so far. Four patients were taken to a private hospital outside Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-new-coronavirus-case-in-himachal-pradesh-in-last-8-days-832482.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Minor girl and woman injured in ceasefire violation along LoC in Kashmir||A minor girl and a woman were injured as Pakistani army violated ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Hajipeer and Churunda sector of Uri in north Kashmir's Baramulla district on Friday. Sources said Pakistani army resorted to heavy shelling on Indian Army posts and residential areas, which was retaliated effectively in the afternoon. Locals reports said that panic gripped in Chrunda, Batgran, Hathlanga, Mothal, Sahoora, Silikote, Balkote, Nambla, Garkote areas as heavy shelling took place from both the sides. A police official said a minor girl and a woman were injured while a residential house was damaged during the shelling in the Churanda village. The injured were identified as Shanaza Bano and Thaira Bano. On Thursday evening a teenage boy was killed in Pakistan shelling along the LoC in Mendhar area of Poonch district in Jammu region. With coronavirus pandemic spreading chaos everywhere, sources said, Pakistan army was trying to take advantage of the crisis and push militants into Jammu and Kashmir. In the recent weeks several attempts were made by the infiltrators with Pakistani army giving them covering fire along the LoC in Kupwara, Baramulla, Poonch and Rajouri districts of Jammu region. There were a total of 646 incidents of ceasefire violations along the International Border (IB) as well as the LoC between January 1 and February 23 this year, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said in March. Over 3,200 ceasefire violations by Pakistan troops were recorded in 2019. There is 198 km IB and over 510 km of LoC with Pakistan in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-girl-and-woman-injured-in-ceasefire-violation-along-loc-in-kashmir-832483.html
01-05-2020||North and Central||Not proper to conclude that coronavirus result of biological warfare: Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat||Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat on Friday said it was not proper to conclude that the coronavirus is the result of biological warfare and there was a need to wait for finding the answer about its origin. He made the comments while replying to a question on the issue at a press conference in presence of the three service chiefs. "It is not proper to conclude that the novel coronavirus outbreak is the result of a biological warfare. The whole world is trying to find out the answer," the Chief of Defence Staff said. US President Donald Trump had earlier said that the deadly virus originated from a virology lab in China's Wuhan city before it spread across the world and claimed over 2,33,000 lives and shattered global economies. But Trump's comments undercut a rare public statement from his own intelligence community, which stated no such assessment has been made by them whether the COVID-19 outbreak began through contact with infected animals or if it was the result of an accident at a laboratory in Wuhan. Ever since the virus outbreak came to light in Wuhan in December, speculation has been rife on whether the viral strain originated from China's premier Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV) or from its nearby Huanan Seafood Market. The US has launched an investigation into whether the deadly virus "escaped" from the WIV. China has strongly rejected the allegations. On whether India was looking for an investigation into the origin of coronavirus amid allegations of China's culpability over it, government sources said: "India is focusing on battling the pandemic at this point. We can always revisit this question once this pandemic is behind us." In his media interaction, Gen Rawat exuded confidence that India will soon be able to come out with a vaccine against the virus. "We are very confident about capability of our scientists," he said. Gen Rawat held the press conference to announce that the Indian armed forces will conduct fly-pasts, light up ships at sea and play military bands on Sunday to display gratitude to lakhs of people like doctors and paramedics engaged in the country's fight against the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-proper-to-conclude-that-coronavirus-result-of-biological-warfare-chief-of-defence-staff-general-bipin-rawat-832485.html
01-05-2020||Opinion||India's small business aid can ease suffering of rural migrants||Details are still sketchy, but the Indian government plans to backstop banks if they increase overdraft limits by 20%, providing Rs 3 lakh crore ($39 billion) of new working capital to smaller enterprises, Bloomberg News has reported. A state-sponsored fund will absorb losses. Seeing how the US Small Business Administration’s paycheck protection program has been overwhelmed by demand, India needs to match urgency with careful design. My colleague Shuli Ren has noted how Chinese business owners have diverted anti-virus funding to property or wealth management products. This could happen in India, too. Yet it would be a bigger mistake to dither indefinitely because some fiscal assistance may be misused.  Three out of four Indian employees work casually for others or at family firms and farms. It’s perfectly normal for even white-collar workers to get paid in cash with no social security. Migrant blue-collar workers are either walking hundreds of kilometres back to their villages or have already returned, scared and scarred, from the cities. If broad-based help isn’t offered to small businesses, the strides the country has taken in lifting hundreds of millions out of poverty over the last 30 years might be at risk. I’m assuming the state-backed advances would be offered at a concessional rate, with the interest subsidy borne in the federal budget. Banks would make loans for a fee, and turn them over to the guarantee fund, which would issue bonds to fund the purchase. Since non-payments will be made good by New Delhi, the bonds can be sovereign-backed. Who will buy them? Even if foreign investors don’t bite because of nervousness about the rupee, local banks are flush with liquidity. State Bank of India will still make money even if a customer defaults, if it sells its exposure to the fund in exchange for special sovereign bonds. Small firms’ working capital needs swell because large customers, including the government, take too long to pay. A parallel push to get all vendor bills on a discounting platform will improve cash flows. To ensure that the extra credit actually reaches workers, New Delhi may have to defray a part of the wage bill for some time. Businesses taking the help would demonstrate regular payments into social security accounts, topped up by the government. This expensive separate arrangement might require the central bank to fund it by printing new money. With the jobless rate in excess of 23%, this isn’t a time to worry about losing India’s investment-grade sovereign rating. The country’s chances of slipping into junk-bond status are low this year anyway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/indias-small-business-aid-can-ease-suffering-of-rural-migrants-832091.html
01-05-2020||Opinion||How lockdown measures have disproportionately affected migrant workers||‘I am seven months pregnant, no food in the house and my husband is not around. We are struggling too, won’t you help us?’ This was the response of one of the distress callers from Bengaluru when told that our group mainly works with migrant workers. Her situation is undoubtedly harsh. However, from just a few kilometres away, migrants from Bihar reached out saying, ‘We are being made a joke of, to get a single roti, a single meal.’ An unplanned national lockdown means that vulnerabilities have to be constantly pitted against each other.  In fact, even people with Karnataka ration cards have been reaching out. These demonstrate that the need for food and the extent of precarity is not restricted to migrant workers but to a much larger class. In one case, we received a request for food even from BBMP through a self-help group. Distress signs are indeed ominous when a government agency reaches out to private individuals for help at such times.   Facets of ‘othering’ come to the fore Sunkadakatte, Bengaluru, is home to many groups of workers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh who have been in Bengaluru for more than 10 years. They have Aadhaar cards and bank accounts in Bengaluru but no ration cards issued in Karnataka. Sunkadakatte is also home to many working-class people from Karnataka. SWAN received distress calls from both the Hindi-speaking and the Kannada-speaking groups. However, the workers from Bihar and UP were denied ration or cooked food when it was being distributed in that area. ‘They were not “localites” explained one of the government ration distributors to our volunteer on call, ‘let them go ask for ration in whatever place they are from’.  In the background of this runs the proposal to have ‘one nation, one ration card’, where beneficiaries would be able to avail the ration under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) from any Fair Price Shop in the country, using a single ration card. In another instance, a worker from Dommasandra, Bengaluru said, ‘We came to the city recently, and had to sell our phones to get money to eat. Now because we are Muslim, and speak Hindi, no one around us even speaks to us, let alone lend us their phone to call you.’ At a time when the Constitutional guarantee of  right to life through right to food for crores of people is being violated, the lockdown is also revealing the multiple ugly sides of ‘othering’, cutting across religion, language, and geographical origin of people.  Scale of distress Since the lockdown began, as on April 26, more than 4,736 workers in Karnataka have reached out to us. About 73 percent are daily wage construction workers with an average daily wage of Rs 412.  Out of more than 3,506 workers for whom we have this data, about 63 percent had not received rations from the government and 65 percent had not received any cooked food. Around 70 percent have not been paid by their employers (out of 2,973 people) at all during the lockdown and about 48 percent have less than two days of rations left (out of 3,132). Around 98 percent (out of 3,411) had not received any cash from the government. More than half of them have less than Rs 100 remaining with them. With this money, they are expected to buy food (if they don’t get rations), vegetables, soaps, oil, gas, recharge their phones and return to their villages post lockdown.  Given the high volume of distress calls per day, it is imperative that governments increase their responses with compassion and urgency. Many groups, including ours, have been providing temporary relief, all the while notifying the local and state governments to step in. We welcome the unconditional support of two officials in the Karnataka administration who have responded with urgency and made themselves constantly available to civil society requests. We do hear of many cases of many panchayats in Karnataka providing relief for their areas. However, the rate of state support is much slower than the increasing rate of distress caused by the unilateral decision of a lockdown. Of the 20 large cases SWAN highlighted to the Karnataka government since the April 16, one has received ration subsequently. Five urgent cases were referred to civil society organisations as well, due to delay from the government end, and were resolved. We have come across cases where the local government in Mysuru directed the owner of a building to provide ration to his tenants who had no income, a task which certainly should fall under the government’s ambit. We also have cases where the government helpline (a ward member) advised us to look for an NGO or individual donor for urgent cases, as they had been waiting for two days for the stock of relief kits. Of course, the meagre two kgs of rice and one kg of atta -- which is what is given in most cases -- is hardly enough for a few days. In the case of the basic need for food, civil society is able to step in with donations of cash and food materials. But these have an absolute limitation when it comes to providing medical attention, only barely patching up the situation by providing money for medicine. This too falls under the list of services the government must provide, but the stories from workers show that it is unmet.  (Abitha Chakrapani works at Azim Premji School, Yadgir and Nithya. R works for a community development NGO in Chennai called Pudiyador. They are also volunteering with the Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN). The authors would like to thank Rajendran Narayanan for his inputs on the article) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-lockdown-measures-have-disproportionately-affected-migrant-workers-832157.html
01-05-2020||Opinion||China muscle-flexing in troubled waters||At a time when the world is preoccupied with tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, China is pushing its territorial claims over Taiwan and the South China Sea in an increasingly belligerent manner. Not only has it been repeatedly sending military flotillas — some of them were led by its aircraft carrier — through the Taiwan Straits but also, in March, it sent warplanes across the median line of this waterway. Beijing claims Taiwan to be part of China. Although the median line is only an unofficial boundary, it has generally been respected by Chinese and Taiwanese military aircraft in the past. China’s crossing of this line in March set alarm bells ringing in Taiwan as it was the first time in a decade that this violation happened. Besides, China did so at night. Understandably, Taiwan scrambled its military jets in response. Tensions are growing in the waters off the Senkaku/Diyaoyudao Islands in the East China Sea, too. Not only have Chinese forays into these disputed waters grown in recent months but also, Chinese ships are said to be lingering here for longer periods. In the South China Sea, too, where China has expansive territorial claims that are in conflict with several littoral countries, Beijing is pushing the envelope to assert its claims. Over the past month, Chinese vessels have rammed a Vietnamese fishing boat and sank it in disputed waters and shadowed a Malaysian oil exploration ship in Malaysia’s exclusive economic zone. China’s announcement of new administrative districts and release of a map with new names for islets it claims in the South China Sea has ruffled feathers in several capitals. China’s bullying of its neighbours to press its claims over disputed territories and waters has always been distasteful. Intimidating them when they are struggling with a pandemic deserves even stronger condemnation. It is possible that Beijing’s muscle-flexing abroad is aimed at deflecting public attention at home away from domestic woes. It is also possible that China hopes to exploit the current weakness of its neighbours and their dependence on it for medicines and medical equipment to secure favourable deals for itself in the South China Sea. Of course, China alone cannot be blamed for the current escalation of tensions. In the name of standing by its allies, the US has sent warships into these troubled waters. Whatever the underlying reasons, China must back off. There is a danger that its aggressive actions could very quickly escalate into a confrontation. Besides, governments need to be directing all their energies at fighting the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/china-muscle-flexing-in-troubled-waters-832470.html
01-05-2020||Panorama||‘Minimum City’ for migrants: The structural flaws in our urban policies||Munna, a migrant worker from Ballia, Uttar Pradesh, was one of the many millions of migrants stranded in India’s cities in the aftermath of the coronavirus lockdown. He, along with his wife and young children, were confined to their small factory unit in the outskirts of Gurugram, while their employer fled without paying them salary. Two days into the lockdown, the family barely had enough ration for one more day, having spent the past few days mostly on namkeens. They were dangerously nearing the brink of starvation. Many of us are likely to believe that Munna’s family was doing just fine before the lockdown put them in unexpected crisis. A closer look tells us, however, that they were already on the edge, and the lockdown just successfully pushed them over. They were failed not by COVID-19 but by their existing, longstanding vulnerabilities -- one in which social and urban policy just glossed over their existence entirely. For the migrants, the city has always been a site of extraction and alienation. Despite ‘building’ the city, they have persisted on its margins -- invisible and isolated. India’s urban policy imagination has been completely oblivious to their needs, struggling to recognise them as a legitimate presence in the city. In fact, it is this failure that has precipitated this exclusion into a large-scale humanitarian crisis for a population whose magnitude is estimated to be as large as 139 million (Economic Survey, 2017). This urban exclusion has many stark manifestations. According to a recent research study titled “Unlocking the Urban: Reimagining Migrant Lives in Cities Post-Covid-19”, undertaken by Aajeevika Bureau, about 95% of the migrants did not possess a ration card in the city and spent exorbitant amounts -- more than 50% of their incomes -- on securing food and fuel. While this has always been a harsh reality of their lives, the impact of this exclusion was compounded many times over in the wake of this current crisis when not possessing ration cards in cities meant a direct exclusion from the welfare schemes that were announced as part of the Covid-19 relief packages. Several distress calls from the communities we work with suggest that this exclusion has led to severe food insecurity in many migrant families. The underlying structural issue that drives this exclusion is the huge ‘sedentary bias’ in our policies which mandates that every individual has to prove their domicile/residency status in the city to be eligible for a wide range of urban public entitlements. In a scenario where access to state services hinges on permanence of residence, migrant communities get excluded from the very scope of critical welfare benefits, including nutrition, healthcare, education and early childcare. For instance, our study revealed that for something as basic as immunisation, incentives for ASHA workers that encourage them to continuously vaccinate the same pregnant woman or child are hugely misaligned with the transient nature of the lives of migrant communities, with severe detrimental effects on the health and nutrition status of migrant children. Another face of the migrants’ urban exclusion that was magnified during the Covid-19 lockdown is the absence of adequate and dignified shelter. Housed in informal, open settlements that are often unfairly labelled as ‘illegal’, in congested rented rooms in slums, or simply within the precarious confines of their worksites, a large majority of migrants persist in sub-human conditions in urban areas. In fact, the informality in their work arrangements gets faithfully replicated in the informality of their living conditions, all of it held together delicately by the common thread of indignity. Enumeration eludes them at all levels, as administrative data by central, state or city governments do not capture migration flows in any meaningful way. Their settlements do not feature in city master plans; and their voices are unaccounted for in the urban planning processes, much like that of a large section of the urban poor in our country. For instance, an analysis of AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation), a key policy on urban infrastructure development, reveals that critical decisions related to the establishment of water and sewerage lines in the city is based on Census data. Areas with a larger concentration of migrants, who remain excluded from the Census, thus remain unserved by a huge margin. Welfare of this workforce also slips through the cracks between the systems of urban governance and labour governance. For instance, in recent years, many industrial areas that employ migrant workforce in large numbers are being established in urban peripheries, outside the purview of municipal corporations, thus largely outside the bounds of urban public services. At the same time, they also remain unregulated by the Labour Department that is heavily under-resourced, and by the legal provisions of important labour legislations. Their work and living conditions are thus so informal and barely survival-level that in times of crises, the city offers them absolutely nothing to hold on to. Invisible and disenfranchised (with no voting rights in the city), their lives remain on the fringes of our urban policy imagination and their needs at the receiving end of a biased policy design. Moving forward, the public and policy attention to the anguish faced by migrants should be leveraged to enable them to stake stronger claims to basic public services in the city. Enumeration and recognition of their living spaces by including them purposefully into the ambit of urban governance will go a long way in honouring their rights as legitimate citizens. The need of the hour is to reimagine the migrants’ relationship to the city and reward them with rights and dignity, befitting the enormous contributions they make to fuel the engines of our urban spaces. (The writer leads policy research and advocacy at Aajeevika Bureau, a public service initiative to provide security and dignity to communities dependent on migration across Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/minimum-city-for-migrants-the-structural-flaws-in-our-urban-policies-832129.html
01-05-2020||Panorama||COVID-19 brings Finns closer than usual||On 20 March Finland retained its title of the world’s happiest country. Its neighbours Sweden, Denmark and Norway also found places in the top ten of the 153 countries ranked on the happiness table. That day, the first Finnish victim of COVID-19 succumbed to the pandemic. The Finnish coalition government, led by the world’s youngest female prime minister, 34-year-old Sanna Marin, had already designed a series of measures to limit the spread of the disease in her country of 5.5 million people. The first confirmed Finnish case was a Chinese visitor from Wuhan in January. The number of confirmed cases grew slowly and on 16 March, with confirmed cases approaching 300, the government declared a state of emergency. Education moved to virtual learning, bars, restaurants and non-essential shops were closed. Parliament closed the borders of Uusimaa to all non-essential travel. Initially, the shutdown was planned to last until mid-April and has now been extended by one month. Of the four Nordic countries, Finland’s model for coronavirus containment is almost identical to that of Denmark and Norway, although Sweden has pursued a different path. Swedish leaders followed their own expert scientific advice to avoid lockdowns and essentially let the virus spread naturally, appealing to citizens’ sense of social responsibility to build ‘herd immunity’ over the long term. The argument is that harsh measures could not be sustained over a long period. In terms of mortality, Sweden has so far fared worse than its neighbours. With a population roughly double that of Finland, namely 10 million, there have been approximately ten times more recorded deaths and in terms of cases it figures in the top 20 in the world though testing is only limited to severe symptoms. Time will tell whether the Swedish model has been successful, not only in terms of fatalities but in economic recovery. In a country straddling the Arctic Circle, Finns look forward to summer months after long, cold and dark winters. The summer festivals enjoyed by so many are now cancelled. Nevertheless, the Finns count themselves lucky; the number of fatalities is below 200 and the stress on the health service is manageable. During a meeting with children Sanna Marin was asked whether the situation in Finland was good. She replied; “If we compare our situation to other countries, it’s good.” Yet unemployment continue to rise and economists predict that half the firms in the hospitality industry will be in serious financial trouble. As is common with other countries, panic buying resulted in empty supermarket shelves. Many urban dwellers took the opportunity to move to rural cottages despite official pleas to stay home. And a lack of personal protective equipment resulted in health workers having to improvise. Generally speaking, the mood and habits of Nordic people remain stoically upbeat: distance working and flexibility in home child-minding have been the norm for a long time. Finns respectfully afford one another ample personal space even without mandated social distancing. A popular meme shows two Finns standing at a bus stop: one wonders about the necessity that they should be two metres apart. The other agrees that it’s crazy, that’s closer than they would normally be! Faith in government action remains high, as does trust in mainstream media. According to one report, only six percent view social media as a reliable source of information. There is no sense of complacency. “I would not recommend thinking we have seen the worst yet,” stated Finnish Institute of Health researcher Jouni Tuomisto, “the situation could be two times worse than it is in Italy now. There is good reason to assume that such a situation can occur in Finland if the disease is allowed to spread freely.” Whether the mortality count stays at the low end of the projections or not, the impact of the pandemic will be felt in many other areas. The Helsinki mayor has expressed concerns about the possible social crisis: ‘“We have understood that this is a major health and economic risk, but I fear that the social aspect could be the most difficult. Isolation, alcohol and the national Finnish character are a problematic equation.” So it would be in other Nordic countries as well. (The writer is a lecturer in Media Theory, Tampere, Finland)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-brings-finns-closer-than-usual-832130.html
01-05-2020||Right in the Middle||Clutter tale||After my Dad passed away, I was the family’s obvious choice for clearing his papers and personal effects. “You are the lawyer…you know best what papers to keep and what to throw,” seemed the justification. Dad had practised for well over fifty years and I belonged to a family loathed throwing away anything. My first stop was at his gigantic mahogany desk with its myriad drawers, niches and cubbyholes. In its top-drawers were several rows of fountain pens, pencils and sundry stationery, most of them unused. Below were several bundles of yellowed envelopes and bags that he had saved probably for being re-used. Shelves teemed with vintage issues of magazines and newspaper cuttings not to count the tomes of court papers indexed and filed. With perhaps the exception of his prescription white shirts, almost every new shirt was lying unused, preserved in its pristine newness. Dad seemed to have bequeathed to us his lifetime’s clutter! We have all had moments when we found our wardrobes bursting, when drawers wouldn’t shut, and when mindless online buys wormed their way into our space. We hesitate to throw away something and unmindfully add to our excess. We keep things in the hope that they may come of use another day or to simply cling on to a memory that they may evoke. “We spend most of our time in our homes than anywhere else, so why not make it our sanctuary?” asks Marie Kondo. In the coming months, we cleared and gave away almost every bit of Dad’s possessions and collectables, what he had probably saved to gift or use on an opportune day that never seemed to have come. A few years later my Kondo moment arrived when I set up home in a smaller space. I instinctively knew it was time to dump my own clutter collected over the years. I was ready to discard anything that no longer sparked joy in my life. For a fleeting moment I ruefully gazed at the brimming cartons and reminded myself that this was actually money a while ago. Nevertheless, I mercilessly gave away every bit of my clutter collection without discrimination to anyone willing to take them. Tidying from then on has become therapeutic. Clothes and shoes not worn for over six months have no place in my space anymore. No more newspaper cuttings for me. I jettison unread books ruthlessly. The progress has been steady and the feeling, light and easy. I celebrate “Boxing Day” frequently and happily atone for the follies of all my hoarded stress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/clutter-tale-832124.html
01-05-2020||Second Edit||Coronavirus: Still not serious about climate change||The 11th Petersberg climate dialogue held in Germany this week assumed special importance as it took place when the coronavirus pandemic is raging in many parts of the world, including the host country. The online dialogue was attended by environment ministers from 30 countries, including Prakash Javadekar from India. The aim of the conference was to discuss how to achieve emission reduction targets, in the light of the indefinite postponement of the Glasgow Conference of Parties (CoP-26) which was to be held in November this year. Though it was intended to promote global action to deliver on the Paris Agreement (to stabilise temperature rise well below 2 degrees C), the outcome was not remarkable. Carbon emissions have been rising after the Paris Agreement, though there is a slight dip now because of the lockdown in large parts of the world. In the new circumstances, the focus of the conference was on how to stage a green economic recovery after the pandemic is brought under control. There was a sense among all participants that the post-Covid-19 world would be very different and action against climate change was to be given more importance in development plans. India called for adoption of more sustainable consumption patterns and lifestyles and for making climate technologies available to all countries as open source, and for a climate finance of $1 trillion to developing countries. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, who attended the meeting, has warned that climate change was a deeper problem than the coronavirus. The European Union (EU) has said its economic stimulus for recovery after the Covid-19 crisis would be linked to green and digital transitions. But there is resistance to the EU green deal within the community. China has not shown any indications of a change in development policy and the US, under President Trump, is trying to revive and prop up fossil fuel firms. Apart from extreme climate events like floods, droughts and cyclones which have affected the lives of many millions of people, climate change is seen to be at the root of serious health problems. All the three pandemics of this century — SARS (2003), H1N1 (2009) and COVID-19 this year have the stamp of climate change on them. They were caused by viruses originating in birds or animals. Ebola, Zika and Nipah viruses also belong to this category. Many animals shift from their natural habitats to human environments and transfer new viruses and diseases to human beings. Covid-19 is the latest warning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/coronavirus-still-not-serious-about-climate-change-832127.html
01-05-2020||South||AP govt releases Rs 1,962 crore for Polavaram project||Giving a fillip to the Polavaram multi-purpose project, the Andhra Pradesh government, after a long gap, has released Rs 1,962 crore largely for the main dam related works and rehabilitation and resettlement of displaced families. The amount has been released even as the state was awaiting disbursal of over Rs 3,000 crore by the Centre which has agreed to bear the entire cost of over Rs 55,500 crore for the project, a top official of the Water Resources Department said. Declared as a national project under the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, Polavaram is a multipurpose major terminal reservoir project on river Godavari for development of irrigation, hydropower and drinking water facilities to East Godavari, Vishakhapatnam, West Godavari and Krishna districts in the state. Of the total sum released on Thursday, over Rs 1,252 crore would be utilised on the Polavaram main dam and related works, the official said. Another Rs 600 crore would be spent on rehabilitation and resettlement (R and R) of the project displaced families, while Rs 110 crore would be spent on the Polavaram Right and Left main canals and distributaries. According to officials, this is the first time that such a large quantum of money has been released for the project in one go. The last allocation was made more than a year ago, that too for pending bills clearance. The state has so far spent Rs 11,800 crore on Polavaram. Of this, the Centre has reimbursed Rs 8,577 crore. Initially, the project cost was pegged at over Rs 54,000 crore but later it has been enhanced to Rs 55,549 crore including Rs 33,010 crore for rehabilitation and resettlement. As the project executioner, the state government spends money from its budget and the Centre later reimburses it. The Union government still has to reimburse over Rs 3,000 crore, already spent by the state on the project, the Water Resource Department official said. "Our focus mainly is now on R and R and we will be stepping up those works. Simultaneously, the other works of the project will also gain pace," the official said. The ongoing lockdown has affected the Polavaram works due to non-availability of steel and cement. The supplies have started again after the lockdown restrictions were eased. Though the original plan was to complete the project spillway works by June, the impact of lockdown could delay it further, the official said. Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy who reviewed the Polavaram works on Wednesday, asked the officials to try to complete the spillway works by June. As the heavy flood in river Godavari left many villages in the region inundated for several days last year, the Chief Minister wanted the Water Resources Department to step up the R and R works and relocate the project-affected families to prevent its recurrence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ap-govt-releases-rs-1962-crore-for-polavaram-project-832155.html
01-05-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Special ships between Port Blair, Chennai to transport those stranded||The Andaman and Nicobar Islands administration has decided to arrange special ships between Port Blair and Chennai to ferry stranded migrant workers, students, pilgrims and tourists, officials said on Friday. The decision was taken after the Centre on Wednesday issued fresh directives allowing states to transport stranded people to their home states or destination amid the COVID-19-induced lockdown "The transportation of such personnel shall be on one time, one way basis only," the deputy director of Shipping Services said in a statement. "Primarily only asymptomatic people who clear the screening process will be allowed to board the ship," the statement said. Further, all persons arriving in Port Blair will be mandatorily quarantined for 14 days and they will be required to give an undertaking regarding this before boarding, it said. Officials said those who want to travel will have to register themselves by 5 pm on May 2. "Based on the data of stranded personnel, sailing will be scheduled in the near future and announced accordingly," it said. People who want to travel from Port Blair to Chennai can register themselves by sending an SMS to 9932080480 and 9150572319 with details such as name, age, sex, present location, final destination and mobile number. People who want to travel from Chennai to Port Blair can register themselves with the assistant director of Shipping Services in Chennai by sending an SMS with such details to 9434272187.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-special-ships-between-port-blair-chennai-to-transport-those-stranded-832228.html
01-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu government receives over Rs 300 crore for coronavirus battle||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday said it has received over Rs 300 crore in cash and kind towards its battle against coronavirus. Government employees, corporate entities, individuals, philanthropic organisations and others have contributed Rs 306.42 crore for this purpose to the CM's Public Relief Fund so far, since Chief Minister K Palaniswami made an appeal on March 27, an official release said. This included a sum of Rs 110 crore donated by the state government employees, equivalent of their one day's wages and a month's salary of AIADMK MLAs, numbering 124, it said.  Besides cash contributions, some had donated medical equipment valued at crores of rupees, besides distributing food in select localities for days. The chief minister thanked all of them, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-receives-over-rs-300-crore-for-coronavirus-battle-832234.html
01-05-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh govt to clear all industrial incentives to boost MSMEs||The Andhra Pradesh government announced a slew of measures, including clearing 50 per cent of all pending industrial incentives of Rs 904 crore in the current month itself and waiving fixed electricity charges for three months, on Friday to ensure that the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the state reopen during the ongoing COVID-19 crisis. The state government has also decided to provide working capital loans to MSMEs at lower interest rates. A fund to the tune of Rs 200 crore would be created to lend loans between Rs 2-10 lakh, it said in a statement. The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) government in the southern state is working on a specific plan with the relevant departments and guidelines will be issued soon, it added. These decisions were taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday in order to pump life back into the MSME sector of the state. Minister for IT, Commerce and Information Technology Gowtham Reddy, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney and other senior officials were present at the meeting. "This will help the MSMEs cope with the economic impact of COVID-19. A total of 97,400 MSMEs, which employ over 9.7 lakh people, to benefit from these decisions," Gowtham Reddy said. The government said disbursement of pending incentives would inject cash into the system as the economic impact of the spread of COVID-19 and the consequential nationwide lockdown have harmed the financial capability of a lot of MSMEs, especially the micro and small industries. The state government has decided that all pending industrial incentives to MSMEs, amounting Rs 904 crore, will be cleared in two phases. About 50 per cent of it will be cleared in May and the rest in June. Of the total pending incentives, an amount of Rs 827 crore was left behind by the previous government, the statement said. To reduce the burden on MSMEs, the government has also decided to waive the fixed electricity charges that they would otherwise have to pay, irrespective of whether or not they have consumed any power during the lockdown, according to the norms.  "All Fixed Charges/Minimum Demand Charges that over 97,400 MSMEs would have to pay for their electricity for the months of April/May/June will be waived by the government," it said. The same will be deferred in the case of all other enterprises for the said period, the government said, adding that this would help the MSMEs to restart operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-to-clear-all-industrial-incentives-to-boost-msmes-832263.html
01-05-2020||South||Kumaraswamy blames officials for spread of COVID-19 in Mandya||As Mumbai link surfacing in some COVID-19 cases in Mandya district in Karnataka, JDS leader and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Friday blamed the district administration for the situation, accusing it of not quarantining 7,000 labourers who 'returned' from the Maharashtra capital. "The information we have is that there are about 16,000 labourers from Mandya were working in Mumbai of which 7,000 people reached the district. None of them was quarantined properly," Kumaraswamy told reporters in Bengaluru. He claimed the district, a stronghold of JDS, was staring at a major spurt in cases due to the careless attitude of the district administration. "Government should initiate action against those who are responsible for the laxity," he said. However, he did not specify when the 7,000 workers returned to Mandya. When asked about Kumaraswamy's claim, officials said they have to verify it. Of the eight cases reported from Mandya on Friday, three had a travel history to Mumbai, a major COVID-19 hotspot in the country, officials said.  A Health Department official said four of the fresh cases were contacts of a patient who tested positive on April 8 and admitted to a hospital. After weeks of coming in contact with him, the four were confirmed for COVID-19, an official said. The Three people with travel history to Mumbai had, in fact, brought the body of a man who died of a heart attack there on April 24, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kumaraswamy-blames-officials-for-spread-of-covid-19-in-mandya-832270.html
01-05-2020||South||One more tests positive for COVID-19 in Puducherry, tally rises to four||A 51-year-old man from Mahe, an enclave of Puducherry in Kerala, tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, taking the total number of infections in the union territory to four. Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S Mohan Kumar told PTI that during a door-to-door survey in the region, the health team found the resident to be positive for the disease. The patient had returned from a gulf country and details of the date of his return could not be known immediately. He has been admitted to the government general hospital in Mahe, the official said. Meanwhile, a release from JIPMER said that two people who had accompanied the 64-year-old woman, cancer patient from Cuddalore district admitted for COVID 19 treatment on Thursday, have also tested positive for the infection and been isolated. The number of active cases in JIPMER is now three and they are all from Tamil Nadu, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-puducherry-tally-rises-to-four-832320.html
01-05-2020||South||Three in NIA custody in Kerala for alleged Maoist links||The NIA took two persons into custody in Kerala on Friday in connection with a case pertaining to CPI (Maoist) activities. According to an official statement from the NIA, many documents supporting left-wing extremism were seized in the raid. The two, identified as Vijith Vijayan and Abhilash, were further examined as part of the investigation. They were found to be instrumental in recruiting two youths from Kozhikode district to CPI (Maoist) who were charge-sheeted recently. Though there were earlier reports that three were taken into custody by NIA, two from Wayanad and one from Kozhikode, one person was learnt to left off after quizzing. One of them was said to be an online journalist. The investigation is part of a case registered in connection Maoist activities in Kozhikode district in November last. Already charge-sheet was filed on Monday against three persons, including two CPM activists from Kozhikode district Allan Suhaib and Thwaha Fasal, for alleged Maoist activities. Another accused in the case, C P Usman, was absconding. The fresh actions were based on the information received from the two held earlier. The NIA statement said that investigation revealed that Vijith and Abhilash were instrumental in recruiting Allan and Thwaha as members of the banned outfit. During searches on Friday several digital devices including eight mobile phones, seven SIM cards, two memory cards, one laptop, seven pen drives, one voice recorder, nine books and numerous documents supporting left-wing extremism and CPI (Maoist) have been seized The arrest of Allan and Thwaha in November last year and registering UAPA case by Kerala police had triggered a political row with the CPM top leaders itself condemning the action, while Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan justified the police action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-in-nia-custody-in-kerala-for-alleged-maoist-links-832397.html
01-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: Seasoned IAS officer to coordinate coronavirus efforts in Chennai||Seasoned bureaucrat J Radhakrishnan, considered a disaster mitigation expert for his splendid relief work after the 2004 Tsunami, was on Friday appointed as Special Nodal Officer for the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to coordinate coronavirus efforts. The move came as the number of COVID-19 cases in Chennai crossed the 1,000 marks with 176 tested positive for coronavirus on Friday alone with the city emerging as the biggest hotspot in Tamil Nadu. A government notification said Radhakrishnan will be the Special Nodal Officer for GCC to coordinate the COVID-19 efforts.  Radhakrishnan, currently the Revenue Commissioner, will be supported by five IPS officers who will be in charge of four zones and the suburb. Sources said Radhakrishnan’s experience as the Commissioner of Chennai Corporation and Health Secretary will help him handle the crisis much effectively. Radhakrishnan's relief efforts during the 2004 Tsunami as Nagapattinam district collector is still remembered by many.  “Also, he has hands-on experience handling several disasters that will help him in managing the crisis. He will coordinate all the efforts of the GCC and will be the overall in-charge for the efforts in Chennai city,” a source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-seasoned-ias-officer-to-coordinate-coronavirus-efforts-in-chennai-832445.html
01-05-2020||South||Increasing number of primary coronavirus cases cause of concern for Chennai||At last count on Friday, this metropolis had 1,082 novel coronavirus positive patients and the biggest worry now is the increasing number of index or primary cases that are being reported across the city, especially from areas that are densely populated. And, more clusters are emerging in the city, which has five clusters for now. The integrated market complex in Koyambedu, one of the largest in the country, seems to be the most complicated cluster within the city as nearly 40 people have been found positive for COVID-19 till Thursday. All of them are either vendors - who have set shops inside the complex - or suppliers. The primary or index cases do not have a conclusive contact history which makes the job of health care professionals and those at the forefront in containing the spread of coronavirus much more difficult. Data released by the Tamil Nadu government shows the city has reported nearly 180 primary cases – 33 each on April 29 and 30 and 89 on May 1 – since April 25 even as the government is ramping up its testing capacity. The city has also witnessed doubling of cases in about six days – it had 495 cases on April 25, but the tally on Friday was 1,082. The government says “detailed investigation is underway” to trace the history of the infection, but no headway has not been made so far. Despite the sharp increase in “primary cases”, the government has maintained that there is no “community spread” in Chennai or elsewhere in the state. “The city has eight million population and always thousands of people are out for various reasons and we need to consider the natural progressions of the epidemic as well. Maximum cases are reported from areas where the streets are narrow and houses are cramped,” P Madhusudan Reddy, Deputy Commissioner (Health), Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), told DH. Another cause of concern is the increasing number of those at the forefront in containing the spread like policemen, firefighters, conservancy workers and frontline workers like doctors and nurses contracting the virus. At least 8 policemen, three firefighters and 19 frontline workers of the GCC have tested positive for the virus.  Most of the cases have been reported from densely populated areas in north Chennai, which is known for its narrow lanes, while the situation seems a shade better on the outskirts. The number of cases in Chennai is increasing, according to Reddy, due to ramped-up testing that the city has been witnessing for the past few days – this metropolis conducts maximum tests of 3,067 per million population. Experts Experts point out that extensive testing is he “first step” towards controlling the epidemic, but also maintain that people in Chennai should also cooperate with the government machinery in containing the spread of the virus. P Kuganantham, former city health officer and senior epidemiologist, told DH that Chennai is one of the densely populated cities with 26,000 people living per sq. km and “testing more” would only help the city fight the virus. “Testing is the only way to stamp the fire of an epidemic. Epidemic management is identifying the cases and isolating them before they pass on the virus to others. That is what is being done here as well. If we race and test maximum people, we can see some improvement in the next two to three weeks,” he said. The epidemiologist said emphasis should be on tracing and testing as that is the only way to deal with a pandemic. “The focus should now be on saving elders. Youngsters who have symptoms should not go in contact with elders or people who have co-morbid conditions like diabetes and hypertension,” he added. Reddy said the government is now focusing on more testing in containment zones. “We will also be going for street-based testing in the coming days by choosing high density population areas inside containment zones. We will take samples of people and test them. Besides, all pregnant women in containment zones are being tested,” he added. The GCC has also readied 13,000 beds at various places to quarantine potential Covid-19 patients who cannot be isolated in their homes. “We will increase the number to 20,000 in the next few days and more if we need,” the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/increasing-number-of-primary-coronavirus-cases-cause-of-concern-for-chennai-832468.html
01-05-2020||State||Rs 10 crore set aside for fighting Covid-19: DC||It was decided in the Zilla Panchayat (ZP) meeting of members with the deputy commissioner, here on Thursday, that barring Tiptur and Chikkanayakanahalli taluks, the lockdown would remain in force till May 3.   It was also decided that a final decision on the continuance of the lockdown beyond May 3, would depend on the directives of the state government and the prime minister's announcement. Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar stated that the district had Rs 10 crore to fight Covid-19 and take measures to prevent the spread of the pandemic.  Law and district in-charge Minister J C Madhuswamy said that agricultural activities, MNREGA works, rural industries, building constructions, transportation of vegetables and fruits were all allowed and stores selling essential commodities may remain open.  The minister who held a meeting with the industrialists of Vasantha Narasapura Industrial Area said that power and water supply to the area had been provided and industries may begin production by observing social distancing norms and taking other precautions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rs-10-crore-set-aside-for-fighting-covid-19-dc-832080.html
01-05-2020||State||MLA slams officials for allowing Covid-19 victim's funeral||Tumakuru Rural MLA D C Gowrishankar vented his ire against Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar and Tahsildar Mohan Kumar for allowing the last rites of the Covid-19 victim (P-535, who died on April 26) to be held in Kumbipalya village in Nagavalli gram panchayat, Tumakuru taluk.    He said in Tumakuru on Thursday that this incident had created panic among the people in the gram panchayat. "The officials should have waited for the swab sample test reports before allowing the funeral to be held. The DC and the tahsildar are directly responsible for this and I will write to the chief minister seeking disciplinary action against following an inquiry," the MLA added. He said that the DC and tahsildar should have notified him before allowing the funeral to take place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mla-slams-officials-for-allowing-covid-19-victims-funeral-832083.html
01-05-2020||State||Wife of Covid-19 victim tests positive in Tumakuru||The wife of P-535 of KHB Colony in Tumakuru who died of Covid-19 a couple of days ago has now tested positive for the pandemic. This takes the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in Tumakuru district to five (two of whom are dead). The lady is aged 65-years-old.   Health Department officials said that there are four people left in the family of the deceased and the throat, blood and sputum samples of his wife turned out positive. Those of the three others tested negative for the virus, but they are now kept in isolation.    KHB Colony has already been sealed down with metal sheets and roads in and out are blocked. People who had come into primary contact with the woman who tested positive on Thursday, are placed in home quarantine and their phlegm and throat swab samples have been sent for tests said Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/wife-of-covid-19-victim-tests-positive-in-tumakuru-832084.html
01-05-2020||State||11 new COVID-19 cases confirmed in Karnataka; total rises to 576||The COVID-19 total in Karnataka rose to 576 with the addition of 11 new cases, the Health department said on Friday. "Eleven new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon... Till date, 576 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. The remaining three are from Raibhag in Belagavi and secondary contacts of a patient already tested positive. Seven out of eleven cases are men, four are women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/11-new-covid-19-cases-confirmed-in-karnataka-total-rises-to-576-832224.html
01-05-2020||State||COVID-19 victim's funeral leads to war of words between MLA, ex-MLA||The funeral of the Covid-19 victim that was held in Kumbipalya village, Nagavalli gram panchayat in Tumakuru taluk a few days ago, has led to a war of words between Tumakuru Rural MLA D C Gowrishankar of the JD(S) and former MLA B Suresh Gowda of the BJP. The videos of the two leaders debasing each other has gone viral on social media.  Gowda has accused Gowrishankar of 'facilitating' the funeral before the test reports arrived. "Since the last rites were held, people of Nagavalli are living in the fear that it may cause an outbreak of the pandemic in their villages. MLA Gowrishankar has put pressure on the officials to release the body for last rites," he has alleged. Retorting to this, Gowrishankar has said that it is wrong to 'politicise' the issue in a time of crisis. "Suresh Gowda is not worthy of being a politician. I came to know that patient was Covid-19 positive only after his death. I have not called any official or doctor and put pressure on them to release the body," he said in defense.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-victims-funeral-leads-to-war-of-words-between-mla-ex-mla-832363.html
01-05-2020||State||Shops can open on alternate days in CN Halli, Tiptur: J C Madhuswamy||Law and District In-charge Minister J C Madhuswamy said that the lockdown has been relaxed to a certain extent in Chikkanayakanahalli and Tiptur taluks and he has asked the merchants' association not to open all shops at once. He said that shops will be allowed to open in turns by maintaining social distancing norms. He said that shops next to each other should discuss amongst themselves and open on alternate days to ensure that there is no crowding of people and the wearing of masks is mandatory. He also mentioned that barbers and liquor shops will remain closed.  He said that traveling to Tumakuru and Bengaluru for a specific reason was allowed, but returning to CN Halli and Tiptur is banned. Only an onward journey is allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shops-can-open-on-alternate-days-in-cn-halli-tiptur-j-c-madhuswamy-832364.html
01-05-2020||State||Coronavirus Lockdown: Want to exit, enter Karnataka? Apply for permit online||Karnataka has set up an online process to grant permission to those who want to enter or leave the state.  According to an order issued by the government on Friday, those who want to leave or return to Karnataka should submit an online application at sevasindhu.karnataka.gov.in  The online applications can be submitted also through BangaloreOne centres and BBMP ward offices.  Karnataka is in touch with the Indian Railways to arrange for train services for those stranded in the state due to the lockdown to return to their native states.  The government has estimated 1.5 lakh people from other states are stranded in Karnataka due to the lockdown.  “The Railways has indicated that five rakes will be made available mostly for migrant labourers of Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and Rajasthan,” State Nodal Officer N Manjunath Prasad told DH. “We’re getting the willingness of people who want to go.” All online applications will be sorted state-wise. Once the receiving state concurs, permission to travel will be given. All persons seeking permission to leave Karnataka will be screened by the health authorities.  Karnataka will arrange for buses, which will be sanitized and where social distancing will be maintained. Those who opt for train travel will be dropped off in buses at the railway station.  All persons have to pay for their travel.   Only asymptomatic people are allowed to undertake travel back into Karnataka. They will be medically screened before being allowed to travel.  Each district will have only one entry point, which may be different from from the exit point to avoid people getting mixed up.  A checkpost with facilities for screening, medical checkup, water supply, food, temporary shelter and adequate toilet facilities will be set up near all entry points. All returnees will be compulsorily registered and assessed by the health authorities. After entry, they will be kept under watch with periodic health checkups.  Migrant workers who are not computer-literate will be helped to apply online. "We have nodal officers for each camp where these migrant workers are staying. The nodal officers will collect the applications manually filled up by the migrant workers and they will be uploaded," Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-want-to-exit-enter-karnataka-apply-for-permit-online-832371.html
01-05-2020||State||'Announce special package for unorganised labourers'||MLC Ivan D'Souza has urged the government to come to the rescue of unorganised labourers. Speaking after honouring drivers at a programme organised at Kottara Chowki , he said "Nearly, 80% of unorganised labourers have no security and they are leading a miserable life. Thus, the laws to help labourers above 40 years is need of the hour. The government should announce a special package for the unorganised labourers," he demanded. Rickshaw, lorry drivers, those labourers who work in hotels, have no facilities from the government, he told. Labour leaders Sukumar Kulal, Janardhan, Chandrashekar, Adappa and Krishna Salian were felicitated.k Rice and other grocery item kits were distributed to families of 50 labourers on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/announce-special-package-for-unorganised-labourers-832377.html
01-05-2020||State||‘Arrangements made for marketing Mattugulla’||Horticulture department officials in Udupi said that arrangements had been made for the marketing of Mattugulla (Brinjal) cultivated in Mattu, Uliyaragoli and Kote villages in Kaup taluk. Mattugulla, known for its unique taste, is not only in demand in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts but also in foreign countries. As many as 89 Mattugulla farmers had cultivated the crop in 128 acres. Due to lockdown, transportation was affected. After consulting Vadiraja Mattugulla Belegarara Sangha, it has been decided to sell it through Hopcoms in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. Pass will be issued by the Horticulture department for transporting the harvest. Farmers can contact the Horticulture department for marketing pineapple, watermelon and other Horticulture crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/arrangements-made-for-marketing-mattugulla-832388.html
01-05-2020||State||Doorstep survey to identify COVID-19 victims: Deputy commissioner||Against the backdrop of five people testing Covid-19 positive in Tumakuru district, the administration has decided to conduct a door-to-door survey to identify more cases if any, said Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar here on Friday.    Asha, Anganwadi workers, panchayat, Revenue Department and booth officials will take part in the survey he added. He said that during the survey if people with symptoms are identified, they will be admitted to hospitals and urged people to cooperate with the surveyors by sharing the complete information needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/doorstep-survey-to-identify-covid-19-victims-deputy-commissioner-832414.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt orders pvt schools to not hike fee for PG Medical courses||A day after ordering all the private schools not to hike the school fees for this year citing the lockdown against COVID-19, the medical education department on Thursday increased the fee for Post-Graduate medical and dental courses for the new academic year 2020-21. According to the order issued by the Medical Education Department, while the fee hike for both the post-graduate medical and dental courses under institutional quota has been increased by 30 per cent, the same has been hiked by 20 per cent for government quota seats available at the private medical and dental colleges across Karnataka.  However, the fee structure at the government colleges has remained unchanged. Sources in the department confirmed to DH that the admission notification has also been issued by the colleges as per the new fee structure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-orders-pvt-schools-to-not-hike-fee-for-pg-medical-courses-832074.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Time is right to ban liquor, Congress leader tells Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||Senior Congress leader H K Patil has urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to prohibit liquor in the state, saying the lockdown provided an opportune time to make this decision.  “Without our knowledge, we’re stepping into an intoxication-free, civilized society and there are immense benefits,” Patil said in his three-page letter to Yediyurappa, pointing out that prohibition of liquor was a long-pending demand made by civil society and women’s groups.   “There is no shortage of people who say that it won’t be smart to cut a source of revenue to the state exchequer. But there is peace in families now and it has helped children get a good upbringing instead of facing cruelty,” Patil said. “Exploitation of our sisters has stopped. Our sisters, who went to sleep by covering themselves with clothes wet from their tears after going through hell are now spending their nights in peace,” he argued. The need of the hour, Patil said, was to prohibit liquor as it also led to misuse of power and corruption, besides destroying families and leading the society astray.  Urging Yediyurappa to make the “revolutionary” decision, Patil said there was no better time than now to ban liquor.  Successive governments have battled the demand to ban the manufacture and sale of liquor. Excise accounts for nearly 18% of the state’s own tax revenue, which no party in power can afford to let go.  When the Congress was in power with Siddaramaiah as the chief minister and Patil as a minister in his Cabinet, the demand to prohibit liquor was outrightly rejected.   “It is impossible for the government to ban liquor,”  Siddaramaiah, the then CM, told the Legislative Assembly in 2017. “Liquor prohibition has not worked anywhere. Look at Gujarat, which is supposed to be a dry state. See for yourself how well the liquor ban is being implemented,” he said, adding that liquor prohibition will need a national policy.  Siddaramaiah was responding to the Opposition BJP’s demand for prohibition of liquor.  And it is the BJP that is now in power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-time-is-right-to-ban-liquor-congress-leader-tells-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-832201.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to have 60 labs for COVID-19 by end of May||Seeking to ramp up its testing capacity for COVID-19, the Karnataka government proposal to increase the number of labs in the state to 60 by this month-end as against existing 26, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. The existing labs have a capacity to test about 5,000 samples a day, he said. "We have boosted our COVID10 testing capabilities. Gadag, Vijayapura & Tumakuru get their own COVID-19 testing labs. From just 2 in Feb, we now have 26 labs & capable of testing 5,000 per day. We will have 60 labs by end of May," Sudhakar tweeted. As per health department data as of Thursday evening, a total of 60,156 samples have been tested in the state so far and 57,548 of them reported negative. On Thursday alone, 4,752 samples were tested and 4,307 of them turned negative. The state's tally of COVID-19 cases stood at 576, including 22 deaths and 235 discharges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-have-60-labs-for-covid-19-by-end-of-may-832218.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Yediyurappa appeals to migrant workers to stay back in Karnataka||A day after giving the nod for their one-time movement towards their destination, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday appealed to migrant workers to stay back in the state and co-operate with the government to resume economic activities. "It is my sincere request to all the migrant workers to stay back in the state and co-operate with us to resume the economic activities once we receive directions from the Union government," he said in a statement. Extending greetings on the occasion of May Day, he said, we intend to resume economic activities soon and the government has already held meeting with representatives of associations of commerce and industries in this regard. "The government has appealed to the employers to protect the interest of their workers and pay salaries," he added. The Karnataka government on Thursday had decided to allow migrant workers, tourists, students and others stranded in different parts of the state due to the ongoing lockdown to return to their native places. Stating that due to COVID-19 pandemic economic activities had almost come to a standstill across the country, Yediyurappa said the worst affected were the labourers. "The government has stood by you during this time of crisis. COVID-19 situation in India is much better than other countries because of your cooperation," he said. The government has also decided to allow industrial activities across the state barring in coronavirus containment zones from May 4. The Chief Minister on Thursday evening had held a meeting with members of various associations of commerce and industries and suggested them to be prepared for resuming industrial operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yediyurappa-appeals-to-migrant-workers-to-stay-back-in-karnataka-832271.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt issues notice to IAS officer for tweet on Tablighi Jamaat members||The Karnataka government on Friday issued a show cause notice to an IAS officer over his recent tweet about coronavirus-cured Tablighi Jamaat members donating plasma for treatment of other patients. The officer, Mohammad Mohsin, was in the news last year after the Election Commission suspended him for trying to inspect Prime Minister Narendra Modi's helicopter during his visit to Odisha in April. He was deployed as a poll observer. "More than 300 Tablighi Heroes are donating their plasma to serve the country in New Delhi only. What about? #Godi Media? They will not show the works of humanity done by these heroes," Mohsin said in a tweet on April 27. A 1996 batch IAS officer from Karnataka cadre hailing from Bihar, Mohsin is currently serving as a secretary in the Backward Class Welfare Department. The state government said the show cause notice has been issued to the officer in connection with his tweet. "The adverse coverage this tweet has got in the media has been taken note of seriously by the government, given the serious nature of COVID-19 and the sensitivities involved," the notice, which was accessed by PTI, stated. The government has sought a written explanation from the officer within five days for violating the All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968. It warned of action against Mohsin as per the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969 if he fails to submit his reply before the deadline. "The Karnataka government has made it clear that it would not hesitate to act even against powerful functionaries if their actions are damaging to the harmony in the state at a time when all are united in fighting COVID-19," a senior state bureaucrat told PTI. The Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic missionary group, shot into the limelight early this year after thousands of its members who attended a congregation in south Delhi's Nizamuddin in March tested positive for coronavirus. After attending the event, the group's members travelled to various parts of the country, with many of them carrying the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-issues-notice-to-ias-officer-for-tweet-on-tablighi-jamaat-members-832384.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to purchase maize at MSP of Rs 1,760 per quintal||Agriculture Minister B C Patil on Friday said that the state government would procure maize at Rs 1,760 per quintal. “The maize is the most important crop in 14 districts. It was long pending demand of farmers that the government buy the maize. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has given approval for procurement,” the minister told reporters. About 1.68 quintals of low-quality sowing seeds of maize, sunflower and cotton had been seized in Haveri, Dharwad and Ballari districts. Agriculture department officials and vigilance squad members had been directed to act against merchants selling low-quality fertiliser. Those selling  the fertiliser even after the expiry date would be punished, Patil said. The minister regretted that the police had failed to arrest people involved in the making low-quality seeds in Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Godavari in Andhra Pradesh. "Despite letters to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Director General and Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood, there has been no action. The inaction means burying farmers alive,” Patil said. Sood was yet to act on his promise of ordering a CID probe into the sales of low quality seeds. The police should arrest the suspects even if they were highly influential, he urged. “About 15,000 qunitals of low-quality sowing seeds are ready to be transported to Karnataka, while around 5,000 qunitals have already been loaded. The police should tighten measures at border points. About 20,000  quintals of such seeds would have entered the state had tough measures not been taken,” he said. The minister said that the government was planning to a write to the Andhra Pradesh government in that regard. Patil admitted that there was shortage of sowing seeds and said,” Yediyurappa has instructed in the Cabinet meeting that there should not be any shortage of sowing seeds. The government has distributed 5.87 lakh MT of fertiliser in April and May.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-purchase-maize-at-msp-of-rs-1760-per-quintal-832438.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Careful while relaxing lockdown, say former CMs||Former chief ministers Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy on Friday sounded caution on relaxing the lockdown.  Both leaders said that the government should not compromise on containment of the coronavirus while attempting to reboot the economy by relaxing the lockdown.  “From the economy point of view, the lockdown must be relaxed. The situation is such that even paying salaries is difficult. But the relaxation has to be given carefully, keeping the red districts out and enforcing physical distancing,” Siddaramaiah told reporters, asking the government to exercise discretion.  Siddaramaiah urged the government to announce an economic package for those in the unorganized sector. “People don’t have purchasing power right now. With an economic package, they’ll get purchasing power, the markets will run and the government will get revenues through tax,” he said.  Kumaraswamy also concurred that relaxing the lockdown was necessary in the wake of economic difficulties. “But on Thursday alone, 71 people died across India. In Bengaluru, 10 new Covid-19 cases were detected. Testing isn’t happening in a big way, so nobody really knows what’s happening. So, the relaxation should be done in a manner that doesn’t waste all the efforts that have been put in till now,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/careful-while-relaxing-lockdown-say-former-cms-832439.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Time is right to ban liquor, Patil tells CM||Senior Congress leader H K Patil has urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to prohibit liquor in the state, saying the lockdown provided an opportune time to make this decision.  Karnataka has been free of liquor for nearly 48 days now, with the government having shut all retail sales, including bars and pubs, due to the coronavirus-driven lockdown.  “Without our knowledge, we’re stepping into an intoxication-free, civilized society and there are immense benefits,” Patil said in his three-page letter to Yediyurappa, pointing out that prohibition of liquor was a long-pending demand made by civil society and women’s groups.  “There is no shortage of people who say that it won’t be smart to cut a source of revenue to the State Exchequer. But there is peace in families now and it has helped children get a good upbringing instead of facing cruelty,” Patil said. “Exploitation of our sisters has stopped. Our sisters, who went to sleep by covering themselves with clothes wet from their tears after going through hell are now spending their nights in peace,” he argued. The need of the hour, Patil said, was to prohibit liquor as it also led to misuse of power and corruption, besides destroying families and leading the society astray.  Urging Yediyurappa to make the “revolutionary” decision, Patil said there was no better time than now to ban liquor.  Successive governments have battled the demand to ban the manufacture and sale of liquor. Excise accounts for nearly 18% of the state’s own tax revenue, which no party in power can afford to let go.  Patil's demand comes just days after Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah suggested that liquor sale can resume in green zones.  In fact, when the Congress was in power with Siddaramaiah as the chief minister and Patil as a minister in his Cabinet, the demand to prohibit liquor was outrightly rejected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/time-is-right-to-ban-liquor-patil-tells-cm-832440.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Vijayapura, Gadag, Tumakuru get Covid-19 testing labs||The state now has 26 labs and a testing capacity of 5,000 samples per day. District hospitals at Gadag, Vijayapura and Tumakuru received approval from the Centre on Friday for CBNAAT Covid-19 laboratories. CBNAAT or Cartridge-based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test is used for detecting Tuberculosis, which will now be used for detecting Covid-19 as well with additional cartridges.  This increase is significant considering that the state had just two labs in the beginning of February with a capacity of testing a few hundreds. Of the 26 labs, 15 RTPCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) labs, three CBNAAT and eight private labs are functioning in the state. Karnataka Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said, “The number of labs will go up by another 30 reaching 60 by the end of the month.” This will further enhance and nearly double the testing capacity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vijayapura-gadag-tumakuru-get-covid-19-testing-labs-832441.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown brings uncertainty on ration, jobs, says study||Several BPL families whose income depended on jobs in unorganised sectors and daily wages, do not have sufficient ration for the coming month, even as they are unsure for being able to get back to their jobs, a social impact study on the pandemic has found.  The study, conducted by state-based Karnataka Janashakti, was undertaken in 15 districts across the state, including Kolar, Koppal, Mandya, Bengaluru Urban, Chitradurga, among other districts. The study covered at least 150 respondents, said state president Nagaragere Ramesh.   As part of the study, which was undertaken between April 22 and April 28, the respondents were asked whether they had enough ration at home, whether they had money to buy the same, if medical examination was being conducted, if they thought they could get back to their jobs, among other questions, to assess the social impact of the pandemic. According to the findings of the study, 89 per cent of respondents said they did not have sufficient groceries for next month, while 94 per cent of them said they did not have money to buy groceries.  Further, only 7% of the respondents said they were confident of going back to the same jobs they used to do before the lockdown. About 31% were doubtful, while another 34% were sure that they had lost their livelihoods. All the respondents working on contract in unorganised sectors said their jobs were not secure, the report stated.  The respondents, who stated that public representatives had failed to respond to them during the crisis, sought food and financial assistance from the government, apart from seeking local representatives to give them a lending ear, amid the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-brings-uncertainty-on-ration-jobs-says-study-832443.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Students not happy with GetCETgo app||The students who have subscribed to GetCETgo app developed by the Higher Education department have felt that the app is of "poor quality." For the last 10 days, over 10,000 students who have registered for the Common Entrance Test (CET) and the National eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) have downloaded the app. But a majority of students who are using it have expressed that the app was having "too many disturbances." "There are too many pop up advertisements that appear between the classes and this is disturbing. We are wasting half the time closing the advertisements," a student said.  Users have even raised complaints that they are unable to download PDF files. "When the app is developed for students it should be student-centric and there should not be any provision for advertisements. If advertisements appear in between we cannot concentrate on the class," says another student. Some students even posted their comments in the comments box complaining that the app was "terrible and not user-friendly." The department has spent around Rs 80 lakh to develop the app and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa launched the app on April 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/students-not-happy-with-getcetgo-app-832444.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to buy produces from farmers directly for its hostels||Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol on Friday said that the state government had decided to buy fruits and vegetables directly from farmers for 8,000 residential schools and hostels run by the Social Welfare department. "The government has decided to put an end to the practice of buying vegetables and fruits from middlemen for the Social Welfare department hostels. This will also provide market access to farmers and hence will be a permanent solution for their problem,” he told reporters. Karjol said that the fruits and vegetables would be purchased at the prices fixed by Horticultural Producers Co-operative Marketing and Processing Society (Hopcoms). He had directed the officials to draft guidelines for this purpose. "The members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes will be encouraged to buy vegetables from farmers directly for sales. The government will provide a subsidy of Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh to those willing buy by push carts in rural and urban areas respectively in this regard. Priority will be given to women,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-buy-produces-from-farmers-directly-for-its-hostels-832446.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||150 students return to Belagavi from Kota, quarantined||About 150 students from Belagavi and other districts in the state, stranded at the coaching hub of Kota in Rajasthan, arrived in the city on Friday. The students were quarantined at differentlodges. Students from Belagavi, Bidar, Kalaburagi, Shivamogga and other districts had been to Kota to prepare for entrance exams of engineering and medical courses. They were stranded in the northern state after the nationwide lockdown was clamped to mitigate the spread of Covid-19. They were brought to the city in four buses and housed in lodges for the quarantine period. A group of residents from Khade Bazaar opposed the move to quarantine the  Covid-19 suspects on Thursday. They, however, relented after the police informed them that the persons being placed under observation at the lodges were students who returned from Kota, not the suspects or contacts of the infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/150-students-return-to-belagavi-from-kota-quarantined-832448.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||More than 30K Keralites in state plan to return home||As many as 30,576 Keralites presently in Karnataka registered their names within 24 hours after the Kerala government launched an online facility for Malayalis stranded in other states. A total of 95,000 Keralites in other states have registered their names so far, including 29,181 from Tamil Nadu and 13,113 from Maharashtra. About 3.53 lakh Keralites from 201 countries have registered names wishing to return. About 1.5 lakh are from UAE, the highest numbers in any country. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the government would be giving priority to those is distress and stranded. Hence, those who were well settled on other states should not make use of this as an opportunity to visit their relatives in Kerala. The following website may be visited for registration: on www.registernorkaroots.org.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/more-than-30k-keralites-in-state-plan-to-return-home-832449.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Health screening mandatory for entering Uttara Kannada district||People entering Uttara Kannada district will have to compulsorily undergo health screening from May 4. “The outsiders entering the district will have to undergo medical tests. Those who have returned from abroad will be quarantined for 14 days,” deputy commissioner Dr K Harish Kumar told reporters here. He said that treatment for Covid-19 patients would be provided at the newly commissioned Covid-19 ward at Karwar Institute of Medical Science. A team of expert doctors is available for treating the patients. In fact, the doctors from the Institute treated the patients at the Indian Naval Hospital. Superintendent of Police Shivaprakash Devaraju said that the police would provide security at the Covid-19 ward. Cases would be registered against those illegally entering the ward. Norms would be tightened at checkpoints to screen outsiders entering the district. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Mohammad Roshan said a laboratory to test throat swabs would be functional in a week’s time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/health-screening-mandatory-for-entering-uttara-kannada-district-832451.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Dharwad dist admin goes the extra mile, makes labourers feel at home||Stranded labourers are one of the worst affected due to the lockdown enforced as preventive measure against Covid-19. However, the Dharwad district administration ensured that the sufferings of such labourers, who were stuck in the district, were minimised. With the abrupt disruption of transportation on March 24, more than 415 labourers, including 15 women labourers, were forced to stay back in the twin cities of Hubballi and Dharwad. Majority of them were construction and agricultural labourers, who could not go back home. For the first three days, the labourers were forced to live on food provided by the Samaritans. Realising the threat the labourers could pose in spreading of Covid-19, Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan instructed the Social Welfare Department and District Industries Centre officials to start as many rehabilitation centres that were required to house the stranded labourers. In three days, the administration converted nine hostels across the twin cities into rehabilitation centres and each hostel housed nearly 45 persons, so as to maintain social distancing norms and for providing better facilities. The labourers are being provided breakfast, tea, lunch and dinner, since March 30. What earned the appreciation for the district administration is the idea of DC and ZP CEO Dr B C Sateesh, of utilising the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to provide all the 415 labourers a pair of Khadi dress that was prepared in no time by the workers at Garag Khadi Gramodyog, a government supported body that provides raw materials to the only authorised national flag manufacturing facility at Bengeri. “Many of the stranded labourers had only one pair of dress to wear. Along with the freshly stitched dress we also received our personnel hygiene kit including a cotton towel, soap, brush, paste and other toiletries,” said Thomas Martin, a cook from Udupi who was stuck in Hubballi. The district administration after communicating with its counterparts in other districts also ensured that 144 stranded labourers from 17 districts of Karnataka returned to their home in 10 NWKRTC buses and mini-buses. Each bus had a nodal officer, who dropped the labourer only if they had someone to receive the labourers at their home. The rehabilitation centre is also housing destitute and people with physical and mental disabilities. Dharwad Social Welfare Department Joint Director N R Purushotham said as on April 29, Dharwad has 278 labourers, including 104 workers from outside the State, receiving hospitality at the nine facilities. Efforts are being made to ensure that the stranded labourers reach their destination at the earliest, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dharwad-dist-admin-goes-the-extra-mile-makes-labourers-feel-at-home-832454.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Want to exit, enter Karnataka? Apply for permit online||Karnataka has set up an online process to grant permission to those who want to enter or leave the state. According to an order issued by the government on Friday, those who want to leave or return to Karnataka should submit an online application at sevasindhu.karnataka.gov.in The online applications can be submitted also through BangaloreOne centres and BBMP ward offices.  Karnataka is in touch with the Indian Railways to arrange for train services for those stranded in the state due to the lockdown to return to their native states. There are 1.54 lakh migrants housed in relief camps across the state, most of them in Bengaluru.  "The Railways has indicated that five rakes will be made available mostly for migrant labourers of Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and Rajasthan,” State Nodal Officer N Manjunath Prasad told DH. “We’re getting the willingness of people who want to go.” Migrant workers who are not computer-literate will be helped to apply online. "We have nodal officers for each camp where these migrant workers are staying. The nodal officers will collect the applications manually filled up by the migrant workers and they will be uploaded," Prasad said.    All online applications will be sorted state-wise. Once the receiving state concurs, permission to travel will be given. All persons seeking permission to leave Karnataka will be screened by the health authorities. Karnataka will arrange for buses, which will be sanitised and where social distancing will be maintained. Those who opt for train travel will be dropped off in buses at the railway station. All persons have to pay for their travel. Only asymptomatic people are allowed to undertake travel back into Karnataka. They will be medically screened before being allowed to travel. A checkpost with facilities for screening, medical checkup, water supply, food, temporary shelter and adequate toilet facilities will be set up near all entry points. All returnees will be compulsorily registered and assessed by the health authorities. After entry, they will be kept under watch with periodic health checkups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/want-to-exit-enter-karnataka-apply-for-permit-online-832464.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Please stay back, BSY tells migrant workers||Fearing an exodus of skilled labour, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday appealed to migrant workers to not leave in panic, assuring them that economic activities will resume in the state. The CM’s appeal came a day after the Cabinet decided to allow movement of people who want to go back to their native states. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, economic activities had almost come to a standstill across the country. The worst-affected were the labourers. The government has stood by you during this time of crisis. It is my sincere request to all the migrant workers to stay back in the state and cooperate with us to resume the economic activities once we receive directions from the Union government,” the CM said in his appeal.  “We intend to resume the economic activities soon. The government has already held meetings with representatives of associations of commerce and industries in this regard,” Yediyurappa said. Yediyurappa said the state government had appealed to “employers to protect the interest of their workers and pay salaries”.  Yediyurappa’s appeal was also posted in Hindi to reach the workers from the northern states who came to Karnataka for a livelihood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/please-stay-back-bsy-tells-migrant-workers-832471.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NCC cadets in do their bit in times of pandemic, stitch masks for villagers||Cadets of the National Cadet Corps units in Belagavi district have risen to the occasion and have joined the district administration and front line workers’ fight against Covid-19. More than 1,000 cadets have volunteered to help those in need during this time of crisis. As many as 50 cadets from three NCC units in the district have been productively using their time by making masks at home, for distribution among those who cannot afford them or don’t have access. This effort has been conceived, funded and spearheaded by the cadets themselves. Cadets Pooja Jarali and Nambrata Patil hail from a hamlet in Hebbal village near Sankeshwar in Belagavi district. They have made 800 masks so far with the help of homemaker Uma Gavanali. They have supplied them to the Gram Panchayat, and plan to make more than 1,500 masks for distribution among the villagers. Another cadet Shrushti Hirani has distributed 200 face masks to the personnel of Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board, who are working round the clock to maintain the drinking water supply. “In many villages, there are no medical stores and people were finding it difficult to travel to other villages just to procure masks. This motivated the cadets to step in and help people in getting masks,” says P R Ponappa, NCC Group Commander. While some are engaged in making and distributing masks, others have been distributing bottled drinking water and food at police check posts and barricades. Since it was not possible to have a centralised and consolidated effort due to the lockdown, the cadets are coming up with innovative methods to reach out to people. They have posted awareness videos on social media to encourage the youth to follow the rules and guidelines on lockdown issued by the government.  These acts only serve to illustrate the leadership qualities and spirit of selfless service instilled in the cadets. “As Belagavi district has been categorised under red zone, NCC cadets have not been deployed on field duty, but have been doing their own bit to help people. The cadets are aware of the precautionary measures that need to be taken to fight an invisible enemy,” says Ponappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ncc-cadets-in-do-their-bit-in-times-of-pandemic-stitch-masks-for-villagers-832477.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mandya, Davangere see spurt in cases; 24 new cases in state||Infections continue to mount in the state as 24 people, including six from Davangere, tested positive for novel coronavirus on Friday. With this, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state went up to 589. Of which, 315 are active cases. Nine of them are being treated in ICU and two among them have been moved to critical care. Fatalities in the state remain 22. Of the 24 cases reported today (May 1), Mandya district alone has accounted for eight cases. All focus is now on Mandya district, which has seen a spike in Covid-19 cases on Friday, with new eight confirmed cases. With this, the number of cases has suddenly gone up from 18 to 26.At a time when Covid-19 active cases are declining in Mysuru, the neigbouring Mandya district reported eight new cases on a single day, on Friday. Three cases P566, a 25-year-old man; P567, a 24-year-old woman and P568, a two-and-a-half-years-old child, are from Koodagalli, Pandavapura taluk, and have a travel history of Mumbai in Maharashtra. Patient 569, a 30-year-old woman is from KR Pet with contact history with P566, 567 and 568. All the above four patients are from the same family. Patient 570, 571, 572 and 573 are from Malavalli, and has a contact history with P179 and Tablighi Jamaat members. P570 is a 19-year-old boy, P571 a 32-year-old woman, P572 is a 13-year-old boy and P 573 is a 12-year-old boy. Patient 179 has a contact history with 10 religious clerics from Delhi, who had visited Malavalli. His primary contacts, his mother, daughter, nephew and a tea-seller too have contracted the infection. Now, four more primary contacts of P179 have tested positive. Six cases in D’gere Davangere saw six cases of Covid-19 in a single day on Friday. Five of a family from Jalinagar , including a one-and-a-half-years-old boy, contracted virus. All five are the relatives and the primary contacts of Patient-556, an elderly man who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday.Throat swab samples of the elderly man’s (P-556) 34-year-old son, three daughters-in-law aged 31, 26 and 18 and a one-and-half-years-old grandson have returned positive for virus on Friday. Also, the 16-year-old son of the staff nurse (P-533) tested positive for Covid-19.  Davanagere had reported just three cases till April 28. But the district has now slipped to orange zone from Green zone, thanks to a flurry of cases in the last 48 hours. The district administration has swung into action to contain the virus spread. Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi told reporters, “The authorities rae tracing theprimary and secondary contacts of P-533 and P-556. The throat swab samples of over 80 primary and secondary contacts have been sent to Shivamogga lab for examination. Also the neighbours of elderly man in Jalinagar and staff nurse in Basha Nagar are being treated as secondary contacts and the swab samples will be sent to lab.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mandya-davangere-see-spurt-in-cases-24-new-cases-in-state-832495.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka moves towards flattening COVID-19 curve||It looks like Karnataka can breathe easy on the Covid-19 front, if numbers are anything to go by. The state appears to be flattening the curve, considering the slow growth in number of cases compared with the exponential increase in cases reported elsewhere in the world. Though complaints on the number of tests remain, data shows that the increase in the number of cases has remained on the lower side even after the testing capacity in the state was ramped up in the second half of April.  Also, the slow growth rate of cases highlights the effectiveness of the lockdown and social distancing measures. On April 15, the state had 315 cases and this increased to 589 on May 1, clocking an average daily growth rate of 5.8% — far lower than the national average of 13%. ‘Flattening the curve’ refers to a situation where the number of cases does not increase beyond the health infrastructure’s ability to handle such cases. The highest single-day spike in Karnataka was on April 17, when 44 cases were reported, while the samples tested on the day was 1,812. Since then, the second highest number of cases was on April 30, when 30 were tested positive and 4,752 samples were tested. Recoveries by patients is also encouraging. In hotspots such as Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru district, the number of active cases is fewer than the number of Covid-19 positive patients discharged from hospitals. Of the 589 cases, 251 were discharged and 315 were active.  Dr C N Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and nodal officer for lab testing, said that the state has been able to control the exponential growth in the number of cases, which was a good development. “Number of cases is definitely not spiking. Data indicates that we are marching towards flattening the curve,” he said. Till date, around 52,000 people were tested and 589 were found positive — a positivity rate of 1.1%, compared to the national average of 4%. All the deaths due to the pandemic were only among those with co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and other diseases, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-moves-towards-flattening-covid-19-curve-832496.html
01-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't make migrants pay for travel, says D K Shivakumar||The Opposition Congress on Friday criticized the government for making migrants pay for their travel to head back to their native districts.  "Is the government so poor to help these poor people?" Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar told Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and his deputy Laxman Savadi, the Transport minister.  "These workers, migrants, those from the unorganized sector are being asked to pay thousands of rupees as bus charge. The Centre is sending planes to Dubai, China, but these people have no earnings. You aren't even giving them food for their overnight journeys," he said. The Congress leader warned of statewide protests if the government did not pay for the travel of these migrants. "If you make these people pay, I will be forced to call for protests against you."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-make-migrants-pay-for-travel-says-d-k-shivakumar-832497.html
01-05-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Three more test positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi, tally at 72||The three are P574 male aged 55 years, P575 female aged 30 years and P576 male aged 50 years who tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. They were secondary contacts of COVID-19 positive patient P301 from Kuduchi and have been admitted in the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital for treatment. District until now has recorded 72 COVID-19 positive cases of whom 10 have recovered and one has succumbed to COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/three-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-belagavi-tally-at-72-832235.html
01-05-2020||West||Palghar lynching: 101 accused under police custody till May 13||A court at Dahanu in Palghar district of Maharashtra on Thursday remanded in police custody till May 13 the 101 accused arrested for the alleged lynching of two sadhus and their driver in Gadchinchale village recently. These 101 persons are among the 110 who were arrested in connection with the lynching of the trio on the night of April 16. The three victims from Kandivali in Mumbai were travelling in a car to attend a funeral in Surat in Gujarat amid the lockdown when they were attacked and killed by a mob in Gadchinchile village in the presence of a police team. The victims were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70), Sushil Giri Maharaj (35) and the driver Nilesh Telgade (30). Public prosecutor R B Valvi said that a local court had earlier remanded the accused in magisterial custody in connection with the case registered against them under IPC section 302 (murder) and others. After their custody ended on Thursday, following which they were presented before Judicial Magistrate First Class O J kulkarni at Dahanu. The police demanded their custody for investigation in the case registered against them under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and others for attack on the police officers. The court remanded them in police custody till May 13. The Palghar police have arrested as many as 110 persons in connection with the case. Nine of the accused are minors, who have been sent to juvenile home. The other 101 have been lodged at the lockups at different police stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-lynching-101-accused-under-police-custody-till-may-13-832093.html
01-05-2020||West||EC likely to hold Maharashtra legislative council polls on May 21: Sources||The Election Commission is likely to hold polls to the nine Maharashtra Legislative Council seats on May 21, sources said on Friday. The polls were deferred due to the spread of coronavirus. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who was sworn in on November 28 last year, has time till May 27 to get elected to the state legislature, failing which he will have to step down. Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyari had requested the Election Commission on Thursday to declare polls for nine vacant seats to the state Legislative Council. Sources in the poll panel said a decision was taken on Friday to hold the polls before May 27. "They would be held on May 21," a functionary said, adding that details are bring worked out. The sources pointed out that the state chief secretary has assured the Commission that all guidelines issued by the Centre to prevent the spread of coronavirus would be followed during elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ec-likely-to-hold-maharashtra-legislative-council-polls-on-may-21-sources-832175.html
01-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Lifting lockdown in Mumbai, Pune not possible, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||"The question is asked, what after May 3. I want to make it clear that we cannot lift the lockdown form red zones, like Mumbai-Pune belt, parts of Nagpur and some other places," Thackeray said in his webcast on the occasion of Maharashtra foundation day.   He said that the government has marked and mapped places on the basis of red, orange and green zones. "In green and orange zones, economic activities can start slowly with full precautions but not in Mumbai-Pune," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lifting-lockdown-in-mumbai-pune-not-possible-says-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-832214.html
01-05-2020||West||Goa declared green zone, CM says coronavirus fight far from over||Even as the Centre declared both districts in Goa as 'green zones' in connection with the novel coronavirus outbreak, Chief Pramod Sawant on Friday said the fight was far from over despite the state having no active COVID-19 cases. He said the need now was for the people of the state to adopt a "modified lifestyle" with priority to health. "With the efforts of our #CoronaWarriors and support of the people of Goa, our state has now been classified as a green zone by the Government of India. The war against COVID-19 is far from over," he said on his Facebook page. "We must continue our fight against this virus by adopting a modified lifestyle which gives priority to safe health norms such as sanitization, wearing of face covers, social distancing and staying at home during the lockdown period," he added. Meanwhile, state health minister Vishwajit Rane dedicated May 1, celebrated internationally as Labour Day, to the frontline staff fighting the outbreak. All seven persons who were detected with the infection in Goa have since recovered and have been discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-declared-green-zone-cm-says-coronavirus-fight-far-from-over-832264.html
01-05-2020||West||Yes Bank: Wadhawan brothers' CBI custody extended till May 8||A special court here on Friday extended till May 8 the CBI custody ofbusinessmen-brothers Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan of DHFL group in connection with the Yes Bank scam. The duo was arrested last Sundayfrom a quarantine facility at Mahabaleshwar in Satara district, nearly 50 days after they were booked in a case of bribery against former Yes Bank CEO Rana Kapoor. The Wadhawans were produced before a special court here on Friday as their previous remand ended. The central probe agency sought their further custody saying that it needed to probe the "deeper conspiracy" between the Wadhawans and Kapoor. The agency alleged that there are more than 150 shell companies controlled by the Wadhawans, which they want to examine. Besides, there are several companies floated by Rana Kapoor and his family and it needed to check whether they (Wadhawans) had any transactions with these companies, the agency said. Defence advocate Subodh Desai opposed the CBI's plea saying their custody was not required as everything was on record. However, the court extended the custody till May 8. The Wadhawan brothers are named as accused in the CBI FIR pertaining to swindling of money by Kapoor and others, the officials said. The agency has alleged that Kapoor, 62, entered into a criminal conspiracy with Wadhawan for extending the financial assistance to DHFL through Yes Bank in return for substantial undue benefits to himself and his family members through companies held by them. According to the CBI FIR, the scam started taking shape between April to June, 2018 when Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of the scam-hit Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). In return, Wadhawan allegedly "paid kickback of Rs 600 crore" to Kapoor and family members in the form of loans to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd held by the wife and daughters of Kapoor. Besides the CBI, the duo was also being probed by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the Yes Bank scam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/yes-bank-wadhawan-brothers-cbi-custody-extended-till-may-8-832276.html
01-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Work from home, leave for BMC staff above 55-years||The civic body in Mumbai has asked its staff above the age of 55 years to work from home or abstain from field duties, while those with comorbidities have been given leave for two weeks in view of the coronavirus outbreak, officials said on Friday. This includes emergency staff like doctors, nurses and paramedics, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation official said. "Emergency staff above the age of 55 with cormorbidities like hypertension, diabetes, heart and kidney ailments among others have been asked to stay at home for two weeks," said a BMC spokesperson. However, attendance is absolutely compulsory for all other staff employed in office and on field assignments, officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-work-from-home-leave-for-bmc-staff-above-55-years-832278.html
01-05-2020||West||227 cops have contracted virus in Maharashtra, three dead||As many as 227 police personnel including 30 officers have tested positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra so far, 66 of them since Thursday, an official said here. Those who contracted the virus included reserve police personnel deployed for security duty in Malegaon, a coronavirus hotspot in Nashik district, he said. Of the 227 infected cops, 22 constables and eight officers have recovered. 172 constables and 22 officers are undergoing treatment at various hospitals, while three police officers, all from Mumbai, have died. The number of coronavirus cases has crossed 10,000 in the state. Police in the state are working almost round-the-clock to enforce lockdown to contain the pandemic, the official said. There have been 167 incidents of assault on police and 627 persons were arrested in these cases, he said. 87,391 offences under section 188 of IPC (disobedience to order lawfully promulgated by a public servant) have been registered in the state and 17,632 persons have been arrested in these cases, the official said. The police also registered 1,240 cases of illegal transportation and seized more than 50,827 vehicles during the ongoing lockdown and collected a fine of Rs 3.10 crore, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/227-cops-have-contracted-virus-in-maharashtra-three-dead-832321.html
01-05-2020||West||MVA welcomes Council polls, Thorat claims it can win six seats||The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in Maharashtra on Friday welcomed the Election Commission of India's (ECI) decision to hold biennial elections for nine vacant seats of the state Legislative Council on May 21. The decision paved the way for Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to enter the state legislature within six months of his swearing-in on November 28, 2019. State Congress chief and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said the three MVA partners can win two seats each. In a tweet, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut thanked the central government and the ECI for allowing the elections, which were earlier postponed to due to coronavirus outbreak, to be held. The announcement ended the atmosphere of uncertainty, he said. State Congress chief Thorat and his NCP counterpart Jayant Patil, both ministers in the Thackeray-led government, also welcomed the announcement, saying it will put to rest the "speculation of uncertainty created by the opposition (BJP)". Nine Legislative Council seats fell vacant on April 24. The BJP and NCP held three of these seats each, the Congress two and Shiv Sena one. The 288-member Legislative Assembly forms the electoral college for the polls. A candidate will need at least 29 votes to win. Governor B S Koshyari had written to the ECI on Thursday, requesting it to hold the elections at the earliest. After the elections were postponed in view of the corona pandemic,the state cabinet had twice recommended to the governor to nominate Thackeray to be Council on one of the two seats from Governor's quota which were vacant. But the governor did not take any decision. Earlier this week Thackeray spoke to prime minister Narendra Modi over the issue, Sena sources had said. On Thursday, Thackeray wrote to the governor, asking him to request the poll panel to hold the biennial elections. Legislature wings of the three allies -- Sena, Congress and NCP -- sent similar letters to the ECI. Thackeray, who is not a member of either house of Maharashtra legislature, will have to get elected before May 27.  Speaking to PTI, Thorat expressed confidence that the MVA will win six of the nine seats, two each for three members of the alliance. "During the Rajya Sabha elections, I spoke to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on the Congress' demand of two seats in the Council. There should not be any problem," he said. The BJP, which has 105 MLAs, said it will contest four seats. If the MVA contests six seats, it will need 174 votes. The government had bagged 169 out of 288 votes during the trust vote last year. "We have the numbers," Thorat claimed. Party position in the Assemblyis as follows: BJP 105, Shiv Sena 56, NCP 54, Congress 44, Bahujan Vikas aghadi 3, Samajwadi party 2, AIMIM 2, Prahar Janshakti Party 2, MNS 1, CPM 1, PWP 1, Swabhimani Paksh1, Rashtriya Samaj Paksh 1, Jansurajya Shakti 1, Krantikari Shetkari Paksh 1 and Independents 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-welcomes-council-polls-thorat-claims-it-can-win-six-seats-832322.html
01-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Hazur Sahib gurdwara, langar at Nanded sealed||The Gurdwara Hazur Sahib at Nanded was on Friday sealed by local authorities after several pilgrims who returned to Punjab after visiting the shrine tested coronavirus positive, officials said. The Gurdwara Langar Sahib in the premises, which serves food to all visitors, has also been closed, they said. Hazur Sahib, also known as Takht Hazuri Sahib Sachkhand, is among the holiest Sikh shrines in the country. At least 115 of the over 3,500 pilgrims who returned from the Nanded gurdwara have tested positive for coronavirus, according to Punjab government figures. "The gurdwara and langar (community kitchen) have been closed from Friday," the official at Nanded said. Gurdwara superintendent Gurvinder Singh Wadhwa said, "District and civic officials reached the gurdwara in the morning on Friday and directed that it be closed and the langar service be stopped." The batch of pilgrims who left from Nanded to Punjab had been tested at the local government hospital for the virus and none showed any symptoms, he said. The pilgrims had made halts at Indore, one of the country's worst coronavirus-affected cities, Bhilwara and Hanumangarh in Rajasthan, and Bhatinda in Punjab en route, gurdwara functionaries said. Baba Balwinder Singh of Langar Sahib said there are some 175 people from different states in the complex.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-hazur-sahib-gurdwara-langar-at-nanded-sealed-832404.html
01-05-2020||West||Hundreds of migrants leave Surat for Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan from Surat amid coronavirus lockdown||Hundreds of migrant workers from Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have started their journey back home from Surat. After the lockdown to contain coronavirus outbreak was announced in March and extended in April, the city had witnessed violent protests by stranded workers who wanted to return to their native states. The administration has now allowed workers from Odisha, MP and Rajasthan to leave. Since Thursday, hundreds of migrants from these states have left Surat after obtaining on-the-spot permission at three check posts, said city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt. "Till now, hundreds of workers have left for their native places in private vehicles. Several buses also left from check posts today," he said. On Friday, 30 private buses carrying stranded workers and their families left, said another official. Instead of asking migrant workers to apply online for permission to leave the city, Surat administration has asked them to reach any of the three check posts with necessary documents. "People from Odisha, MP and Rajasthan can go to their native places in private vehicles and buses. They need to provide personal details as well as vehicle details at the check posts. "Migrants from other states will have to wait for some time as we are in talks with those states," said Surat Collector Dhaval Patel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hundreds-of-migrants-leave-surat-for-odisha-madhya-pradesh-rajasthan-from-surat-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-832413.html
01-05-2020||West||326 new coronavirus cases, 22 deaths in Gujarat||With 326 new patients being detected since the previous night, 267 of them in Ahmedabad, the number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat reached 4,721 on Friday, a health official said. Twenty-two patients died during this period, taking the death toll due to coronavirus to 236 in the state, said Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi. Out of the 326 positive cases reported in the past 24 hours, as many as 267 cases were reported in Ahmedabad, 26 in Surat, 19 in Vadodara, six in Mahisagar, three in Panchmahal and one each in Banaskantha, Botad, Gandhinagar, Kutch and Patan districts, she said. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 4,721, new cases 326, deaths 236, discharged 736, active cases 3,749 and people tested so far 68,774.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/326-new-coronavirus-cases-22-deaths-in-gujarat-832431.html
01-05-2020||West||Maharashtra records over 1,000 coronavirus cases in 24 hrs, death toll now at 485||In the biggest jump of coronavirus cases, Maharashtra on Friday recorded an increase of 1,008 patients.  The state's tally of positive cases now stands at 11,506. In the last 24 hours, 26 deaths have been reported taking the state's total to 485. The total number of cases and deaths in Mumbai now is 7,812 and 295, respectively.  Pune recorded a total of 1,176 cases and 92 deaths. The cumulative positive cases in Thane has shot to 438. A total of 7 deaths have been reported in the district.  Out of these 26 deaths on Friday, 10 deaths were recorded in Pune city, 5 in Mumbai, 3 in Jalgaon district, 1 was recorded in Pune district, 1 in Sindhudurg, 1 in Bhivandi Municipal Corporation, 1 in Thane Municipal Corporation, 1 in Nanded, 1 in Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, and 1 in Parbhani.  Additionally, 1 death of an Uttar Pradesh resident was recorded in Mumbai.  Out of 1,53,125 laboratory samples, 1,40,587 were negative and 11,506 have been tested positive for coronavirus until Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-over-1000-coronavirus-cases-in-24-hrs-death-toll-now-at-485-832457.html
01-05-2020||West||Ensure coronavirus doesn't spread to municipalities-villages: Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani to officials||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Friday said municipalities in semi-urban areas as well as villages must be on guard to ensure novel coronavirus infection does not break out in these parts. Gujarat has 4,721 COVID-19 cases as on Friday evening, with the vast majority, or 89 per cent, being in urban centres like Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara. He held video conference meets with office bearers of 162 municipalities and village heads and asked them to take all efforts to ensure areas under them are "coronavirus free". "You must ensure your municipalities remain free of coronavirus. You need to regularly sanitize all the areas in your municipalities. Those municipalities which border cities having a high number of cases must be very alert. It must be ensured that people from red zones do not enter your areas and spread the infection," he told them. Rupani asked officials to maintain movement registers of those visiting cities and coming back to their towns, adding that these people should be medically examined. He asked officials to take action against those not wearing masks despite it being made mandatory due to the virus outbreak. He asked sarpanchs to ensure villages adhere to three norms, namely wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands at regular intervals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ensure-coronavirus-doesnt-spread-to-municipalities-villages-gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-to-officials-832460.html
