02-05-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Two children recover from COVID-19 in Hubballi, discharged||Two children, who recovered from Covid-19, have been discharged from the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi. P-234 (three-and-a-half years old boy) and his sister P-235 (seven-year-old girl) have been discharged after two throat swab tests conducted in a gap of 24 hours tested negative for COVID-19 infection. Doctors also confirmed that they had no problem in the lungs, after conducting X-ray test. Mother of the children, who was allowed to look after them at the isolation ward, also tested negative, and she was sent with children. Out of seven members of this family from Mulla Oni, three persons are discharged so far. With this, four persons who contracted the virus in the district are discharged from the hospital, after the recovery, so far. At present, six COVID-19 patients are being treated at KIMS, and they are recovering, Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/two-children-recover-from-covid-19-in-hubballi-discharged-832691.html
02-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bidar records first coronavirus death||An 82-year-old man (P590) who died on April 28, found positive for the virus on Saturday in Bidar, Karnataka. With this, Bidar district recorded first death due to COVID-19.  The deceased, who was a resident of Bidar, was admitted to the designated hospital on April 27 evening with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bidar-records-first-coronavirus-death-832601.html
02-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Davangere's first coronavirus victim buried||Davangere in Karnataka, which recorded eight COVID-19 positive cases in 48 hours, registered one death on Friday night. The last rites of the 69-year old man (patient number 556) from Jaalinagar, who died in district general hospital in the city on May 1, were held in graveyard near P B Road as per guidelines of the government  in the wee hours of Saturday. The man had diabetes and blood pressure and he was under medication for both for the past many years. He was tested positive for COVID-19 on April 30 and breathed his last in the hospital on May 1. His son, three daughters-in-law and one-year-old grand son had also tested positive and they are undergoing treatment in the hospital. Deputy Commissioner Mahantesha Beelagi said the last rites of the man were conducted at 4:00 am on Saturday as per the protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangeres-first-coronavirus-victim-buried-832604.html
02-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||One more tests positive for coronavirus in Belagavi||A secondary contact of COVID-19 infected person tested positive for the disease taking the tally to 73 in Belagavi, Karnataka on Saturday. Identified as P596, the 23-year-old man is secondary contact of P128 from Hirebagewadi village in Belagavi taluk. P128 has been discharged from Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital after he recovered recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-more-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-in-belagavi-832613.html
02-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rajasthan labourers in Belagavi sent home in buses||About 169 labourers from Rajasthan, who had been quarantined here after being caught while traveling in goods transporting trucks, were released and allowed to go to their home state on Saturday. Labourers were apprehended on March 28, when they were traveling in goods transporting trucks from Bengaluru to Rajasthan. They had been housed in Social Welfare Department hostel at Nehru Nagar in the city and Morarji Desai Residential School at Halbhavi.    Medical check up of the labourers had been conducted and as per the guidelines of lockdown in effect for preventing spread of COVID-19 and ban on travel, they had been kept in quarantine. Belagavi City Corporation officials informed that the labourers from Rajasthan were being sent back in six private buses and each bus will carry 28 persons to maintain social distancing. Rajasthan labourers expressed their gratitude to the District Administration for taking care of them for over a month and meeting medical and food needs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rajasthan-labourers-in-belagavi-sent-home-in-buses-832616.html
02-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Government to bear cost of empty traveling buses||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said that Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will collect single fare for carrying labourers stuck in Bengaluru to their home districts and costs of empty buses returning will be borne by the government. Savadi who holds the Transport Department portfolio participated in video conference with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa at Deputy Commissioners office here on Saturday.   He informed reporters that to maintain social distancing in the wake of COVID-19, buses will carry passengers half of the capacity. Barring labourers stuck in Bengaluru, others will not be allowed to board them to reach their home towns. Construction and other labourers have been stuck in Bengaluru due to lockdown and want to return home, hence, bus services have been made available for them. Buses will return to Bengaluru without any passenger and costs will be borne by government, he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-government-to-bear-cost-of-empty-traveling-buses-832637.html
02-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Somashekar raises addl Rs 45L for zoo||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar collected an additional Rs 45.30 lakh for Mysuru Zoo and handed it over the authorities on Saturday. With this, the minister has collected a total of Rs 1.18 crore for the zoo from his supporters. Somashekar has promised of raising Rs 1 crore funds for the zoo as it has no revenue, following the lockdown. Somashekar had raised Rs 73.16 lakh from his supporters and had handed it over to the zoo, two days back. The minister said that he has approached all ministers, MLCs, dignitaries to support the Mysuru Zoo by contributing. Somashekar has also written a letter to Sudha Murty, chairperson of Infosys Foundation, urging her to support the zoo. In addition, Food and Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah, who visited the zoo with Somashekar, donated Rs 8 lakh and also distributed 25 kg of rice each to 300 employees of the Zoo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/somashekar-raises-addl-rs-45l-for-zoo-832835.html
02-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Initiative to encourage reading books among kids||At a time when dependence of children on gadgets was likely to increase in the wake of the lockdown due to coronavirus or Covid-19 scare, a few organisations and individuals came together to kindle the love for reading books, among children. Vijayendra Samskritika Balaga, supported by a few leaders, launched ‘Corona Katthaleyalli Aata Paatada Belaku’, to distribute books and desi board games to children in Mysuru. It is an initiative to encourage the habit of reading books and playing desi games among children, who got longer summer vacations due to the lockdown. Members of the balaga distributed books and game materials to children at a few places, including Medar Block in the city. Kannada Book Authority Chairman Nandish Hanchya said, “The balaga is distributing books and game materials at a time, when children are mostly indulged in gadgets, including online classes.” “Due to the lockdown, the children had lost physical social contacts. Too much of virtual contacts and being online for longer durations is not good for both mental and physical health,” he said. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had earlier launched ‘Makkala Vaani’, a YouTube channel for children, created by Primary and Secondary Education department. The department aimed to reach out to children and engage them in various activities, until the reopening of schools. It has to be noted that for many children exams were not held. Makkala Vaani had invited child-centric, educative and entertaining video and audio content from the public, to be uploaded. This channel has short videos of 5 to 6 minutes on story-telling, story reading, book reading, singing, quiz, drawing and painting, acting and magic show. Hanchya lauded the efforts of BJP slum morcha state general secretary R Raghu, for initiating the programme. Raghu said, “BJP general secretary B Y Vijayendra showed special interest in children and their education, besides distributing food packets and medicines to the poor across the state. Vijayendra was worried about the children’s dependence on gadgets at a time when they had more leisure. He was thinking of bringing the children back to the roots, like reading books of various genre and also playing of native games”. “Vijayendra opined that the children would be under more stress during lockdown as it is a crisis. The real happiness of children is lost in the company of gadgets. The books we have distributed are related to our heritage and culture. We hope to extend the programme to more children of poor and middle class families. We will be happy if our initiative encourages children to grow creatively, adhering to our culture and values,” he said. Corporator V Ramaprasad, Alanahalli Mahadevaswamy, Marballi Murthy, G Gopal, Vikram Iyengar, Apoorva Suresh, Suchindra and Srinivas Prasad are part of the programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/initiative-to-encourage-reading-books-among-kids-832836.html
02-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Liquor stolen at KSTDC bar, probe ordered||Chikkaballaur, DHNS: A probe has been ordered by Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) to ascertain who stole 21 tins (each 300 ML) of liquor during the lockdown period at its Mayura Pine Top (MPT) at Nandi Hills. A separate enquiry has also been ordered to ascertain why the Excise Department officials did not shut down the KSTDC’s bar at Nandi Hills. The KSTDC managing director  (MD) Kumar Pushkar told DH, ”The theft of tins at the MPT at Nandi Hills has come to my notice.  Either the staff sold the liquor or consumed it. Liquor theft at a government facility, especially when there was ban on sales in the wake of lockdown, is the biggest mistake. A probe will be ordered and disciplinary action will be taken against the errant.” He said that the Excise Department officials shut down all KSTDC bars except the MPT bar at Nandi Hills. A probe would be ordered to ascertain the reason. Soon after the theft came to light, the MPT manager Manjegowda, in a letter written on April 28 stated that the monkeys destroyed the tins. The letter is yet to reach the MD. Liquor and cold beverage bottles in the store house were intact when the stocks were verified on March 21 in the presence of manager and auditor. The manager left for his native place on March 22 and returned on March 31. Materials in the store house were intact when he verified. He reported back to duties on April 24. The theft came to light when he verified the stocks in presence of staff members. Manjegowda, in the letter to the MD, stated that Jayabheema was in possession of keys of the store house. DH tried to reach out to Manjegowda, but his both mobile phones were switched off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/liquor-stolen-at-kstdc-bar-probe-ordered-832715.html
02-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||District admin to permit labourers' visits||Deputy commissioner R Latha on Saturday directed officials to keep strict vigil on those staying at border areas in order to prevent the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the district. She chaired a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the district at her office. "Details of labourers wishing to enter the district and move out of the district should be uploaded on Seva Sindhu website. Permission will be granted for the travel only to those who register their names for entry and exit," she said. Latha said that a decision had been taken to grant permission to migrant labourers to return to their native places based on the Central government order. Either the service of KSRTC buses or trains would be provided to those wishing to go to different places from the district.The deputy commissioner directed the officials to quarantine labourers visiting the district from other districts and states for 14 days. Superintendent of Police G K Mithun Kumar said that penalty would be levied on those venturing out of their houses unnecessarily. The assistance of nodal officer might be sought to get essential materials. Additional deputy commissioner Arati Anand, Chikkaballapur Covid-19 special nodal officer N Bhaskar, district health officer Dr BM Yogesh Gowda and other district-level offers were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/district-admin-to-permit-labourers-visits-832739.html
02-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Passengers need not to take ticket to travelling in special trains||Passengers, who travel in special trains, need not buy tickets, said railways.  The railways will collect the fares from the state governments, said railways officials. The railways fixed the fare for the Sleeper Mail Express train, plus Rs 30 superfast charge and an additional charge of  Rs 20. This includes meals and drinking water for long-distance trains. However, passengers are not required to buy the ticket. The fares will be paid by the state governments, said the officials here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-passengers-need-not-to-take-ticket-to-travelling-in-special-trains-832509.html
02-05-2020||National||PM deliberates on national education policy, reforms in education sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday deliberated on the reforms required in the education sector, including the National Education Policy (NEP). Special emphasis was given on the use of technology in the education sector and enhancing learning and adapting by the use of technology such as online classes, education portal and class-wise broadcast on dedicated education channels. Several educational institutions have used online tools to help students with their syllabus during the coronavirus-induced lockdown which has now been extended for two more weeks beginning May 4. According to the HRD Ministry, the National Education Policy was framed in 1986 and modified in 1992. More than three decades have passed since the previous policy was formulated. Keeping in mind the changes, a new education policy is needed. It was decided to usher in education reforms to create a vibrant knowledge society by ensuring higher quality education to all, this making India a "global knowledge super power', a government statement said. The focus was on bringing uniformity in education, providing universal access to quality education and improving the quality of elementary education through a new national curriculum framework, the statement said. It said the framework should focuses on multi-linguistic, 21st century skills, integration of sport and art and environmental issues. The use and promotion of technology in various modes for education at school and higher levels was discussed in detail. These included online mode, TV channels, radio and podcasts, among other things. Reforming the higher education scenario by making the Indian education system at par with the highest global standards, making education effective, inclusive, contemporary, rooted in the Indian culture and ethos were also discussed. The emphasis was given on early childhood care and education, foundational literacy and numeracy, adapting contemporary pedagogy, preserving the cultural and linguistic diversity of India with a special focus on early vocationalisation of education. To achieve all these goals and to ensure efficient educational governance, extensive use of technology including artificial intelligence will be promoted, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-deliberates-on-national-education-policy-reforms-in-education-sector-832510.html
02-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Three indigenous diagnostic kits in the offing, Bengaluru agency provides hand-holding||Three indigenous low-cost COVID-19 diagnostics kits may be on the horizon, thanks to a Bengaluru-based agency that offers hand-holding to three start-ups for developing such kits using innovative science. Two of them have received approvals from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation for commercial manufacturing while the kit developed by the third one is being evaluated by the ICMR. “The testing cost for all three has been pegged at around Rs 1,000, less than a quarter of the current cost of Rs 4,500 for imported kits”, says Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platform—a Department of Biotechnology supported incubation agency—in a statement. Public health experts are of the opinion that India needs to urgently increase the number of tests to get a handle on the coronavirus pandemic. As per the World Health Organisation guidelines, mass testing for Covid-19 is one of the major if not the most important containment strategy for the pandemic. But India’s national testing average is still low at about 500 tests-per-million currently whereas the ICMR target is 1,00,000 tests per day. “The demand for RT-PCR tests is 35 lakh units whereas we have ordered for 21.35 lakh units, out of which only two lakh units are from domestic suppliers,” P D Waghela, Secretary, Department of Pharmaceuticals said here on Friday. This is where the homegrown manufacturers can possibly chip in. Vadodara-based CoSara Diagnostics was the first Indian company to get a test license from CDSCO in late March. Validated by the National Institute of Virology, Pune the single-step reaction (RT-PCR) kit is ready to hit the market. It gives results in two and a half hours and the company has capacity to produce 20,000 kits a day. “We are on look-out for partners to scale up production,” Taslimarif Saiyad, C-CAMP chief executive officer told DH. The second product is from Hyderabad-based Huwel Lifesciences Pvt Ltd which reduces the testing time to less than two hours. Moreover, all molecular reagents and consumables are being made in-house. The company that received funding support from the DBT a fortnight ago has deployed a consignment of 10,000 kits in Telengana with two more orders on way.  The third detection kit is from a Noida-based start-up known as DNAXperts which uses special probes and takes less than an hour to test. The company has developed a second test, which is faster than existing methods. Both are under evaluation by the ICMR. “Widespread testing will form the core of India’s response in the coming days of the pandemic. Locally made and locally sourced testing kits will strengthen India’s testing capacity and help in controlling the scale of transmission,” notes the C-CAMP statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-three-indigenous-diagnostic-kits-in-the-offing-bengaluru-agency-provides-hand-holding-832511.html
02-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Bengaluru designated as red zone; curbs to continue||Restrictions will continue in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad beyond May 3 as all of them have been designated as red zones, even as the number of such districts in India have reduced from 170 a fortnight ago to 130. But the number of green zones (zero Covid-19 cases) have also reduced from 356 to 319, indicating the fleeting nature of the disease-free status. In Karnataka, Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru and Bengaluru Rural districts fall in the red zone, as per the letter written by Health Secretary Preeti Sudan to chief secretaries and health secretaries of states following their meeting with Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Thursday.  As on Friday, the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases across the country had risen to 35,365, while the death toll stood at 1,152 with 77 more deaths. The number of orange zones have increased from 207 to 284, with 13 districts of Karnataka figuring in the list. Other prominent cities in the red zone include Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Faridabad, Noida, Lucknow, Agra, Pune, Jaipur and Bhopal. The Centre also tweaked a key criterion used to classify green, orange and red zones. From now on, if a district remains disease-free for 21 days, it can see a change in status. Earlier, the government had set 28 days for a change in zone status.  “The districts were earlier designated as hotspots/red-zones, orange zones and green zones primarily based on the cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate. Since recovery rates have gone up, the districts are now being designated across various zones duly broad-basing the criteria.  “This classification is multi-factorial and takes into consideration incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback to classify the districts,” the Union Health Secretary said.  The new classification will enable more economic activities in those areas of the district that are relatively less affected by Covid-19, an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-bengaluru-designated-as-red-zone-curbs-to-continue-832515.html
02-05-2020||National||India moves to counter China's 'Health Silk Road' push||India is aggressively stepping up engagement in its neighbourhood to counter China's renewed bid to expand its strategic footprint by taking advantage of the Covid-19 crisis. With China moving swiftly to help countries reeling under the pandemic as part of its "Health Silk Road" initiative, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been busy working the phones.  New Delhi is said to be wary of China's new initiative, which it suspects to be an offshoot or extension of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) – China’s ambitious but controversial connectivity programme that India refused to join.  On Friday, Modi rang up Thai Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-Cha, one of the several South and South-east Asia leaders the PM has spoken to in recent days. On Thursday, he spoke to Myanmar’s state counselor Aung San Suu Kyi and conveyed India's willingness to provide all possible support to Myanmar for mitigating the health and economic impact of the pandemic. The Prime Minister called up Suu Kyi days after China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) sent a military medical team to Nay Pyi Daw to help the South-east Asian nation to deal with the pandemic. This was the second medical team Beijing sent to help Nay Pyi Daw to deal with the Covid-19 outbreak in Myanmar. China has sent its military medical teams to Laos and Pakistan as well. New Delhi is also extending currency swap facility to its neighbours to help them mitigate the impact of the crisis on their economies, in addition to providing them with paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine tablets as well as protective gears for healthcare professionals, face masks and other medical equipment.  India recently activated a currency swap facility of $ 150 million for Maldives. The Reserve Bank of India is also working with the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to finalise a $ 400 million currency swap agreement for the neighbouring island nation. China already provided a preliminary $ 500 million concessional loan to Sri Lanka to help it cushion the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, Modi discussed the outbreak with Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc of Vietnam, President Joco Widodo of Indonesia and Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong of Singapore. He has also separately called up leaders of Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan and Maldives. He is also likely to speak to Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Afghan President M Ashraf Ghani soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-moves-to-counter-chinas-health-silk-road-push-832517.html
02-05-2020||National||Under coronavirus lockdown, love for virtual dating||Lockdown blues are driving people towards virtual dating apps, which are seeing a surge in activity as people seek to combat isolation.  Tinder is seeing more members swiping right, more conversations and conversations lasting longer globally.  At Tinder, daily conversations have gone up an average 20% around the world, and the average length of conversations is now 25% longer. In India, conversations have been up an average 39% and the average length of conversations is 28% longer.  In fact, there were more than 3 billion swipes on March 29, a few days after the nationwide lockdown was announced, which is the maximum number of swipes on a single day in the history of Tinder. Bumble has also seen an 11% increase in Generation Z registrations, a 29% increase in messages sent and a 17% increase in video calls during the week ending March 27 compared to the week ending March 13. All metrics are up by 30-40% at Indian dating app TrulyMadly. Snehil Khanor, Founder, TrulyMadly mentioned that conversations/messages have increased dramatically and the female liking rate has spiked.  Filter Off, a video dating app, has also witnessed a remarkable rise in the number of users during the lockdown period. “We have grown about 17,000 users in just 4 weeks. We now have about 20,000 users. This is a huge increase,” said Zach Schleien, Founder, Filter Off. Virtual dating apps have also seen many users around the world mentioning Covid-19 in their profiles.  Stay home, be safe, social distancing, “how are you”, wash your hands and face emojis are being seen in bios at Tinder. According to Khanor, a lot of people at TrulyMadly are putting up profile pictures with masks. The apps are also gearing up to meet the growing demand by bringing in new features or making the existing premium features free. The passport feature at Tinder, a paid feature which allows members to search by cities, is now free for all users. Bumble has also expanded its distance filters and has launched new features like video calls.  “I believe virtual dating is here to stay. Prior to the pandemic, people were still unsure of it, but they are now becoming more comfortable. Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown have accelerated the acceptance of virtual dating,” said Schleien.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/under-coronavirus-lockdown-love-for-virtual-dating-832519.html
02-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Indian Railways to ensure strict social distancing norms in the 'Shramik Special' trains||Indian Railways will ensure strict social distancing norms followed by passengers and staff while travelling in 'Shramik Special' trains, said the national transporter here on Friday.  The railways, which already operated first special train to transport stranded migrant workers, on Friday early morning from Lingampalli in Telangana to Hatia in Jharkhand has run five more trains on Friday night on following routes: Aluva in Kerala to Bhubaneswar, Nasik to Lucknow, Nasik to Bhopal, Jaipur to Patna and Kota to Hatia. The special trains, which will carry migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places to their home states, will have only technical stops for watering and crew changing.  All passengers have to wear masks or cover their face, meals and drinking water will be provided to them. Only maximum 54  passengers will be allowed in a coach and Railway Protection Force will travel in the train to ensure social distance.  "The passengers have to be screened by the sending states and only those found asymptomatic would be allowed to travel. Sending State Governments will have to bring these persons in batches that can be accommodated in the train to the designated Railway Station in sanitized buses following social distancing norms and other precautions," Rajesh Dutt Bajpai, spokesperson of Indian Railway, said.  The Railways will endeavour to ensure social distancing norms and hygiene with the cooperation of passengers. On longer routes, the Railways will provide a meal enroute during the journey, he said. On arrival at the destination, passengers will be received by the State Government, who would make all arrangements for their screening, quarantine if necessary and further travel from the Railway Station, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-indian-railways-to-ensure-strict-social-distancing-norms-in-the-shramik-special-trains-832520.html
02-05-2020||National||Lockdown 3.0 Rules: Full list of activities permitted, prohibited in Red, Orange and Green Zones||The government, on Friday, announced that the coronavirus lockdown will be extended for two weeks beyond May 4, but with some easing of restrictions. The Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement that in view of "significant gains in the COVID-19 situation", areas with few or no cases would see "considerable relaxations". The MHA also issued new guidelines to regulate different activities in this period, based on the risk profiling of the districts of the country into Red (hotspot), Orange, and Green zones. The new guidelines have permitted considerable easing of restrictions in Green and Orange zones. These zones have been classified in terms of districts with either zero confirmed cases till date; or, no confirmed case in the last 21 days. Here's the full list of activities permitted and prohibited in Red Zone, Green Zone and Orange Zone districts across India:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-30-rules-full-list-of-activities-permitted-prohibited-in-red-orange-and-green-zones-832535.html
02-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 2, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Download the e-paper to read today’s edition and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-2-2020-edition-832543.html
02-05-2020||National||Karnataka Coronavirus Zones: Check out Red, Orange, Green Zone districts and list of permitted, prohibited activities||The government, on Friday, announced that the coronavirus lockdown will be extended for two weeks beyond May 4, but with some easing of restrictions. The Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement that in view of "significant gains in the COVID-19 situation", areas with few or no cases would see "considerable relaxations". The MHA also issued new guidelines to regulate different activities in this period, based on the risk profiling of the districts of the states into Red (hotspot), Orange, and Green zones. The new guidelines have permitted considerable easing of restrictions in Green and Orange zones. These zones have been classified in terms of districts with either zero confirmed cases till date; or, no confirmed case in the last 21 days. Here's the full list of activities permitted and prohibited in Red Zone, Green Zone and Orange Zone districts in Karnataka:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-coronavirus-zones-check-out-red-orange-green-zone-districts-and-list-of-permitted-prohibited-activities-832544.html
02-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 2||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 39,603 as of May 2.  States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 1,314     Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 7797   While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-2-832545.html
02-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Train carrying stranded labourers from Nashik reaches Bhopal||A special train carrying over 300 stranded labourers from Nashik in Maharashtra reached here on Saturday morning. A district administration official said that the non- stop special train reached Misrod Railway Station on the outskirts of Bhopal. "We have started screening these passengers brought here from Nashik in the special train. After that, they will be sent to their respective towns in different buses," the official said. This is the first special train which reached Bhopal after the Centre's announcement to run such services to facilitate the stranded labourers and workers. According to the district administration total 315 labourers were brought in this train. They are from Dewas, Indore, Jhabua, Khargone, Morena, Sheopur, Vidisha, Jabalpur, Seoni, Rewa, Sidhi, Singrauli, Satna, Shahdol, Damoh, Tikamgarh, Panna, Gwalior, Guna, Ashok Nagar, Bhind, Rajgarh, Datia, Khandwa, Barwani and Betul. These labourers are being sent to their respective districts in 15 buses, the official said. On Friday night, Divisional Railway Manager, Bhopal, Uday Borwankar had said that the non-stop special train carrying these labourers left Nashik at 9 pm on Friday. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had on Friday announced that one lakh labourers from the state stuck in various parts of the country will be brought back by special trains. Chouhan had also said that the state government had brought back 40,000 workers from other states by buses so far. "Now the state government will bring back about one lakh workers to Madhya Pradesh from different parts of the country by trains. A discussion has already been held in this regard with the Railway Minister," he had said in a statement. The chief minister directed Additional Chief Secretary ICP Keshari to provide necessary information to the Ministry of Railways about the number of labourers from the state who are stranded in different parts of the country. Keshari said over one lakh labourers from Madhya Pradesh are stranded in other states: 50,000 in Maharashtra, 30,000 in Gujarat, 8,000 in Tamil Nadu, 5,000 in Karnataka, 10,000 in Andhra Pradesh and 3,000 in Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-train-carrying-stranded-labourers-from-nashik-reaches-bhopal-832565.html
02-05-2020||National||J-K: Two soldiers injured in Pakistan firing along LoC succumb to death||Two soldiers, who were injured in firing by Pakistani troops along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district, succumbed here on Saturday, a defence spokesman said. "Unfortunately, two soldiers have succumbed to their injuries," defence spokesman Colonel Rajesh Kalia said. The Army salutes their supreme sacrifice, he said. Three soldiers and three civilians, including a four-year-old boy, were injured on Friday when Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Rampur Sector in Baramulla in north Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/j-k-two-soldiers-injured-in-pakistan-firing-along-loc-succumb-to-death-832567.html
02-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: States to bring passengers to board special trains||The Indian Railways on Saturday clarified that those who want to travel in Shramik Special trains have to approach state governments and not the Railways. " Special trains will run for migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places only on request of state governments.  Anyone who wants to travel should contact the state government only," a Railways official said here. The Railways also said that all passengers carrying trains including suburban trains are cancelled till May 17 and therefore no one should come to the railway station. The Railways will not issue individual tickets to anybody. Those who booked tickets for travel between May 4 to May 17 will get a refund.   On Friday, the Railways successfully operated six special trains from different states. The Railways top officials have asked the zones to contact state chief secretaries for the requirement of running special trains.  Since the states have requested the Railways to run special trains to ferry the passengers, the originating states have to prepare the list of passengers and bring them to board the trains. Only then will the Railways allow them to board the trains along with maintaining social distance norms. In each coach, only 54 passengers will be allowed to travel.  Both the Railways and state governments have to appoint nodal officers for the smooth operation of Shramik special trains. Passengers who travel on special trains need not buy tickets. The Railways will issue bulk tickets to state governments and collect the fares from them, said a railway official. The  Railways will have a fixed fare for the Sleeper Mail Express train, plus Rs 30 superfast charge and an additional charge of  Rs 20. This includes meals and drinking water for long-distance trains. However, passengers are not required to buy the ticket. The fares will be paid by the state governments, said the officials here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-states-to-bring-passengers-to-board-special-trains-832570.html
02-05-2020||National||Migrants’ ‘ghar wapsi’: Hemant Soren outshines veteran Nitish Kumar||When the first special train carrying around 1,200 migrant workers from Telangana chugged into Hatia railway station, near Ranchi, at 11.20 pm on Friday midnight, history was created. Jharkhand became the first state where a passenger train reached its destination after five weeks of lockdown. Prior to the migrants’ arrival, Chief Minister Hemant Soren was present at Hatia, a 20-minute drive from Ranchi, to oversee the arrangements for the 'incoming guests' of his State. Flowers, food packets and mineral water were offered to each of the passengers who were earlier properly screened at the railway station and then asked to board the 56 buses lined up outside the Hatia railway station. Four buses and ambulances were kept in reserve as these migrant workers had travelled nearly 19 hours from Lingampalli (Telangana) to Hatia in Jharkhand. The DC and SSP of Ranchi were personally present at the station to oversee the workers’ departure to their respective districts in separate buses, called ‘Samman Rath’. Of the around 1,200 migrants, the highest number of workers were from Palamu (269), while the lowest from Koderma (2). Around 18 buses left for Palamu alone after the migrants were given medical clearance.  “Hemant Soren walked away with the cake by bringing in the migrants stuck in other states while Nitish Kumar, who often keeps talking of the double engine government in Bihar (in an oblique reference to the NDA Government at the Centre as well as in the State), kept citing rules and regulations,” said Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav, showering praise on the Jharkhand Chief Minister. “The way he (Soren) kept his officials on their toes from Thursday midnight and meticulously planned the return of migrants is really praiseworthy,” the former deputy chief minister of Bihar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrants-ghar-wapsi-hemant-soren-outshines-veteran-nitish-kumar-832578.html
02-05-2020||National||COVID-19: 135 men from single CRPF battalion in Delhi test positive||At least 135 personnel of a battalion of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) based in Delhi have tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Saturday. Tests were conducted on 480 personnel of the  31st battalion out of which 323 have tested negative. Results of 22 personnel are awaited. Officials said the primary source of the virus infection in this battalion could be a constable, who is a nursing assistant, who joined this battalion after finishing his leave period in the National Capital Region. Officials said the reason behind the spread of virus infection in the battalion could be due to a change in the quarantine period stipulated for those rejoining duty. The general order was for a mandatory 14-day quarantine for personnel joining back from leave or having suspected exposure to a coronavirus-infected person. However, the CRPF medical wing issued a separate order last month saying that that doctors and paramedics can be taken off the quarantine if they do not show any symptom after five days. Twelve personnel had tested positive on Friday and a 55-year-old Sub-Inspector of this unit passed away due to the disease early this week, the first death in the force due to COVID-19. A mobile testing lab has been stationed on the premises of the battalion to ensure quick collection of samples while a special sanitisation drive was undertaken in the campus The personnel of this battalion were attached with Delhi Police to assist them in law and order situation. In a separate incident, a CRPF company, which is part of 246th battalion, comprising 80 personnel has been quarantined in Delhi after one of them was tested positive for COVID-19. The company was located in Narela area. A constable was tested positive following which other personnel in the company was quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-135-men-from-single-crpf-battalion-in-delhi-test-positive-832587.html
02-05-2020||National||Delhi Coronavirus Zones: Check out Red, Orange, Green Zone districts and list of permitted, prohibited activities||The government, on Friday, announced that the coronavirus lockdown will be extended for two weeks beyond May 4, but with some easing of restrictions. The Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement that in view of "significant gains in the COVID-19 situation", areas with few or no cases would see "considerable relaxations" With the Delhi government planning to categorise COVID-19 cases by wards instead of districts, parts of the national capital are likely to be out of the 'red zone' classification and expect lockdown relaxations after May 3, sources said on Friday. Meanwhile, the national capital recorded 223 fresh cases of coronavirus on Saturday, taking the tally to 3,738 with two more deaths being reported here, the government said. With the Delhi government planning to categorise COVID-19 cases by wards instead of districts, parts of the national capital are likely to be out of the 'red zone' classification and expect lockdown relaxations after May 3, sources said on Friday. Currently, the Union Health Ministry has designated the entire national capital, which has 11 districts, a 'red zone' in its new classification. The city has 272 wards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-coronavirus-zones-check-out-red-orange-green-zone-districts-and-list-of-permitted-prohibited-activities-832593.html
02-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Aarogya Setu app must for workers attending office, says MHA||All employees in public and private sectors attending work from May 4 will have to compulsorily download 'Aarogya Setu' app that helps in identifying the possibility of contracting COVID-19, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said. The direction, which is part of the new guidelines by the MHA for the lockdown that is extended till May 17, comes amid a section of activists raising concerns about the security of the app as well as privacy concerns. The government has allowed the functioning of offices, including in red zones where 33% of workers are allowed while in governments, all officers above the rank of Director are mandated to attend while only 33% of lower ranks be allowed to work from offices. According to the order, it will be the responsibility of the head of organisations to ensure that there is "100% coverage of this app among the employees". All people residing in the COVID-19 containment zones, where a large number of cases have been detected, will also have to compulsorily download the app. The order issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 makes it clear that ignoring the directions on lockdown will attract a jail term that could extend up to two years.  A group of around 35 organisations and 75 individuals have written to the government on Friday against the mandatory use of Aarogya Setu. It is claimed by the organisations that the app deviates from the international best practices of contact tracing apps and fails to comply with data protection standards. Concerns about similar digital applications have raised concerns in a section in the United States as well as the United Kingdom recently. At workplaces, there should be provision for thermal scanning, hand wash and sanitser "preferably with touch-free mechanism" at all entry and exit points and common areas.  Wearing of masks at workplaces is also made mandatory and all workplaces should have adequate stock of such face covers. Large physical meetings should be avoided while offices should maintain a list of authorised COVID-19 hospitals in nearby areas. "Employees showing any symptom of COVID-19 should be immediately sent for a check-up to such facilities. Quarantine areas should be earmarked for isolating employees showing symptoms till they are safely moved to the medical facilities," the order said. No one should allow people above 65 years and pregnant women should not be allowed at workplaces and they should stay home. Frequent sanitisation of the entire workplace, common facilities and all points which come into human contact like door handles should be ensured, including between shifts. Social distancing at workplaces should be ensured through adequate gaps between shifts and a staggering lunch break.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-aarogya-setu-app-must-for-workers-attending-office-says-mha-832598.html
02-05-2020||National||COVID-19: No more lockdown for marriages from now||Desperate to marry your heartthrob this COVID-19 season? It's easy now with the government allowing marriage functions during the lockdown from May 4 but you cannot invite more than 50 for the function. The new guidelines for the lockdown, which is extended till May 17, has allowed marriage related gatherings where the families should ensure social distancing. The maximum number of guests allowed will not be more than 50, the order said. Since March 25 when the lockdown was imposed, people needed to take permission from District Magistrates for marriages and related functions. With restrictions in place, very few marriages took place in the country and most of them did not have any gatherings while in some instances, people had even violated the restrictions by holding post-marriage parties. There were also reports of people holding online marriages with the bride and bridegroom unable to travel due to travel restrictions.  In one instance in Delhi, two policemen were the only "guests" during a marriage as the couple was transported by them to a registrar following a request from their parents. Kerala also saw the marriage of actor Chemban Vinod during this lockdown. The new guidelines also allow gatherings at funerals where 20 people are allowed. Funerals had seen tension in some areas, as locals objected to the burial fearing the spread of COVID-19, including one in Tamil Nadu where a doctor was buried in tense situation. Officials said gatherings related to marriages and funerals are allowed across the country, except in containment zones but the number of attendees will be regulated as per the new guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-no-more-lockdown-for-marriages-from-now-832602.html
02-05-2020||National||Delhi court grants bail to bookie Sanjeev Chawla in match-fixing case||A Delhi court has granted bail to Sanjeev Chawla, an alleged bookie and key accused in one of the cricket's biggest match-fixing scandals that involved former South African captain Hansie Cronje. Special Judge Ashutosh Kumar granted the relief to Chawla on a personal bond of Rs 2 lakh with two sureties of the like amount on April 30. The court said the accused was in custody for the last 76 days and the probe was already complete in the case. The court, however, directed him to give his voice sample and handwriting specimen to the investigating officer in the case. According to police, Chawla, who was extradited from London in February, was involved in fixing of five matches. Cronje, who died in a plane crash in 2002, was also involved, police had told the court. Chawla was alleged to have played a central role in conspiring with Cronje to fix a South African tour to India in February-March, 2000. The British court documents say that Chawla is a Delhi-born businessman who moved to the United Kingdom on a business visa in 1996 but continued to make trips to India||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-bookie-sanjeev-chawla-in-match-fixing-case-832603.html
02-05-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh: 12-day-old baby girl recovers from COVID-19 in Bhopal||A 12-day-old baby girl, who had tested positive for COVID-19, was discharged following recovery from a hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal city, an official said on Saturday. The infant, whose sample was taken for testing when she was only nine days old, returned home on Friday night after recovering from the deadly infection, a district official said. According to the child's father, the baby, who was born on April 7 at the government-run Sultania Janana Hospital, allegedly contracted the infection from a woman health worker, who was on duty during the birth and had later tested positive. "My daughter has recovered and returned home last night. We have named her 'Prakriti' (nature), because she won the battle against the pandemic," he told PTI on Saturday.  Following the birth, the mother and child were discharged from the hospital on April 11, but when the news about the health worker testing positive was reported, the family contacted the authorities, he said. On April 19, the newborn's COVID-19 test reports confirmed that she had contracted the infection, while the remaining family members tested negative, he said. Meanwhile, a district official said the infant was quarantined with her mother at a private hospital, where she underwent treatment for 15 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-12-day-old-baby-girl-recovers-from-covid-19-in-bhopal-832605.html
02-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Decoding the strains and virulence of novel coronavirus||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-decoding-the-strains-and-virulence-of-novel-coronavirus-832606.html
02-05-2020||National||Chairman of Delhi Minority Commission booked for sedition||The Special Cell of Delhi Police has registered a case of sedition against Chairman of Delhi Minority Commission Zafarul Islam Khan for a controversial social media post, an officer said on Saturday. The FIR was registered against Khan on April 30 under section 124 A (sedition) and 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth) after police received a complaint by a resident of Vasant Kunj. In the FIR, the complainant alleged that Khan's post was “provocative”, "deliberate” and seditious and intended to cause disharmony and create a rift in the society, police said, adding that the case is being investigated by the cyber cell. The remarks were posted by Khan on Tuesday but deleted after sometime. Later, Khan also sought an apology while the BJP demanded his removal from the commission. "I realise that my tweet was ill-timed and insensitive in view of our county facing a medical emergency and fighting an unseen enemy. I apologise to all whose sentiments were hurt," Khan said in a statement. He said that his tweet on April 28, thanking Kuwait for taking note of the "persecution" of Indian Muslims, in the context of the northeast Delhi violence, has "pained" some people which was never his intention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chairman-of-delhi-minority-commission-booked-for-sedition-832609.html
02-05-2020||National||Treat Vishal Yadav's parole plea as representation, dispose it in 15 days: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court has directed the "competent authority", which under the prison rules is the Lt Governor, to treat the parole plea of Vishal Yadav, who is serving life term for killing business executive Nitish Katara in 2002, as a representation and dispose it within 15 days. Yadav had petitioned the court for an eight-week parole on the ground that he was at an increased risk of contracting the coronavirus in jail as he has a history of tuberculosis illness. "In the considered view of the court, the subject matter requires to be considered by the competent authority in the first instance," the court of Justice A K Chawla said, following which the convict's lawyer suggested that the plea be treated as a representation and be disposed in a time-bound manner. The Delhi government, represented by its additional standing counsel (criminal) Rajesh Mahajan, assured the court that the representation would be considered on its merits and will be disposed within three weeks. Subsequently, the court directed the competent authority to treat the instant writ petition as a representation and dispose it within 15 days from May 1. "The decision taken shall be communicated to the petitioner forthwith. Writ petition stands disposed of in the foregoing terms," it said. The government had told the court that there is no risk of coronavirus infection to the convict in the prison. It had also said the prison records indicated the convict's medical condition to be stable and not suffering from TB. It had said under the prison rules grant of eight weeks 'emergency' parole amounts to a remission of sentence. While sending Yadav to jail in February 2015, the high court had said that he be not considered for any remission till he completes 25 years of actual imprisonment. "Consequently, he would not be entitled to grant of emergency parole as it amounts to grant of remission," the Delhi government said. Yadav has contended in his plea that due to his prolonged TB infection, his immune system is weak and coupled with the poor sanitation facilities in prison, he would be vulnerable to the virus. On October 3, 2016, the Supreme Court awarded a 25-year jail term without any remission to Vishal and his cousin Vikas Yadav for kidnapping Katara from a marriage party in February 2002 and then killing him for his alleged affair with Bharti Yadav, the sister of Vikas Yadav. Another convict in the sensational case, Sukhdev Pehalwan, was handed down a 20-year jail term. Bharti is the daughter of Uttar Pradesh politician D P Yadav who is in jail in connection with another murder case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/treat-vishal-yadavs-parole-plea-as-representation-dispose-it-in-15-days-delhi-hc-832611.html
02-05-2020||National||Palghar lynching case accused tests COVID-19 positive||One of the persons arrested in connection with the Palghar lynching case, who was lodged in a police lock-up, has tested coronavirus positive, an official said on Saturday. Police have so far arrested 115 persons, including nine minors, in connection with the lynching of three men, including two seers, at Gadchinchale village in Palghar last month. The accused tested positive for the infection on Friday night, the official said. "He was kept in a police lock-up at Wada in the district along with 20 others. After testing positive, he was admitted to a government hospital in Palghar," district civil surgeon Dr Kanchan Wanere said. "Twenty others kept in lock-up with him have been quarantined along with around 23 police personnel, who came had come in contact with him," she said. The health department is now trying to find out how he contracted the infection, Wanere said. According to sources, on April 18, a test was conducted on all the accused arrested in the case till then to know whether they were infected. However, all of them had tested negative at that time.  The second test was conducted on Friday and the result came at night, in which the accused was found COVID-19 positive, the sources said. The accused had been presented before a local court on April 30 along with other accused, they said, adding that his family members will be quarantined now.  The state police's Crime Investigation Department (CID) had on Friday arrested five more persons in connection with the incident of lynching, which took the number of accused held to 115. The incident took place on April 16 when the two seers were heading towards Surat from Mumbai in a car with a driver to attend a funeral. A mob of villagers stopped them and beat them to death on suspicion that they were thieves, even as a few police personnel had reached the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/palghar-lynching-case-accused-tests-covid-19-positive-832624.html
02-05-2020||National||62 new COVID-19 cases confirmed in Andhra Pradesh, tally rises to 1,525||the infection showed no signs of abating. In the last 24 hours, 38 patients got cured and discharged from hospitals in the state, taking the total to 441. The latest COVID-19 bulletin said the toll remained the same at 33. Kurnool, the major COVID-19 hotbed in AP, recorded 25 fresh cases in the last 24 hours ending 9 am on Saturday. The district now has a total of 436 cases, with 360 active following the discharge of 66 and death of 10 coronavirus patients. Krishna district, the other major hotspot, reported 12 new cases, taking the total to 258 while two cases were added in neighbouring Guntur, with a total of 308. Interestingly, Guntur topped the state inpatient discharges with 97, while it had eight casualties along with Krishna. Half of the 38 patients discharged in the last 24 hours were from Guntur, seven each from Krishna and West Godavari, two each from Anantapuramu and Chittoor and one from SPS Nellore. That has left a total of 1,051 active cases in the state now. The bulletin said 5,943 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the aggregate to 1,08,403. Of that, 1,06,878 turned negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/62-new-covid-19-cases-confirmed-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-rises-to-1525-832625.html
02-05-2020||National||Barber shops, sale of non-essentials by e-commerce platforms allowed in green, orange zones: MHA||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday clarified that barber shops and salons will be allowed to open in green and orange zones during the third phase of the lockdown beginning May 4, besides sale of non-essential items by e-commerce platforms. The MHA on Friday, while extending the lockdown for two more weeks till May 17, lifted many restrictions in green and orange zones. There are no restrictions on sale of non-essential items by e-commerce platforms in green and orange zones, a home ministry spokesperson said, adding barber shops and salons are also allowed to open in these areas. In red zones, the e-commerce companies are allowed to sell only essential commodities. Barber shops and salons are not allowed to open in red zones as these are services not goods. ale of liquor is allowed in green, orange and red zones, which is not under containment. Liquor sale is allowed in green, orange and red zones if it is a standalone shop and not located in markets or malls in red zone. In liquor shops, customers will have to maintain minimum six feet distance (2 gaz ki doori) from each other, and also ensure that not more than five persons are present at one time at the shop. The exemptions will be effective from May 4 when the third phase of the lockdown will begin.  On allowing domestic maids to work in red zones, a home ministry official said the RWAs should take a call regarding allowing the movement of outsiders. But health protocols have to be maintained by domestic helps as well as employers, and the responsibility lies with the person who employs maids in case of any mishappening. Classifications of districts into 'Red', 'Orange' and 'Green' zones is done based on the basis of COVID-19 risk profiling. A district will be considered as a 'Green' zone if there are no confirmed cases so far or there is no reported case for the past 21 days. According to the health ministry, as on Friday, there were 130 'Red' zones in the country with maximum of 19 in Uttar Pradesh, followed by 14 in Maharashtra in the country. The number of 'Orange' Zone was 284 and 'Green' was 319. All the districts of the national capital have been put under 'Red' zone. According to the home ministry, travel by road (inter-state), rail and air and metro are banned across the country during the lockdown. The home ministry may give permission in special cases depending on the urgency. Educational, training institutions like schools, colleges, coaching centers are not allowed to open during the lockdown. However, online, distance learning is permitted. Hospitality services, including hotels and restaurants will remain shut. Places of large gatherings like gym, theatres, malls, bars, religious, social and political gatherings, movement of people between 7 pm and 7 am for non-essential activities are banned. Every activity, except movement of persons for supply of essential goods and services and for medical emergencies, OPDs and medical clinics, will remain prohibited in containment areas of a red zone. Outside containment areas of a red zone, plying of rickshaw, taxi, buses, barber shops and spas remain prohibited. What is allowed outside containment areas of a red zone (with restrictions):-- In urban areas:-- Movement of people and vehicles for permitted activities, industrial establishments in urban areas like SEZs, manufacturing of essential goods like drugs, medical devices etc and their supply chain, manufacturing of IT hardware, jute industry, construction (if workers residing on site). Standalone shops, shops in neighbourhood and residential complexes (essential and non-essential items), e-commerce activities for essential goods, private offices with 33 per cent strength, operations of homes for senior citizens, children, destitutes etc, government offices and emergency, health, sanitation and security services are also allowed outside containment areas of red zones. What is allowed in rural areas:-- All industrial and construction activities, all shops, except in shopping malls, all agriculture, animal husbandry and plantation activities, health services, financial sector including banks, NBFCs etc, public utilities, courier and postal services, print, electronic media, IT, ITeS, warehouses services by self employed persons except barbers. In orange zone:-- What is prohibited:-- Inter and intra-districts plying of buses, except those permitted by the MHA. Permitted activities:-- All activities permitted in red zone (outside containment zone), taxi (driver with 2 passengers only). Inter-district movement of people and vehicles for permitted activities, 4 wheelers with 2 passengers with driver, pillion riding on 2 wheelers. In green zone:-- All activities allowed except those prohibited throughout the country. Buses and bus depots can operate with 50 per cent capacity. According to the home ministry, states and UTs may put restrictions on the above permitted activities, based on their assessment required to contain COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/barber-shops-sale-of-non-essentials-by-e-commerce-platforms-allowed-in-green-orange-zones-mha-832628.html
02-05-2020||National||Beware! Fake email campaign prowling in Indian cyberspace||Country's federal cybersecurity agency has alerted Internet users against an ongoing "fake" email campaign that claims to have recorded personal video of a user which could be published if a ransom amount in crypto-currency is not paid. The Computer Emergency Response Team of India (CERT-In), in the latest advisory, has said while there is "nothing to worry" about such emails, users should update or change their passwords, used to log in any of their social media or other online platforms, if they find them compromised. "In email extortion campaign, the scammers have sent numerous emails to people stating that their computers were hacked, a video was taken using their webcam and that they know their passwords," the advisory, also accessed by PTI, said. These emails are fake, scams, and nothing to worry about, it added. The CERT-In is the national technology arm to combat cyberattacks and guarding of the Indian cyberspace. The agency mentions the contents of a typical 'extortion' email in the advisory: Firstly, the scammer would try to grab the recipient's attention by writing their old password in the mail. After that, the scammer would craft a story containing computer jargons in order to convince the recipient that the scammer is a very skilled hacker. The story would state that the hacker had placed a malware on a porn website and while the user was watching the video, his webcam and display screen was hacked breaching all his contacts from messenger, FaceBook and email. The advisory states that this could be the "final step" before seeking the ransom. It adds that the scammer will then demand ransom in the form of Bitcoin (cryptocurrency). "Now, the scammer or cyber-criminal will give a deadline of 24 hours to comply and threaten to send videos to the relatives, co-workers etc of the user," it said. The CERT-In said the user's secret passcode mentioned in the fake email could be "actual passwords used by the recipient of the email in the past, but the attacker does not know them by hacking their account, but rather through leaked data breaches shared online."  "Recipients should not send any payments to the scammers and if the passwords listed are in use or familiar, recipients are advised to change the password at any site that they are being used," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beware-fake-email-campaign-prowling-in-indian-cyberspace-832629.html
02-05-2020||National||No income, commercial units shut: Delhi villages demand withdrawal of electricity bills amidst coronavirus lockdown||Some village associations in letters to authorities, including Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, have sought withdrawal of power bills of commercial establishments and announcement of additional subsidy for residential units in and around villages. "Since lockdown, all commercial establishments are shut. Also, income from residential units has depleted as the government has asked owners to refrain from seeking rent from tenants," said Anil Gianchandani, the secretary of Delhi Gramin Samaj. The Shahpur Jat Society in a letter to the chief minister said even though almost all commercial units in Delhi are shut, the electricity companies are sending provision bills to residents of Shahpur Jat, Munirka, Ber Sarai, Kishangarh, Mehrauli and others. "How can the electricity companies be allowed to issue bills when there has not been any consumption of electricity for more than a month? It is a fact that these units have not been able to carry out any business and therefore they should not be compelled to pay any electricity charge for the lockdown period," read the letter. "By this letter we seek complete withdrawal of electricity bills of commercial units for the lockdown period," said the Society. Its executive member Aman Panwar said, "On one hand the government is asking us to not seek rent and on the other we are receiving power bills for commercial and residential units through SMS." Surendra Shahpuria, the joint secretary of the Society, said most of the village inhabitants had agriculture as their primary source of livelihood, however, after mass land acquisition in Delhi in the 1960s and 1970s, a majority of villagers became dependent on rent as their primary source of income, which was adversely affected during the lockdown period. "In view of the prevalent circumstances, we demand that for the residential units located in village areas (both urban and rural) of Delhi, the Delhi government should provide 50 per cent rebate on electricity bills during the lockdown period, over and above the current rebates/subsidy," he said. Shahpur Jat Society has also demanded the power discoms to not issue bills during the lockdown period. Gianchandani said his organisation Delhi Gramin Samaj too has written a letter to the chief minister, seeking relief to inhabitants of nearly 380 villages (mostly urbanised) in the national capital. "We have demanded the government for withdrawal of commercial bills and 50 per cent rebate in billed amount for residential units during the lockdown period," he said. These villages have rent as the primary source of "survival" that has been "severely impacted" during lockdown, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-income-commercial-units-shut-delhi-villages-demand-withdrawal-of-electricity-bills-amidst-coronavirus-lockdown-832631.html
02-05-2020||National||UP allows reopening of some shops selling non-essential goods in rural areas||Shops selling construction material, bricks, cement, sand, iron bars, hardware and mobile repairing shops located outside coronavirus hotspots in rural areas will be allowed to do business while strictly adhering to the norms of social distancing and other guidelines issued by the Centre, Chief Secretary R K Tiwari said. The chief secretary Friday evening issued directions to all the divisional commissioners, district magistrates, DIGs, senior superintendents of police, superintendents of police and the police commissioners of Lucknow and Gautam Buddh Nagar in this regard. The centre had announced on Friday that a "limited" lockdown which includes suspension of air, train and inter-state road travel will continue to remain in force for two more weeks from May 4 across the country, but some activities would be allowed after classifications of districts into 'Red', 'Orange' and 'Green' zones based on COVID-19 risk profiling. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 25, which was later extended by two more weeks till March 3 to contain the virus spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-allows-reopening-of-some-shops-selling-non-essential-goods-in-rural-areas-832632.html
02-05-2020||National||COVID-19 lockdown an opportunity for tobacco users to quit habit: Health experts||The ban on the use of smokeless tobacco products during the ongoing lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus is an opportunity for tobacco users to get rid of the harmful habit, say health experts. "The ongoing lockdown and the non-availability of the tobacco products can be turned into an opportunity to free the tobacco addicts from the habit," said Dr R K Jain, senior oncologist at Kota Medical College. The Union Health Ministry had last month asked all states to prohibit the use and spitting of smokeless tobacco in public places to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. "Chewing smokeless tobacco products, paan masala and areca nut (supari) increases the production of saliva followed by a very strong urge to spit. Spitting in public places could enhance the spread of the COVID-19 virus," the ministry had said in a letter to chief secretaries of all states and union territories. Jain said the government's advisory on the tobacco products should be strictly enforced on the ground on the lines of the counties like Singapore and Malaysia and the violators should be heavily penalised. "There is a widespread culture of chewing paan masala and other tobacco products. It is not only harmful to the health of a person, but the saliva generated by these products can also cause problems for others like it can lead to the spread of coronavirus infection if a person is COVID-19 positive," said Dr Amit Goyal, an oncologist at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jodhpur, and Voice of Tobacco Victims (VOTV) State patron. He said it was the right time for the users of such products to get rid of them. A total of 14.1% of all adults (aged 15+) use smokeless tobacco in Rajasthan, while 13.2% of all adults smoke tobacco, as per the Global Adult Tobacco Survey-2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-an-opportunity-for-tobacco-users-to-quit-habit-health-experts-832643.html
02-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: India must pass lockdown 3.0 prelims, says VP Venkaiah Naidu||With Lockdown 3.0 beginning from Monday after the end of 40-day lockdown on Sunday, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday said this window of two weeks will be the time frame for returning to total pre-Corona normalcy. “The way all of us conduct during lockdown 3.0 will lay the ground for further course of action aimed at returning to total pre-Corona normalcy. This is a kind of preliminary examination and as a nation, we need to pass in it. He said he has reasons to believe that “we would as we don’t have the option to fail. As I said earlier, it is upon us to decide the duration of this fight. Let's act with responsibility to make it as short as possible.” Naidu said this decision puts the onus of taking forward the fight against the virus more in the hands of stakeholders including the people, state governments and concerned agencies, commercial and industrial establishments. “So far, the central government has been at the forefront of formulating the battle strategy in consultation with the States with focus on the lives of the people. It has yielded positive results as widely acknowledged,” Naidu said.  The announcement of coronavirus induced lockdown 3.0 for two more weeks from May 4, with attendant relaxations driven by economic concerns, marks a landmark in the nation’s collective fight against the killer disease of COVID-19, Naidu said. He argued that the modalities of lockdown 3.0 are a clear acknowledgement of the need to balance the twin concerns of lives and livelihoods by kick-starting the economy. The pressing need to trigger a resumption of economic activities has been addressed in a manner that fits with the prevailing situation on the ground, Naidu said. The green zones to a large extent and the orange zones to some degree should hopefully witness the start of much needed economic revival. This is where the people, state governments and other concerned stakeholders should put their best foot forward while seizing the opportunities.   Insisting that people should not lower the guard in the ongoing efforts to contain the spread of the disease from now onward while taking the economy out of the freeze, the Vice President held that the remarkable behavioural changes brought in during the first two lockdowns shall be persisted with for a long time to come and till the virus is put to rest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-must-pass-lockdown-30-prelims-says-vp-venkaiah-naidu-832644.html
02-05-2020||National||Domestic helps allowed to work across country; barber shops, salons in green and orange zone only||Domestic helps are allowed to work across the country during the COVID-19 lockdown but the authorities have curiously left it to the Resident Welfare Associations (RWA) to decide whether to permit them in their localities. Officials in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has also put the responsibility on individuals for "any mishappening" like they contracting the virus infection by allowing "outsiders" in their premises. "RWAs should take a call regarding allowing the movement of outsiders. But keep in mind health protocols. There is no public transport. Also, the responsibility lies with the person calling and allowing in case of any mishappening," a senior MHA official said. A close reading of the new guidelines issued for the lockdown, which has been now extended till May 17, shows that employing domestic workers during this period is not banned. However, the latest remarks have further heightened the vulnerability of domestic workers across the country, who are denied wages in a large number of cases for April as many could not attend work due to lockdown.  The domestic helps, especially migrants, also complain that they were not able to avail ration besides facing pressure from landlords to pay rent as reported by DH on April 30.  Official statistics place the number of domestic workers employed in India as 47.5 lakh, including 30 lakh women, but this is considered as severe underestimation and the true number to be more between two crore to eight crore workers, according to International Labour Organisation website.  Officials also said barbershops and salons are allowed to function in districts marked as green and orange zones May 4 while it continues to be prohibited in red zone districts. The move will help these sections to open their shops after a gap of 39 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-helps-allowed-to-work-across-country-barber-shops-salons-in-green-and-orange-zone-only-832646.html
02-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Train carrying stranded labourers reaches Bhopal from Nashik||A special train carrying over 340 stranded labourers from Nashik in Maharashtra reached here on Saturday morning. A district official said that the non-stop special train reached Misrod Railway Station on the outskirts of Bhopal. "The train brought 347 passengers from Nashik. Of these, 13 were from Bhopal and remaining from other districts. After the screening, these passengers were sent to their respective towns in around 15 buses," Joint Collector Rajesh Gupta told PTI. This is the first special train which reached Bhopal after the Centre's announcement to run such services to facilitate the stranded labourers and workers "During the coronavirus screening, none of theses passengers was found symptomatic. After the breakfast, they were sent to their home districts, where another screening will take place," he said. Arrangement for food was also made for them on the buses, Gupta added. The labourers brought by train are from Dewas, Indore, Jhabua, Khargone, Morena, Sheopur, Vidisha, Jabalpur, Seoni, Rewa, Sidhi, Singrauli, Satna, Shahdol, Damoh, Tikamgarh, Panna, Gwalior, Guna, Ashok Nagar, Bhind, Rajgarh, Datia, Khandwa, Barwani and Betul, he said. On Friday night, Divisional Railway Manager, Bhopal, Uday Borwankar had said that the non-stop special train carrying these labourers left Nashik at 9 pm on Friday. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had on Friday announced that one lakh labourers from the state stuck in various parts of the country will be brought back by special trains. Chouhan had also said that the state government had brought back 40,000 workers from other states by buses so far. "Now the state government will bring back about one lakh workers to Madhya Pradesh from different parts of the country by trains. A discussion has already been held in this regard with the Railway Minister," he had said in a statement. The chief minister directed Additional Chief Secretary ICP Keshari to provide necessary information to the Ministry of Railways about the number of labourers from the state who are stranded in different parts of the country. Keshari said over one lakh labourers from Madhya Pradesh are stranded in other states: 50,000 in Maharashtra, 30,000 in Gujarat, 8,000 in Tamil Nadu, 5,000 in Karnataka, 10,000 in Andhra Pradesh and 3,000 in Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-train-carrying-stranded-labourers-reaches-bhopal-from-nashik-832652.html
02-05-2020||National||Two unidentified militants killed in Kashmir’s Pulwama||Two unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Saturday. Reports said the gunfight erupted after security forces launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Dangerpora, Pulwama, 26 km from here, in the wake of ‘specific inputs’ about the presence of militants in the area. “As forces zeroed towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon forces which was retaliated, triggering an encounter,” a police official said and added two militants were killed in the gun battle. In recent weeks, as part of a new strategy, police are not revealing the identities of the slain militants, and all the bodies of local ultras are taken either to north Kashmir or central Kashmir’s Sonamarg for burial to avoid huge gatherings at funerals. In the last 15-days, eight encounters have been reported in south Kashmir in which 22 local militants and one of their associates have been killed.  Over 60 militants, including several top commanders of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) have been killed in counter-insurgency operations by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir this year so far. April witnessed the highest number of militant casualties with over 30 ultras killed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-unidentified-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-pulwama-832654.html
02-05-2020||National||14-year-old police outpost 'in-charge' asks people to follow coronavirus lockdown guidelines||"Remember that lockdown rules are to be followed. If there is any lockdown violation, then I am the police outpost in-charge, and I will register a case and send the guilty to jail," Saumya Agarwal says. A police aspirant, Agarwal is a resident of Mihipurwa. Impressed by the leadership qualities of the boy, police have made him the "in-charge" of an outpost. When the teenager reiterates 'Do Gaj Doori Bahut Zaroori' as said by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, people like his style and take him seriously. "This is the age of community policing... We are going ahead with moderate policing and presenting us as a friend," said Superintendent of Police Vipin Mishra. SHO of Motipur police station JP Shukla said, "When police outpost in-charge of Mihipurwa Ajay Tiwari came to know that Saumya was interested in joining the force, he tried an experiment. Saumya was declared as the in-charge of Mihipurwa outpost before the public. A police team is sent with Saumya instead of Ajay Tiwari." Meanwhile, Tiwari said the experiment has proved successful and people are following the lockdown. Bahraich MP Akshaibar Lal praised the concept, and said it will make people understand the importance of lockdown. He also praised Saumya, and advised him to look after himself, follow social distancing, but at the same time focus on studies, so that he can realise his dream of joining the police force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-year-old-police-outpost-in-charge-asks-people-to-follow-coronavirus-lockdown-guidelines-832655.html
02-05-2020||National||Parties should shun communal politics & work for economy: Shiv Sena||Expressing deep concern over the long-term economic repercussions of the COVID-19 crisis and the lockdown, the Shiv Sena on Saturday said that all political parties should stop playing communal politics in future and instead work towards bringing the economy back on track. The party said the talks held between Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan recently over the impact of the COVID-19 shows how grave the crisis is for the economy. It said time has now come to grow wiser. "Congress leader Rahul Gandhi held talks with economist Raghuram Rajan through digital medium. Rajan said that the government needs to spend Rs 65,000 crore to help the poor facing hardships due to the coronavirus lockdown. He said the entire country will have to face the economic consequences of lockdown," the Sena said. "Rajan said the government's present definition of the poor will change after lockdown. Middle class and upper middle class will also become poor and start demanding certificate of economic backwardness. Even a developed nation like the US is staring at a grave problem of unemployment. "In the US, there is system of unemployment allowance, which India doesn't have. Rajan's observation is that 10 crore people in India will become jobless, which is a matter of concern," the party said. Through their talks, one thing became clear that continuing lockdown for indefinte period will prove costly for the economy. The government will have to work beyond the set norms. Power and authority to take decisions cannot remain limited with only a couple of people, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. As far as Maharashtra is concerned, the 2019-20 revenue income is Rs 3.15 lakh crore, while the expenditure is Rs 3.35 lakh crore. But due to lockdown the revenue deficit will grow and it would become difficult to run the state, it added. "The central government will have to take everyone along. It will have to take into account others' views and chart out the road ahead," it said. "In India, all political parties should work towards bringing the economy back on track, instead of playing politics of India-Pakistan, religion and caste. The prime minister should take a lead and the entire country will stand behind him," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parties-should-shun-communal-politics-work-for-economy-shiv-sena-832656.html
02-05-2020||National||PM meets FM for 2nd economic stimulus package amid coronavirus lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a series of meetings with key ministers, including Home Minister Amit Shah and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, and officials of economic ministries to firm up the second stimulus package for sectors impacted by lockdown to curb spread of coronavirus, sources said. The prime minister held discussions with Shah and Sitharaman and would have follow up meetings with ministers of key economic ministries such as Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME), sources said. The finance ministry, which deferred release of monthly GST collection numbers on Friday, is also scheduled to make a detailed presentation to the prime minister later in the day on the state of economy and several initiatives that it plans to undertake to stimulate Indian economy. The prime minister already had meetings with different ministries including civil aviation, labour and power on Friday. He had detailed deliberation with commerce and MSME ministries among others on Thursday with focus on attracting both domestic and overseas investment and revival of small businesses in the country so that the recovery process is hastened. During these meetings both the home minister and the finance minister were present. To mitigate hardships faced by the bottom of the pyramid, the government in late March had announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore stimulus package comprising free foodgrains and cooking gas to poor and cash doles to poor women and elderly. Sources said the government is considering to announce a second dose of relief measures for the segment and a stimulus package for India Inc shortly. The government had first imposed a 21-day nationwide lockdown beginning March 25 and later extended it till May 3. The lockdown shut businesses, stopped air and rail travel and restricted movement of people and goods. Beginning May 4, the government has decided to ease certain restrictions including opening of industries for green and orange districts which either have nil or low number of cases. The easing of restriction in specified districts is till May 17 with strict vigil by local administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-meets-fm-for-2nd-economic-stimulus-package-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-832658.html
02-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Functioning of Delhi High Court, district courts restricted till May 17||The Delhi High Court on Saturday decided to restrict its and the district courts' functioning to urgent matters only till May 17, in view of the extended lockdown announced by the Centre in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to government data, the novel coronavirus has so far infected 37,336 people and claimed 1,218 lives in the country. The Administrative and General Supervision Committee of the High Court, headed by Chief Justice D N Patel, decided that the restriction would be in place till May 17 and only urgent matters would continue to be heard via video-conferencing. The administrative order said the progress of hearing urgent matters in the high court has been tremendous and all the courts in Delhi, including the high court, have already dealt with more than 11,427 urgent matters after the announcement of the lockdown. "Initially, when the hearings started taking place through video-conferencing, it was confined to extremely urgent matters. However, with the experience and after taking regular inputs from the Bar, presently, all the urgent matters of all kinds are being taken up by the Delhi High Court as well as the courts subordinate to it. The mentioning in High Court is exclusively through a two-tier weblink, a completely transparent mechanism, which ensures contentment for all," it said. The mentioning of urgent matters will continue to be done through the web link. The mentioning will be available from 9 am to 10.30 am on all working days to further expedite the listing and hearing. The order said all the cases listed in the high court, including before the registrars and joint registrars, from May 4 to 17 have been adjourned to the corresponding dates between June 1 and June 15. The matters listed in the district courts during this period will also be adjourned and the information will be uploaded on their websites, the order said. It said initially, the video-conferencing was started with one division bench and one single-judge bench, and gradually, increased to two division benches and six single benches on all working days, and the number of benches can be increased depending on the workload. Earlier, the high court had on March 25 restricted its and the district courts' functioning till April 14. It was then extended to May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-functioning-of-delhi-high-court-district-courts-restricted-till-may-17-832663.html
02-05-2020||National||With three more fatalities, coronavirus death toll rises to 65 in Rajasthan; total cases 2,720||The coronavirus death toll climbed to 65 after three more people, including a minor, succumbed to the infection in Rajasthan, which reported 54 fresh cases on Saturday. So far, 2,720 virus cases have been reported from the state. According to an official, two of the deaths were reported from the worst-hit Jaipur and one from Jodhpur. Jaipur alone accounts for 36 coronavirus deaths in the state. The official said a 55-year-old man from the Ramganj area was brought dead to the government-run Swai Man Singh hospital in Jaipur on Friday. His sample was taken and he was found infected with the virus. The other victim was a 15-year-old boy from the Jaipur's Chandpole area. He died at the J K Lon hospital on Friday after he was brought there with symptoms of coronavirus. The boy’s test report came after his death, confirming it to be a case of coronavirus. In Jodhpur, a 67-year-old man died at the M G hospital on Thursday, according to a state government official. Of the fresh cases, the maximum 30 were reported from Jodhpur, 17 from Jaipur, three from Ajmer, two from Alwar, and one each from Kota and Chittorgarh. Of the virus 2,720 patient so far, 1,121 have recovered, of which 714 have been discharged from hospitals. The state has 1,534 active cases now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-three-more-fatalities-coronavirus-death-toll-rises-to-65-in-rajasthan-total-cases-2720-832667.html
02-05-2020||National||Maha: 56 COVID-19 patients discharged at a time from hospital||As many as 56 COVID-19 patients, including a three-year-old girl, were discharged at the same time from a civic-run hospital in Mira Bhayandar township in Thane district of Maharashtra after recovery, an official said. The staff at the hospital, including the doctors, clapped for them and bid them goodbye. "As per the latest report, a total of 161 persons have tested coronavirus positive in the township. Of them 41 were discharged till a couple of days back. On Saturday, 56 others discharged at one time after their repeat samples tested negative," the official said. In-charge officer, Dr B D Arsulkar, said of the 56 patients discharged on Saturday, the youngest one was a three-year-old girl, while three persons were over 70 years of age. "Sixty others are undergoing treatment. Three patients have died due to the infection in the township," he said. Talking to reporters, Municipal Commissioner of Mira Bhayandar, Chandrakant Dange said, "The administration could control the spread of the virus due to the complete lockdown in place in the township since the last past 12 days. Only medical shops are open and milk is being supplied." MLA Geeta Jain said it was perhaps the first time in the state that so many COVID-19 patients were discharged at once.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maha-56-covid-19-patients-discharged-at-a-time-from-hospital-832672.html
02-05-2020||National||ICMR plans to study whether novel coronavirus strain in India changed form||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is planning to study whether the novel coronavirus strain in India has undergone mutation while spreading within the country over the last two months. According to a senior scientist of the country's apex health research body, determining whether or not the SARS-CoV2 strain has changed form will help in ensuring the effectiveness of a potential vaccine. "The study will also indicate whether it has become more virulent and increased transmission capability." Samples will be collected from COVID-19 patients to study whether the novel coronavirus strain has mutated or not, he said. However, the study can begin once the lockdown is lifted since currently there are difficulties involved in transportation of samples from different states and Union Territories, scientists said. As per Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID), so far the maximum difference in the novel coronavirus strain in India has been found to be between 0.2 to 0.9 per cent as compared to the strains in other countries, another scientist said.    GISAID, which promotes international sharing of all influenza virus sequences and related clinical and epidemiological data, has over 7,000 complete genome sequences of SARS-CoV2 deposited by various laboratories across the world where they have classified the virus based on their mutations. There are chances that people arriving in India from different countries are bringing various strains of the virus. Three strains of the virus have been traced in India so far. One was from Wuhan, and the other two from Italy and Iran. The sequence of the coronavirus strain from Iran was similar to that of China. "It will take some time for us to know the predominant quasi-species of the novel coronavirus in the country. But mutations are not likely to make potential vaccines ineffective, as all sub-types of the virus have the same enzymes. Also, it has been in India for three months and it does not mutate very fast," Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at ICMR Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar had said earlier. Six Indian companies are working on a vaccine for COVID-19, joining the global race to find a preventive for the deadly infection spreading rapidly across the world. Nearly 70 'vaccine candidates' are being tested and at least three have moved to the human clinical trial stage, but a vaccine for the novel coronavirus is unlikely to be ready for mass use before 2021. India has also collaborated with WHO's multi-country "solidarity trial" for developing potential treatments and drugs for COVID-19. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,218 and the number of cases climbed to 37,336 in the country on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 26,167, while 9,950 people have recovered and one patient has migrated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-plans-to-study-whether-novel-coronavirus-strain-in-india-changed-form-832680.html
02-05-2020||National||States asked to buy grains via OMSS for distribution to poor not covered under PDS: Paswan||The Centre has asked state governments to lift foodgrain from the open market sale scheme for distribution to lockdown-hit poor people not covered under the public distribution system, Union Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan said on Saturday. At present, over 81 crore beneficiaries are registered for subsidised foodgrains sold through ration shops under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Under the Open Market Sale Scheme (OMSS), the Centre is offers rice at Rs 22 per kg and wheat at Rs 21 per kg at present. "I have written to all state chief ministers to lift foodgrains under the OMSS to meet the food requirement of non-NFSA families," Paswan said in a statement. The food ministry has already allowed activists and organisations to provide food relief to lockdown-affected people to buy foodgrains under the OMSS. Even state governments can take foodgrains under the OMSS to meet the food demand of the poor, he said. A nationwide lockdown has been in place since March 24 to contain the spread of COVID-19 disease. Stating that the government has enough food supplies in its godowns to meet the demand of the poor, Paswan said the state-run Food Corporation of India (FCI) was having total 605.7 lakh tonne of foodgrains as on May 1, which include 275.7 lakh tonne of rice and 330 lakh tonne of wheat. The monthly foodgrains requirement for PDS distribution under the NFSA and other welfare schemes is about 60 lakh tonne, he said. Paswan said that the FCI has transported about 192 lakh tonne of foodgrains since lockdown imposed on March 24. Out of which, 126.12 lakh tonne was transported via road and sea route, the rest 65.4 lakh tonne via rail in 2334 rakes. About 5.63 lakh tonne was transported to the north eastern region in this period. On free distribution of foodgrains and pulses under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Anna Yojana (PMGAY), Paswan said the requirement of foodgrains under this scheme is about 104.4 lakh tonne of rice and 15.6 lakh tonne of wheat. Out of which, 56.7 lakh tonne of rice and 7.7 lakh tonne of wheat have been lifted by different states and union territories so far. Six states such as Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Delhi and Gujarat have distributed wheat, while other states have distributed rice under the PMGAY, he said. In case of pulses, about 5.82 lakh tonne is required for three months under the PMGAY, out of which 1.90 lakh tonnes have been dispatched so far. Of this, 1.15 lakh tonnes of pulses have reached states and 38,098 tonne have been distributed. Under the PMGAY, the government is distributing 5 kg foodgrains per PDS beneficiary and one kg per household for three months to ensure no poor goes hungry during the lockdown. This is over and above the allocation under the NFSA. The minister said the government had a buffer stock of 12.54 lakh tonne of pulses as on April 30. This includes 5.16 lakh tonne of tur dal, 1.26 lakh tonne of moong, 2.55 lakh tonne of urad, 2.72 lakht onne of chana and 0.84 lakh tonne of masoor dal. To keep prices of essential commodities under check, Paswan said the state governments have been given enough power to take action against hoarders and black marketeers under the Essential Commodities Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-asked-to-buy-grains-via-omss-for-distribution-to-poor-not-covered-under-pds-paswan-832685.html
02-05-2020||National||127 new COVID-19 cases detected in Uttar Pradesh; total now 2,455||With 127 more people testing positive for COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, the number of confirmed cases in the state rises to 2,455, officials said here. Coronavirus cases have so far been reported in 64 of the 75 districts in the state. Six among these 64 districts have no active cases at present, Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said. The number of active cases in the state stands at 1,756, he added. Forty-three deaths have so far been reported and 656 patients treated and discharged from hospitals, Prasad said. He said a detailed government order for screening of migrant labourers and workers returning to the state was issued on Friday. "All those returning will be first screened and those found healthy will be home-quarantined for 21 days. Those showing even minor symptoms will be stopped from proceeding homewards and would be subjected to detailed testing," the official said. If these people test positive for COVID-19, they will be sent to isolation wards in hospitals. If not, they will be stopped for seven days, Prasad said, adding that after seven days, they will be screened again. If the results are negative, they will be placed under home-quarantine for 14 days, he said. Since a large number of migrants will be returning to the state, arrangement of community surveillance is being made, the principal secretary said. For this, 'gram nigrani samitis' are being formed in the rural areas and 'mohalla nigrani samitis' in the urban areas, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/127-new-covid-19-cases-detected-in-uttar-pradesh-total-now-2455-832688.html
02-05-2020||National||Pilgrims from Uttarakhand can visit Kedarnath from May 4: CM||Pilgrims from Uttarakhand can visit Kedarnath and other Himalayan temples in the state from May 4, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said on Saturday. As inter-district movement of people is being allowed with certain restrictions from May 4 especially in districts which fall in the green zone, pilgrims from the state can visit Kedarnath, Rawat said. However, the chief minister appealed to the people to maintain social distancing while paying obeisance at the temples as their safety is of utmost importance. The portals of Kedarnath were opened on April 29 in the absence of pilgrims due to the extended lockdown.   Asked when devotees from outside Uttarakhand will be allowed to visit the shrines in the hill state, Rawat said the COVID-19 situation is a roadblock and his government is waiting for things to normalise. "After the Kedarnath tragedy in 2013, a similar mood of despair gripped people but we overcame it and the yatra was put back on track. I am confident corona will be defeated in the end and the usual glow will return to the temples," Rawat said. All the three districts in Garhwal region where the four Himalayan shrines also known as chardham are located fall in the green zone with not a single COVID-19 positive case reported from there as yet. While Gangotri and Yamunotri temples are located in Uttarkashi district, Kedarnath is situated in Rudraprayag district and Badrinath in Chamoli district. All these temples are open except Badrinath which has been rescheduled to open on May 15 due to the lockdown. Gangotri and Yamunotri temples were opened on the occasion of Akshay Tritiya on April 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pilgrims-from-uttarakhand-can-visit-kedarnath-from-may-4-cm-832689.html
02-05-2020||National||Marriage entitles husband, wife to equal respect: Delhi High Court||Every human being has a right to mental peace and happiness and marriage, which is a sacrament, cannot be a one-sided affair and both partners are entitled to equal respect and responsibilities, the Delhi High Court has observed while dissolving a couple's marriage on the grounds of cruelty and desertion by the husband. The high court's observation came while dismissing the husband's appeal challenging a family court's decision to dissolve his marriage on the grounds of inflicting cruelty on his wife and deserting her. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Asha Menon, in its judgement, said the continuous badgering of the wife by a very insensitive and selfish husband is clear as daylight from the testimony of the daughter and nothing more needs to be said. The court said this is a typical case that showcases as to what would amount to cruel behaviour on the part of one spouse to the utter detriment of the other. "Every human being has a right to mental peace, happiness and contentment. Marriage is no doubt a sacrament, but it cannot be a one-sided affair. Both parties to the marriage are equal partners and entitled to mutual respect, sharing of duties and responsibilities, affection, emotional bonding, financial and all other support for the well-being of one another. "If the relationship is so bitter and lopsided that the welfare and well-being of one is at the immense cost and well-being of the other, there can be no sacrament such as that the appellant (man) now harps about," the bench said. Initially, the woman, who got married to the man in 1992, approached the family court seeking dissolution of the marriage on the grounds of cruelty and desertion by her husband. The plea was allowed by the family court in November 2019. The man challenged the family court's decision in the high court, saying the woman could not get the benefit of her own wrong as she had left his company without any reason and claimed that the main reason for the differences between them was the disparity in their incomes and education, though she knew about his qualifications at the time of marriage. He claimed they lived a happy married life for 20 years and now, when their daughter had turned major and was of marriageable age, it was not in her interest that the divorce petition be allowed as it would destroy her life. The court, however, said the material on record demonstrates the sincere efforts made by the wife to salvage the marriage and shows that to preserve the relationship, she did more than what was her duty. The court said there was nothing to commend the man and it was to the credit of the woman that presently, their daughter is pursuing a PhD in the UK and got her master's degree from Switzerland. It noted that under the domestic violence law, the daughter had sought her father's 50 per cent contribution towards the expenses of her master's programme and job, but he even contested that in court and waited for the court's direction to pay some amount. "She (daughter) is doing extremely well in her academics, particularly after October 2011. It may not be incorrect to infer that had he not left the respondent (woman) in October 2011, it may have resulted in the down-spiralling of the future of the daughter, about whose welfare the appellant (man) is now showing such concern," the bench said while dismissing the man's appeal as being meritless.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/marriage-entitles-husband-wife-to-equal-respect-delhi-high-court-832696.html
02-05-2020||National||Muslim group moves SC to oppose plea against burial of COVID-19 patients||Muslim scholars' group Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind on Saturday approached the Supreme Court to oppose a plea against burial of the bodies of the patients who had died due to COVID-19. It contended that the apprehension that burial of such persons would risk the spread of infection in the vicinity was "unfounded".  "Burial of dead bodies is essential to the religion of Islam as well as in other religions such as Christianity. Such a right forms part of the right to practice one's religion under Article 25 of the Constitution of India," said an application filed by advocate Ejaz Maqbool. The guidelines, issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and the WHO on management of dead bodies clearly stated that burial did not pose any additional risk of COVID, however, prescribed precautions to prevent the contact of any bodily fluid of the dead person with those who were handling the dead body. Even the USA, the United Kingdom, Italy, Canada and the Middle Eastern nations are burying those who have died due to COVID-19 and no such increased risk of spread of the virus has been highlighted by these nations due to the act of burying the dead bodies, it said. The unregistered group, working for protection of Islam, filed the application in a special leave petition by Pradeep Gandhy who challenged the Bombay High Court's interim order of April 27. The HC had then refused any interim stay on the burial of the bodies of the COVID-19 patients at the cemeteries situated at Jamat Kabrastan in Bandra West. Gandhy feared that burial of COVID-19 patients would risk spreading of the virus in the neighbouring areas, where he resided. In its plea, the group said the entire grievance of the petitioner was based on the apprehension. "Such a fear is completely unfounded and unsupported by advisories issued by the Union Government on March 15 as well as by the World Health Organization on March 24," it pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslim-group-moves-sc-to-oppose-plea-against-burial-of-covid-19-patients-832701.html
02-05-2020||National||IMFL worth Rs 3 crore seized in Sonipat, 3 arrested||The Haryana Police on Saturday arrested three persons with 62,400 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor worth an estimated Rs 3 crore in Sonipat district, a spokesperson said. The liquor bottles were being transported in trucks in 5,200 boxes, he said. The liquor was seized following a tip-off received by the state police's Special Task Force (STF), the Haryana Police spokesperson said in a statement here. "Soon after getting a secret input from an informer about the illegal transportation of liquor in a few trucks which had halted near a dhaba in Murthal, the police team immediately raided the location and seized a total of 5,200 boxes of IMFL from different trucks," he said. Preliminary investigations revealed that the seized liquor was being illegally transported from Derabassi in Punjab for supply in different parts of Delhi. The estimated value of seized liquor is around Rs 3 crore, he added. The spokesperson said the accused have been identified as Manjit Singh, a resident of Ajrabar, Patiala; Balwinder Singh of Mubarkpur, Mohali; and Devender Singh of Derabassi, Punjab. A case under relevant sections of the Excise Act has been registered against the accused at the Murthal police station, he said. On April 18, the Haryana Police had seized over 12,000 liquor bottles from two trucks in Jhajjar and Kaithal districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imfl-worth-rs-3-crore-seized-in-sonipat-3-arrested-832702.html
02-05-2020||National||Commercial passenger flights to remain suspended till May 17 midnight: DGCA||A day after the Modi government announced extension of the coronavirus-induced lockdown till May 17, the DGCA on Saturday said all commercial passenger flights will remain suspended till midnight of May 17. "It is reiterated that foreign and domestic airlines shall be suitably informed about the opening of their operations whether international to/from India or domestic, respectively, in due course," a circular of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) stated. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of coronavirus. All commercial passenger flights have been suspended for this period. However, cargo flights, medical evacuation flights and special flights permitted by the DGCA are allowed to operate.   Coronavirus has infected over 37,000 people and killed more than 1,200 people in India till now. The first phase of lockdown in India was from March 25 to April 14. The second phase started on April 15 and would end on May 3. The third phase would be from May 4 to 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/commercial-passenger-flights-to-remain-suspended-till-may-17-midnight-dgca-832707.html
02-05-2020||National||Seven migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra test COVID-19 positive in Uttar Pradesh||In a scare for the Uttar Pradesh government a day before the arrival of the 'Shramik Special' train with migrant workers here from Nashik, as many as seven migrant workers, who had recently returned from Maharashtra, tested positive for coronavirus. According to the sources, all these migrant workers, who had reached Basti district, about 200 kilometres from here a few days back, have been quarantined at a community health centre. ''This is the first cluster case of COVID 19 in the returning migrant workers in the state,'' said a health official here on Saturday. Earlier five migrant workers had tested positive for COVID-19 in different parts in the state.  The first 'Shramik Special' train carrying 839 migrant workers would be arriving at Lucknow railway station from Nashik in Maharashtra on Sunday.  These migrant workers would be sent to their destinations from buses from the railway station after the screening, sources here said. The cases of COVID-19 among the migrant workers have set off alarm bells in the authorities here, who suspect that there may be coronavirus positive cases among the returning the migrant workers. UP government has made plans to ferry around ten lakh stranded migrant workers home from different parts in the country, especially Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana and Punjab.  Several buses carrying migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh have already reached the state in the past couple of days.  Around two lakh migrant workers and their families, who included both residents of the state and Bihar, had arrived in different parts in the state after the first lockdown was declared. The arrivals continued in the second lockdown as well. So far 2455 cases of COVID-19 have been reported in the state. As many as 43 people have died from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-migrant-workers-who-returned-from-maharashtra-test-covid-19-positive-in-uttar-pradesh-832713.html
02-05-2020||National||Run at least 28 trains for migrants from Chhattisgarh: CM Bhupesh Baghel to Piyush Goyal||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday urged Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to run at least 28 trains to bring back migrant labourers from the state stranded across the country due to the lockdown for the coronavirus outbreak, officials said. The railway started running 'Shramik Special' trains from Labour Day on Friday to get stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons to their respective states. In a letter to Goyal, Baghel hailed the Centre's decision but sought that the facility be free of cost on humanitarian grounds, a public relations department official said. Baghel said nearly 1.17 lakh labourers from the state are stranded in 21 states and four union territories, and the number may increase significantly if students, tourists etc from here are included. "Our administrative system has been coordinating with concerned states and chalking out action plan for the safe homecoming of people, particularly labourers, stuck there," Baghel said. "As per the letter issued by Indian Railway Board on May 1, fare has been fixed for sleeper mail and express train which is not appropriate as the labourers and people stuck in other states due lockdown are already in distress. They should be provided this facility free of cost on humanitarian grounds," he said. Baghel requested Goyal to run seven trains from Jammu to Raipur-Bilaspur, three trains each from Lucknow to Raipur- Bilaspur, Delhi to Raipur-Bilaspur, Hyderabad-Secunderabad to Raipur-Bilaspur, two trains each from Kanpur to Raipur- Bilaspur, Pune to Raipur-Bilaspur. He also said trains should be run from Chennai to Raipur, Bengaluru to Raipur-Bilaspur, Allahabad to Bilaspur, Vishakhapatnam to Raipur, Surat-Ahmedabad to Raipur, Kolkata to Raipur, Jaipur to Raipur and Patna to Durg, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/run-at-least-28-trains-for-migrants-from-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-to-piyush-goyal-832718.html
02-05-2020||National||Shamli on path to become green zone after recovery of last patient||The last one of 17 patients in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli district was on Saturday declared negative for coronavirus infection, an official said. Shamli District Magistrate Jasjit Kaur said since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, a total of 17 patients were found infected with the virus, but all of them have been recovered and discharged. The last one was discharged on Saturday, she said, adding this has put the district on the path of turning into a green zone from orange one. If no one is found infected in the district during the next 14 days, the district will become a green zone, she said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shamli-on-path-to-become-green-zone-after-recovery-of-last-patient-832727.html
02-05-2020||National||AIR World Service saves International Dawn Chorus Day tradition from being broken||The tradition of broadcasters collaborating to air a live celebration of birdsong on International Dawn Chorus Day looked set to be broken this year in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, but the initiative of the All India Radio World Service has ensured that the novel practice continues. The first Sunday in the month of May is celebrated as International Dawn Chorus Day every year. International broadcasters from about 70 countries collaborate to air a live seven-hour celebration of birdsong in which listeners are taken through an aural journey, as the great wave of birdsong gradually moves from east to west with the rising sun. It is, quite literally, the sound of our planet turning on its axis. The broadcast is carried by more than 400 radio stations across the world, with a truly staggering audience of over a billion people, a statement said. Originally conceived and broadcast for over 20 years by the Irish state broadcaster Raidió Telefís Éireann (RTÉ), the programme became international five years ago. Since 2017, All India Radio (AIR), in association of European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and RTE Ireland through its World Service has been bringing the avian symphony to Indian listeners from most exotic locations world over and also taking songs of Indian birds to the world from different bird sanctuaries in the country in one of the most challenging and coordinated international broadcasting efforts. This year, International Dawn Chorus Day was scheduled for May 3 but the main organisers, EBU and RTE, were forced to call off the event due to the coronavirus outbreak, the statement said. Prasar Bharati took the challenge upon itself to ensure that bird lovers are not deprived and people get to know the nature and birds more intimately decided to broadcast a daily dawn chorus since April 9 by crowdsourcing birds' songs from its listeners spread across the country, it said. The World Service of All India Radio, which is producing this unique crowd-sourced dawn chorus, approached other international broadcasters to join the effort to air a two-hour international dawn chorus on May 3 so that the event is not skipped even at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic. Many international broadcasters, including EBU, RTE, BBC Scotland, as well as ad broadcasters in some neighbouring countries have agreed to participate and contribute. Besides this, many international listeners have also come forward with their own recordings. Based on all these, a special International Dawn Chorus featuring bird songs from across the continents shall be broadcast from 5.45 am to 7.45 am from FM Rainbow ( 102.6 Mhz), Rajdhani Channel (450.5 mts 666 khz). International audience can listen to live streaming on air world service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-world-service-saves-international-dawn-chorus-day-tradition-from-being-broken-832729.html
02-05-2020||National||ED files chargesheet against Naxal leaders operating in Bihar, Jharkhand||A chargesheet has been filed against two Naxal commanders operating in the Bihar and Jharkhand region, and seven others on charges of money laundering, linked to alleged extortion and levy-collection crimes, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said. The central agency, in a statement, said the prosecution complaint (chargesheet) was filed before a special court in Patna under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) early this week. It has named Musafir Sahni and Anil Ram, area commanders of the Bihar-Jharkhand special area committee of the CPI (Maoist), and seven others. The agency has sought confiscation of properties -- including 11 flats in Bihar's Vaishali district, five plots in Muzaffarpur district, bank balance, cash, a truck and a bike -- totalling Rs 54.14 lakh of the accused. The agency alleged that the proceeds of crime in the case were generated through collection of levy, dacoity and extortion, and illegal funds were utilised for acquisition of assets in the name of family members of the accused "so that they can be projected as untainted". "Accused utilised pseudo names to escape from law enforcement agencies and utilised the proceeds of crime to purchase assets in the name of other associates," it said. The ED alleged that Sahni and Ram are "habitual offenders who have indulged in heinous offences like murder, attempt to murder, robbery, dacoity" and they have been booked for offences under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and Arms Act. "They obtained huge money through collection of levy and extortion in the name of their organisation CPI (Maoist)," the agency alleged. Criminal charges under the PMLA were slapped against the accused on the basis of FIRs filed by the Bihar police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-files-chargesheet-against-naxal-leaders-operating-in-bihar-jharkhand-832731.html
02-05-2020||National||Chamba becomes coronavirus free as three more patients recover||Three more COVID-19 patients recovered in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the total number of those cured in the state to 33, officials said. Two patients from Una and one from Chamba district have recovered from the disease, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said. With this, Chamba district has become coronavirus free. Fifteen patients from Una district, six from Chamba, five from Solan, four from Kangra, two from Hamirpur and one patient from Sirmaur district have recovered so far. No fresh coronavirus case has been reported in the state for the past nine days, Dhiman said. Of the 370 samples sent for testing on Saturday, 144 tested negative while reports of the rest are awaited, he added. These tests are being conducted at five laboratories in HP at Tanda's Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla, Palampur's Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT) in Kangra, Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College (SLBSGMC) Nerchowk in Mandi and Kasauli's Central Research Institute (CRI) in Solan. Forty-one coronavirus cases have been reported in Himachal Pradesh so far and the number of active cases in the state is two. The active cases are from Una and Sirmaur districts of the hill state. Out of the 12 districts of Himachal Pradesh, 10 are coronavirus free. Two patients from Una and Sirmaur are being treated at Bhota Charitable Hospital in Hamirpur and Katha's ESIC in Baddi, respectively. Four patients from Solan district were shifted to a private hospital outside Himachal Pradesh. Two people have died of COVID-19 in the state. The fatalities include a 70-year-old Delhi resident who had stayed at a guest house of a factory in Solan district''s Baddi and died at PGIMER, Chandigarh on April 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chamba-becomes-coronavirus-free-as-three-more-patients-recover-832732.html
02-05-2020||National||PM Modi discusses reforms in agriculture sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reviewed the performance of the agriculture sector with focus on challenges in implementing land leasing laws and protecting the interest of small and marginal farmers. The meeting was attended Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar among others. The leaders also discussed possibilities of uniform statutory framework in the country to facilitate new ways for farming which will infuse capital and technology in agrarian economy.  The Prime Minister emphasised on reforms in agriculture marketing, management of marketable surplus, access of farmers to institutional credit and freeing agriculture sector of various restrictions with appropriate backing of statute. The meeting also discussed ways to make several government initiatives in the sector such as the Kisan Credit Cards, PM-KISAN and e-Nam effective and increase their contribution to farmer welfare. The Prime Minister directed to further strengthen the role of FPOs to bring vibrancy in agrarian economy, transparency in agriculture trade and enable maximum benefits to the farmers. Amid a raging debate over genetically modified crops, the ministers also deliberated on the pros and cons of bio-technological developments in crops or enhancement of productivity and reduction in input costs. “The challenges of model land leasing act and how to protect the interest of small and marginal farmers was discussed in detail,” an official statement said. The leaders also discussed how it was pertinent to make Essential Commodities Act compatible with present times so that large scale private investment in post-production agriculture infrastructure is incentivized to have a positive effect on commodity derivative markets. Developing Brand India, creation of commodity specific Boards/ Councils and promotion of Agri-Clusters/Contract Farming were some of the interventions that were deliberated to boost agriculture commodity export, an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-discusses-reforms-in-agriculture-sector-832734.html
02-05-2020||National||Policeman dies in mishap while escorting Telangana returnee migrants bus in Jharkhand||A policeman died and four other security personnel suffered minor injuries when their van overturned in Ramgarh district while they were escorting a bus carrying Telangana returnee migrants to Chatra in the wee hours of Saturday, police said. Ramgarh Superintendent of Police, Prabhat Kumar, told PTI another escort van was immediately provided as the bus continued its onward journey. The SP said the deceased has been identified as Dinesh Kumar. Condoling death of the policeman, Chief Minister Hemant Soren said the entire administration is with the family of the deceased in this hour of grief. In a tweet, Soren said Dinesh Kumar was escorting the bus of pravasi shramik (migrant workers) when his van went out of control and met with an accident. Jharkhand will never forget the sacrifice of Dinesh Kumar, Soren said and prayed to the almighty to give strength to his family at this hour of grief. The SP said the accident occurred on NH-33 under Ramgarh town police station, killing the policeman on the spot. He said the injured policemen were given first aid at the Sadar hospital before being discharged. The police van was escorting the bus carrying migrant labourers after they reached Hatia railway station,on the outskirts of Ranchi, by a special train from Telangana late Friday night. In a tweet, Jharkhand Director General of Police, M V Rao said, "Constable Dinesh Kumar aged 38 of #ChatraPolice was driving vehicle escorting #MigrantWorkers bus. Escort vehicle met with an accident at 0230 am last night. Dinesh died. We lost a dear colleague #FightAgainstCorona. My tributes to Dinesh. @JharkhandPolice stands with his family."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/policeman-dies-in-mishap-while-escorting-telangana-returnee-migrants-bus-in-jharkhand-832736.html
02-05-2020||National||Stuck in Guwahati, Pune-based social entrepreneur collects Rs 10 lakh for 1,000 families amid lockdown||The country-wide lockdown hit Amit Jain's long-cherished dream of a non-stop "backpack journey" from Kashmir to Kanyakumari and Arunachal Pradesh to Mumbai. "I had just completed my Arunachal tour and was about to buy a ticket for my next destination Nagaland. But due to the coronavirus fear Nagaland suddenly stopped issuing inner line permits, which is a must for outsiders. Sensing trouble ahead, I boarded a train and reached Guwahati on March 16. Days later, the lockdown was announced," said Amit, who is now stranded in his friend's house in Guwahati since the lockdown was clamped on March 24.  More than the pain he went through, the lockdown made him realise the agony of those stuck outside of their homes and whose income was hit hard. "That's when I decided to do something for those who lost their work, be it daily wagers, maids, rickshaw pullers, or construction workers. I immediately launched an online crowdfunding campaign in Milaap with a target to generate at least Rs. 10 lakh so that I can provide Rs. 1,000 to 1,000 families. Milaap also did not charge anything for the campaign. Response from people was so good that I managed to achieve the target within days," Jain, who runs Mitti Ke Rang, a social enterprise based in Pune told DH on Saturday. The enterprise helps widows and other disadvantaged sections in the society.  Amit identified the beneficiaries through friends and volunteers and wanted to transfer Rs. 1,000 each to 1,000 families. "But some of them told me that many people in rural areas in the Northeast still do not have bank accounts. So, I transferred the money to about 500 people and to some NGOs, who bought the essential items and delivered to another 500 people. They sent us the bills of the items procured for transparency. We managed to help such people in 29 states who lost their income source due to the lockdown and the fear of coronavirus," he said. Jain, 29, who grew up in Bhusawal in Maharastra lost his father in childhood and saw his mother struggle very hard to manage the family. This encouraged him to do something for the widows and economically weaker sections. He formed Mitti Ke Rang, an NGO and collected books and clothes and distributed among the needy persons while working in a bank. He left his job in 2019 and converted the NGO into a social enterprise with a friend Saket Deshmukh as a co-founder. Mitti Ke Rang now helps the widows and small artisans who make paper bags, candles, or other handicraft items through e-commerce platforms like Amazon. Still stuck in Guwahati, Amit has now set his target to generate another Rs. 10 lakh to help 1,000 families more. The campaign in Milaap has received Rs. 1,180,578 from 951 donors so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stuck-in-guwahati-pune-based-social-entrepreneur-collects-rs-10-lakh-for-1000-families-amid-lockdown-832743.html
02-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Assam gears up for 'challenge' of bringing back over 6 lakh people||Assam government opened a helpline number and an email-ID on Saturday as it geared up to bring back over six lakh people, who are stuck outside due to the lockdown and the fear of coronavirus. Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told reporters in Guwahati that entry of over six lakh people was going to be a challenge as it carries the fear of COVID-19 infections since many of them live in areas marked as 'Red Zone' and 'Orange Zone' by the government. "If we can overcome this challenge without much impact, it will be an achievement for us. But we are gearing up for this and people must help us," he said. But those who had already given a missed call (6.8 lakh people) earlier seeking financial assistance from us need not contact us again and our volunteers will reach out to them for their return, he said. The state government had earlier provided Rs. 2,000 to more than two lakh people stuck in the rest of the country due to the lockdown. Most of them are in Karnataka, Kerala, Maharastra, Gujarat, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, and Bengal. Sarma, however, appealed such people to stay where they are and the government will transfer Rs. 2,000 every month to their accounts until the government can afford to do so. Such people will be screened in centres in Boxirhar and Srirampur at the Assam-Bengal borders. The state government has set up quarantine centres in Guwahati, Tezpur, Jorhat and Silchar. The state government will also send buses to bring those stuck in the rest of the Northeast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-assam-gears-up-for-challenge-of-bringing-back-over-6-lakh-people-832747.html
02-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: UAE sends medical supplies, India reciprocates with 88 docs, nurses||India is sending a team of 88 doctors and nurses to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to help the West Asian nation to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. The UAE too on Saturday sent a special aircraft with seven metric tons of medical supplies to help India deal with the outbreak.  “The UAE is committed to extending critical support to nations seeking to bolster their fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The UAE assistance to India comes in recognition of the profound and brotherly ties our two countries have shared throughout the years,” Ahmed Abdul Rahman Al Banna, Abu Dhabi’s envoy to New Delhi, said. The consignment of medical supplies the UAE sent to India will come to the aid of approximately 7,000 medical professionals as they work to combat the virus. The UAE embassy in New Delhi also worked with the Government of India to send a team of healthcare professionals to the West Asian nations. India earlier deployed a Rapid Response Team of medical professionals in Kuwait and Maldives. “Combating COVID-19 has become a primary global concern, and we act out of our conviction that strengthening the efforts of other countries to contain the virus is a pressing necessity,” said the UAE envoy to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-uae-sends-medical-supplies-india-reciprocates-with-88-docs-nurses-832761.html
02-05-2020||National||Tamil Nadu reports one COVID-19 death, 231 fresh cases||For the second consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported a COVID-19 death and over 200 cases while a transgender tested positive, the first in the state, the Health department said on Saturday. A 14-day old girl baby and a four-year old boy were among the total of 231 coronavirus positive cases reported today with Chennai contributing the majority of 174. A 76-year old woman admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here died on Friday, becoming the latest victim to the contagion, taking the toll in the state to 29, a bulletin from the Health department said. On Friday, Tamil Nadu had reported 203 COVID-19 cases while it was 161 on Thursday, 104 on Wednesday and 121 on Tuesday. With 231 RPT 231 being added today, the total number of those infected in the state stood at 2,757 as on Saturday, the department said. As many as 158 men were affected apart from 72 women and one transgender, the bulletin said, adding 35,418 people were in home quarantine while 40 were in government facilities. Twenty-nine patients were among the 1,341 who were discharged from hospitals after treatment as on Saturday. The total number of positive cases in Chennai alone stood at 1,257 followed by Coimbatore at 142 and 114 in Tiruppur. The bulletin said there were 12 red zones and 24 orange zones in the state, while Krishnagiri is the lone district in the green zone. The classification of zones is multi-factorial and takes into consideration incidence of cases, doubling rate, extent of testing and surveillance feedback. Besides Chennai (174 cases), Kancheepuram and Ariyalur districts witnessed 13 and 18 fresh cases respectively on Saturday. A private lab Metropolis Healthcare has been added to the testing facilities today. Accordingly, there are 34 government and 13 private labs operating in the State.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-reports-one-covid-19-death-231-fresh-cases-832772.html
02-05-2020||National||Delhi riots: Court dismisses suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain's bail plea||A Delhi court on Saturday dismissed the bail plea of Delhi AAP's suspended councillor Tahir Hussain in a case related to rioting which affected the north east part of the capital city in February. He is alleged to be the "mastermind of riots" and is also accused of being involved in the killing of Intelligence Bureau officer Ankit Sharma. On Saturday, Additional Sessions Judge (on duty) Karkardooma district Courts, Tyagita Singh rejected his plea for being left on bail, saying no ground for it had been made out and the investigation in the matter was still under process. In his plea, Hussain contended that he has been suffering under the judicial custody since March 21. He claimed that he has been falsely implicated in the case due to enmity as he was a political person and a businessman. Hussain's counsel also submitted that three FIRs were lodged against the same set of occurrence. The public prosecutor, on the other hand, opposed the plea, saying he was the "mastermind" of the riots. He said licensed pistol was recovered from Hussain and the bullet recovered from the body of a deceased has been sent for forensic examination. He also said various persons have reported to the police that terrace of his house had been used for pelting stones and throwing petrol bombs on public properties. The prosecutor also submitted that the investigation by a special team of the crime branch was still going on. He also said the accused was an influential person and may threaten witnesses and destroy the evidence, if released on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-court-dismisses-suspended-aap-councillor-tahir-hussains-bail-plea-832777.html
02-05-2020||National||Activists question govt’s ‘rush’ to finalise rules, policies amid COVID-19||The Centre's "rush" to finalise rules for contentious laws and policies during the COVID-19 lockdown has earned the wrath of activists who are questioning the timing of the move to seek feedback when it is "nearly impossible" for consultations among concerned groups. Activists accuse the government of circumventing the mandatory consultation process by making almost impossible for stakeholders outside the official circles to intervene in the issue through creative suggestions and building legitimate pressure on the authorities. In the past fortnight, the government has sought comments from public on draft rules for the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act as well as on the draft National Fisheries Policy while a meeting of the government-appointed Central Vista committee gave its no-objection signal for the construction of a new Parliament building. Activists allege that the government is utilising the lockdown to push its policy agenda and the present circumstances are providing them an opportunity to ignore the voices from stakeholders and blunt protests. Organisations linked to transgender people and National Fishworkers' Forum have already written separately to the government questioning its motive to go ahead with the exercises when stakeholders are not in a position to raise their concerns on their issues. They said it would be highly improbable for them to have consultations among themselves and that their responses could be reflective of their needs and demands. Both groups also felt that the draft is in English and most among the stakeholders have no command over the language to understand the formulations and wanted that it be translated into vernacular languages. In their letter to Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Thawarchand Gehlot, over 150 transgender activists said they object to the "hurried" process to finalise Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Rules, 2020 at a time the law is challenged in Supreme Court. "We are pained and shocked to note the timing and manner of ‘seeking feedback’, when the entire country has been under mandatory lockdown since a month and millions of working class people including the entire transgender community has been facing a severe crisis of survival, food insecurity, lack of access to health care and livelihood  (and no supportive package has been declared for the entire community)," they said. Also, they said the draft rules seeking comments were put on Ministry’s website on April 18 with April 30 as the deadline. This gave stakeholder just “12 days” as against the mandatory 30 days to submit their responds. "No physical interaction between members of the community is possible for deliberations or consultations and transgender people are struggling for basic survival. Besides, the Rules have been placed only on the website and in English, while a majority of the community neither has access to web-based portals or English language. An Act which claims to be ‘inclusive’ cannot adopt a rule-making process so exclusionary," the activists said. They also said that even if certain responses to the draft rules are received from individuals and groups, it should not be treated as representative of the entire transgender community across the country On National Fisheries Policy, the National Fishworkers' Forum Chairman Narendra R Patil and General Secretary T Peter too raised similar concerns in a letter to Union Minister Giriraj Singh, saying it was “unfortunate” to see this move at a time of a pandemic. "At a time when on account of the lockdown, individuals and organisations are unable physically meet and conduct consultations, it is highly improbable that the response to the draft will be reflective of the needs and demands of the stakeholders," they added. The comments were sought on April 28 without any kind of an order and uploaded on the website. The draft was “very hurriedly” published, they said. Patil and Peter said that the policy should be put on hold as consultation, which is the "backbone" of national policy-making, is not possible at this point in time. They also said the Forum is engaged in rescue work to help fish workers who are stranded in different states, and thus demand that the there be a hold on this policy document until there is a return to a state of normalcy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/activists-question-govt-s-rush-to-finalise-rules-policies-amid-covid-19-832779.html
02-05-2020||National||'Ramayan' re-telecast gave chance to young generation to experience epic serial: Prakash Javadekar||Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on Saturday thanked the family of 'Ramayan' serial creator, Ramanand Sagar, for facilitating the re-telecast of the epic production which gave a chance to the young generation to experience it. In a letter to Prem Sagar, the son of the late Ramanand Sagar, Javadekar said it was "our wish to re-telecast 'Ramayan' during COVID-19 lockdown". "I am deeply grateful to your family for helping us in fulfilling this wish," he said. Javadekar said 40 years back when 'Ramayan' was released, not many people had access to television, but at present, the situation is different as at least 18 crore households have access to television. The present generation has not seen the grandeur of 'Ramayan' before and re-telecasting of the serial has made it possible for a new generation to finally watch it, he said. 'Ramayan' became the most-watched show on April 16 across the world with over 7 crores 70 lakh people having watched the serial, the minister said. "I thank the whole team of 'Ramayan' serial on behalf of Doordarshan, congratulations to all," he said. Mythological series "Ramayan" and "Mahabharat" returned to TV on Doordarshan on public demand. Many other popular serials from the 1980s and 90s are also garnering high viewership on Doordarshan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ramayan-re-telecast-gave-chance-to-young-generation-to-experience-epic-serial-prakash-javadekar-832789.html
02-05-2020||National||Migrant labourers protest in Tamil Nadu over delay in sending them back home||Hundreds of migrant labourers came onto the streets in various parts of this metropolis on Saturday (May 2) demanding that they are sent back to their native places via train or any other mode of transport. The protests took place in Velachery, Pallavaram, Mogappair and Guindy where the migrant workers gathered in huge numbers throwing social distancing to the wind. The protests came three days after the Centre allowed movement of migrant workers stranded in states. While neighbouring Kerala and Telangana have arranged special trains for migrant labourers to return to their native states, Tamil Nadu has not yet taken any such initiative. The state government had on Thursday appointed senior bureaucrat Atulya Misra as the Nodal Authority to regulate the movement of stranded persons within or outside the state. The migrant workers, most of whom have not been paid their salaries for April, protested the delay in Tamil Nadu government’s decision on sending them back to their native places.  Hundreds of people gathered in Pallavaram and wanted the government to immediately announce the plan to take them back to their states. Similar protests were held in Guindy and Mogappair, while workers who were staying in Velachery attempted to march towards Ripon Building, the headquarters of Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). Thousands of labourers from Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, and other north Indian states have migrated to Tamil Nadu for work. After the nation-wide lockdown was implemented on March 25, these workers got stranded here. Nearly 3,000 thousand workers who had hoped to catch a train to their native towns before the lockdown was announced were lodged in relief centres in the city.  Thousands of labourers are stranded in other parts of the state, especially in Tiruppur and Coimbatore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-labourers-protest-in-tamil-nadu-over-delay-in-sending-them-back-home-832792.html
02-05-2020||National||Shops in green, orange zones across Punjab to remain open from 9 am to 1 pm from Sunday||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced that the shops in green and orange zones across the state will remain open from 9 am to 1 pm with effect from Sunday. There would be no relaxations in areas demarcated as red and containment zones, officials said. "Shops in Punjab will open in the green and orange zones, across districts, from 9 am to 1 pm beginning tomorrow," Singh said in a statement here. The decision to change the timing from the current slot of 7-11 am was taken in response to requests from people in various districts to let shops after 9 am, he said. The issue also came up for discussion during a Cabinet meeting and there was a consensus that the timing should be changed in public interest, the statement said. The chief minister has asked the chief secretary to issue the necessary directives to the deputy commissioners to notify the change. Singh also made it clear that anyone found venturing out of their homes without wearing a mask would be strictly dealt with, the statement added. The chief minister said he had issued strict directives to the police department in this regard. The relaxations come with strict protocols, which the people need to follow, he said, adding that the relief had been provided to make life easier and not for people to come out unnecessarily. The CM also directed the police to come down heavily on those found violating the curfew restrictions or otherwise disrupting the state's law and order, the statement further said. "We will not tolerate such actions," Singh warned, adding that no laxity would be allowed in this regard, with section 144 also strictly in place. The CM said his government would make all possible arrangements to bring back its people from other states and to facilitate those stranded in Punjab, including migrant labourers, to return home. The government was working in close coordination with other states on this issue and the Centre has been requested to arrange special trains, which would be done after a few days as the Railways was currently managing the transportation of migrants from southern India, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shops-in-green-orange-zones-across-punjab-to-remain-open-from-9-am-to-1-pm-from-sunday-832795.html
02-05-2020||National||Maharashtra lockdown: 341 cyber offences registered, 177 people held||A total of 341 offences have been registered so far during the coronavirus-induced lockdown by Maharashtra Cyber against people for hate speeches, spreading rumours, fake news and misinformation on social media, an official said on Saturday. He said the maximum number of such objectionable posts were shared through WhatsApp. "We have registered 141 offences for sharing WhatsApp posts, 121 for objectionable Facebook posts, 12 for sharing Tiktok videos while six are for tweets," an official said. He said 177 people have been arrested and 60 posts have been taken off social media, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-lockdown-341-cyber-offences-registered-177-people-held-832797.html
02-05-2020||National||41 people living in one building in Delhi test positive for COVID-19||Forty-one people living in a building in southwest Delhi's Kapashera area tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, an official said. A case of COVID-19 had been reported from the building situated in 'theke wali gali' on April 18, prompting authorities to timely seal it. This helped in containing the spread of coronavirus in the area. The administration will conduct tests of people residing in the building on Sunday again. "Keeping in mind the high density of population in this particular building, the district administration took the proactive decision of sealing and containing the building on April 19," the official said. According to the district administration, 175 samples were collected on April 20 and April 22 from the building and sent to the Nation Institute of Biologicals (NIB) in Noida. "Out of the total samples collected from the building, reports of 67 people have come on Saturday and 41 have tested positive for COVID-19," Southwest District Magistrate Rahul Singh, who went into self-isolation after his private secretary tested positive for COVID-19, said in a video message. The DM said tests were conducted 13 days ago and the reports got delayed due to issues of blockade at the Delhi-Noida border and backlog at NIB Noida. As all the individuals are asymptomatic and results are 13 days old, he said, "The district administration will be conducting re-test on Sunday and to assess the present status of all positive cases." "People residing in this building were using common toilet that's why we sealed the building and did not allow them to come out. We were waiting for their reports," Singh said. The district magistrate said the administration contained the spread of COVID-19 in the area by sealing the building. The guidelines mandate sealing an area where minimum three cases have been reported. Last month, the private secretary of Singh had tested positive for COVID-19, prompting the DM to go into self-isolation. On Friday, Delhi recorded 223 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 3,738 with two more deaths being reported here. The number of fatalities due to COVID-19 now stands at 61.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/41-people-living-in-one-building-in-delhi-test-positive-for-covid-19-832799.html
02-05-2020||National||Row over number of COVID-19 cases in West Bengal||Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday argued that even if the number of dead and discharged COVID-19 patients are added to the Health Department’s latest tally of active COVID 19 cases in West Bengal (572 as on April 30) its difference with the one mentioned in the state’s Health Secretary’s letter to the Health Ministry (931 in red and orange zones) on the same day cannot be explained. He alleged that it was a “cover-up operation.” “Give up ‘ Covid-19 data cover-up operation’@MamataOfficial and share it transparently. Health bulletin 30/4 No of Active Covid cases 572. No health bulletin on May 1 !! Information to central Government No of cases 931,” tweeted Dhankhar.  He also stated that the gap between “572 and 931 (is) not reconcilable” even of “recovered/dead” are considered. He attached a copy of the Health Secretary's letter with his tweet. Denying the allegation Urban Development Minister Firhad Hakim said “he (Dhankhar) should work from the BJP headquarter. Why should we suppress information. Neither the state government nor the Centre is responsible for the pandemic. Those who are resorting to politics over it are indulging in a heinous  act.” The number of reported COVID-19 cases in West Bengal adds up to 931 according to a letter dated May 30 by the state’s Health Secretary Vivek Kumar to the Health Ministry. However, the last bulletin issued by the Health Department on the same day stated that the number of active COVID-19 cases in the state as on May 30,2020 is 572.  According to Vivek Kumar’s letter, the number of reported COVID-19 cases in West Bengal's red and orange zones as on April 30, 2020 is 931. Referring to the expert committee’s latest report Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha on the same day said that the committee had conducted an audit into the death cases of 105 COVID-19 positive patients. He said that out of the 105 COVID-19 patients 33 have died directly due to the virus and the remaining 72 died due to co-morbidities. Till April 30 as per the Health Department bulletin, 139 COVID-19 patients were discharged after being cured. Even if the three figures are added (572+139+105) the tally stands at 816 whereas according to the Health Secretary’s letter there are 931 reported COVID-19 cases in the state as on April 30, 2020. Late on Saturday night, the Health Department issued a bullet stating that that on May 2, 2020,  70 new COVID-19 positive cases were detected in Bengal and seven deaths took place in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/row-over-number-of-covid-19-cases-in-west-bengal-832801.html
02-05-2020||National||17 BSF personnel test coronavirus positive in Delhi, Tripura||Seventeen personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Delhi and Tripura have tested positive for coronavirus, a force spokesperson said on Saturday. He said out of the total, seven troops who were deployed as part of an assistance deployment to Delhi Police in the Chandni Mahal and Jama Masjid areas over the past few weeks, have tested positive. They are part of the 126th and 178th battalion of the force. The troops have been admitted to an isolation facility of the CAPF (Central Armed Police Forces) Referral hospital located in Greater Noida near here.  Eight more personnel, admitted at a force hospital in R K Puram, also contracted the virus and their tests were confirmed over the last few days, the spokesperson said. These include two personnel who are suffering from cancer and their attendants. Two more personnel have contracted the disease in Tripura, he said.  The BSF is primarily tasked with guarding Indian borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh apart from rendering a variety of duties in the internal security domain of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/17-bsf-personnel-test-coronavirus-positive-in-delhi-tripura-832802.html
02-05-2020||National||Sharp spike in COVID-19 cases as India moves to lockdown 3.0, but recoveries cross 10,000||As it moved the Phase-III of the lockdown, India registered the sharpest spike in COVID-19 cases in a single day as the coronavirus infected 2,411 persons taking the total confirmed cases to 37,776. However, on the brighter side, 10,017 patients suffering from the respiratory illness have recovered and discharged from hospitals, putting the recovery rate at 26.51%, a progressive increase over the past few days. The death toll due to COVID-19 has climbed up to 1,223, an increase of 70 in a single day. But, the mortality rate appears to be flat with 3.23% of the total infected persons succumbing to the disease.  Maharashtra has emerged as the worst-hit state by COVID-19 with 11,506 confirmed cases, accounted for 30.45% of the total 37,776 patients reported from across the country. Gujarat was a distant second with 4,721 cases, followed by Delhi with 3738 COVID-19 patients. As many as 41 persons residing in one single building in Kapashera locality of South-West Delhi, prompting the health authorities to turn the building into a containment zone. As health authorities continue to wage a battle with the COVID-19, Indian armed forces are planning to conduct flypasts, light up ships, and shower flower petals on hospitals to boost their morale. “We (wish to) convey our gratitude to each and every corona warrior and all the citizens of our nation. On May 3 there will be some special activities as a gesture of special gratitude by all three forces,” Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat had said.  Meanwhile, the Health Ministry has issued additional guidelines on rational use of personal protective equipment (PPE) used by healthcare personnel working in non-COVID hospitals. Help desk/ registration counter, doctors’ chamber used for clinical management of patients and pharmacy counters among others have been marked in the mild-risk category and the ministry has recommended the use of triple layer medical mask and latex examination gloves, besides following social distancing guidelines and frequent use of hand sanitiser over gloves. Chambers of dental/ENT doctors/ophthalmology doctors and pre- anesthetic check-up clinics have been categorised as moderate-risk areas where the usage of N-95 mask, goggles, latex examination gloves has been advised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharp-spike-in-covid-19-cases-as-india-moves-to-lockdown-30-but-recoveries-cross-10000-832808.html
02-05-2020||National||Govt, RBI holds a series of meetings on further relief to businesses||As businesses prepare for a calibrated unlocking, the government is likely to give a second tranche of financial relief soon to help combat the fallout of Covid-19 related lockdown. Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a series of meetings with Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari, and officials of economic ministries to firm up the second stimulus package. Later, Gadkari said the second package will be announced soon. Separately, the Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das too held a meeting with the heads of banks and reviewed the implementation of various measures announced by it to reduce stress in the financial system. The meeting, which happened in two separate sessions through video conference, saw the participation of managing directors and CEOs of major public and private sector banks, the RBI said in a statement after the meeting. Demand for additional credit and a large financial package by businesses, which were on hold due to lockdown, is expected to appear aggressively when they are allowed to operate.  Businesses have been demanding fiscal stimulus including the reduction in goods and services tax, government guarantee to banks for lending to weaker businesses, the release of all government dues, and restructuring of the loans. “Businesses across different sectors, be in hospitality, construction, logistics, manufacturing, and trade find themselves locked up in grave financial woes. The fixed costs, such as wages, electricity, rentals, communication are hard to meet even as the operational losses are inevitable. Such a dire state of affairs demands a large-sized fiscal stimulus even if it requires monetisation of fiscal deficit by direct lending by RBI to the government," industry body Assocham said. It said the 40-day lockdown has resulted in the massive economic disruption. The disruption has started causing livelihood concerns for millions of workforce - both in the formal and informal sectors The prime minister also discussed the issues related to migrant workers, who have been the worst sufferers in the coronavirus crisis.  The industry body has also been suggesting to handle the issue carefully because once the workers are migrated to their native places, it would be difficult to recall them. Without the required manpower, it could be difficult to run the supply chain of essential goods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-rbi-holds-a-series-of-meetings-on-further-relief-to-businesses-832816.html
02-05-2020||National||Ghar wapsi of migrant workers: Young Hemant Soren outshines veteran Nitish Kumar||When the first special train carrying around 1200 migrant workers from Telangana chugged in at Hatia railway station near Ranchi at 11.20 pm on Friday midnight, history was created. Jharkhand became the first State where a passenger train completed its destination after five weeks of lockdown. Prior to the migrants’ arrival, Chief Minister Hemant Soren was present at Hatia, a 20-minute drive from Ranchi, to oversee the arrangements for the ‘incoming guests’ of his State. Flowers, food packets and mineral water were offered to each of the passengers who were earlier properly screened at the railway station and then asked to board the 56 buses lined up outside the Hatia railway station.  Four buses and ambulances were kept in reserve as these migrant workers had travelled nearly 19 hours from Lingampalli (Telangana) to Hatia in Jharkhand. The DC and SSP of Ranchi were personally present at the station to oversee the workers’ departure to their respective districts in separate buses, called ‘Samman Rath’. Of these around 1200 migrants, the highest number of workers were from Palamu (269), while the lowest from Koderma (2). Altogether 18 buses left for Palamu alone after the migrants were given medical clearance.  “Hemant Soren walked away with the cake by bringing in the migrants stuck in other State while Nitish Kumar, who often keeps talking of double engine Government in Bihar (in oblique reference to the NDA Government at the Centre as well as in the State), kept citing rules and regulations,” said Leader of the Opposition, Tejashwi Yadav, showering praise on the Jharkhand Chief Minister. “The way he (Soren) kept his officials on their toes from Thursday midnight and meticulously planned return of migrants is really praiseworthy,” the former Deputy Chief Minister of Bihar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ghar-wapsi-of-migrant-workers-young-hemant-soren-outshines-veteran-nitish-kumar-832819.html
02-05-2020||National||Sharp spike in COVID-19 cases as India moves to lockdown 3.0||As it moved the Phase-III of the lockdown, India registered the sharpest spike in COVID-19 cases in a single day as the coronavirus infected 2,411 persons taking the total confirmed cases to 37,776. However, on the brighter side, 10,017 patients suffering from the respiratory illness have recovered and discharged from hospitals, putting the recovery rate at 26.51%, a progressive increase over the past few days. The death toll due to COVID-19 has climbed up to 1,223, an increase of 70 in a single day. But, the mortality rate appears to be flat with 3.23% of the total infected persons succumbing to the disease.  Maharashtra has emerged as the worst-hit state by COVID-19 with 11,506 confirmed cases, accounted for 30.45% of the total 37,776 patients reported from across the country. Gujarat was a distant second with 4,721 cases, followed by Delhi with 3738 COVID-19 patients. As many as 41 persons residing in one single building in Kapashera locality of South-West Delhi, prompting the health authorities to turn the building into a containment zone. As health authorities continue to wage a battle with the Covid-19, Indian armed forces are planning to conduct flypasts, light up ships, and shower flower petals on hospitals to boost their morale. “We (wish to) convey our gratitude to each and every corona warrior and all the citizens of our nation. On May 3 there will be some special activities as a gesture of special gratitude by all three forces,” Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat had said.  Meanwhile, the Health Ministry has issued additional guidelines on rational use of personal protective equipment (PPE) used by healthcare personnel working in non-COVID hospitals. Help desk/ registration counter, doctors’ chamber used for clinical management of patients and pharmacy counters among others have been marked in the mild-risk category and the ministry has recommended the use of triple layer medical mask and latex examination gloves, besides following social distancing guidelines and frequent use of hand sanitiser over gloves. Chambers of dental/ENT doctors/ophthalmology doctors and pre- anesthetic check-up clinics have been categorised as moderate-risk areas where the usage of N-95 mask, goggles, latex examination gloves has been advised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharp-spike-in-covid-19-cases-as-india-moves-to-lockdown-30-832822.html
02-05-2020||National||Bengal BJP chief launches opinion poll on WB govt’s COVID-19 performance||Seeking to politically corner the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government over the COVID-19 issue, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh has launched an online opinion poll on his website regarding the state government’s performance in preventing the outbreak. Ghosh has sought public opinion on four issues. First, whether the state government is “hiding information” pertaining to the COVID-129 pandemic. Alleging that the people of the state are not getting free rice and pulses sent by the Centre, Ghosh sought to know who is responsible for that. He further alleged that “people from some particular area are violating lockdown rules” and asked whether it was because of the “appeasement politics” of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.  Claiming that West Bengal ranks as the state with the lowest number of COVID-19 tests conducted per million population Ghosh sought to know whether this would “compromise” the battle against the virus.  According to a section of state BJP leaders, the move is aimed at gaining political grounds before the municipal and Assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-bjp-chief-launches-opinion-poll-on-wb-govt-s-covid-19-performance-832843.html
02-05-2020||National||Lokpal member Justice AK Tripathi dies due to COVID-19||After battling for life for a month, Lokpal member Justice Ajay Kumar Tripathi died in the national capital due to COVID-19 on Saturday. Justice Tripathi, who was a former Chief Justice of the Chhattisgarh High Court, was 63 when he breathed his last at 8:30 pm at the Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Centre of the AIIMS here. His daughter and cook, who had contracted COVID-19, have recovered. Appointed one of the four judicial members in the Lokpal on March 23 last year, Justice Tripathi had been on ventilator support for the past fortnight as his condition worsened while he was in hospital. He was admitted to the AIIMS on April 2 and became the first person to be shifted to the Trauma Centre in the campus after it was designated as special COVID-19 medical centre. An avid golfer who won several amateur golf tournaments, Justice Tripathi had started his career as a lawyer in 1981 in the Patna High Court. Before becoming an Additional Judge in the Patna High Court in October 2006, he was in the Standing Council of the central government. He also served as Additional Advocate General of the Bihar government. In 2007, he was elevated to the postition of a permanent judge while in July 2018, he was appointed as Chief Justice of the Chhattisgarh High Court. Tripathi was instrumental in setting up the Chanakya National Law University in Patna besides being a member of the Academic Council of National Law School in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lokpal-member-justice-ak-tripathi-dies-due-to-covid-19-832856.html
02-05-2020||National||Over 1 million RT-PCR tests for detection of COVID-19 conducted in India: ICMR||The number of RT-PCR test for detection of COVID-19 conducted in India crossed the one million mark on Saturday, ICMR officials said, as the total novel coronavirus infections rose to 37,776. An ICMR official said that 10,40,000 tests have been conducted till Saturday evening, of which 73,709 were done since 9 am on Friday. According to the officials, testing for COVID-19 has been scaled up significantly over the last two months.  Till March 31, as many as 47,852 samples were tested while till April 30, a total of 9,02,654 samples were tested for the novel coronavirus infection, an ICMR official said. From May 1 till evening on Saturday, total 1,37,346 tests were done. Starting with one single laboratory, the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune and having 100 laboratories in the beginning of the lockdown, the RT-PCR test facility is now available in 292 government and 97 private facilities across the country, officials said. "The ICMR has reached a per day testing level of about 70,000 and has conducted 10,40,000 tests till Saturday evening," an official said. The RT-PCR throat/nasal swab test is the best use for diagnosis of COVID-19. RT-PCR test detects the virus early and is the best strategy to identify and isolate the individual, the apex health research body said. Director General of ICMR Balram Bhargava recently said that the entire scientific and medical community including the private sector too has energetically risen to the occasion. He said that a supply chain has been created. The Centre has been working with states tirelessly to ensure required reagents are supplied to testing labs in timely and calibrated fashion, enabling diversion of reagents to hotspots as needed.  "We have also decentralized the supply chain," he had said adding, "The gold standard for COVID-19 testing remains and has remained the RT-PCR test which detects the novel coronavirus. This has been our principal strategy for testing." The central government has taken on the responsibility of assisting the state governments with testing kits, etc., and they are also free to procure, and some of the state governments are also trying to procure their supplies, the government said on Friday. The Department of Health Research has assessed requirement of manual RT-PCR kits. As on Friday, material for about 16.4 lakh tests have been received. Against demand of 35 lakhs combined RT-PCR kits, more than 21 lakh kits have been ordered out of which orders for 2 lakh kits are awarded to the domestic manufacturers. Close to 14 lakh kits have already been received.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1-million-rt-pcr-tests-for-detection-of-covid-19-conducted-in-india-icmr-832878.html
02-05-2020||National Politics||Shelve Central Vista, similar projects and use money to improve public health infrastructure: Congress leader Anand Sharma||Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to shelve the Central Vista project and the proposed mega central secretariats in 17 state capitals, saying it will be a "criminal waste" of public money in times of a pandemic. He said India should instead invest all this money in filling the "glaring shortcomings" in the public healthcare system. "Urging PM to shelve the wasteful Central Vista project and proposed mega central secretariats at 17 state capitals. Spending over Rs 25,000 crore on grand buildings at a time of unprecedented national crisis will be a criminal waste of public money," he said on Twitter. The deputy leader of Congress in Rajya Sabha said the country faces a severe resource crunch and is accepting loans from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. "India needs hospitals and commit the resources there," Sharma said. Noting that all Indians are proud of the brave COVID-19 warriors - doctors, healthcare workers and security personnel, he said the nation stands together to salute them for their commitment to duty and courage. Sharma said the coronavirus pandemic has exposed glaring shortcomings in India's public healthcare system and a "flawed" insurance-linked private hospital over-dependence. "Shocking that government hospitals have only 30% beds whereas private hospitals have 70% of ICU beds and 80% of ventilators," he said. It is the less-equipped government hospitals that carry most the COVID patients' burden, though short of resources, equipment and PPE gear for health workers, he noted. "It is time for PM to reflect and revisit public healthcare policy. In UK, the robust NHS is saving lives including PM Boris Johnson. "India must urgently invest public money in public healthcare and build well equipped public hospitals. Let the pandemic crisis become an opportunity for course correction. That will be truly celebrating the corona warriors," he said in a series of tweets. His remarks came a day after the central government gave its go ahead to the Central Vista project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shelve-central-vista-similar-projects-and-use-money-to-improve-public-health-infrastructure-congress-leader-anand-sharma-832614.html
02-05-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi must lay out lockdown-exit plan, roadmap to fight coronavirus, bring economy back on track: Congress||The Congress on Saturday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi must come forward and address the countrymen to enlighten them on the way ahead in dealing with the coronavirus and the economic situation. Asking when the lockdown will finally end, Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the prime minister must also lay out the exit strategy from it and spell out the goalpost in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic and economy. "Will we see another lockdown? When will the lockdown finally end? The Prime Minister must come forward and address 130 crore Indians and enlighten them on the way ahead," he told reporters at a press briefing through video-conferencing. Accusing the government of not handling the issue of migrant labourers in a humane or compassionate manner, Surjewala urged the prime minister and the Centre to ferry the migrant labourers to their home in sanitised trains for free, along with food.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-must-lay-out-lockdown-exit-plan-roadmap-to-fight-coronavirus-bring-economy-back-on-track-congress-832673.html
02-05-2020||National Politics||Cong has no suggestion on COVID-19 crisis, is interested in doing ugly politics: BJP||The Congress has no suggestion to offer on the COVID-19 crisis and is merely interested in doing "ugly politics" on it, the BJP said on Saturday, while asserting the entire nation except the opposition party understands that the Narendra Modi government has extended the lockdown to save people's lives. BJP spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain accused the Congress of raising "irrelevant questions" over the issue of the pandemic. "The Congress has no suggestion to offer and merely wants to do politics on coronavirus. It is doing ugly politics on the issue. The lockdown has been extended to save the lives of people. The entire country understands it, except the Congress," he said. The Congress had asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address citizens on the way to deal with the coronavirus crisis and economy reeling under it. Asking when will the lockdown be finally lifted, the Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the prime minister must also lay out an exit strategy and spell out the goal in dealing with the issue.   Hussain wondered whether the Congress will say anything constructive or will it merely criticise every day what the government is doing. He said the government has already taken a number of welfare measures, including giving ration to the poor and transferring money to the accounts of farmers and poor women among others. Hussain noted that the government has cut down on all its expenses, and even salaries of the president, prime minister and MPs have been reduced by over 30 per cent. The government will spend whatever is necessary to take the country forward, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-has-no-suggestion-on-covid-19-crisis-is-interested-in-doing-ugly-politics-bjp-832769.html
02-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Rahul raise snoopgate fears over Aarogya Setu; Govt hits back||Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi on Saturday accused the Modi government of using the Arogya Setu to track citizens without their consent, a comment that drew a sharp retort from Law & IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. “The Arogya Setu app, is a sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a private operator, with no institutional oversight – raising serious data security & privacy concerns. Technology can help keep us safe; but fear must not be leveraged to track citizens without their consent,” Rahul took to Twitter as government made it mandatory for government servants to download the app.  The app has been developed by the National Informatics Centre under the Information Technology Ministry to warn people using cell phone tracking technology about Covid-19 positive persons in their proximity. “Aarogya Setu is a powerful companion which protects people. It has a robust data security architecture. Those who indulged in surveillance all their lives, won’t know how tech can be leveraged for good,” Prasad said. The minister rejected Rahul’s allegation that the app has been outsourced to a private operator.  “Mr. Gandhi really high time that you stop outsourcing your tweets to your cronies who do not understand India,” Prasad hit back. Several voluntary organizations and individuals have petitioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad against the mandatory use of the Aarogya Setu app for workers in both private and public workplaces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-rahul-raise-snoopgate-fears-over-aarogya-setu-govt-hits-back-832798.html
02-05-2020||National Politics||Rahul speaks 'new lie' daily, Aarogya has robust data security architecture: BJP||Hitting out at Rahul Gandhi for calling 'Aarogya Setu' app a sophisticated surveillance system, the BJP on Saturday said the Congress leader spoke a "new lie" daily and retorted that those who indulged in surveillance all their lives won't know how technology can be leveraged for good. Senior party leader Ravi Shankar Prasad, who is also communications, electronics and information technology minister, rejected Gandhi's charge that the app has been outsourced to a private operator and asserted that it has a robust data security architecture. "Mr Gandhi, really high time that you stop outsourcing your tweets to your cronies who do not understand India," he tweeted, adding that the app, which the government says is a tool in fighting the coronavirus, is being appreciated globally. Attacking Gandhi, Prasad said, "Daily a new lie. Aarogya Setu is a powerful companion which protects people. It has a robust data security architecture. Those who indulged in surveillance all their lives, won't know how tech can be leveraged for good!" The Congress leader had claimed that the app is a sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a private operator, and has no institutional oversight, raising serious data security and privacy concerns. Technology can help keep us safe; but fear must not be leveraged to track citizens without their consent, he had said. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra took a swipe at Gandhi, saying he refuses to grow up. "He is not only ignorant about the Aarogya Setu App but is also being extremely irresponsible by trying to mislead the people through misinformation and falsities. "The government on multiple occasions has allayed the fears of surveillance and that too scientifically.The said app is technical personal bodyguard to each one to fight COVID-19," Patra said. Gandhi refuses to understand, he said, adding that the Congress's only aim in the times of pandemic appears to spread confusion and derail the nation's fight against the pandemic. "The Congress should refrain from using the pandemic as a political opportunity," he said. PTI KR ZMN||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-speaks-new-lie-daily-aarogya-has-robust-data-security-architecture-bjp-832817.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Entire Delhi may not be red zone; city govt to ask Centre to classify zones on ward basis||The entire Delhi may not be declared as a red zone as the city government is planning to categorise COVID-19 cases by wards and not by districts, sources said on Friday, a move that can bring relief to Delhiities reeling under the coronavirus-forced lockdown. In a zone-wise classification of districts in the country, the Union Health Ministry has designated all 11 districts of Delhi as red zone. The city has 272 wards. The plan will be sent to the Union Health Ministry for approval, sources said.  With 223 fresh cases of coronavirus, the COVID-19 cases tally rose to 3,738. Two more deaths were also reported, taking the fatalities to 61. Addressing an online briefing, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the Delhi government will not stop clinical trials of plasma therapy to treat severely-ill COVID-19 patients as its initial results are good. The announcement came days after the centre said that plasma therapy for treatment of coronavirus patients is at an experimental stage and it has the potential to cause life-threatening complications. On classifying zones based on wards rather than districts, sources said Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has directed officials to come up with a detailed plan on ward-wise mapping of red, orange and green zones.  According to an official, an area, which reports three or more cases of COVID-19, is declared a red zone while an area, where one or two cases emerge, is identified as an orange zone. The Centre on Friday announced that a "limited" lockdown, including suspension of inter-state travel, air and train services, will continue to remain in force for another two weeks throughout the country from May 4 but some activities would be allowed after classifying areas into Red, Orange and Green zones. Delhi has been under lockdown since March 23. After the MHA order, the Delhi Metro tweeted that its services will remain shut till May 17. In a meeting chaired by Baijal, Health Secretary Padmini Singla made a detailed analysis of spatial distribution of COVID-19 cases, containment zones and ward wise mapping of red, orange and green zones. "The Union Health Ministry designates any area as red, orange or green zone on district level. Delhi has only eleven districts and it is geographically different to other states. "Once the ward-level categorisation plan is ready, it will be sent to the ministry for its approval. If we get permission, Delhi, which is entirely in the red zone, will have orange and green zones as well," they said. Baijal has asked the health department to develop an action plan to convert red zones into orange zones to green zones and handhold field machineries in maintaining the green zones. Sources said that for instance, Delhi, which has currently 100 containment zones, will have 37 orange zones and 63 red zones once ward-level categorisation. "Total 6 lakh people are living in 100 containment zones and it is 3 per cent of the total population while one per cent of the total area has been declared containment zone,” one of the officials added. To facilitate movement of migrant workers and other stranded people in the national capital, the city government on Friday appointed senior IAS officer P K Gupta as the "nodal officer", and directed officials to prevent unlawful assembly or movement of persons. Kejriwal said his government is in talks with other states on the movement of migrant workers and will soon come out with a detailed plan. According to an order, Special Commissioner Muktesh Chandar has been appointed as nodal officer of Delhi Police and he will provide all assistance and logistics of police department to Gupta for movement of stranded people from Delhi to other states. Gupta is principal secretary of social welfare department. In an order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, headed by Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, officials have been asked to take all necessary measures and make all out efforts to prevent unlawful assembly of persons in any part of the national capital. On bringing back students from the national capital stranded in Rajasthan's Kota - the coaching hub for engineering and medical aspirants, Kejriwal said the Delhi government is sending 40 buses, the chief minister said. "I was getting many requests from students stranded in Kota and their parents. We are sending 40 buses today (Friday) to Kota to bring them back. By tomorrow (Saturday), they will return to Delhi," he said. The students will have to go into self-quarantine for 14 days upon returning to Delhi, he said. On the Delhi government continuing with plasma therapy trials, Kejriwal said a COVID-19 patient, whose condition was serious, has been discharged from hospital after undergoing plasma therapy and that the Delhi government has got permission from the centre to conduct trials at LNJP Hospital. The chief minister said the government is identifying more containment zones, but the number has been decreasing over the last few days. So far, four containment zones have been “de-contained”. There are 97 containment zones in Delhi. “Four weeks after being sealed under Operation Shield, Mayurdhwaj Apartment in East Delhi is being de-contained. No new cases found. Congratulations to the health team and all residents,” Kejriwal tweeted. Meanwhile, the Health Department has asked medical directors to get written explanations from COVID-19 infected healthcare workers on how they contracted the disease despite wearing protective gears. According to a Delhi government order, medical directors of non-coronavirus hospitals are "indiscriminately" sending doctors and other medical workers in quarantine for 14 days. "This practice is causing unnecessary shortage of doctors and staff at hospitals," Health Secretary Singla said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-entire-delhi-may-not-be-red-zone-city-govt-to-ask-centre-to-classify-zones-on-ward-basis-832522.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Migrant worker going to his home in Bihar on bicycle dies in Uttar Pradesh||A migrant worker died here while cycling from his workplace in Delhi to home in Bihar amid the ongoing lockdown, police said on Saturday. He has been identified as Dharamveer, 32, they said. Dharamveer, along with a few other labourers, had started their journey from Delhi to Khagaria district in Bihar on bicycles on April 28, police said. "On Friday night, they halted on the Delhi-Lucknow highway in Shahjahanpur. When the condition of Dharamveer deteriorated, the labourers took him to the medical college where he was declared brought dead," Circle Officer (city) Praveen Kumar said.  Chief Medical Officer Dr Rajeev Gupta said the samples of Dharamveer have been taken for COVID-19 testing. "His fellow labourers have been kept in isolation and their samples will also be sent for testing as well," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-worker-going-to-his-home-in-bihar-on-bicycle-dies-in-uttar-pradesh-832591.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Woman intern at AIIMS Rishikesh tests positive for coronavirus, Uttarakhand tally 58||She had first shown symptoms of the infection on April 28 and had been under the observation of experts since then, said Madhur Uniyal, nodal officer for coronavirus cases at the facility. Her test report confirming that she was suffering from COVID-19 arrived late on Friday night, he said.  The woman has no travel history, Uniyal said, adding the intern and people who had come in contact with her have been quarantined at the hospital.  Between April 25 and May 1, this is the fifth COVID-19 positive case reported from AIIMS Rishikesh. It takes the number of positive cases in Uttarakhand to 58, out of which 37 have recovered. The number of active corona cases in the state stands at 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-intern-at-aiims-rishikesh-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-uttarakhand-tally-58-832619.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Two women die of coronavirus in Indore; district toll now 74||Two COVID-19 patients succumbed to the infection at Indore in Madhya Pradesh, taking the toll in the district to 74, a senior official said on Saturday. Indore, one of the worst-hit districts in the country, has been reeling under the coronavirus outbreak for the last one month. The deceased COVID-19 patients include two women in their 50s, one of whom suffered from anaemia, while the other had co-morbid conditions of high blood pressure and diabetes, chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Praveen Jadia said. At least 32 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in the district in the last 24 hours, taking the count to 1,545, of which 250 patients have recovered from the infection, he said. The latest data has revealed that the death rate of COVID-19 patients in the district as on Saturday morning was 4.79 per cent, which is a sharp decline from the last 23 days.  The administration has imposed curfew in the urban limits of the district since March 25, after the first case of coronavirus was detected here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-two-women-die-of-coronavirus-in-indore-district-toll-now-74-832626.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Couple commits suicide jumping in front of goods train in Uttar Pradesh||A couple ended their lives by allegedly jumping in front of a goods train near a railway crossing in Chaura area here, police said on Saturday. Their bodies were recovered near Kandhi railway crossing in the district, they said. Chauri police station SHO said, "The deceased were residents of Jaunpur district. Sandeep Rajbhar (22) and Kajal Rajbhar were both from Hira Patti village of Jaunpur and were in love with each other. However, their relationship was opposed by their family members." On Friday, when they were speaking to each other on the phone, the girl's family members apparently snatched her mobile phone. The duo, later, left their homes on Friday afternoon and jumped before a moving goods train, the SHO claimed. Three mobile phones have been recovered from the couple. The bodies have been sent for a post-mortem and a case has been registered, the SHO added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/couple-commits-suicide-jumping-in-front-of-goods-train-in-uttar-pradesh-832657.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Patient-2 in Kashmir’s Anantnag turns out to be super spreader||Till April 16, southern Anantnag district was the only district in Kashmir with zero COVID-19 positive cases. However, in the last two weeks, the district has seen nearly 100 positive cases and most of these are contacts of a single person, who was the second positive case (patient-2). The Nowgam belt in Anantnag is the worst-affected with 62 cases (till May 1) out of the total 98 in the district. Patient-2 detected in Nowgam (the first was also in Nowgam) turned out to be a super spreader. “Almost all the people detected positive in the Nowgam belt have been contacts of this Patient-2,” a health official told DH. “He had visited at least two hospitals, a private clinic, and many other places in the district, apart from working at a baker’s shop in main town Anantnag, before being detected as COVID positive.” He said that Patient-2 is the single reason for an upward tick in Anantnag’s tally of positive patients due to sheer callousness on his part. Soon after he was tested positive, more than 257 of his primary, secondary and tertiary contacts were tracked and put under quarantine. “Several hundred test reports still remain pending as of now and new samples were being sent for tests on a daily basis. There is supposed to be a further spike in the number of positive cases in the district,” the official added. Anantnag has even surpassed neighboring Shopian district (total cases 76), which was earlier considered to be the COVID-19 hotspot of south Kashmir. Since April 16, there has been an average increase of 5.8 cases Anantnag every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-patient-2-in-kashmir-s-anantnag-turns-out-to-be-super-spreader-832669.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||UP Cabinet minister's Facebook account hacked, case registered against unidentified persons||A case was registered against unidentified persons for allegedly hacking the Facebook account of Uttar Pradesh Cabinet minister Moti Singh, police said on Saturday. "After hacking the Facebook account of Moti Singh, the hackers sought Rs 25,000 from two persons citing illness of the minister's sister," Station House Officer Surendra Nath said. A complaint was filed with the police by an aide of the minister about the matter, following which a case was registered under various sections of the IPC and the IT Act against the unidentified persons, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cabinet-ministers-facebook-account-hacked-case-registered-against-unidentified-persons-832679.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Jaipur Jeweller turns vegetable vendor to survive coronavirus lockdown||A jeweller for 25 years, Hukumchand Soni would not have imagined in his wildest dreams there would come a time when he will have to sell vegetables to earn a living. But then these are no ordinary times. His shop-counter, which once remained covered with expensive ornaments, is now occupied by green vegetables and the jewellery scale now weighs potatoes and onions. The “GP Jewellery Shop” in Jaipur's Ram Nagar has undergone a radical transformation to adapt to the new set of customers who visit it daily. “It's been four days since I started selling vegetables. This is the only way I can survive (the lockdown),” Soni told PTI. “I have no big savings, no big capital, so I started selling vegetables,” Soni added. He said his jewellery shop was not big but enough to run his family.   After the lockdown began on March 25, all non-essential shops and services were ordered to shut down and Soni managed for a few weeks but now, he said, he has to find means within the available options to run his household. “We had been sitting at home for so many days... Who will give us money and food? I used to make and sell small jewellery items like rings and used to repair damaged ornaments. I and other shopkeepers are certainly suffering daily losses,” he said. The only earning member in the family, Soni said it was not an easy decision to become a vegetable vendor. “At least I am earning now. It is better than sitting at home and doing nothing. I have to pay the rent for the shop. I have to take care of my mother and the family of my younger brother who passed away,” he said. He said he goes to the local mandi everyday to get his supplies and transports them to his shop in a hired tempo-rickshaw. “I only know that work is worship. That's it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaipur-jeweller-turns-vegetable-vendor-to-survive-coronavirus-lockdown-832703.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Yellow warning for thunderstorm, lightning in Himachal Pradesh||The meteorological department on Saturday issued a yellow weather warning for thunderstorm accompanied with lightning, hailstorm and gusty winds for plains, low and middle hills in Himachal Pradesh till May 6. The department issues colour-coded warnings to alert the public ahead of severe or hazardous weather which has the potential to cause "damage, widespread disruption and/or danger to life". Yellow is the least dangerous among the warnings. Meanwhile, minimum temperatures in the state increased by 2-3 degrees Celsius in the last 24 hours. The lowest temperature in the state was recorded in Lahaul-Spiti's administrative centre Keylong at 5.8 degrees Celsius, Shimla Meteorological Centre Director Manmohan Singh said. However, the maximum temperatures dipped by 3-4 notches across the hill state on Saturday with the highest temperature in Una at 34.2 degrees Celsius, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yellow-warning-for-thunderstorm-lightning-in-himachal-pradesh-832705.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||J&K sees 25 new COVID-19 cases, tally stands at 664||The samples of 25 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Jammu & Kashmir on Saturday, raising the total confirmed cases in the Union Territory to 664. Officials said that out of 25 new cases, six were tested positive at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital lab while 19 were tested positive at a chest diseases hospital lab in Srinagar. Among the new 25 cases, 15 are from Srinagar, four from Anantnag and three each from Baramulla and Shopian districts. Among 15 from Srinagar, five belong to a single family. With 25 new cases, the total number of positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir has reached 664, including 58 from Jammu and 606 from the Kashmir division. Eight people have died due to COVID-19 in J&K. Doctors say all the patients who died had comorbidity. Out of 10 districts in Kashmir, four have been declared red zones, five orange zones and only one green zone by the authorities. The doubling rate of COVID-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir stands at 15 days, which is lower than the all-India average of 11 days. While the 300-mark was reached on April 15, exactly two weeks later on April 30, J&K crossed 600-mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-sees-25-new-covid-19-cases-tally-stands-at-664-832719.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Another Delhi Police constable tests positive for coronavirus in Jahangirpuri||Another Delhi Police constable has tested positive for novel coronavirus, officials said on Saturday. He was posted at the Jahangirpuri Police Station in northwest Delhi, they said. "The constable used to live in a barrack at the police station. His reports of being positive for COVID-19 came on Friday. He has been admitted to a hospital here," a senior police officer said. Ten police personnel from the Jahangirpuri Police Station have so far been tested positive for COVID-19. Meanwhile, two officers--a head constable and a constable--of the station recovered and joined duty on Saturday afternoon, the officer said, adding the two were welcomed with a round of applause to the station. Earlier, three Delhi Police Crime Branch personnel tested positive for coronavirus. Special Commissioner of Police (operations) Muktesh Chander had recently written to Special CP (armed forces) Robin Hibu after two policemen, who were on lockdown enforcement duty in northeast Delhi, tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. "The two policemen who tested positive were residing at barrack number 5 of the Khajoori Khas Police Station. In the same barrack, the staff of commissioner of police, reserve force is also residing. It is important that they are also tested for COVID-19 and quarantined immediately. Similar precaution needs to be taken for all CP reserve staff at other locations too," the letter said. More than 21 Delhi Police personnel have tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-delhi-police-constable-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-in-jahangirpuri-832724.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra seeks govt audit of PM-CARES Fund||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday 'suggested' that there should be a 'government audit' of the PM-CARES Fund as the government was 'collecting' Rs.100 from everyone as per an official communication to several officials by the district magistrate of Bhadohi, about 250 kilometres from here. ''A suggestion-At a time, when the people are facing difficulties...there is scarcity of ration, water and cash...and the government is collecting rs. 100 from everyone then it is necessary that there should be government audit of PM Care,'' Priyanka said in a tweet. एक सुझाव: जब जनता त्राहिमाम कर रही है। राशन, पानी, नकदी की किल्लत है। और सरकारी महकमा सबसे सौ सौ रुपए पीएम केयर के लिए वसूल रहा है तब हर नजरिए से उचित रहेगा कि पीएम केयर की सरकारी ऑडिट भी हो? The Congress leader also sought accountability for writing off Rs. 68,000 crore loan given to ''bank thieves, who have fled from the country''. Priyanka also attached an official communication to several officials by the district magistrate of Bhadohi, about 250 kilometres from here, asking them to download the 'Arogya Setu' App and seek contribution of Rs.100 from the public for the PM-CARES Fund. The communication, which was made to sub-divisional magistrates, district basic education officer and other senior officials, also set target for each of them. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had, a few days back, written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding transfer of all the donations received in the PM-CARES Fund to the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund. The opposition parties had also questioned the rationale behind setting up the PM-CARES Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-seeks-govt-audit-of-pm-cares-fund-832725.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court reserves order on police plea challenging bail to Sanjeev Chawla for match fixing||The Delhi High Court on Saturday reserved its order on a plea by Delhi Police challenging the bail granted to Sanjeev Chawla, an alleged bookie and a key accused in one of cricket's biggest match-fixing scandals that involved former South African captain Hansie Cronje. Justice Asha Menon, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, heard the arguments of the counsel for Delhi Police and Chawla and reserved the order on the plea. Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, representing Chawla, said while reserving the order, the high court has asked the magistrate concerned to accept the bail bond and sureties furnished by the accused and direct his release subject to the outcome of the high court proceedings. The counsel said the high court has asked Chawla to give an undertaking that he will abide by the outcome of its order and he along with the sureties is bound by the undertaking. Chawla, who was extradited from London in February, was granted bail by a trial court here on April 30 on furnishing of a personal bond of Rs 2 lakh and two sureties of the like amount. He had sought bail saying in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, there is a risk of getting infected with the virus in jail where it is difficult to maintain social distancing. Challenging the trial court's bail order, the police sought its cancellation on the ground that Chawla is a British national and it took 20 years to bring him back to India and there is likelihood of the accused fleeing from justice. The police, in the plea filed through prosecutor Kewal Singh Ahuja, said the guidelines with respect to COVID-19 and release of undertrial prisoners are not applicable to Chawla in light of his alleged role in the match-fixing as he has played as the main conduit in the match-fixing. Pahwa opposed the police's plea saying Chawla never applied for bail in 60 days which showed he was cooperating with the prosecuting agency and the trial is pending for seven years and charges have not been framed and it will take considerable time to complete the trial. He said the plea to cancel the bail was not maintainable and while the Supreme Court and high court are de-congesting jails to contain the spread of coronavirus, police is keeping the accused in prison. The high court has asked both the sides to give their written submissions by May 4. The trial court, while granting bail to Chawla, said the accused was in custody for the last 76 days and the probe was already complete in the case. It, however, directed him to give his voice sample and handwriting specimen to the investigating officer in the case. According to police, Chawla was allegedly involved in fixing of five matches. Cronje, who died in a plane crash in 2002, was also involved, police had told the court. Chawla was alleged to have played a central role in conspiring with Cronje to fix a South African tour to India in February-March, 2000. The British court documents say that Chawla is a Delhi-born businessman who moved to the United Kingdom on a business visa in 1996 but continued to make trips to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-reserves-order-on-police-plea-challenging-bail-to-sanjeev-chawla-for-match-fixing-832733.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||4 more test positive for COVID-19 in Gautam Buddh Nagar; total tally rises to 159||Four people, including three women, tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Saturday, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases in the district to 159, officials said. Four patients, including a toddler, have been discharged from hospital following recovery, leaving 65 active cases in the district, they said. "In total, 176 reports were received in the last 24 hours. Four of them tested positive for COVID-19 and 172 negative. The cumulative positive cases of coronavirus in Gautam Buddh Nagar is now 159," District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. Among the new patients are a 49-year-old man from Sector 8, a 22-year-old woman from Sector 66, 39-year-old woman from Sector 48 and a 23-year-old woman from Chipiyana Buzurg village, he said. Among the four people discharged from hospital include a one-and-a-half-year-old girl and two men aged 32 and 42 years, the officer said, adding another man, aged 30, was admitted to a hospital in Delhi and was discharged following recovery. "So far, 94 of the 159 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 65 active cases in the district," Dohare said. According to official statistics, the recovery rate of patients in the district is 59.11 per cent. The health department said that till Saturday evening, 3,664 samples have been collected for COVID-19 test. So far, 2,161 people have been identified across Noida and Greater Noida who had travelled abroad recently and they have been put under surveillance. Another 229 were in institutional quarantine, it said. There are currently 54 hotspots in Gautam Buddh Nagar which have been categorized into three zones – red (new case detected in last 14 days), orange (no new case in last 14 days) and green (no new case in last 28 days). As of now, 24 hotspots are in the red zone, nine in orange and 21 in green, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-gautam-buddh-nagar-total-tally-rises-to-159-832741.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Firm up plan to employ 15-20 lakh people: Uttar Pradesh CM to officials||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked officials to firm up a plan to provide employment to nearly 20 lakh people in the state after studying the Centre’s advisory on lockdown and the permitted economic activities amid it. He also asked them to compile all details including names, addresses, mobile numbers and work competencies of labourers returning to the state to facilitate their employment. "A work plan should be made to provide employment to 15-20 lakh people. During COVID-19 pandemic, the state government has paid salaries to 16 lakh state government employees and 12 lakh retired employees," he said, while chairing a meeting of senior state government officials at his residence. Adityanath also directed officials to study the Centre’s advisory pertaining to the lockdown, and, restart economic activities accordingly. "Even during the lockdown, it is necessary to search possibilities. Industrial activities should be conducted while following all anti-infection measures," he said. The chief minister observed that sugar mills have been allowed to operate and no case of Covid-19 infection has been reported from that sector.   Similarly, no such case has been reported from brick kilns, he pointed out. "In the same way, all industries should operate. A detailed work plan should be prepared to give a new dimension to investment in the state," Adityanath said in a statement, issued by the UP government. He also directed that health check up of labourers who came back to UP should be mandatorily conducted. "The respective state governments should be informed that they should prepare a list of labourers from UP staying there, conduct their health check up, and facilitate their departure. Health check-ups of labourers who come back to UP should be mandatorily conducted. Infra-red thermometer should be made available so that the health check-up of labourers can be done," he said. The health workers should screen the labourers coming back to the state, and those who are healthy should be sent to home quarantine for 14 days, he said. “Those who are not well, should be given treatment. An officer-in-charge for these activities should be nominated in every district,” he added. Effective policing should be done so as to ensure that any illegal inter-state or inter-district transportation is not allowed, the chief minister said. To register a decisive victory over Covid-19, it is necessary to break the infection chain, he said. Seeking identification of Covid-19 and non- Covid-19 hospitals in every district should, he said, "It should be ensured that Covid-19 patients are given treatment at the designated hospitals only." “The prevention and precaution can stop the spread of infection,” he pointed out. Adityanath said doorstep delivery should be improved, and quarantine centres should be increased in the state. Community kitchens should also observe social distancing, while cooking food. "Arrangements should be made to ensure that one employee of the Revenue Department remains available at every quarantine centre," he said. He also said social distancing should be strictly adhered to in the mandis, which should be regularly sanitised. Members of women self-help groups should be engaged in making masks, pickles, murabba and papad, he added. "If any 'nirashrit' (destitute) person dies, the government will bear the expenses of his last rites," he said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/firm-up-plan-to-employ-15-20-lakh-people-uttar-pradesh-cm-to-officials-832742.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||SC to take up plea on 4G internet in J&K on May 4||The Supreme Court is scheduled to consider on Monday a plea for providing 4G Internet speed in Jammu and Kashmir. The Union Territory administration has strongly opposed the plea saying the right to internet was not a fundamental right and the freedoms of speech and carry on business and trade can be curtailed to protect sovereignty, integrity and security of the country. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai would consider the batch of petitions filed by 'Foundation for Media Professionals' and others, on May 4. The petitioners contended the people over there were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories, daily updates and restrictions on COVID-19 pandemic. They also claimed slow internet speed affected the studies of the students and works by medical professionals. Responding to the petitions, the UT administration maintained that the current discourse of social media indicated that Pakistan was aiming to incite violence amongst college and University students. It also contended that the increase in internet speed will lead to swift uploading and posting of provocative videos and other heavy data files. It said if the internet speed was not limited to 2G, the high speed would enable faster spread of fake news and uploading of such videos by terror groups for incitement and planning of attacks. "Misuse of data services, applications like WhatsApp and Facebook for mobilising crowds by anti-national elements has the potential to cause large scale violence, disturb public order and indeed threaten the security of the country," it maintained. Since August 5, 2019 to April 25, 2020, 108 terrorist related incidents took place in the UT of JK. 99 Incidents were reported from Kashmir province and nine from Jammu province. 30 civilians lost their lives, while 114 civilians were injured in terrorist-related incidents. 20 Security forces personnel were martyred and 54 personnel were injured. 76 terrorists were killed apart from arrest of 132 terrorists/ suspects, it pointed out. The J&K administration also maintained that it was making available health and education services through additional means of communications like satellite and cable TVs, radio and video recorded programmes. "The present affidavit needs to be appreciated in light of the fact that since 1990, 41,866 persons have lost their lives in 71,038 incidents throughout the erstwhile state of J&K. This includes 14,038 civilians, 5292 personnel of security forces and 22536 terrorists. These figures depict the nuances and emphasis on the unavoidable requirement of reasonable restrictions given the very peculiar geo-political position of Jammu and Kashmir and its geographical proximity with Pakistan," it said. The administration, for its part, said, "Restoration of 4G mobile data services will substantially increase the use of social media and other online platforms in uploading/downloading of videos and other propaganda material and their fast circulation, with resultant deterioration in law and order situation in Kashmir Valley. For any upload/ download of a typically heavy data file, the present speed restrictions increase the time taken or lead to failure, frustrating the evil designs of terrorists."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-take-up-plea-on-4g-internet-in-jk-on-may-4-832744.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Naxals damage bridge with IED blast in Chhattisgarh; none hurt||Naxals have damaged the bridge on Dumam river by triggering an IED blast in Chhattisgarh's Dantewada district, police said on Saturday. Nobody was injured in the incident, a senior officer said. The bridge on the Dumam river which connects Kuakonda and Katekalyan development block headquarters in Dantewada, was not only strategically important but also crucial for the people living in this inaccessible region, he said. According to villagers, a group of Maoists blew up the bridge between Tumakpal and Tetam villages on Friday evening, Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava said. "At present, a lot of villagers from Bastar region who work in industries and other places of neighbouring Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are returning home through jungles amidst the coronavirus lockdown," he said. The SP further said that such bridges and road connectivity helps healthcare personnel to reach villages in interior areas and conduct a medical examination of migrant labourers who have returned. Earlier, naxals had damaged roads on this route at several places, but now being afraid of a police camp to be set up at Tetam, they have destroyed the bridge in frustration, he said. A search operation is on in the area, Pallava added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/naxals-damage-bridge-with-ied-blast-in-chhattisgarh-none-hurt-832750.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 patient dies in Haryana, total cases rise to 376||The death toll due to COVID-19 in Haryana rose to five with one more fatality on Saturday while 19 more people tested positive for the disease, taking the total number of cases to 376, officials said. The 62-year-old woman from Ambala City was admitted to PGIMER here last Friday with kidney and liver ailments, Ambala Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Kuldeep Singh said. She had tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, Singh said. This is the second death due to coronavirus in Ambala district. Last month, a 67-year-old man, who too had underlying health conditions, had died at PGIMER here. The state reported 19 more cases on Saturday, according to health department's daily bulletin. Twelve of the fresh cases were reported from Jhajjar and six from Gurgaon. One person, who had recently returned from Hazur Sahib Gurdwara in Nanded, Maharashtra, has tested positive in Yamunanagar, officials said. Reports of nine other pilgrims from Sadhaura in Yamunanagar district, who had also returned from Nanded, were awaited, they said. On Friday, two of the 18 pilgrims, who returned to Sirsa from Nanded in Maharashtra, tested positive for COVID-19. Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij has said that all pilgrims returning from Nanded will be tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-patient-dies-in-haryana-total-cases-rise-to-376-832765.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt launches exercise to open liquor shops in non-containment zones||The Delhi government on Saturday launched an exercise to open liquor shops in the national capital in accordance with the latest guidelines issued by the home ministry. The excise department has directed four government-run agencies, which are responsible to sell liquor in the city, to identify such outlets which fulfil all conditions prescribed by the Ministry of Home Affairs. However, liquor shops will not be allowed in COVID-19 containment zones. Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation, Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited and Delhi Consumer's Cooperative Wholesale Store have been given the rights to open liquor shops in public places, except in malls. The agencies have been asked to provide the details immediately and also give an undertaking stating that liquor shops being allowed to open will fulfil all conditions prescribed by the MHA, according to the excise department. There are around 450 liquor shops, except those in malls, in the national capital. In the latest guidelines issued by the home ministry, sale of liquor, paan, tobacco will be allowed after ensuring minimum six-feet social distancing while no more than five people will be allowed inside a shop at a time. These shops should not be located in markets and malls in urban areas. In rural areas, all shops are permitted to remain open without any distinction of essential and non-essential. However, consumption of liquor, paan, gutka, tobacco etc., is not allowed in public places during the lockdown. On Saturday, the Centre decided to extend the ongoing lockdown by two weeks effective from May 4. In an order, the Union home ministry said the decision was taken after a comprehensive review of the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-launches-exercise-to-open-liquor-shops-in-non-containment-zones-832774.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Armed forces make preparations to say 'thank you' to 'corona warriors' on May 3||The armed forces have made elaborate arrangements to conduct aerial fly-pasts, light up ships at sea and shower flower petals on several hospitals across the country on Sunday to express gratitude to lakhs of doctors, paramedics, sanitation staff and other front-line workers engaged in fighting the coronavirus pandemic. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat on Friday announced that the three services will carry out a series of activities to thank the "corona warriors". The thanks-giving activities will start with laying of wreaths at the police memorial in Delhi and in several other cities on Sunday morning to honour the police personnel deployed in the enforcement of the nationwide lockdown, officials said. It will be followed by fly-pasts by fighter jets and transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force, covering a sizeable number of cities and towns across the country between 10 AM and 11 AM, officials said. Officials said fighter aircraft formations, comprising Sukhoi-30 MKI, MiG-29 and Jaguar, will be flying over Rajpath, Delhi's centrepiece boulevard, and will orbit over the city for around 30 minutes from 10 AM. "In addition, C-130 transport aircraft will follow a similar profile as fighters covering the entire Delhi and NCR region. The aircraft will be flying at an approximate height of 500 metres to 1000 metres keeping aerospace safety in mind especially in respect of bird activity," an IAF official said. He said the fly-past is combined with the training activity of the IAF. Another official said the fly-past will cover major towns starting from Srinagar to Thiruvananthapuram and Dibrugarh to Kutch. "Helicopters from the IAF and Indian Navy will fly over hospitals treating coronavirus patients and shower petals as a tribute to the corona warriors," Army Spokesperson Col Aman Anand said. In Delhi, IAF helicopters are scheduled to shower flower petals on a number of hospitals including AllMS, Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital, GTB, LNJP, Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, Safdarjung, Sir Ganga Ram hospital, Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, Max hospital in Saket, Apollo Indraprastha hospital and Army Research and Referral hospital. Military bands will play "patriotic tunes" outside various civil hospitals treating coronavirus patients across the country, Anand said. Separately, Indian Navy helicopters will shower petals on Kasturba Gandhi hospital and naval medical hospital Ashwini in Mumbai, GMC and ESI hospitals in Goa, Ernakulam General hospital in Kochi, Government TB and Chest hospital in Vizag and GB Pant hospital in Port Blair. Navy officials said the Western Naval Command will illuminate five naval ships from 7:30 PM to 11:59 PM off the Gateway of India in Mumbai. They would display banners like "India Salutes Corona Warriors" and will sound the siren of the ships and fire flares at 7:30 PM at anchorage. Additionally, the Naval air stations at Goa would organise a human chain on the runway to honour the 'corona warriors'. The Eastern Naval Command will illuminate two ships at anchorage from 7:30 pm to midnight at Visakhapatnam coast. Anand said Indian Coast Guard ships will be seen at 24 places including in Porbandar, Okha, Ratnagiri, Dahanu, Murud, Goa, New Mangalaore, Kavarati, Karaikal, Chennai, Krishnapatnam, Nizamapatanam, Puducherry, Kakinada, Paradip, Sagar Island, Port Blair, Diglipur, Mayabundur, Hut bay and Campbel Bay. "The nation stood together and showed resilience in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. On behalf of armed forces, we want to thank all the corona warriors -- doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, police, home guards, delivery boys and media," Gen Rawat said on Friday. So far, the coronavirus has infected 37,776 people in India while it claimed lives of 1,223 people, according to the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. Gen Rawat's announcement about the special activities came shortly before the Union Home Ministry said the the current spell of the lockdown will be extended by another two weeks from Monday. The lockdown came into force on March 25 and was to end on April 14. It was first extended till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/armed-forces-make-preparations-to-say-thank-you-to-corona-warriors-on-may-3-832809.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Ensure proper arrangements for seamless movement of stranded people: Raj CM to officials||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday directed state government officials to ensure better coordination and proper arrangements for seamless and quick movement of stranded people amid the coronavirus-forced lockdown. He said it was heartening that after a strong demand by the state government, the centre has given permission to operate special trains for ferrying migrant workers. Chairing a high-level meeting to review the preparations for the movement of migrants and lockdown arrangements, the chief minister said the Rajasthan government is constantly coordinating with the Centre and with other states for safe movement of migrants. "It is heartening that train has started operating from Rajasthan. Now, officials should ensure better arrangement and better coordination for easy and quick movement of migrants and workers. On the basis of the registration done so far, lists should be prepared and shared with respective states," he said. Gehlot said due to social distancing and ruthless containment, the state government has been able to contain the spread of coronavirus in the state. He also directed officials to ensure strict compliance of the lockdown which is in its third phase. "The chief minister said migrants should be brought through special trains as well as roadways and private buses," a government release said. Gehlot also directed the officials that stranded elderly people, pregnant women and children should be feried on a priority basis. Chief Secretary D B Gupta informed the meeting that migrants will be able to travel in special trains by paying the fare for ordinary category to Indian Railways. "Officials are constantly coordinating with the railways to enable passengers to reach home quickly and safely. Our effort is to have more trains operating from Rajasthan, so that the work can be completed soon," the officer said. Health Minister Raghu Sharma and other senior officials were also present at the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-proper-arrangements-for-seamless-movement-of-stranded-people-raj-cm-to-officials-832815.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Steepest spike till date with 187 new coronavirus cases, tally surges to 772 in Punjab||Punjab on Saturday registered the steepest surge in COVID-19 patients till date with 187 more people, including 142 pilgrims returning from Nanded in Maharashtra, testing positive for coronavirus, taking the total count of infected persons in the state to 772. The tally of corona-infected persons in the state has been surging aggressively ever since over 3,500 pilgrims from Hazur Sahib Gurdwara at Nanded early this week. Out of 187 new coronavirus-positive cases, reported on Saturday, 142 had returned from Nanded, a health official said. Out of total 772 confirmed cases in the state, Nanded-returned pilgrims coronavirus-positive pilgrims accounted for 44 per cent of total Covid-19 tally. A total of 105 persons were tested positive for infection on Friday with 91 of them having returned from Nanded. Another 105 were tested positive for the infection in the state on Thursday. Among fresh cases on Saturday, 53 were reported from Amritsar, followed by 31 from Hoshiarpur, 22 from Moga, 21 each from Patiala and Ludhiana, 15 from Jalandhar, nine from Ferozepur, six from Fatehgarh Sahib, three from Muktsar, two from Mohali and one each from Gurdaspur, Sangrur, Kapurthala and Rupnagar. The state government has already ordered a 21-day quarantine for people coming from outside. All 22 districts of the state now have COVID-19 cases. Amritsar now has topped the COVID-19 tally in the state with 143 coronavirus cases, followed by 119 in Jalandhar, 94 in Ludhiana, 93 in Mohali, 89 in Patiala, 42 in Hoshiarpur, 28 in Moga, 27 in Ferozepur, 25 in Pathankot, 23 in SBS Nagar, 14 in Tarn Taran, 13 each in Mansa and Kapurthala, 12 in Fatehgarh Sahib, seven in Muktsar, six each in Faridkot and Sangrur, five each in Rupnagar and Gurdaspur, four in Fazilka and two each in Barnala and Bathinda, reveals the government’s bulletin on Covid situation in the state. Of total cases, 20 have died while 112 patients have fully cured of the infection, as per the bulletin, which said two patients are critical and are on ventilator support. A total of 24,868 samples have been taken so far in the state, of which, 19,316 are negative and reports of 4,780 are still awaited. There are 640 active cases in the state, as per the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/steepest-spike-till-date-with-187-new-coronavirus-cases-tally-surges-to-772-in-punjab-832818.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Another Delhi-based CRPF company quarantined after trooper tests positive for coronavirus||A CRPF company comprising about 80 personnel has been quarantined in Delhi after a trooper tested positive for the novel coronavirus, a senior official said on Saturday. They said the case pertains to a unit of the 246th battalion that is based in Narela area of the national capital and it was deployed for rendering law and order duties along with Delhi Police over the last few weeks. A constable rank jawan of the 246 battalions has been found positive for COVID-19 in Delhi. The entire company of about 80 personnel has now been quarantined, they said. The CRPF is already facing a huge number of infections with at least 135 personnel of its 31st battalion based in Delhi testing positive for COVID-19. These included a 55-year-old sub-inspector who succumbed to the infection early this week.  Two other companies of the force in Delhi are quarantined in the national capital as part of precautionary measures after exposure to coronavirus suffering people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-delhi-based-crpf-company-quarantined-after-trooper-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-832824.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi to set up 'welfare cell' for coronavirus positive govt officials, their families||Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev on Saturday directed a senior officer to set up a 'Staff Welfare Cell' for regular interaction with COVID-19 positive government officials as well as their family members. The chief secretary also appointed Delhi Jal Board CEO Nikhil Kumar as state nodal welfare officer to provide assistance to the patients, corporations and autonomous and local bodies. According to a Delhi government order, the state nodal welfare officer has been asked to take necessary steps to set up a 24x7 helpline for such officials. The chief secretary has directed Kumar to identify and earmark two dedicated hospitals and an exclusive testing laboratory for treatment and testing of suspected and COVID-19 infected Delhi government officials and their family members on a cashless basis. "All district magistrates are also directed to provide details of officers/officials found COVID-19 positive in their districts on daily basis to state nodal welfare officer for further action as mentioned," the chief secretary said in the order. On Friday, Delhi recorded 223 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 3,738 with two more deaths being reported here. The number of fatalities due to COVID-19 now stands at 61.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-set-up-welfare-cell-for-coronavirus-positive-govt-officials-their-families-832829.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Ensure timely assistance to rape victims for termination of pregnancy: Rajasthan High Court to govt||The Rajasthan High Court has directed the state government to frame guidelines to ensure that rape victims who became pregnant are provided timely legal and medical assistance so they could exercise their reproductive choice in terms of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act. A division bench of justices Sandeep Mehta and P S Bhati gave the direction while hearing a special writ petition filed by the state government challenging a decision by a single bench, which had rejected the plea of a minor rape victim of Churu seeking termination of her pregnancy stating "the foetus in the womb had a right to life as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution". "We challenged this order in which the single bench had denied permission to terminate a 26-week fetus of a 17-year-old rape victim," said Additional Advocate General Pankaj Sharma. The court said that a pregnant woman, even in a normal situation, has a right to demand termination of pregnancy up to 20 weeks as per the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act. Taking a serious note of the delay in deciding the case at initial stage leading to crossing of the 20-week threshold for termination, the court said, "The victim sought termination of her pregnancy well in time but the matter was unnecessarily delayed because of red-tapism and systemic indifference." "If an application for termination of pregnancy is submitted by the guardian of the victim to the appropriate authority within the stipulated period of 20 weeks as provided by the MTP Act, it shall be processed forthwith and suitable decision shall be taken thereupon within three days from the date of submission thereof," the court said. While directing the government and an NGO to provide all remedial measures to the child born to the victim in this case, the court said that in case, where the threshold of 20 weeks gestation has been crossed, the full time secretary of the District Legal Services Authority would assist the victim and her guardians if they so desire for approaching the high court to file a writ petition seeking direction for termination of pregnancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-timely-assistance-to-rape-victims-for-termination-of-pregnancy-rajasthan-high-court-to-govt-832841.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||73 new coronavirus patients in Madhya Pradesh; tally rises to 2,788, six deaths||With 73 people testing positive since previous night, 30 of them in Indore, the number of coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh rose to 2,788 on Saturday, health officials said. The death toll due to virus rose to 151 with six COVID-19 patients dying during the same period, they added. Two deaths each were reported in Indore and Ujjain and one each in Mandsaur and Burhanpur. Of total deaths due to the pandemic in the state, Indore, the worst-affected district, accounts for 74. It also has 1,545 confirmed cases with 30 new coronavirus patients found since Friday night. In good news, no new coronavirus patient was found in Bhopal. 17 new patients were detected in Burhanpur, followed by 11 in Mandsaur, five in Jabalpur, four in Khargone, two each in Dhar and Morena and one in Mandsaur. First coronavirus patient was found in Katni district. The pandemic has thus spread to 33 district of Madhya Pradesh. Jabalpur district now has 92 coronavirus cases, Khargone 77, Dhar 51, Khandwa 47, Mandsaur 35, Burhanpur 18 and Morena has 16. The number of cases in other districts is: Bhopal 526, Ujjain 147, Raisen 57, Hoshangabad 35, Barwani 26, Dewas 26, Ratlam 16, Vidisha 13, Agar Malwa 12, Shajapur 7, five each in Sagar, Chhindwara and Gwalior, Sheopur four, three each in Alirajpur, Harda and Shahdol, two each in Shivpuri, Tikamgarh, Anuppur and Rewa and one each in Betul, Dindori and Ashok Nagar. Two patients hail from other states. Apart from Indore (74) and Bhopal (15), 27 persons have died in Ujjain, seven each in Khargone and Dewas, six in Khandwa, three in Hoshangabad, three in Mandsaur, two in Raisen and one each in Jabalpur, Dhar, Shajapur, Agar Malwa, Burhanpur, Chhindwara and Ashok Nagar. The condition of 1,952 patients is stable while that of 61 was serious. 624 people have recovered. The coronavirus figures from MP, thus, are as follows: Total cases 2,788, active cases 2,013, new cases 73, death toll 151, recovered 624, total number of tested people is 46,578.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/73-new-coronavirus-patients-in-madhya-pradesh-tally-rises-to-2788-six-deaths-832870.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||Prisoner killed in clash inside Baghpat district jail in Uttar Pradesh||A jail inmate was killed and a few others were injured in a clash between two groups of prisoners lodged in Baghpat district jail on Saturday, police said. The deceased Rishipal (42), a resident of Bassi village in Baghpat, was killed in the fight with a rival group led by Bablu Kashyap, who is undergoing life imprisonment, on Saturday afternoon, Baghpat Superintendent of Police Gopendra Yadav said. District Magistrate Shakuntala Gautam said a magisterial enquiry has been ordered following the incident. Rishipal had been in jail since November 21 last year due to a confrontation with locals in his native village, he added. Some of his family members were also arrested in connection with the case. On Saturday morning, the trouble started when Bablu, shifted here 10 days ago from Meerut jail, was digging a pit in the compound. A verbal duel ensued between the two as Rishipal thought Bablu was hiding some inflammable material inside the pit. The jail staff managed to pacify both inmates and they returned to their barracks, the SP said. Around 3 pm, Bablu along with five of his associates entered Rishipal's cell where he was sleeping. The group attacked Rishipal with a spoon sharpened like a knife and a pointed iron rod leaving him seriously injured. He was rushed to hospital where he succumbed to the injuries, the SP said. Rishipal's brother-in-law Amit, who was also in jail, was seriously injured and admitted to the district hospital. A total of 12 inmates, including Rishipal's father, received minor injuries in the incident, he said. In the past, the district jail was in news when notorious criminal Munna Bajrangi was killed inside the premises in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prisoner-killed-in-clash-inside-baghpat-district-jail-in-uttar-pradesh-832877.html
02-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 Lockdown: Curbs likely to be eased in Delhi from Monday except in containment zones||All shops of essential and non-essential goods, except in malls and markets, offices with 33 per strength and some business activities are likely to be allowed to operate from Monday in areas which do no fall under coronavirus containment zones in Delhi, city government officials said on Saturday after a nearly 40-day lockdown. No activity will be allowed in COVID-19 containment zones where lockdown rules will be strictly implemented to check the cases of dreaded infection, they said. There are 96 containment zones in the national capital.  The decision is in line with the latest guidelines issued by the Centre for 'Red zone', they said, adding a notification to this effect is expected to be released on Sunday. In a zone-wise classification of districts in the country, the Union Health Ministry has designated all 11 districts of Delhi as red zone. However, the Delhi government is planning to categorise the city wards on the basis of coronavirus cases, allowing more relaxation in lockdown curbs in areas where the infection has not been reported, according to sources. The city has 272 wards. According to the MHA's guidelines, private cars with two persons at most, two-wheelers without pillion rider business activities like Special Economic Zones (SEZs), Industrial Estates and Export Oriented Undertakings with access control, manufacturing plants of essential goods and manufacturing of IT hardware, will be allowed in red zone. Liquor shops, except those in malls and markets, will also be allowed to open from Monday, officials said. There are around 450 liquor shops, except those in malls, in the national capital. They are shut since March 22.  Government offices, like transport and revenue, are among those to be allowed to function with 33 per cent strength. Shops in urban areas, for non-essential goods, are not allowed in malls, markets and market complexes. However, all standalone (single) shops, neighbourhood (colony) shops and shops in residential complexes are permitted to remain open in urban areas, without any distinction of essential and non-essential. Delhi recorded 384 fresh cases of novel coronavirus, the highest spike in cases in a day, taking the tally to 4122 on Saturday, according to Delhi government. Three fresh deaths were reported on Saturday taking the number of fatalities to 64, the government said. On April 13, Delhi had seen the highest rise in cases at 356 in a single day. On Saturday, 41 people living in a building in southwest Delhi's Kapashera area tested positive for coronavirus, an official said. A case of COVID-19 had been reported from the building in 'theke wali gali' on April 18, prompting authorities to seal it. A police constable posted in Jahangirpuri Police Station in north Delhi and a doctor of the North Delhi MCD-run Hindu Rao Hospital were among those who tested positive for the virus. Two nurses of the hospital have tested positive for the disease in the last one week. After the first nurse tested positive last Saturday, samples of 78 other staffers, including the doctor, were sent for testing. Reports of 11 staffers are awaited, they said. Another postgraduate student of the NDMC-run Kasturba hospital has tested positive for the novel coronavirus. She was under quarantine and had no symptom. Officials said the process for fund disbursement under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana to beneficiaries in the city will be staggered to maintain social distancing in wake of COVID-19 spread. The chief secretary has directed officials to ensure that beneficiaries are allowed to withdraw the fund from banks and ATMs in accordance with the given last digit of their accounts Meanwhile, the students of the national capital stranded in Kota in Rajasthan are likely to arrive in Delhi early morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-curbs-likely-to-be-eased-in-delhi-from-monday-except-in-containment-zones-832879.html
02-05-2020||Opinion||Migrant labourers may impact Nitish Kumar, Mamata Banerjee's fortunes||At long last, the return of migrant workers to their home states is underway. It is indeed a big relief to them. But it is not the end of the story as far as they are concerned. In fact, it is just the beginning as far as their home states go. After they have returned to their homes, their states will have to work out plans for their livelihood.  There is a strong possibility that the ordeal that the migrant labourers have undergone for more than a month may deter them from returning to work in non-native states for a long time. It will be incumbent upon home states to find alternative work opportunities for them. Poll-bound states face big test It is both a challenge and an opportunity for states like West Bengal, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Jharkhand from where lakhs of workers went to different states of India. But it will be particularly challenging for the poll-bound states of Bihar (due in Oct-Nov 2020) and Bengal (due in April-May 2021). The reason is simple. If these two states can act swiftly to generate new employment avenues for the returnees, the respective ruling parties will be blessed by voters. If they fail, it will affect their prospects in the polls.  On a positive note, migrants from Bihar and Bengal can expect to be accommodated in their home states sooner, thanks to the coming elections. As far as the other states are concerned, Yogi Adityanath of Uttar Pradesh has promised to create 15 lakh new jobs for the migrants in the state in the near future. If he can walk the talk, other states will also be pressurised to act fast. Whether Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh can follow suit is to be seen. Naveen Patnaik of Odisha is known as a doer, and is expected to deliver.  Hopefully, there will be stiff competition among the states to serve their returnees better. In a democracy, political parties are forced to vie for scoring points by serving the people better in such critical times, if only to garner more votes in the next elections. For the record, by the middle of next year three other states will also face elections along with Bengal. These states are Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Assam. Kerala will face a similar problem of returnees, but it will be slightly different in nature as people will return there from foreign lands, and the returnees will not compare Kerala with the United Arab Emirates or other countries. Same is the case with Tamil Nadu.  Assam, on the other hand, will have some returnees from different Indian states; but the number is not politically very significant.  Accommodating the migrants The first challenge for the home states, however, is making smooth arrangements for getting people back. Yogi Adityanath, who got back the migrants and students from Rajasthan, has already put pressure on other states to do it fast and in a smooth manner. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, unable to follow UP’s lead, declared the idea of ferrying migrants or students 'an injustice to the principle of lockdown'. Even after the Centre's go-ahead for the return of the migrants, Kumar's deputy Sushil Modi, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) man, categorically stated that the Bihar government did not have enough buses to transport migrant labourers and students  Possibly realising it was sounding insensitive, the next day Sushil Modi demanded Central government must bring these people back by train.  Mamata Banerjee will have more time, and she can at least work out an appropriate solution. She had herself earlier said that the people of Bengal need not go out as there was scope for work for them in the state. Now, she will have to showcase her efforts and success in this regard. It is particularly important for her political future, because the migrants are mainly from those districts -- including the Muslim-dominated Malda and Murshidabad, where Trinamool Congress stayed strong during the last Lok Sabha polls.  Mamata will also have the benefit of deflecting some blame on to the Centre. She has already blamed the Narendra Modi disposition for not disbursing enough food or money. The blame is not entirely unjustified either. But at the end of the day, people’s mood will depend on her performance, and not on her campaign. If Didi can provide employment to the returnees, she will be in an advantageous position. Otherwise, the BJP or the Congress-Left combine will benefit out of the crisis.  (Diptendra Raychaudhuri is a Kolkata-based journalist and author of books including, A Naxal Story. He is a deputy editor at the Bengali daily, Aajkal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/migrant-labourers-may-impact-nitish-kumar-mamata-banerjees-fortunes-832651.html
02-05-2020||South||TN reports more than 200 coronavirus cases on May 1; tally crosses 2,500||For the first time, Tamil Nadu’s single day COVID-19 cases went beyond 200 on Friday with swab samples of 203 persons rendering positive, taking the tally in the state to 2,526. This is the biggest single-day spike reported ever since the coronavirus outbreak began in March. As many as 176 cases were from Chennai alone even as one death was recorded in the state taking the toll to 28. As of Friday, the number of active cases was 1,183. The state now has one of the highest testing numbers at 1,29,363 samples so far -- 9,615 samples were tested on Friday, though 1,985 samples are under process.  Chennai, which reported 176 cases on Thursday alone, is the biggest hotspot in the state with 1,082 positive patients. The biggest worry for the government is the increasing number of primary or index cases in Chennai, whose source is not known.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-reports-more-than-200-coronavirus-cases-on-may-1-tally-crosses-2500-832512.html
02-05-2020||South||No fresh COVID cases reported in Kerala after six weeks||No fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Friday while nine recovered from the infection, for the first time after around six weeks that no cases are being reported on a day in Kerala. Among the nine recovered, four each were from Kasargod and Kannur districts. Now four of the 14 districts in Kerala have no COVID-19 cases. Kannur tops the tally with 43. While Kasargod district collector Sajith Babu, who was kept in isolation following contact with a COVID-19 infected journalist, was tested negative. Two police officers and an MLA were still under observation. Eight places in Kasargod are hotspots. The number of active coronavirus cases in the district now is five.   ` Meanwhile, two persons, including a Kanyakumari native, tested coronavirus positive in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday were reportedly tested negative on Thursday. The swabs were tested at two different government agencies. Hence further tests were being conducted at NIV unit in Kerala for further confirmation.  Registration crosses five lakh The number of Malayali NRIs and Malayalis in other states who register online in a facility launched by Kerala government crossed five lakh by Friday. While 3.7 lakh Malayalis from 203 countries registered, 1.2 lakh Malayalis in other states in India registered. The maximum numbers were from Karanataka. The registration is being done for making arrangements like COVID-19 screening and quarantine facilities on the return of Malayalis from other countries and states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-kerala-after-six-weeks-832513.html
02-05-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Special train with migrant workers to leave for Jharkhand from Kerala||A train carrying around 1,200 stranded migrant workers from Kerala would leave from the state capital to Hatia in Jharkhand on Saturday. Thiruvananthapuram District Collector K Gopalakrishnan said the train was expected to leave the central station here at around 2 PM. Those with any symptoms of the virus would not be allowed to travel, he told reporters here. This is the second train which would be leaving from the state with the workers. Around 1,100 migrant workers from Aluva in Kochi left for Bhubaneswar in Odisha on Friday night. Earlier, the state government had said that at least 5 trains would be leaving for various states from Kerala on Saturday with the workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-special-train-with-migrant-workers-to-leave-for-jharkhand-from-kerala-832597.html
02-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: Shashi Tharoor procures thermal camera with face detection tech for fever screening in Kerala||The first Thermal and Optical Imaging camera with Artificial Intelligence-powered face detection technology for fever screening has been procured for the state capital by former Union Minister Shashi Tharoor. Following a discussion, his team had with district collector K Gopalakrishnan, Congress leader Tharoor said it was brought to his notice that a Thermal imaging camera with face detection technology was urgently needed in the district to scan from a safe distance and isolate those potentially having fever. Using his MPLADS fund, Tharoor, who represents, Thiruvananthapuram in the Lok Sabha, procured the equipment. The Thermal camera was procured from Amsterdam due to its unavailablity in Asia and brought to India using multiple flight connections covering Cologne, Paris, Leipzig, Brussels, Bahrain and Dubai before finally reaching Bengaluru, from where it was shipped to Kerala, Tharoor said in a Facebook Post. "The installation will be done at our Airport, Railway Station, MCH. Since all MPLADS funds have been exhausted, we are approaching other corporate groups to partner with us and the district administration to procure more of this highly sophisticated technological device prior to the huge influx of expatriates from the middle east and other areas overseas," Tharoor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-shashi-tharoor-procures-thermal-camera-with-face-detection-tech-for-fever-screening-in-kerala-832633.html
02-05-2020||South||Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu records first coronavirus case since the outbreak||Krishnagiri, the only green district in Tamil Nadu that borders Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, on Saturday recorded its first COVID-19 case ever since the coronavirus outbreak began in March. With this, all 37 districts in Tamil Nadu are now affected by coronavirus, which has so far claimed 28 lives in the state. The only district, which was coded green as it did not report any positive cases, Krishnagiri now enters the orange zone. As of Friday, the state had 12 districts, including Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur, in red zone, 24 in orange and 1 (Krishnagiri) in green zone. A 67-year-old man, who returned from Andhra Pradesh a few days back, tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday and has been shifted to Government Medical College Hospital in Salem, 115 km from Krishnagiri. The man and three others were quarantined on April 25 on their arrival from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh following their screening at the inter-state check-post. “Of the four people whose swab samples were collected, one tested positive and the remaining three negative. These people are native of Krishnagiri but came from Andhra Pradesh on April 25 with the required pass to travel (from the neighbouring state),” Krishnagiri District Collector S Prabhakar told DH.   The man, who tested positive, belongs to Nallur village near Veppannahalli town in the district. “Swab samples of the family members of the positive patient have been collected and sent for testing. There is nothing to worry,” Prabhakar added. He said the district administration had tightened security, especially at the borders, since March 21 when the Tamil Nadu government imposed a ban on interstate travel, which was one of the reasons for the district remaining coronavirus free. Hosur, the industrial town in Krishnagiri district, borders Karnataka capital Bengaluru. Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally is 2,526 with Chennai alone accounting to over 1,000 cases. As of Friday, the number of active cases was 1,183.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/krishnagiri-in-tamil-nadu-records-first-coronavirus-case-since-the-outbreak-832635.html
02-05-2020||South||Thrissur Pooram held sans pomp, festivities due to coronavirus||Amid the COVID-19 lockdown curbs, the iconic 'Thrissur Pooram', known for the parade of richly caparisoned jumbos, performance of traditional music ensembles and a sea of cheering people, was held on Saturday in a low key manner with just a handful of people and inevitable rituals inside the Vadakkunnathan temple. Billed as the mother of all temple festivals in Kerala, the annual pooram was normally held at the sprawling Thekkinkadu Maidan in Thrissur city. The festival was a gathering of 'Pooram' and jumbo lovers around the globe who could be seen dancing to the rhythm of percussion instruments. But, this year, the Thekkinkadu ground wore a deserted look as the Vadakkunnathan Lord Shiva temple cancelled the celebrations due to the nationwide lockdown.   The state government and members of the two devaswom boards, which organises the festival, had held discussions and consulted the temple priests on April15 and "unanimously decided" to cancel the Pooram. "After considering the unusual situation of pandemic we are facing, the state government and the devaswom Boards have unanimously decided to cancel the famous Thrissur Pooram (festival) and will conduct only the necessary rituals," state minister V S Sunilkumar said. The rituals were conducted on Saturday, inside the Vadakkunnathan temple with the participation of around five people and devotees were not allowed inside. All other events related to the Thrissur pooram, including the exhibition, mini-poorams also stood cancelled. Musical maestro Peruvanam Kuttan Marar, whohas been leading this majestic orchestra for the last fourdecades, told the media that pooram was an "emotion close to the hearts of all Keralites." "The cancellation of the Pooram is a loss to all the Keralaites across the world.The pooram was our pride. It's an emotion that remains close to our heart. Now, we all wait for the next year's pooram," he said. The pooram was earlier cancelled during many instances, including in 1948 when Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated and then during the Chinese war. "Earlier it was also cancelled or held with minimum rituals when there was a difference of opinion over conducting bursting the fireworks and handling of the usual exhibition," Sunilkumar said earlier. The two-centuries-old Thrissur Pooram had its origin in 1798, through a royal edict of the then Raja Rama Varma, popularly known as Shakthan Thampuran, a powerful ruler of the erstwhile princely state of Cochin. The edict entrusted two local temples -- Paramekkavu and Thiruvambady -- as the main sponsors of the festivities to be conducted in a competitive spirit. Besides the main poorams by the two devaswoms, small poorams from nearby temples also participate in the festivities, which ends with the fireworks display. However, pooram lovers and jumbo fans "celebrated" this year's pooram on social media platforms with many sharing photos and notes and their memories of the festival held in previous years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/thrissur-pooram-held-sans-pomp-festivities-due-to-coronavirus-832671.html
02-05-2020||South||No decision yet on re-opening liquor outlets, bars: Kerala Minister||The Kerala government has not taken any decision on re-opening of bars and state-run beverages outlets or resume online sale of liquor that were shut owing to the COVID-19 lockdown, state Excise Minister T P Ramakrishnan said on Saturday. The Union Home Ministry had on Friday issued detailed guidelines, specifying activities allowed in the three zones - Red, Orange and Green - apart from what is permitted and not allowed country-wide. The Home Ministry had said sale of liquor, paan and tobacco to be allowed after ensuring minimum of six feet in social distancing; not over five people at one time at the shop. Ramakrishnan told reporters that the state government has given instructions to clean and disinfect the state-run beverage outlets before re-opening and make arrangements so that those coming there should be able to maintain social distancing and other health precautions. "However, we have not taken any decision regarding the re-opening of the beverages outlets after May 4. There is no urgency in taking a decision now. We will evaluate the Centre's guidelines and decide accordingly," he said. "In case we need to implement strict restrictions somewhere, we will do that," he said. Following the lockdown protocol, the Left government had closed all the liquor shops since March 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-decision-yet-on-re-opening-liquor-outlets-bars-kerala-minister-832682.html
02-05-2020||South||Active COVID-19 cases in Kerala fall below 100-mark; liquor outlets, public transport shut||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Kerala on Saturday dropped below the 100-mark, reaching 96 with eight more persons recovering from the virus. Two fresh cases were reported in the state on Saturday. With one of the fresh positive cases being detected at Wayanad district after a gap of several weeks, the district that was being considered a green zone would be hereafter considered an orange zone. The other positive case was reported in Kannur district, while six in the district and two in Idukki recovered. Despite relaxations prescribed on lockdown norms, Kerala has decided not to allow public transport system and liquor shops to open for the time being to avoid rush. It was also decided to make Sundays a total holiday for all shops and offices. Vehicles should also keep off roads on Sundays, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He that the state could not be yet considered free from the COVID-19 scare as chances of community spread had not been fully ruled out. Hence all general restrictions would continue till May 17. With 1.3 lakh Malayalis in others states so far registering on state's portal for returning to Kerala, arrangements would be made to conduct medical screening at state borders and those with symptoms would be sent to COVID-19 care facilities being arranged by government. Date and time for entering the state would be informed to each registered person. The state was also pressing centre to take steps to bring NRIs, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/active-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-fall-below-100-mark-liquor-outlets-public-transport-shut-832735.html
02-05-2020||South||Chennai’s Koyambedu market, the new COVID-19 super spreader?||The Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC), one of the largest vegetable, fruit, and flower markets in the country spread across nearly 300 acres, is emerging as the newest hotspot for COVID-19 infections in Tamil Nadu.   More than 70 people, including vendors, labourers and buyers, who went to the sprawling market campus spread across several districts have tested positive for COVID-19 with the government activating its contact tracing mechanism to trace people who had been to the complex or came in contact with any of the confirmed patients.  While 50 of the 70 are from Chennai alone, 18 people from Ariyalur, two from Villupuram and one from Perambalur districts have also tested positive. While the health bulletin said two cases were recorded in Cuddalore, the district collector said nine people from the Koyambedu cluster have tested positive for the virus. Officials fear the number of patients from the Koyambedu cluster, as it is being called now, will witness a sharp increase as thousands of people had visited the market in the past one month to buy vegetables and fruits. Also, thousands of people were seen at the market on April 25, the day before the Tamil Nadu government’s intensified lockdown came into force to stock up vegetables and fruits. Vendors say the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) that manages the market should have moved out the retail market to a different place immediately after the lockdown was enforced on March 25, which could have averted the cluster. District administrations are in the process of tracing wholesale vendors who went to the market to buy supplies --- several hundreds of them have already been quarantined in various places. “It is emerging as the biggest cluster after a religious congregation that was held in Delhi in March. Tracing people who went to such a sprawling market is not an easy task. But every effort is being taken to identify people who came in contact with positive patients and testing them,” a senior Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) official told DH. Cuddalore District Collector V Anbuselvan told DH that nearly 700 people, including 600 of them whose primary engagement is at the Koyambedu market have been quarantined at various facilities in Cuddalore district. “These people have come to the district in the past few days in vans and lorries that carry essential supplies and other modes of transport. Nine people have tested positive on Saturday,” he said. However, the health bulletin painted a different picture saying Cuddalore had just two cases today. Since positive cases were reported from Koyambedu at the beginning of the week, the collector said, the district administration placed all returning from Chennai under institutional quarantine before testing them.  With the Koyambedu cluster growing day by day, Anbuselvan said even people who have tested negative will be kept under quarantine for 14 days from the date of their arrival. Tiruvallur district superintendent of police P Aravindhan told DH that the police are in the process of collecting information on people who visited the Koyamedu market from the district. The sprawling campus, which has both retail and wholesale vendors, was not closed even when the entire country went for a lockdown on March 25 as several districts in Tamil Nadu depend on vegetables and fruits that are transported from Koyambedu. After the first positive case was reported earlier this week, the government closed the retail, fruit and flower market within the complex, while only keeping the wholesale vegetable market open. “The government should have closed the retail market long back as people come in large numbers there. And, the police should have enforced social distancing in the complex by directing people to the blocks that they wanted to go. Without any proper help, people were forced to go around the whole complex,” a member of the Koyambedu Vegetable Market Association told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-s-koyambedu-market-the-new-covid-19-super-spreader-832807.html
02-05-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: 5 special trains with migrants leave Kerala on May 2||Five special trains for migrant workers were being operated to various parts of the country from Kerala on Saturday. While one train was operated to Ranchi from Thiruvananthapuram, another was operated to Dhanbad from Kozhikode in North Kerala. Two trains were operated to Patna from Aluva in Ernakulam and Tirur in Malappuram district. A second train to Bhubaneswar was operated from Ernakulam. First train from Kerala for migrants was also operated to Bhubaneswar on Friday. Around 1,200 migrant workers are being accommodated in each train. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that migrants were being allowed to travel after obtaining NOC from destination places. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik thanked Kerala for the arrangements provided for the migrant workers from the state. Kerala was ready to welcome back the migrants once the COVID-19 alerts were over, said Vijayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-5-special-trains-with-migrants-leave-kerala-on-may-2-832821.html
02-05-2020||South||Lockdown: Tamil Nadu govt eases restrictions in non-containment areas||Following the Centre's fresh guidelines on COVID-19 lockdown, the Tamil Nadu government on Saturday eased restrictions in non-containment areas and allowed resumption of construction activity, road works, opening of SEZs, among others, from May 4. The cabinet gave its nod to the extension of the lockdown till May 17 and issued new guidelines to be followed during the third phase. While ruling out any relaxation in rules in the coronavirus containment zones, the Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister K Palaniswami said it permitted certain activities in the non-containment zones.  They include: Resumption of construction activity, road works, opening of SEZs, export units with minimum of 20 employees or 25 per cent of staff strength. IT or ITES firms can function with minimum of 20 employees or 10 per cent staff strength, the new guidelines said. Also, grocery shops selling essential commodities can function between 6 am and 5 pm and restaurants (only for takeaways) between 6 am and 9 pm. The functioning of saloons or beauty parlours is prohibited while service providers such as plumbers, electricians, AC mechanics and tailors can work. These come with a rider - all these activities are permitted in areas outside the containment zones. Regarding non-containment zones in rest of Tamil Nadu, in the zones falling under municipal corporations and municipalities, the Cabinet has permitted re-opening of all factories including textile mills with 50 per cent of staff strength (minimum of 20 employees). In town panchayats with over 15,000 population, the textile mills can function with 50 per cent staff strength after obtaining clearance from the district Collectors. SEZ, EOU, industrial estates / clusters in rural and urban areas can work with 50 per cent staff strength. No permission has been granted to textile mills located in industrial estates ofurban areas. Collectors have been authorised to decide on re-opening of export units in urban areas with 50 per cent staff strength and units of designing and production of samples for exporting garment and leather products with 30 per cent staff strength.  The Cabinet permitted re-opening of hardware manufacturing firms with 50 per cent staff strength besides spinning mills in rural areas with an equal staff strength. Shops, selling materials for infrastructure industry and repair shops for mobile phones and computers, can be kept open from 9 am to 5 pm. The first phase lockdown in India was from March 25 to April 14. The second phase commenced on April 15 and would end tomorrow. The third phase lockdown is from May 4 to 17. Chennai is among the Red Zones owing to the high number of COVID-19 cases and tight restrictions are in place. Chennai has 1,081 cases (till Friday) and the state accounts for about 198 containment zones and 5 clusters have also been identified in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-tamil-nadu-govt-eases-restrictions-in-non-containment-areas-832839.html
02-05-2020||South||Krishnagiri records first COVID-19 case since outbreak||Krishnagiri, the only Green district in Tamil Nadu that borders Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, on Saturday recorded its first COVID-19 case ever since the coronavirus outbreak began in March. With this, all 37 districts in Tamil Nadu are now affected by Coronavirus which has so far claimed 28 lives in the state. The only district which was coded Green earlier as it did not report any positive cases, Krishnagiri now enters the orange zone. As of Friday, the state had 12 districts, including Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur, in Red zone, 24 in Orange and 1 (Krishnagiri) in Green zone. A 67-year-old man, who returned from Andhra Pradesh a few days back, tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday and has been shifted to Government Medical College Hospital in Salem, 115 kms from Krishnagiri. The patient and three others were quarantined on April 25 on their arrival from Puttaparthi in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh following their screening at the inter-state check-post. “Of the four people whose swab samples were collected, one tested positive and the remaining three negative. These people are native of Krishnagiri but came from Andhra Pradesh on April 25 with required pass to travel (from the neighbouring state),” Krishnagiri District Collector S Prabhakar told DH. The man, who tested positive, belongs to Nallur village near Veppannahalli town in the district. “Swab samples of the family members of the positive patient have been collected and sent for testing. There is nothing to worry,” Prabhakar added. He said the district administration had tightened security, especially at the borders, since March 21 when the Tamil Nadu government imposed a ban on inter-state travel, which was one of the reasons for the district remaining Corona free. Hosur, the industrial town in Krishnagiri district, borders Karnataka's capital Bengaluru. Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally is 2,526 with Chennai alone accounting to over 1,000 cases. As of Friday, the number of active cases was 1,183.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/krishnagiri-records-first-covid-19-case-since-outbreak-832851.html
02-05-2020||South||ICMR lauds Kerala's containment strategy for coronavirus||The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday lauded the containment strategy and the robust public healthcare system of Kerala and said it would "continue referring to the Kerala model" for testing and containment strategies. Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, chief of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at ICMR, said India has evolved a strong COVID-19 testing regime over the last three months. He was responding to queries from media persons at an online interaction, which was streamed live on Facebook by Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Kerala, here. "Kerala is offering one of the best containment strategies and it is unparalleled. So we will continue to refer to Kerala Model as far as testing and containment strategies are concerned," Gangakhedkar said. He said the country was now in a position to ramp up tests up to 1.25 lakh a day in the government sector. "We have expanded the criteria of testing as much as we could. After starting from scratch three months back, the last test we have done was 72,000 today. This is a significantly high number. We are in a position to ramp up testing up to 1.25 lakh a day," he added. The interaction was an initiative by the state Health Department to explain the technical aspects of the widely- debated COVID-19 testing. A high-level team of the state led by Health Minister K K Shailaja, Health Secretary Rajan Khobragade, Dr B Ekbal, who heads the expert panel that advises the government on prevention of the coronavirus and National Health Mission state director, Dr Rathan U Kelkar among others participated. When asked about the certain test results coming up with false negative or positive, Ekbal said such results were "rare instances" of human error. "We have conducted as many as over 35,000 tests in Kerala. Only two or three went wrong. That kind of an average exists even in missions that are less pressing," he said. Health Secretary Khobragade said the tests were being carried out in accordance with certain protocol. "Any minute variation in the process involving swab collection, its transportation and the manner of reception at the lab also may impact test," he said, and explained how efficiently the government facilitates the flow of communication to the patient about the result of the test for COVID-19. Kerala on Saturday reported two positive cases of coronavirus taking the total number of cases in the state to 499. The state has till now cured 400 patients but lost three. There are 96 people under treatment in Kerala, as per the latest medical report. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday lauded the containment strategy and the robust public healthcare system of Kerala and said it would "continue referring to the Kerala model" for testing and containment strategies. Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, chief of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at ICMR, said India has evolved a strong COVID-19 testing regime over the last three months. He was responding to queries from media persons at an online interaction, which was streamed live on Facebook by Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Kerala, here. "Kerala is offering one of the best containment strategies and it is unparalleled. So we will continue to refer to Kerala Model as far as testing and containment strategies are concerned,"Gangakhedkar said. He said the country was now in a position to ramp up tests up to 1.25 lakh a day in the government sector. "We have expanded the criteria of testing as much as we could. After starting from scratch three months back, the last test we have done was 72,000 today. This is a significantly high number. We are in a position to ramp up testing up to 1.25 lakh a day," he added. The interaction was an initiative by the state Health Department to explain the technical aspects of the widely- debated COVID-19 testing. A high-level team of the state led by Health Minister K K Shailaja, Health Secretary Rajan Khobragade, Dr B Ekbal, who heads the expert panel that advises the government on prevention of the coronavirus and National Health Mission state director, Dr Rathan U Kelkar among others participated. When asked about the certain test results coming up with false negative or positive, Ekbal said such results were "rare instances" of human error. "We have conducted as many as over 35,000 tests in Kerala. Only two or three went wrong. That kind of an average exists even in missions that are less pressing," he said. Health Secretary Khobragade said the tests were being carried out in accordance with certain protocol. "Any minute variation in the process involving swab collection, its transportation and the manner of reception at the lab also may impact test," he said, and explained how efficiently the government facilitates the flow of communication to the patient about the result of the test for COVID-19. Kerala on Saturday reported two positive cases of coronavirus taking the total number of cases in the state to 499. The state has till now cured 400 patients but lost three. There are 96 people under treatment in Kerala, as per the latest medical report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/icmr-lauds-keralas-containment-strategy-for-coronavirus-832872.html
02-05-2020||State||COVID-19: Divide Bengaluru into zones, Karnataka to tell Centre||Karnataka has decided to tell the Centre that Bengaluru should not be considered as one entire district for COVID-19 containment purpose so that economic activities can be allowed in areas where there are no cases.  The Centre has categorised Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural and Mysuru as red zones, which means that lockdown restrictions will continue to be in force here.  “Entire Bengaluru has been made as one unit. This is a city of one crore people. Even if there’s one positive case, the entire district will become red. So, Bengaluru should be divided into four zones - the green zones can be freed up whereas red zones can have restrictions. We have decided to write to the Centre on this,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka told reporters.  That the Bengaluru Urban district should not be considered as one unit was discussed at a meeting Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa chaired Saturday morning to discuss fresh guidelines issued by the Centre.  “Padarayanapura and Bommanahalli have cases. Other areas can start activities. People are suffering much inconvenience, because of which we have suggested dividing Bengaluru,” Ashoka said.  Similarly, the state government has decided to write to the Centre on categorizing Bengaluru Rural as a red zone.  “I’m the Bengaluru Rural district, in-charge minister. There isn't a single COVID-19 case there. All major industries are located in this region - Nelamangala, Hoskote, Doddaballapur and so on,” he said. “Although marked as red, Bengaluru Rural will have to come under the orange. All industries in the district have been allowed to start operations with 30% strength,” he said.   To prevent an exodus of migrant workers, the government has decided to permit cement factories, steel units, stone crushers, shops selling electrical goods, sanitary products and construction-related items, Ashoka said. “If migrant workers leave at one, it’ll create a huge gap in Bengaluru. We want to prevent that,” he said.  In Bengaluru, only those shops selling essential supplies such as vegetables will be allowed to open in markets, the minister said. “Otherwise, malls and markets can’t open.”  Asked about the sale of liquor, Ashoka said the CM had been authorized to take a call on this. “He will decide on May 4.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-divide-bengaluru-into-zones-karnataka-to-tell-centre-832622.html
02-05-2020||State||Two COVID-19 deaths reported in Karnataka, toll rises to 25||Two people died of COVID-19 in Karnataka on Saturday taking the toll in the state to 25, whereas nine more tested positive for the virus, pushing the tally to 598, the health department said. Two deaths were reported in Bidar and Bengaluru urban, the health department said in a statement. An 82-year-old person with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness died in Bidar. While the second fatality was a 62-year-old man with a history of diabetes, hyper-tension, renal failture and was on multiple myeloma on chemotherapy, in Bengaluru. He too had complained of breathlessness on April 30 and died on Saturday at the designated hospital. Among the nine new cases, two each are from Tumakuru, Vijayapura, one each from Bidar, Chikkaballapura, Belagavi, Bagalkot and Bengaluru urban. Cumulatively, 598 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state and it includes 25 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-karnataka-toll-rises-to-25-832634.html
02-05-2020||State||Two more COVID-19 positive cases surface in Tumakuru||Two more people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tumakuru city on Saturday. With this, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has risen to seven. Of these, two are dead and two have recovered. Health Department staff said that those who have tested positive now had come into primary contact with P-535. It is now known that three people were infected by coming in contact with P-535. The two new cases are a married couple --a 40-year-old man and a 29-year-old woman, living in KHB Colony in Tumakuru city. They lived in the house next to P-535. They were kept in the isolation ward and their samples were sent for tests. Now the report has come out as Covid-19 positive. Those who had come into contact with the couple are now in the isolation ward of the district hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-more-covid-19-positive-cases-surface-in-tumakuru-832738.html
02-05-2020||State||Illegal liquor sales: Shop owners make quick buck during lockdown||Illegal liquor sales are thriving during the lockdown in Tumakuru district. Liquor worth Rs 100 is being sold for Rs 600 - Rs 700 and brands worth Rs 1,000 for as high as Rs 7,000. Liquor shop owners have made three times the profit that they usually make in a month by selling liquor on the sly. Though the District In-Charge Minister J C Madhuswamy has cautioned liquor sellers that stringent action will be taken if irregularities are found in the stock register, people question if that has stopped shop owners from selling liquor from the backdoor.  Meanwhile, many liquor outlets have been 'burgled' in Hebbur, Bedathur, Kora and other places recently. Authorities suspect that the owners themselves have broken open the locks and shifted the stock somewhere else to sell in the black market and claimed that they were 'burglaries'. As many as 53 illegal liquor sale cases have been booked in the district since the lockdown was announced.  Deputy Director of Excise Nagaraj said that checking of liquor stocks in stores has begun in the district from May 2. The licences of seven shops have also been cancelled. Others have been raided and their stocks seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/illegal-liquor-sales-shop-owners-make-quick-buck-during-lockdown-832740.html
02-05-2020||State||COVID-19 testing lab for Tumakuru next week: District surgeon||If all goes well, a new Covid-19 testing laboratory will be set up here at the district hospital in Tumakuru next week.  Currently, throat swab and sputum samples are being sent for tests to the National Institute of Virology in Bengaluru. It takes the reports three days to come back. If a lab is set up in Tumakuru itself, the report can be had the same day the samples are taken.   The lab needs four technicians and a microbiologist. They have already been trained in Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru. A room next to the MRI scanning centre at the district hospital has been identified to set up the lab. Four rooms are needed. There is a provision for the technicians to work in two shifts. As many as 96 samples can be tested in one shift; which means that 192 samples can be tested in a day. Two technicians will work per shift and they will not be allowed to do any other kind of work.  The lab needs 16 different kinds of equipment. Some of it will be imported from Bengaluru and the lab will begin to operate from next week, said District Surgeon Dr T A Veerabhadraiah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-testing-lab-for-tumakuru-next-week-district-surgeon-832791.html
02-05-2020||State||Lockdown exemptions, pre-monsoon rain triggers agri activities||Farmers in parts of north Karnataka have started preparing land for the Kharif season, following the exemptions granted to farming and related activities. A few spells of pre-monsoon showers have prompted the farmers in Hubballi taluk to take up levelling and tilling the farmlands despite an acute shortage of agricultural labourers owing to the coronavirus-induced shutdown. After the farmers harvested the rabi crops, the nationwide lockdown was clamped to mitigate the virus spread. The farmers had a tough time in selling their produce before the government rushed to their rescue. After the lockdown was eased for agri and related activities, several farmers dusted off tractors and agri implements to initiate the farm activities for new crop season. In the last few days, farmers from Kusugal, Siraguppi, Hebasuru, Byahatti and surrounding villages in Hubbali taluk were seen preparing lands using tractors and oxen. Shankar Patil, a farmer from Siraguppi told DH, “The farmers in the region have begun preparing land for Kharif season. But for the cotton crop at few places, most of the rabi crops in the region have been harvested. Agricultural activities in April was standstill due to the lockdown.” “A few spells of pre-monsoon showers have helped the farmers prepare their land for monsoon season. The farmers have cleaned jowar and cotton plants and started tilling their lands. Also, buffalo manure is being sprayed to the land to enhance the soil fertility,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lockdown-exemptions-pre-monsoon-rain-triggers-agri-activities-832823.html
02-05-2020||State||Prolonged coronavirus lockdown breathes life into Krishna river||The coronavirus-driven lockdown has brought untold misery and suffering to millions, more so the deprived and marginalised sections of the society. On the flip side, the prolonged shutdown has a significant improvement in air quality. Many rivers in the country are looking cleaner. And the fate of River Krishna which flows through Maharashtra, Karnataka and two Telugu states, is no different. The Krishna water near Athani looks crystal clear. This is primarily because factories along the riverbank in Maharashtra and Karnataka, that discharged effluents into the Krishna, have been shut for the past 40 days due to a prolonged nationwide lockdown. Birds, some rare species, which prefer freshwater are making the Krishna their habitat. The river, fourth biggest in terms of water flow and the basin area, and its barrages have enough water to meet the drinking water needs of the basin districts in Karnataka, thanks to good spells of rain in its catchment in Maharashtra, last year. However, Athani town and several villages in the taluk may face water shortage this summer as MLA Mahesh Kumathahalli has allowed releasing 5,000 cusecs to Jamkhandi from Hipparagi barrage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/prolonged-coronavirus-lockdown-breathes-life-into-krishna-river-832825.html
02-05-2020||State||19 Uttara Kannada students brought back from MP||A group of 19 students from the district were on Saturday safety brought back to Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV) at Malagi in Mundgod taluk by special buses from Madhya Pradesh. The students were admitted to the JNV, Junapani, Bhopal district, for class 9 this academic year. They were kept at a hostel since March 22. They could not leave for the state as train services were suspended before they were ready for the travel. Hence, they were kept at the local hostel. Based on requests by parents, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, directed the chief secretary to get in touch with the Madhya Pradesh government to bring back the students. Hebbar, who visited the JNV, said that the students would be sent to their homes in two days after medical tests. According to the JNV authorities, the decision was taken to bring back the students as their parents were worried. The students were safe at the JNV, Junapani and all facilities were provided to them at the hostel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/19-uttara-kannada-students-brought-back-from-mp-832831.html
02-05-2020||State||Crack team's e-rounds to high-risk groups||Mysuru would have lost a 72-year-old Covid-19 and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) patient had the experts of e-rounds, a Critical Care Support Unit constituted by the state government and consisting of government and private hospital doctors constituted to address critically-ill patients, not suggested sepsivac vaccine. Today, the patient has not only recovered but ready to be discharged from the hospital. Since its constitution on April 14, the e-rounds, headed by IAS officer Dr K V Trilokchandra, has ensured that nearly 40 of the 160 critically-ill patients have recovered. While 22 (as on April 30) have lost their lives in the state, the remaining patients are in various stages of recovery. The e-rounds team consists of four government-appointed doctors, principal secretary for Health & Family Welfare, Commissioner of health, medical experts from Columbia Asia and Manipal Hospitals and interns from Ambedkar Medical College, KIMS of Bengaluru, M S Ramaiah Medical College Hospital and Rajarajeswari Medical College &  Hospital.  The team has been monitoring critically-ill patients admitted to 14 Covid-19 centres across the State. The war-room set up in Bengaluru conducts a video conference with all the 14 hospitals two times a day to take stock of the condition of the critically-ill Covid-19 patients many of whom are suffering hypertension, TB and HIV. They are also monitoring pregnant women, children below the age of 10 and patients above 50 years who are suffering Covid-19. Speaking to DH, Dr Trilokchandra said: “The war room at Bengaluru maintains a parallel case sheet of every critical patient in the state. The expert team interacts with the local doctors four times a day and takes stock of the treatment being given to each of them. If required, the experts also suggest the next line of treatment that can improve the condition of the patients,” he said and added that the main intention of the e-rounds is to ensure that not a single ICU patient is lost to Covid-19. Along with medical interventions, the e-round team has also begun interacting with district administration and district health officers to ensure the doctors and medical staff receive all the required equipment and medicines to treat the patients. Dr Trilokchandra said the team has taken telemedicine facility to a new level, where doctors from private hospitals have also joined the hands to fight this pandemic. As and when required, they take inputs from medical experts from other private hospitals also including paediatricians.   Doctors working at the ground-level say that e-round has brought accountability as there are honest per-reviewing and suggestions by the experts in saving critically ill patients. “This set-up should continue even after winning over the Covid-19 pandemic so as to ensure that no critically-ill patient is lost due to lack of proper treatment,” said one of the doctors who is part of the e-round.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/crack-teams-e-rounds-to-high-risk-groups-832837.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Please stay back, CM B S Yediyurappa tells migrant workers||Fearing an exodus of skilled labour, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday appealed to migrant workers to not leave in panic, assuring them that economic activities will resume in the state. The CM’s appeal came a day after the Cabinet decided to allow movement of people who want to go back to their native states.  “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, economic activities had almost come to a standstill across the country. The worst-affected were the labourers. The government has stood by you during this time of crisis. It is my sincere request to all the migrant workers to stay back in the state and cooperate with us to resume the economic activities once we receive directions from the Union government,” the CM said in his appeal.  “We intend to resume the economic activities soon. The government has already held meetings with representatives of associations of commerce and industries in this regard,” Yediyurappa said. Yediyurappa said the state government had appealed to “employers to protect the interest of their workers and pay salaries”.   Yediyurappa’s appeal was also posted in Hindi to reach the workers from the northern states who came to Karnataka for a livelihood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-please-stay-back-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-tells-migrant-workers-832516.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Costly bus fares - last straw for Karnataka migrant labourers in rush to go home||Thousands of migrant labourers seeking to go back to their hometowns within the state are forced to shell out three times the normal fare as district authorities and labour officials, who paid casual contract charges to KSRTC, have stopped the programme. At the Kempegowda bus station in Majestic, labourers are trying to find persons travelling to the same destinations to hire the buses. Many are paying hard earned money, that they hoped to take home. KSRTC officials said that as per the social distancing protocol, they are allowing only 30 people in buses with 54 seats. “The price of a casual contract remains the same. It is upto the labourers to pool money and hire a bus. To ensure social distancing, we are not allowing more than 30 passengers in a bus,” a senior official said. Hours before the Centre extended the lockdown to May 17 on Friday, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, who holds the transport portfolio, held a video conference with KSRTC officials on the strict measures to be followed while resuming operations.   With the evening announcement, officials said they have to wait for some more days when clarity will emerge on operation of buses between districts. “We are waiting for protocols from the state government for operation of buses in red, green and orange zones. The labourers should wait for the next few days. If the corporation starts operating buses, then they can travel at affordable fares,” he said. The senior official said that they would not be able to operate 2000 buses in Bengaluru and Mysuru districts as well as 1000 buses forn inter-state movement. “About 2000 schedules will remain cancelled as they touch ‘red zone’ districts. Ultimately, we may operate about 2500 schedules per day depending on the demand,” he added. KSRTC will soon come up with a standard operating procedure which will provide clarity on whether buses will be operated from point to point or pick up passengers in between. As of now, the corporation has decided to restrict entry and exit in bus stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/costly-bus-fares-last-straw-for-karnataka-migrant-labourers-in-rush-to-go-home-832599.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||All steps initiated to take care of stuck Odisha labourers amid coronavirus lockdown, says B S Yediyurappa to Naveen Patnaik||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday assured his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik that all steps will be initiated to take care of the migrant labourers from Odisha stuck in the state. Yediyurappa also gave this assurance to Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan when he had a meeting with the two leaders through video conference on the issue, an official release said. The Chief Minister told his Odisha counterpart and Pradhan that the state has made adequate arrangements to make sure no one goes hungry. He also apprised them that the economic activities are set to resume in the state after the COVID-19 restrictions are lifted and these labourers would get jobs again. Details were also shared about the number of labourers from Odisha in the state, their health condition and arrangements to quarantine them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-steps-initiated-to-take-care-of-stuck-odisha-labourers-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-says-b-s-yediyurappa-to-naveen-patnaik-832645.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: After migrant workers' cries, Karnataka govt cancels costly bus fares||The state government on Saturday withdrew its decision of not funding the transportation of labourers after thousands of migrant labourers expressed helplessness in paying three times the normal fare for commuting in KSRTC buses. However, there was no clarity on the revised fare. Senior officials at KSRTC said that for the last one week, the deputy commissioners were hiring their buses on contract to carry migrants. "The programme was stopped yesterday (Friday) and we were told that migrant workers will pay for their travel," the official said. However, the KSRTC insisted that the buses will be operated only on contract basis. Unlike passenger services, where a commuter pays the regular fare, hiring a bus on contract is costlier ant involves payment of a lump sum amount. Even then, only 30 persons are allowed to travel in a bus as per the social distancing protocol.  For more than 2,000 people, most of them migrant workers, who rushed to Majestic to catch a bus home, the news that they have to pay three times the amount of normal fare came as a rude shock. Many of them had come with children as young as a year old as well as elderly persons aged over 60 years old. As the small terminal was full, many had to wait under the harsh sun. Bhemappa Mahamani, a 40-year-old construction labourer from Yadgir, described the government's decision as disastrous and callous. "We have had no income for the last two months. Who in their right mind would demand people like us to pay so much of money? We have not even had proper food in the last few days. We are not scared of coronavirus but worried about food," he said. CM intervenes Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa intervened in the issue after the news of the migrant workers in helpless condition went viral. At 12.30 pm, the KSRTC communicated to the media that the chief minister has "permitted for single-fare tariff for migrants traveling by KSRTC in the state after following social distance". The message added that the Labour Department will pay for the return journey fare.   Asked why the 'single-fare tariff' was not implemented an hour after the corporation informed the media persons about the chief minister's intervention, KSRTC officials on the spot said they were yet to get a formal order. "The additional amount will be refunded once we get clarity. We don't know whether it will be regular fare or the fare of 54 seats is divided among 30 persons," he said. Pallavi Hanumantappa, a student travelling to Davangere, asked why the government took more than a day to cancel the decision. "They have done it because of criticism. Why can't they make decisions earlier by keeping our life in mind," she asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-after-migrant-workers-cries-karnataka-govt-cancels-costly-bus-fares-832695.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt asks IAS officer to explain Tablighi tweet||The state government has issued a show-cause notice to senior IAS officer Mohammad Mohsin, asking him to explain a tweet on Tablighi Jamaat workers.  Mohsin, a 1996-batch officer currently posted as the backward classes welfare secretary, has since deleted the tweet.  The Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (DPAR) took exception to Mohsin’s April 27 tweet, which has been quoted in the notice thus: “More than 300 Tablighi Heroes are donating their plasma to serve the country in New Delhi only. What about #GodiMedia? They will not show the works of humanity done by these heroes.”  The notice goes on to say: “The adverse coverage this tweet has got in the media has been taken note seriously by the government given the serious nature of Covid-19 issue and the sensitivities involved.”  Mohsin has been asked to submit a written explanation, failing which the government said it will take disciplinary action.  Confirming the receipt of the notice, Mohsin said: “I will respond to it as per law and rules.”   Tablighi Jamaat is an Islamic missionary movement whose mid-March convention at Nizamuddin in Delhi became infamous for the spread of COVID-19.   Mohsin was in the news during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections after the Election Commission briefly suspended him for inspecting Prime Minister Narnedra Modi’s helicopter in Odisha during a campaign. Mohsin was then deputed in Odisha as a general observer. He was reprimanded for allegedly violating protocol of those covered by the Special Protection Group (SPG).  A look at Mohsin’s Twitter profile shows that he frequently retweets posts that are critical of the Centre.  After attending the event, the group's members travelled to various parts of the country, with many of them carrying the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-asks-ias-officer-to-explain-tablighi-tweet-832751.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus cases cross 600 mark in Karnataka; 12 new cases, 2 deaths||COVID-19 cases crossed the 600 marks in Karnataka on Saturday as 12 new cases were added, while two deaths took the total fatalities in the state to 25. "Today 12 new confirmed cases and two deaths were reported in the state. Total positive cases are 601, out of which 271 patients were discharged. So the remaining active cases in Karnataka is 304," Karnataka Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar told reporters. Out of these active cases, 297 are in stable condition at designated hospitals whereas seven are in Intensive Care Units, the minister said. Of the 12 new cases, four are from Bengaluru Urban, two each from Vijayapura and Tumakuru and one each from Bidar, Chikkaballapura, Belagavi and Bagalkot, Kumar said, adding that the two deaths were in Bidar and Bengaluru. An 82-year-old patient with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) died in Bidar, while the second fatality was a 62-year-old man with a history of diabetes, hypertension, renal failure, the minister said, adding he was on chemotherapy, in Bengaluru. Underlining the high recovery rate against the number of positive cases reported, the minister said since April 26, 101 COVID-19 cases were reported whereas 113 people had been discharged. On Saturday 20 people were cured and discharged, he said. These included six from Kalaburagi, eight from Belagavi, two from Bidar and two each from Dharwad and Bengaluru. The Minister said 53 of the total of 76 positive cases reported from Nanjangud, a COVID-19 hotspot, have been cured and discharged. Nanjangud has been declared a coronavirus hotspot after several cases linked to a pharmaceutical company there tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-cases-cross-600-mark-in-karnataka-12-new-cases-2-deaths-832766.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Drought: BSY requests Maharashtra CM to release water||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has requested his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray to release 6 tmc water to meet the drinking needs of the drought-hit Karnataka.  Yediyurappa has requested Thackeray to release on “humanitarian” grounds 3 tmc water from the Warna/Koyna reservoirs to the Krishna river and another 3 tmc from the Ujjani reservoir to the Bhima river.  “The North Karnataka districts - Belagavi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, and Raichur - are facing acute shortage of drinking water due to onset of severe summer during early days of March 2020 itself,” Yediyurappa told Thackeray in a letter. “Even in the past during such a situation, the Government of Maharashtra was kind enough to release water to meet the drinking water needs of both human beings and livestock during distress in drought-affected areas in Karnataka (sic).”  In all, Karnataka has declared drought in 49 taluks across 18 districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/drought-bsy-requests-maharashtra-cm-to-release-water-832778.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Scores of fish found dead in River Phalguni||Hundreds of fish were found floating dead in River Phalguni at Dadelu in Nadthikallu, near Venoor, triggering an alarm that water had been poisoned. As the fish had died, the entire area reeked of a nauseating smell. Hundreds of cattle drink water from the water body to quench their thirst. The residents fear spread of diseases from the rotting fish. They said animals and birds that drink from the river will die if the water is poisoned. The villagers, who were angry over the incident, said that the miscreants behind the poisoning of the river should be punished. The incident came to light when dead fish started to float on the river bank, a day ago. Police must initiate action against all those who are responsible, villagers urged. Zilla Panchayat member Dharanendra Kumar said, “Poisoning of water body is an unpardonable offence. The issue should be considered seriously by the police, Forest and Revenue department officials.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/scores-of-fish-found-dead-in-river-phalguni-832785.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Hic, hic, hurray! Karnataka to allow booze sale from May 4||After forty days of dryness, Karnataka will conditionally reopen liquor stores from May 4.  Excise Commissioner M Lokesh has ordered that only CL-2 (retail shops) and CL-11C (state-run retail shops such as MSIL) will be open besides depots of the Karnataka State Beverages Corporation Ltd. "Malls and super markets cannot commence sales," the order stated.  Liquor sale will be allowed only in areas that are outside COVID-19 containment zones. Shops have been allowed to sell liquor between 9 am and 7 pm. Shops will also have to strictly limit the number of customers to five at a time, while ensuring that they maintain social distancing - not less than six feet distance, to be precise. This apart, customers and the staff have to wear masks, while shops are mandated to provide sanitizers to everyone.  The government has allowed only retail sale because the Centre has barred consumption of liquor in public places.  The state government was under immense pressure to resume liquor sales, what with Excise being a key revenue generator for the exchequer accounting for 18% of the state's own tax collections. The Excise department suffered massive losses over the past month owing to the lockdown. Excise Minister H Nagesh pegged the losses at Rs 60 crore per day over the last forty days. In the 2020-21 budget, the state government has fixed a revenue target of Rs 22,700 crore from excise. The Additional Excise Duty on Indian Made Liquor was hiked by 6% to mop up more revenues. In the 2019-20 fiscal, Karnataka's excise revenue was over Rs 19,700 crore.  Further, a complete ban on liquor sales also resulted in bootlegging. During the lockdown period (up to April 23), the Excise officials raided unauthorized outlets, seizing 44,081 litres of IML, 30,776 litres of beer, 980 litres of wine, 2,665 litres of toddy and 4,575 litres of ID (illicitly distilled) liquor. In this period, overall 1,388 cases were registered and about 591 individuals involved in illicit trade were arrested.  Several instances of theft and break-ins at liquor stores across the state were reported during the lockdown period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-hic-hic-hurray-karnataka-to-allow-booze-sale-from-may-4-832793.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||IAS officer told to explain Tablighi tweet||The state government has issued a show-cause notice to senior IAS officer Mohammad Mohsin, asking him to explain a tweet on Tablighi Jamaat workers.  Mohsin, who is currently posted as the backward classes welfare secretary, has since deleted the tweet.  The Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (DPAR) took exception to Mohsin’s April 27 tweet, which has been quoted in the notice thus: “More than 300 Tablighi Heroes are donating their plasma to serve the country in New Delhi only. What about #GodiMedia? They will not show the works of humanity done by these heroes.”  The notice goes on to say: “The adverse coverage this tweet has got in the media has been taken note seriously by the government given the serious nature of Covid-19 issue and the sensitivities involved.”  Mohsin has been asked to submit a written explanation, failing which the government said it will take disciplinary action.  Confirming the receipt of the notice, Mohsin said: “I will respond to it as per law and rules.”  Mohsin was in the news during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections after the Election Commission briefly suspended him for inspecting Prime Minister Narnedra Modi’s helicopter in Odisha during a campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ias-officer-told-to-explain-tablighi-tweet-832844.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSTDC orders probe into liquor theft at Nandi Hills hotel||The Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) has ordered a probe to ascertain as to who stole 21 tins (each of 300 ml) of liquor during the lockdown at its Mayura Pine Top (MPT) hotel at Nandi Hills. A separate enquiry has been ordered to ascertain why the Excise department officials did not shut down KSTDC’s bar at MPT during the period. Staff under a cloud KSTDC managing director (MD) Kumar Pushkar told DH, “The theft of tins at MPT has come to my notice. Either the staff sold the liquor or consumed it. Liquor theft at a government facility, especially when there was ban on sales in the wake of the lockdown, is a big concern. A probe will be ordered and disciplinary action will be taken against those responsible.” He said that the Excise department officials shut down all KSTDC bars, except the one at MPT. An investigation would be ordered to ascertain the reason for this. Soon after the theft came to light, MPT manager Manjegowda, in a letter dated April 28 to the MD, said monkeys had taken away and damaged the liquor tins. The letter is yet to reach the MD. Liquor and cold beverage bottles in the store house were intact when the stocks were verified on March 21 in the presence of the manager and the auditor. The manager left for his native place on March 22 and returned on March 31. Materials in the store house were intact when he verified them on his return. He reported back for duty on April 24. The theft came to light when he verified the stocks in the presence of the staffmembers. Manjegowda, in the letter to the MD, stated that one Jayabheema was in possession of the keys of the store house. DH tried to contact Manjegowda, but his both mobile phones were switched off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kstdc-orders-probe-into-liquor-theft-at-nandi-hills-hotel-832845.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||N'gud cluster: Gupta submits incomplete report, cites lack of cooperation||Senior IAS Officer Harsha Gupta, who was appointed as a special officer to investigate the Covid-19 outbreak at Nanjangud-based Jubilant Pharma Company, returned midway, citing lack of cooperation from a few departments. The state government had appointed Gupta to investigate the case on the outbreak of Covid-19 at the pharma company. Out of 90 cases reported in Mysuru, 73 are linked to the company.  Gupta told DH that he wrote to a few departments seeking details, but, he had not received any reply from them. "I have worked within my limits and have submitted the report. There are certain reasons for the incomplete report. There was no pressure over the investigation. I had formed a technical team, including a technical expert from Bengaluru," he said. Gupta added that he had submitted the report to Karnataka Chief Secretary and Health department. The officer had sought technical information and guidelines from the Health and a few other departments. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said, the district administration had extended its full cooperation for the investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ngud-cluster-gupta-submits-incomplete-report-cites-lack-of-cooperation-832846.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||N’gud cluster: Gupta submits incomplete report, cites lack of cooperation||Senior IAS Officer Harsha Gupta, who was appointed as a special officer to investigate the Covid-19 outbreak at Nanjangud-based Jubilant Pharma Company, returned midway, citing lack of cooperation from a few departments. The state government had appointed Gupta to investigate the case on the outbreak of Covid-19 at the pharma company. Out of 90 cases reported in Mysuru, 73 are linked to the company.  Gupta told DH that he wrote to a few departments seeking details, but, he had not received any reply from them. "I have worked within my limits and have submitted the report. There are certain reasons for the incomplete report. There was no pressure over the investigation. I had formed a technical team, including a technical expert from Bengaluru," he said. Gupta added that he had submitted the report to Karnataka Chief Secretary and Health department. The officer had sought technical information and guidelines from the Health and a few other departments. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said, the district administration had extended its full cooperation for the investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/n-gud-cluster-gupta-submits-incomplete-report-cites-lack-of-cooperation-832849.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||State reports 12 fresh cases, tally goes past 600-mark||Karnataka on Saturday recorded 12 fresh cases of Covid-19. With this the state’s tally has gone up to 601. Of which, 304 cases are active while 271 patients have been discharged post recovery. The state also saw two more Covid-19 deaths - one each in Bidar and Bengaluru Urban. An 82-year-old man from Bidar with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) complaint, died at the Covid-19 designated hospital in Bidar on April 28. His (P-590) throat swab sample returned positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday. A 63-year-old man from Bengaluru Urban (P-557), who was also on chemotherapy died due to cardiac arrest at Victoria Hospital. The patient had the complaints of diabetes, hypertension, hypothyroidism, renal failure, and multiple myeloma. With this, the Covid-19 fatalities in the state rose to 25.   Among the 12 new cases reported today (May 2), four are from Bengaluru Urban. Of these, three are contacts of P-565, who had tested positive on April 30 with a complaint of influenza-like illness (ILI). Two cases each have been reported from Tumakuru and Vijayapura while Belagavi, Bagalkot, Chikkaballapura and Bidar have reported one case each.  Except for a case of SARI from Bidar, all others are contacts of previously diagnosed patients. Minister S Suresh Kumar, also in-charge of Covid-19 media briefings, said, “In the past one week, starting April 26, the state saw 101 new Covid-19 cases but the number of discharges stood at 113. Positive cases on an average are 14 per day while discharges are 16 per day. As many as 53 patients in Nanjangud have been discharged, which is 68% of the total number of cases in the area.” Odisha labourers’ well-being The minister said, those who want to enter or exit the state have to register themselves on the Seva Sindhu website. Once they register they will get notifications from the website, he added “Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan held a video conferencing with CM B S Yediyurappa on Saturday morning. Patnaik and Pradhan have enquired about Odisha’s migrant workers in our state. The chief minister has assured them that the labourers from Odisha will get employment under various schemes of the state and the Union government,” Kumar said.      “We will screen the migrant labourers before sending them home,” he said. One-way fare “Whoever wants to go to other parts of Karnataka by KSRTC buses may pay a one-way fare and go home. Previously, we wanted only 30 people to go in the interest of social distancing, and they were asked to pay two-way fare. But, now a part of it will be borne by the Labour department. Those who come from outside the state will be put in institutional quarantine,” Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/state-reports-12-fresh-cases-tally-goes-past-600-mark-832855.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Help hyphenates with hygiene, eco-care: cloth sanitary pads for poor women||The lack of availability of sanitary napkins has been a very stressful reality for lakhs of women across the country. More so, in a time of crisis. The Covid-19 situation is no different. Understanding the plight of thousands of women from underprivileged communities, particularly migrant families, the Bengaluru chapter of Green the Red, a pan-India campaign, which comprises healthcare professionals and eco-activists, has been distributing cloth sanitary pads to them. This aligns with the campaign’s aim to help women make the switch to sustainable menstrual products, mainly menstrual cups. With the help of cloth pad manufacturers, they have been working to provide sanitary pads to as many women as possible. The team has collaborated with the police through the backing of Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao and DCP Nisha James. So far, about 400 kits of cloth pads, each kit consisting of five pads with one backing pad, have been distributed through police, among women in Bandepalya, Malleswaram and Mahadevapura.  “Using menstrual cups for the first time requires a little bit of hand-holding. To respect the guidelines of social distancing, we did not go there physically. Hence, we couldn’t explain and help them with using menstrual cups,” says Meenakshi Bharath, a member of Green the Red campaign. Sana, a constable at Bandepalya police station, says that along with distributing food packets and rations, they try to help the migrant community in their vicinity with whatever essentials possible. When they were briefed about the efforts of Green the Red by DCP Nisha, they contacted them and distributed the cloth pads to some 200 women in their areas.  “With the rations, their food needs for two months will be taken care of. But these pads, if maintained properly, can be used for up to 36 months. And, they don’t have to worry about disposal and discomfort,” adds Smitha Kulkarni who is associated with the movement. Their effort is supported by the non-profit Give India and the Rotary club. The members of the campaign hold sessions on Zoom for corporates and schoolchildren about sustainable menstrual products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/help-hyphenates-with-hygiene-eco-care-cloth-sanitary-pads-for-poor-women-832858.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||50k Odisha people in Karnataka taken care of: CM||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday held a video conference with his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik and Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan.  Yediyurappa said Karnataka was home to about 50,000 people from Odisha.  According to a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), Yediyurappa explained that all essential facilities were extended to the labourers during lockdown. He said that extra care was taken to ensure they did not starve. “At present, economic activities are beginning as per the guidelines issued by the Centre. Most of the workers would be re-employed due to this,” the statement quoted the CM as having said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/50k-odisha-people-in-karnataka-taken-care-of-cm-832859.html
02-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BSY seeks water from Maharashtra for drinking purposes||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has requested his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray to release 6 tmcft water for drinking purposes in north Karnataka on “humanitarian” grounds. Yediyurappa has requested Thackeray to release 3 tmcft water from Warna/Koyna reservoirs to Krishna river and another 3 tmcft from Ujjani reservoir to Bhimariver.  “The North Karnataka districts - Belagavi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Raichur - are facing acute shortage of drinking water due to the onset of severe summer during early days of March 2020 itself,” Yediyurappa told Thackeray in aletter. “Even in the past during such situation, the government of Maharashtra was kind enough to release water to meet the drinking water needs of both human beings and livestock during distress in drought-affected areas in Karnataka,” Yediyurappa stated in the letter. In all, Karnataka has declared drought in 49 taluks across 18 districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bsy-seeks-water-from-maharashtra-for-drinking-purposes-832861.html
02-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: NRAI launches initiative to support restaurants across India||As hotels and restaurants reel under crisis, the  National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), which represents the interests of over 6 lakh restaurants across India, has launched the first-of-its-kind platform to support its members and their employees. The scheme is known as Rise For Restaurants. Diners can support restaurants by buying virtual cash worth Rs 1000 at a flat 25 per cent discount today from an expansive list of restaurants across India on https://r4r.nrai.org/ and redeem it in the future against dining bills at the respective restaurants.  At the time of purchase, customers only pay Rs 250. This amount will contribute to paying the wages and salaries of restaurant employees.  The remaining Rs 500 is to be paid by the customer only when they dine at the restaurant. Virtual cash can be used within 6 long months from the purchase date, with limitless purchases and no minimum expenditure amount, blackout dates or redemption conditions. This mutually beneficial enterprise not only ensures revenue for the immediate survival of the restaurants’ employees but is also a great way for patrons to anticipate dining out at a discount in the near future. NRAI has long commanded trust and credibility in the Indian Restaurant Industry and has consistently worked to strengthen and promote this sector in India.  NRAI strongly encourages patrons to do their bit and help their beloved restaurants get back on their feet.   This effort as a community of enthusiastic diners will go a long way in securing a future not just for the Restaurants, but for the millions that are passionately involved with this industry for their livelihood. In a press statement, Gauri Devidayal, NRAI Managing Committee Member and Partner, Food Matters India,   said:  “The Rise For Restaurants program is the first of its kind created by the industry, for the industry. The NRAI has developed this entirely keeping in mind the current plight of its members and their employees. Yet, unlike any other platform offering gift vouchers etc, this is the only program which recognises the concern that customers may have regarding the future recovery of restaurants and therefore, only requests 25 % of the virtual cash value upfront. We have no doubt that customers will come out to support their local favourites.” Some of the Restaurants that are already live on R4R program are – Barbeque Nation, Café Delhi Heights, Carl’s Jr, Desi Vibes, Farzi Café, Indigo Deli, Mahabelly, Mamagoto, Monkey Bar, Olive Bar & Kitchen, Punjab Grill, Redmango, Social, The Beer Café, The Big Chill Café, The Sassy Spoon, The Table, Zen, amongst many others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-nrai-launches-initiative-to-support-restaurants-across-india-832548.html
02-05-2020||West||Maharashtra Coronavirus Zones: Check out Red, Orange, Green Zone districts||The government, on Friday, announced that the coronavirus lockdown will be extended for two weeks beyond May 4, but with some easing of restrictions. The Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement that in view of "significant gains in the COVID-19 situation", areas with few or no cases would see "considerable relaxations". In Maharashtra, which houses the country's economic capital Mumbai, the tally of positive cases stands at 11,506, the highest among all the states in India. In the biggest jump of coronavirus cases, the state on Friday recorded an increase of 1,008 patients. In the last 24 hours, 26 deaths have been reported taking the state's total to 485. The total number of cases and deaths in Mumbai now is 7,812 and 295, respectively. With the unyielding situation at hand in Maharashtra, the MHA also issued new guidelines to regulate different activities in this period, based on the risk profiling of the districts of the country into Red (hotspot), Orange, and Green Zones. Here's the full list of districts classified as Red, Orange and Green Zones in Maharashtra. Also, check out the activities that are permitted or prohibited in Maharashtra under Lockdown 3.0.     Out of 1,53,125 laboratory samples in Maharashtra, 1,40,587 were negative and 11,506 have been tested positive for coronavirus until Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-coronavirus-zones-check-out-red-orange-green-zone-districts-832557.html
02-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Liquor traders in Goa fear shortage of stocks||According to liquor traders, stocks of foreign-made alcohol may dry up in the next two months, as most scotch whiskeys were brought in from UK, while several imports were made from France, Spain and Italy, which are severely hit by the pandemic. At least 1,300 liquor outlets would be stocked up well when they resume operations on May 4, said Dattaprasad Naik, president of Goa Liquor Traders' Association. However, beer stocks may dry up in the next eight to 10 days, as supply from neighbouring states was disrupted after Goa sealed its borders, he said. Although some brands of whiskey were manufactured in Goa, the base alcohol used for production was sourced from other states, especially Uttar Pradesh, Naik said. Liquor stores in the coastal state had downed their shutters, when the Centre announced the lockdown last month to contain the spread of coronavirus. Sale of alcohol may drop by 70 per cent once the business resumes, as tourism has been suspended in the state, Naik said. "Majority of liquor consumers in Goa are tourists and only 30 per cent of the supplies are for locals," he said, adding that the liquor trade may not gain momentum, as tourism may not resume any time soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-liquor-traders-in-goa-fear-shortage-of-stocks-832569.html
02-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: 20 people from Nanded gurdwara test coronavirus positive||Twenty persons currently residing in Gurdwara Langar Sahib at Nanded in Maharashtra have tested coronavirus positive, an official said on Saturday. Swabs of total 97 people residing in the gurdwara had been collected for testing. Of them 20 have tested positive for the infection, civil surgeon Dr Neelkanth Bhosikar said. "They have been admitted to NRI Bhawan COVID Care Centre," he said.  The samples had been collected on April 30 and May 1, he said. Reports of 25 others have tested negative, while those of 41 others are awaited. Reports of 11 others are undecided, Bhosikar said in a statement. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients in Nanded has reached 26, he added. "Two of them have died during treatment," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-20-people-from-nanded-gurdwara-test-coronavirus-positive-832585.html
02-05-2020||West||3 SRPF jawans among 5 new COVID-19 patients in Jalna||Five persons, including three SRPF jawans, have tested coronavirus positive, taking the overall tally of such patients in Jalna district of Maharashtra to eight, an official said on Saturday. Two of the total eight patients have recovered from the infection so far, the official said.  "The test reports of the five new patients, including three jawans of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), were received on Friday night," district civil surgeon Madhukar Rathod said. The three SRPF jawans, who are natives of Jalna, were posted at Malegaon, which has emerged as the COVID-19 hotspot in Nashik district. "Their swabs were sent to a laboratory in Aurangabad, which confirmed that they are infected," he said. Two other patients had travel history to Mumbai, Rathod said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3-srpf-jawans-among-5-new-covid-19-patients-in-jalna-832592.html
02-05-2020||West||Five Indian Navy ships plan illumination to honour 'corona warriors'||About five Indian Navy ships have planned illumination from 1930 to 2359 hrs off Gateway of India, Mumbai. They will have prominent display banners "India Salutes Corona Warriors".  They will sound the ship's siren and fire a flare at 1930 at Anchorage. Additionally, the Naval Air Stations at Goa would display human chain messages on the Runway to honour the 'Corona Warriors'. Aerial photography for the same would be undertaken. Social distancing norms will be ensured during the activity. Indian Navy aviation assets would undertake showering of petals by helicopters on COVID-19 hospitals on the "Corona Warrior Day" Sunday.  The activity is tentatively planned to be undertaken between 1000-1030 hrs. The hospitals include Kasturba Gandhi Hospital and INHS Asvini, Colaba and GMC and ESI Hospitals, Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-indian-navy-ships-plan-illumination-to-honour-corona-warriors-832594.html
02-05-2020||West||All Maharashtra citizens will get free health cover: Health Minister Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope announced that all citizens will be covered under the state government's health scheme, and Maharashtra will be the first state to provide free and cashless insurance protection to its people. Speaking to reporters after a Maharashtra Day event in Jalna on Friday, Tope said 85 per cent of the state's population was covered under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY) at present and the cover will be extended to the remaining 15 per cent. A memorandum was signed to include government, semi-government employees and white ration cardholders in the scheme in a bid to prevent private hospitals from overcharging patients, he said. "The government has signed a MoU with the General Insurance Public Sector Association (GIPSA) for treatment of COVID-19 patients at private hospitals in Pune and Mumbai," he said. Similarly, different packages will be designed for all diseases, to standardise treatment fees at all hospitals, the minister said. Earlier, 496 hospitals were covered in the scheme, but now over 1,000 hospitals will come under it, he said.  As per the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act, the state government has capped the fees of COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals, the minister said. Hospitals that don't have tie-ups with the GIPSA will also have to standardise their treatment fees, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-maharashtra-citizens-will-get-free-health-cover-health-minister-rajesh-tope-832595.html
02-05-2020||West||Maha: Four test positive for COVID-19 in Amravati||Four persons, including a deceased patient, tested positive for COVID-19 at Amravati in Maharashtra on Saturday, taking the tally in the city to 47, an official said. Of the 24 swab samples that were tested, results of four have come out positive, district collector Shailesh Naval said. A deceased 58-year-old man from Kanwar Nagar was among those who tested positive on Saturday, apart from a man from Taj Nagar and one from Tarkheda, he said. With the death of the Kanwar Nagar resident, the toll of COVID-19 deaths in the city has gone up to eight, while the count stands at 47, the collector said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-four-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-amravati-832610.html
02-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: 1,000 migrant labourers hit streets in Maharashtra, demand to return home||Around 1,000 migrant labourers, mostly from northern parts of India, came on to the streets in Maharashtra's Chandrapur on Saturday to demand that arrangements be made for their return to the native places, police said. The incident took place around 9.30 am at Ballarpur in the district, an official said. "More than 1,000 labourers, mostly staying at a construction site in a government medical college, hit the streets and demanded that arrangement be made for their movement to their home states. They tried to block the highway and started walking towards the railway station," he said. "The labourers want to go back to their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Some of them are from West Bengal. They said they have been facing hardships due to the lockdown as their source of income has stopped," the official said.  On being alerted, personnel from the Ramnagar Police Station rushed to the spot and the situation was brought under control. "The police staff told the labourers that proper procedure has to be followed if they want to return to their home states as special trains are being arranged. They were asked to fill the application forms to get a place in the special trains," he said.  The police provided food to them, he said that the labourers later returned to local residence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-1000-migrant-labourers-hit-streets-in-maharashtra-demand-to-return-home-832617.html
02-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Videos of attacks on cops enforcing lockdown emerge in Maharashtra; minister assures action||Maharashtra Minister of State for Home Shambhuraj Desai said that some people had attacked police personnel at three to four places in Mumbai. He said that attacks on policemen, who are at the forefront of the battle against the COVID-19 along with doctors, nurses and sanitation workers, will not be tolerated under any circumstances. The minister said he had already spoken to Mumbai's Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh on the issue and asked the latter to take action immediately.  "Our police were asking the people there to follow the lockdown rules. But some people attacked our police staff at three to four places in Mumbai," Desai told 'ABP Majha' news channel. He said the police have the footage of the incidents and that the attackers have been identified.  "I have told him (the police commissioner) that attacks on police should not be tolerated under any circumstances. "I want to assure that those who have been identified will be arrested immediately. They will be traced. Action will be taken as per the law," he added. The exact date and place of the videos cannot be known immediately. Desai also said while a majority of people have obliged the appeal to stay indoors and maintain the lockdown norms, but certain elements are attacking police personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-videos-of-attacks-on-cops-enforcing-lockdown-emerge-in-maharashtra-minister-assures-action-832647.html
02-05-2020||West||MVA partners condemn Centre's decision to shift IFSC from Mumbai to Gandhinagar||At a time when the nation is reeling under COVID-19 and the lockdown,  the Centre's decision to shift the proposed International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) from Mumbai to Gujarat has rattled the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.  The Narendra Modi government had issued a notification on 27 April that declared Gandhinagar as the headquarters of the IFSC Authority. With that, Modi's dream project, Gujarat International Financial-Tech City (GIFT). could now be a reality. MVA partners and the Uddhav Thackeray-led government came down heavily on the Modi-led BJP government at the Centre and the state BJP's silence over the issue. "It's disappointing and a move against Mumbai's established status as the nation's financial capital," NCP President Sharad Pawar said.  Maharashtra's Industries Minister Subhash Desai, a close aide of Thackeray, said that it is natural to have IFSC in Mumbai. "Just giving a name does not make a financial capital. The world knows Mumbai and its financial might," he said.  The senior Shiv Sena leader said Mumbai had the BSE, NSE, RBI, SEBI, headquarters of banks and financial companies, offices of top international companies and Mumbai was an International Financial Centre.  Maharashtra's Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said the Central government's decision to locate the IFSC to Gujarat is disappointing and is being done to reduce Mumbai's stature. "The Centre should reconsider its decision, after all Mumbai is the financial hub of the country," the senior Congress leader said, wanting to know why the state BJP leadership was silent on the issue.  State's School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad tweeted: ""Rest In Peace" IFSC (International financial services centre) dream of Mumbai....Mumbai is again robbed of its opportunity to become an IFSC destination due to special biased love of our Prime minister for Gujarat. PM is for the country or just for one state? " An IFSC in Mumbai was the idea of former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh.  Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP, an ex-CM, said the MVA government is trying to create a myth over the issue. "In 2007,  the Percy Mistry committee submitted a report on this issue Till 2014,  the then governments at Centre (Congress-led UPA) and state (Democratic Front) did nothing.  The then Gujarat CM (Narendra Modi) started working on it.  In 2014,  Gujarat also submitted the proposal and so as we (BJP-Sena government)... we also submitted a revised proposal," he said.  According to him, in  December 2019 the Government of India enacted a law to create an authority to regulate financial services center and its headquarters is now notified in Ahmedabad. "Mumbai has a natural IFSC ecosystem and it can still become IFSC if the Maharashtra government desires," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-partners-condemn-centres-decision-to-shift-ifsc-from-mumbai-to-gandhinagar-832674.html
02-05-2020||West||Migrant labours from Gujarat stuck in transit amid coronavirus lockdown||Hundreds of migrants from Surat in Gujarat who are on their way to Uttar Pradesh were left stranded in transit despite necessary permissions, as Uttar Pradesh government is not allowing entry of their buses, Surat Police Commissioner RB Brahmbhatt said on Saturday. He said that Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh governments are in talks to resolve the confusion caused by some "technical issues". Brahmbhatt also said that some of the migrants are returning to Surat amidst the confusion. "About 40-50 buses carrying migrants are on their way to Uttar Pradesh. They were provided passes from Surat. However, the buses were later stopped (due to the lack of permission from the UP government), leading to confusion," said Brahmbhatt. He said talks are on between the two (Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat) governments to resolve some "technical issues". "People are restless. Several buses are in transit in Madhya Pradesh, as Uttar Pradesh is not allowing them the entry," he said, adding that some buses had managed to enter Uttar Pradesh. The Centre government recently allowed movement of stranded labourers, tourists and students from one state to another on the permission of local authorities amidst the nationwide coronavirus-enforced lockdown, which has been extended till May 17. Up to Friday evening, about 50,000 people had left for Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha in about 4,000 vehicles including buses, cars, tempo, trucks etc. Meanwhile, Surat Collector Dhaval Patel issued an order stating that no checkposts will issue offline permits to vehicles leaving for other states. "Migrant labourers will have to seek online permission only," he added. Patel said no permits will be issued for vehicles carrying migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Delhi, Assam, and other North-Eastern states. Vehicles leaving for other states will have to register online at"http://www.digitalgujarat.gov.in\nwww. digitalgujarat.gov.infor an online permit. "They will have to take a printout of the online permit as a valid pass for their vehicles," the collector said. He also said that people leaving for other states will be screened at three check-posts by medical teams for any Coronavirus symptoms before being allowed to leave the district. The Uttar Pradesh government has issued advertisements in Gujarati papers in which CM Yogi Adityanath has appealed to workers from his state living in Surat to keep patience. "Efforts are being made to coordinate with all state governments to ensure that all workers and youths from Uttar Pradesh are safely transported back to their homes. We humbly appeal to you to keep your patience and stay wherever you are. "Do not walk back home. The Uttar Pradesh government is making arrangement for your safe return in a phase-wise manner," reads the advertisements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/migrant-labours-from-gujarat-stuck-in-transit-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-832694.html
02-05-2020||West||Gandhinagar chosen as it is only functional International Financial Services Centres Authority now: Devendra Fadnavis||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday defended the Union government's decision to set up the International Financial Services Centres Authority in Gandhinagar, saying it was the only functional IFSC as of now. Earlier in the day, Maharashtra Congress chief and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat had alleged that the decision to set up IFSC headquarters in Gujarat was taken to "reduce Mumbai's stature" as the country's financial capital. "Some people have selective memory when they want to blame everything on the Narendra Modi government," Fadnavis, a former Maharashtra chief minister, tweeted. A high powered committee of the Central government submitted a report in February 2007, recommending creation of IFSC, he said. "Neither the government of Maharashtra submitted any official proposal, nor did the Centre consider it. "The headquarters is announced at Gandhinagar because it is the only functional IFSC. Those who are beating the chest now were in power from 2007 to 2014 and did nothing for Mumbai IFSC," he said, targeting the Congress and NCP. "That void was captured by then Gujarat CMNarendra Modi," he said. "Mumbai had a natural IFSC eco-system and it can still become an IFSC if Maharashtra govt desires," Fadnavis added. Modi had announced at the 2007 Vibrant Gujarat Summit that GIFT City Ahmedabad would be developed as an IFSC and appointed ECADI for its planning and by 2012 plans were ready and work had started, he said. In 2015, the Government of India enacted a law to govern IFSC and immediately GIFT City proposal was submitted and Mumbai's proposal was submitted eventually, he said. GIFT City was in advanced stage so it got approval and Mumbai BKC (Bandra Kurla Complex) proposal faced technical problem for want of 50 hectares ofcontiguous land, said Fadnavis who was chief minister between 2014-2019. The Maharashtra government resent the proposal and while planning Mumbai-Ahmedabad Bullet train project, the Centre planned the (proposed) BKC station in such a way that an IFSC building can stand over it, he said. As GIFT City in Gujarat had already started functioning, then Union finance minister Arun Jaitley said the government was mulling if there could be two IFSCs, he said. The Maharashtra government sent a report on how they can coexist and it is still under consideration, Fadnavis claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gandhinagar-chosen-as-it-is-only-functional-international-financial-services-centres-authority-now-devendra-fadnavis-832710.html
02-05-2020||West||Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy seeks fiscal aid for people tackle COVID-19 crisis||Territorial Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Saturday appealed to the Centre to come out with financial assistance to people to tackle the current crisis cause by the COVID-19 lockdown. He told reporters here that the financial situation following the drying up of sources of revenue as shops and establishments remain closed for the last 35 days or so was tough to bear with. The cabinet meeting to be held on Sunday would decide the various steps the government should follow in respect of restarting business activities, shops in keeping with the guidelines unveiled by the Centre while extending the lockdown further, he said. Narayanasamy welcomed the decision to honour coronavirus by the armed forces was a good recognition of the frontline warriors engaged in a relentless fight against the COVID-19. He said this decision would be a big morale booster for doctors, nurses, sanitation workers and others. The defence forces would, among other activities, hold a flypast and shower petals on hospitals across the country, which have been engaged in saving the people from the pandemic. The Chief Minister said a special portal that was unveiled on Friday to enable stranded migrant workers, students, pilgrims and industrial entrepreneurs from Puducherry and those stuck abroad to register all particulars for their return to Union Territory had evoked good patronage. "Special officers have been appointed region wise to coordinate the work to bring back these stranded workers and others to Puducherry from other states and abroad,", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/puducherry-cm-v-narayanasamy-seeks-fiscal-aid-for-people-tackle-covid-19-crisis-832721.html
02-05-2020||West||DCPs can allow travel outside district but Pune, Mumbai no-go||The Maharashtra government said on Saturday that in the cities with police commissionerates, a concerned deputy commissioner of police (DCP) will have the power to allow inter-state or inter-district journey. But the movement of people will not be allowed between the areas under Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority and other parts of the state during lockdown, it said. "However, permission has been granted (particularly to migrant workers) to travel outside Maharashtra from these two authority regions," an official statement said. For permission to travel, one can apply to the nearby police station, submitting required information and a medical certificate, it said. The application will be forwarded to the concerned DCP and decision will be taken after scrutiny of the application and "considering the spread of COVID-19", it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dcps-can-allow-travel-outside-district-but-pune-mumbai-no-go-832748.html
02-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: As trains carrying migrants leave, those stranded clash with police in Gujarat||While special "Shramik" or labourer trains from Ahmedabad and Surat left for Uttar Pradesh and Odisha carrying migrant workers, 1,200 passengers in each train, those workers still stuck in the shelter homes and on Gujarat-Madhya Pradesh border turned violent on Saturday after they were not allowed to travel. Workers clashed with local police, hurled stones at them and damaged private and public vehicles. In north Gujarat's Shamlaji in Aravalli district, over 200 labourers came out of the shelter homes, wanting to leave for home. When they were stopped by police, the agitated group allegedly violent and allegedly attacked the police team. One of the policemen was injured in the incident.   The inmates also damaged the shelter home's windows, doors, taps among others. A senior police officer said that "it was a planned attack on police since the inmates had gathered stones, iron rods which they had extracted by damaging windows." He said that the police had been taking care of the inmates with good food and other facilities still they attacked them. In this district, over 1,500 had been stranded and were kept at shelter homes for more than a month of lockdown.  In central Gujarat, another group of migrant labourers turned violent at Gujarat-Madhya Pradesh (MP) border on their way to Uttar Pradesh. The incident occurred at Dahod (Gujarat) and Jhabua (MP) border. Superintendent of Police, Dahod, Hetesh Joishar told DH, "A group of migrant workers who were trying to cross the border to enter MP attacked my police team. They pelted stones while trying to enter MP forcefully. MP police is not letting them enter and that's why we tried to stop them but they got agitated. We are in the process of filing FIR." Besides, chaos prevailed in various other parts of the state like Surat and Vadodara where large number of workers lined up in the scorching heat to catch buses and collect passes mandatory for traveling. On other borders in the state, hundreds of workers were stuck after the police didn't allow them to travel. Most of them are from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The neighbouring states Rajasthan and MP are not allowing entry of residents from other states. Hundreds of people were stopped who were traveling in buses, had passes and had paid for the bus fare.  "UP and Bihar government has not given their nods whether they will accept these people back or now and that's why there is so much of chaos on our borders," said a senior IPS officer overseeing the return of these migrants back to their homes. "Shramik Trains" departed from Surat and Ahmedabad Meanwhile, a special train carrying 1,200 migrant workers left to Agra from Sabarmati Railway Station in Ahmedabad. These workers had arrived at the station in the state transport buses by the district administration from various parts of the district. They were charged Rs250 per person. Minister of State for Home Pradipsinh Jadeja said that the district administration and railway authority will be taking care of passenger's food and water. The non-stop train is expected to reach Agra by Sunday morning. Besides, another special train was also flagged from Surat carrying 1,200 migrant workers to Odisha. The train was flagged off by BJP's Navasari MP C R Patil with his party's flag, drawing criticism from the opposition Congress which said that the parliamentarian was promoting himself even in the time of distress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-as-trains-carrying-migrants-leave-those-stranded-clash-with-police-in-gujarat-832767.html
02-05-2020||West||Maharashtra's COVID-19 toll crosses 500, Mumbai at 322||The COVID-19 death toll in Maharashtra crossed 500 on Saturday, reporting a total of 36 deaths in the last 24 hours, the highest so far in one day in the state. The toll in India's financial capital Mumbai also crossed the 300-mark. The progressive total of positive cases now stands at 12,296 while death toll at 521. In Mumbai, 27 deaths were reported taking the toll to 322 - while the positive cases have reached 8,359. Meanwhile, 121 more patients were discharged taking the total to 2,000 patients who have been treated and are back home.  Out of 36 deaths, 27 deaths were recorded in Mumbai, 3 in Pune city, 2 in Amaravati city, 1 was recorded in Vasai-Virar, 1 in Amaravati  district and 1 in Aurangabad Municipal Corporation.  Additionally, death of a West Bengal resident was recorded in Mumbai. Out of 1,61,092 laboratory samples, 1,48,248 were negative and 12,296 have been tested positive for Coronavirus until Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-toll-crosses-500-mumbai-at-322-832810.html
02-05-2020||West||Coronavirus tally in Gujarat crosses 5,000, 26 deaths in one day||The number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat reached 5,054 after 333 cases were reported on Saturday, most of them in Ahmedabad, while the death toll rose to 262 with 26 new deaths, highest in one day, an official said. The number of patients who have recovered and were discharged from hospitals also rose to 896 after 160 patients were discharged during the day, Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi said. Of 26 COVID-19 patients who died, nine had no underlying health conditions while 17 others suffered from co-morbid conditions, she said. Twenty of them died in Ahmedabad. Ahmedabad reported 250 new cases and Vadodara and Surat 17 each, among 12 districts where new patients were detected on Saturday, Ravi said. Gujarat COVID-19 figures: Positive cases: 5,054, new cases: 333, total deaths: 262, discharged: 896, active cases: 3,896; people tested so far: 74,116.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-tally-in-gujarat-crosses-5000-26-deaths-in-one-day-832813.html
02-05-2020||West||Mentally unwell man kills 80-year-old mother in Nagpur  ||A mentally unwell man allegedly killed his mother in Kanhan area of Nagpur on Friday afternoon, police said. Sanjay Meshram (52) was going with his mother Yamunabai (80) to buy medicines when he suddenly hit her with a rod, killing her on the spot, a Kanhan police station official said. "The accused is mentally unwell. He has been charged with murder and has been remanded in judicial custody," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mentally-unwell-man-kills-80-year-old-mother-in-nagpur-832848.html
02-05-2020||West||Relaxations announced in non-containment areas amid coronavirus lockdown in Pune||Completion of under-construction projects in the areas outside the coronavirus containment zones within Pune city limits and the district has been allowed with certain conditions, officials said on Saturday. However, these relaxations are not applicable in containment zones. Pune district is classified as one of the 14 'Red' districts in the state. "We are allowing under-construction works in non- affected areas in Pune district, including non-containment zones in the city," said district collector Naval Kishore Ram. He said the permission was granted with certain pre-conditions. "These conditions include arranging accommodation of labours and food at the construction sites. Thermal screening of labourers is also mandatory," the collector said. Issuing an order, the collector stated that health screening of labourers should be done twice a week. Only those workers who are physically fit will be given permission to work, it stated. All social distancing norms and hygiene measures have to be adhered to at these sites. "The purpose of the order is to create an environment wherein labourers can get work and stay back instead of insisting on going back to their respective states or districts," the collector said. Moreover, all pre-monsoon related works including flood protection, waterproofing, construction of retaining walls and backfilling etc have been allowed at the construction sites in the non-containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/relaxations-announced-in-non-containment-areas-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-in-pune-832863.html
02-05-2020||West||Ahmedabad records highest one-day coronavirus death toll at 20||Ahmedabad on Saturday reported 20 coronavirus deaths, highest in one day so far, taking the death toll in the district due to the pandemic to 184, the state health department said. The number of coronavirus cases in the district also went up to 3,543 with 250 new cases being detected Twelve of the coronavirus patients who died on Saturday suffered from co-morbid conditions with seven having multiple co-morbidity including HIV infection and diseases of kidney, lungs, hypertension, diabetes and mental ailments among others, the health department said.  Fifteen patients died in the city's civil hospital, four at SVP Hospital and one at the private Sterling Hospital, as per the official release. Number of recovered patients also rose to 462 after 63 patients were discharged from hospitals on Saturday. The authorities are worried that they might run out of hospital beds due to the increasing number of patients, officials said. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation announced that it has arranged 300 additional beds at three hospitals. A 100-bed COVID-19 centre at the trust-run Al Amin Garib Nawaz Hospital will provide free treatment to patients, while 100 beds have been put up at Infectious Diseases Hospital in the city's south zone, said Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra. A similar arrangement was also made at Chhipa Welfare General Hospital for asymptomatic COVID-19 patients, he added.  The city has 2,659 active cases, of which 808 patients are being treated at the civil hospital and 541 at SVP Hospital, Nehra said. Both hospitals have reserved 1,200 and 1,000 beds, respectively, for coronavirus cases, the civic chief said, adding that 856 asymptomatic patients were admitted to Samras Hostel, which has 1,200 beds. Several patients were also being treated at private hospitals in the city. The local administration has also roped in five-star hotels to accommodate asymptomatic patients, where some charges are recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabad-records-highest-one-day-coronavirus-death-toll-at-20-832865.html
02-05-2020||West||1 killed as bus ferrying Odia migrants from Gujarat meets with accident||At least one person was killed and several others were injured, one of them seriously, when a bus ferrying Odia migrant workers from Gujarat met with an accident in Odisha's Ganjam district on Saturday night, police said. The accident took place when the bus, transporting over 55 passengers including women and children, dashed against a roadside guard wall while negotiating a curve in Durgaprasad area, Bhanjanagar Sub-Divisional Police Officer S S Mishra said. DIG of Police (Southern Range), Satyabrat Bhoi confirmed the death of one person and serious injuries to another in the accident that took place on a hilly road along the border of Ganjam and Kandhamal districts.  Around 40 others sustained minor injuries in the accident, he said. Transport Minister Padmanabha Behera said the bus was carrying migrant Odias stranded in Gujarats Surat due to the nationwide lockdown. They were returning to Bhanjanagar and other places in Ganjam district, he said.  The minister said seven buses coming from Surat were moving in a convoy and one of the vehicles met with the accident. Fire services, police personnel and local volunteers launched a rescue operation, the SDPO said, adding that the injured persons were rushed to hospitals. Kandhamal district Superintendent of Police Prateek Singh said arrangements are being made to send the rescued passengers to different quarantine centres in Ganjam district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1-killed-as-bus-ferrying-odia-migrants-from-gujarat-meets-with-accident-832868.html
