03-05-2020||First Edit||Demanding fare is extortion||While migrant workers stranded in different parts of the country have started going back to their homes, the whole matter has taken a scandalous turn with governments overcharging them for their return trips. The Karnataka government has arranged buses from Bengaluru to take workers to the northern districts of the state from where most of them have come to the city. The Railways have arranged trains to take migrant workers from some South Indian cities to states like Odisha, Jharkand and Bihar. But it is unfortunate that the workers were asked to pay exorbitant fares for their travel. It was reported that some were made to pay Rs 1,509 for a trip from Bengaluru to Vijayapura in place of the regular fare of about Rs 500. But they were allowed to travel on regular fares after Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa intervened in the matter. On Sunday, the government again changed its stance and made travel free. The Railways have announced that extra charges would be collected from the migrants who travel by the special trains.  The logic behind collecting higher fares is that the buses had to be hired on contract basis, and as social distancing norms necessitated accommodation of less number of passengers than normal, the fare had to be hiked proportionately. The Railways charge extra fares because the trains are running special services. But this is normal business logic which should have no place in a situation of extreme distress which prevails in most parts of the country. The people who go to take the bus or the special train to their homes are poor people who cannot afford to pay even the normal fare. It is the government which created the situation which forced them to leave their places of work and to go home, and they are being made to pay for it. This is unfair.  The transportation of migrant workers to their homes should be considered as evacuation of people affected by natural and other calamities to safe places. It should be noted that the Indians who were evacuated from countries like China, Japan and Iran after the Covid-19 outbreak did not have to pay at all. Considering this, demanding even normal fare from the poor migrants is extortion. Many of them have not been paid wages for many days and weeks, have struggled to eat and meet other basic needs ever since the lockdown was imposed. It is the responsibility of the state to send them home, as it a humanitarian issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/demanding-fare-is-extortion-833193.html
03-05-2020||In Perspective||After the lockdown is lifted…||The year 2020 began on a sad note for the world. Covid-19, the pandemic, has engulfed almost all the countries with over 33.59 lakh cases and 2,38,000 deaths as of the evening of May 2. India is not spared, but compared to many other countries, the pandemic is under control here. The spread of the virus was contained with lockdown of almost all the activities throughout the country. With this lockdown, many things have changed, especially, in big cities. Coming to Bengaluru, it seems like the city of the 1970s when air used to be fresher, road traffic lighter, low noise pollution and no frothing lakes. Air pollution is at a 20-year low in all major cities. Considering the fact that the top 15 of the 20 most polluted cities in the world are in India, this change is indicating that the unplanned expansion of cities needs a relook now.  The harsher side of the lockdown was that all the industries were shut down leading to millions of migrants being out of jobs and stranded in big cities. Once the lockdown is eased, many the migrant labourers would like to go back home and the governments, both at the Centre and the states should plan for it. Solution to the situation should include facilitating people to stay back in their hometowns if they wish and also providing livelihood to the people wherever they wish to live. How can bothgoalsoptionsbe achieved? All the businesses in cities, except the essential services, have been shut down for over six weeks. Many of these businesses may not start their operations immediately post-lockdown for operational as well as financial reasons. The migrant workers play a major role in cost-effective running of many of these businesses, be it construction, security, cab providers and many such where manpower is central. With many of these workers going home, the businesses may not be able to restart for some more time, even after the lockdown is lifted.  This situation is like rebooting cities, starting afresh. Now is the time to stop the haphazard urban growth, which lacks the infrastructure to cater for large populations. Hence, the government and the businesses have to come together, get creative and rethink on how to effectively start their businesses as well as to reap the environmental benefits of the lockdown. One way out would be some of the businesses can be relocated in smaller towns or rural areas. For example, food processing or garment industries or machining/lathe works or call centres or similar businesses that do not require highly skilled work force can be relocated. This strategy has many advantages such as: Providing jobs to the rural and small town youth in their neighbourhood.They do not have to leave their families to live in small, crowded houses paying exorbitant rents. This will help the reluctant urbanisers enjoy their own surroundings in addition to earning a livelihood. Availability of labour for agricultural activities, that too during peak season. Automatically improving the infrastructure in these places. If some training centres are set-up to impart the required skill sets in rural areas, many industries will benefit. If these policy changes are implemented, it will make rural areas self-sufficient and vibrant. In addition to enhancing the lives of rural populations, this strategy will help improve the cities by decongesting them. Most importantly, stress on infrastructure expansion in cities will come down with less population. For example, in Bengaluru, the roads are not designed for the use of over 77 lakh vehicles. Pollution levels The pollution levels in the city, especially PM2.5, are higher than the national guidelines. With fewer people in the city, traffic woes will come down, bringing down pollution. Bengaluru is not on any riverfront and all the water used in the city is pumped uphill all the way from KRS or Kabini near Mysuru. About 4,700 crore litres of water is pumped into the city every month, consuming 7,35,000 units of electricity at acost of Rs 46 crore. Moving some select industries to rural areas and smaller cities will have the following benefits: Financial benefits for industries as the land prices, rents and labour in these places would be lower than in bigger cities. For the youth of the local community, life would become simpler as they would be staying with their families and not incur heavy expenditure of city living. The youth can also participate in agricultural activities during sowing and harvesting seasons which would provide additional income. Overcrowding in big cities will reduce drastically making these cities liveable. It is like a starting point for activities all over the country. The central and state governments in collaboration with small-scale industries and planning experts have to come up with suitable solutions so that large-scale migration from hometowns is reduced and the people have their livelihood in the vicinity of their hometowns. It will be a win-win situation for industries as well as people. (The writer is with Energy and Environment Research Programme, NIAS, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/after-the-lockdown-is-lifted-833194.html
03-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||No total relaxation in Mysuru district: DC||Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar on Sunday said that there will be no total relaxation from the lockdown as Mysuru district is still in red zone.  The DC explained that the people entering the district will be screened at the entry points and stamped. They must undergo 14 days home quarantine, he said. A team, comprising a doctor, will be deputed at all the entry points to the district. The team will screen the people and stamp them. The district administration and the Police department will issue one-time travel pass to the people travelling to other districts and the state. But, no return passes will be issued and the people have to stay wherever they are, he said. Only shops selling essentials are allowed to open at major business streets and standalone shops can be opened at layouts and residential areas. The DC said the essential industries at urban and all the industries at rural areas are allowed to function with 33% of work force. Even private offices can be opened, but, the authorities must ensure safety of the employees. The employees must be facilitated with safety gears such as masks and sanitisers.     City Police Commissioner Chandragupta warned of conducting surprise visits to the factories and companies to check the enforcement of lockdown guidelines. Action would be taken if found violating norms. The commissioner also urged the people not to move around unnecessarily. The police will not disturb the people travelling for genuine reasons, he said. The commissioner said three persons, including a driver, can travel in a four-wheeler from Monday.      Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has identified 91 prime business streets in the city for conducting business, said MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde. The commissioner also said the civic body has collected Rs 67,000 fine from the people who were moving without mask and spitting on road. The MCC has formed nine teams, comprising health inspectors, environment engineers, to check violations, he said.  As per the orders of the state government, the liquor shops will be opened with certain conditions. The shop owners must ensure social distance is followed and only five customers are allowed at a time. The Police Commissioner Chandragupta and Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth warned of taking severe action against the liquor shop owners if they fail to follow the guidelines.    The DC said the state government has made it compulsory to wear face mask at public places. The authorities will impose fine if any one fail to cover face either with mask or cloth. While Rs 100 will be imposed at rural areas, Rs 200 will be collected in urban regions, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-total-relaxation-in-mysuru-district-dc-833155.html
03-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Districts inch towards normalcy||Deputy Commissioner R Girish said that with the lockdown extended up to May 17, the administration has decided to allow business thrice a week (Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday). Addressing media persons here, the DC said, the district has not recorded Covid-19 case so far. The people should be cautious as permission has been given for the movement of people between inter-state and district. “KSRTC buses and autorickshaws will start plying from Monday. Discussions has been held with the District In-charge Minister Madhuswamy. Accordingly, all the shops would be open from 7 am to 7 pm. We have decided to continue to keep the shops opened for three days in a week, till the lockdown is lifted. The textile shops, jewellery shops, salons will be open. However, wearing masks and social distancing is mandatory,” he stressed. The liquor shops too would be open for three days a week from 9 am to 7 pm. Liquor will be available at wine shops, MRP outlets and CL-11 C (MSIL). Only five persons would be allowed at a time for purchase. The shopkeepers and the customers should wear masks, he said. Except the guesthouses identified for quarantine, all the other guesthouses, lodges, resorts and home stays should not be opened. Ban continues on theatres, clubs, auditoriums, shopping malls, gymnasium, summer camps, swimming classes and others. With the government allowing one side transit, 300 people have applied through Seva Sindhu App to return to Hassan. Around 108 people have applied to leave the district. However, no permission has been given yet, he clarified. As there are complaints that social distancing is not followed at provision stores, the shopkeepers have been told to install CCTV cameras, and also board that they are under CCTV surveillance, he suggested. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation divisional controller of Hassan Manjunath said that in all, 80 buses would begin services in eight taluks of the district, on Monday. The buses would transit between Hassan and taluks and only 30 passengers would be accommodated in each bus. The driver and conductor would be provided masks and sanitisers. It is mandatory for the passengers to wear masks. However, those below 10 years and above 60 years will not be allowed to travel, he said. There will be no inter-district bus services. However, if the district administration permits and issues a letter, it would be considered and 30 passengers would be allowed to travel, to a particular district, he said. In Mandya district, liquor would be available at 134 shops, including retail, MRP and MSIL outlets. The shop owners have made all preparations to open the shops on Monday, with the government easing down the lockdown norms. Barricades have been erected before the shops on Sunday, to streamline the crowd. Excise Commissioner B Shivaprasad said that as the shops are being opened after 45 days, minor commotion is expected. The shop owners should follow the government guidelines carefully, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/districts-inch-towards-normalcy-833156.html
03-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress demands Shashikala Jolle's resignation||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah has sought the resignation of Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle, here on Sunday. Siddaramaiah held Yediyurappa directly responsible for the same as the ‘repackaging’ of relief material meant for the poor was reported in Bengaluru Urban district for the second time during the lockdown. On Saturday, the Congress workers had raided a state-run warehouse where government ration was allegedly repackaged in covers that had the saffron party’s logo. The KPCC women’s wing also staged a protest in connection with the same on Sunday. Meanwhile, the BJP has rubbished the allegations and said that the Congress leaders had barged into a ration packing facility run by a women’s self-helpgroup. BJP leader Ashwath Narayan said that a local BJP leader was distributing ration from his own money. “The ration was being packaged by the agency which was also packaging the food grains supplied by the government,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-demands-shashikala-jolles-resignation-833187.html
03-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Nodal officers appointed for travel facility||District-level teams will be formed to facilitate enter-district and inter-state travel to contain the spread of Covid-19, according to a press release. Nodal officers have been appointed for every taluk to facilitate visits of labourers, tourists, students, devotees and others stranded in the district. The nodal officers will coordinate with the district-level nodal officers and tahsildars to ensure those who are stranded safely reach their native places, added the release. They also register those entering the district from other states and districts. Those entering the district and moving out of the district should undergo medical tests. Only those who are healthy will be permitted for the travel, added the release. KSRTC buses will be plied to ferry the migrants. Buses will be disinfected, while there will be social distancing inside. The nodal officers will obtain permission for the movement of buses in other districts and states, stated the release. They will also quarantine those entering the district from outside, besides checking their health status regularly. They will also enter details of such people in Arogya Sethu app, added the release. Following are the nodal officers: Gauribidanur (Nagesh-9448238855), Chintamani (Pankaja-8277930803), Gudibande (Somashankarappa-9449559926), Shidlaghatta (Shivakumar-9448808356), Chikkaballapur (Seetharam- 9448985412) and Bagepalli (Roopa-8277930801).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/nodal-officers-appointed-for-travel-facility-833126.html
03-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||80% of liquor exhausted in district during lockdown||About 80% of liquor in stocks has been exhausted in all liquor outlets in the district including the government-run Mysore Sales International Limited (MSIL) during the lockdown period, according to Excise Department officials. The CL-2 and CL-11 outlets will be reopened from Monday across the district. The officials completed the stock verification on Sunday. “Stock verification has been conducted at all outlets permitted for liquor sales. Notices have been slapped on owners of the outlets where there is huge gap between the data on the register and the actual stocks,” Sumitha, deputy commissioner, Excise Department, told DH. The district has 240 liqour outlets and most of the owners reportedly sold the liquor during the lockdown period. It is said that the department officials were hand in glove with the owners to carry out the illegal activity. The number of complaints that owners were selling the liquor from the stocks illegally went up. Following the complaints, Excise Minister H Nagesh ordered the department top brass to conduct stock verification. The stock verification is being conducted in the last 10 days. Some owners have alleged that only a few outlets are being targeted as notices have not been slapped on owners of all outlets. “The officials did not focus on MSIL outlets. They submitted a report only about some private outlets. Action has not been taken against some owners owing to political pressure,” according to an owner of an outlet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/80-of-liquor-exhausted-in-district-during-lockdown-833134.html
03-05-2020||Main Article||Deforestation drives epidemics||Reports suggest COVID-19 pandemic to be an outcome of coronavirus spillover from bats to pangolins to humans. Should that be it, the question arises, why has such spillover occurred? The answer lies in our slighting attitude towards forests. The disease-causative agents behind majority of the outbreaks in the past including yellow fever (Africa, South America), dengue (pan tropical), Chikungunya (Africa, south and southeast Asia), Ebola (Africa), HIV (worldwide), Nipah (South Asia), SARS (Southeast Asia), Malaria (Africa, Southeast Asia, South America) and Lyme disease (worldwide) are forest denizens, and at least the initial disease outbreak is attributable to deforestation and forest fragmentation.  According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), “two thirds of known human infectious diseases are shared with animals, and the majority of recently emerging diseases are associated with wildlife”. Let us consider how deforestation results in the emergence of infectious diseases. Forest is a natural ecosystem hosting a community of trees of different types and sizes with vegetative undergrowth and thriving populations of microorganisms (such as bacteria and viruses), insects, reptiles, birds and other animals.  All these life forms exist in a dynamic balance in a forest ecosystem and constitute its biodiversity. Disease causative agents (virus, bacteria or parasites) that have co-evolved with their reservoir hosts (mosquitos, ticks, rodents, bats and other wild animals) are all part of this dynamic balance of biodiversity. When a forest habitat is cleared for the development of infrastructure like roads, power lines, dams and canals, or for human habitations and industrial purposes, or for extension of agriculture and grazing livestock, the outcome is loss of tree cover and creation of fresh forest-edges. Such changes alter the balance of biodiversity and modify the locality factors of temperature, sunshine, moisture and wind. This has implications for the outbreak of infectious diseases. Firstly, under the stress of disturbance, the reservoir host may shed higher pathogen load through saliva, urine and faecal matter. This can increase the chances of infection among humans and their livestock interacting with such disturbed forest habitat. Second, the populations of host species and their predators can undergo change resulting in increased/decreased abundance of hosts, and thereby the scope for pathogen spillover.  Third, fresh habitat opportunities can arise that may favour breeding and result in increased abundance of host species locally. For example, sunlit puddles of water on forest edges are favoured habitats for breeding mosquitos. Fourth, reservoir host species can disperse from the disturbed forest habitat along with the pathogen load-carrying disease to new areas. Fifth, the disease-causing agents can find alternative hosts in humans and their livestock that use such disturbed forest habitat. Sixth, enhanced interaction of livestock with the host wild animals can facilitate spill over of disease-causing agents to humans. Nipah virus, first isolated in 1999, caused more than 100 human deaths in 1998 in Malaysia. Nipah virus had infected humans through reared pigs.  Pigs had nibbled on the fruits eaten by fruit bats (reservoir host). Fruit bats were displaced by deforestation carried out for cultivation of palm oil plantations and pig farming. In May 2018, Nipah virus claimed 21 lives in Kerala. Also, a study published in the International Journal of Epidemiology in December 2019 on the Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD) in the Western Ghats in Karnataka provides clear evidence for increasing forest loss and disease spread. KFD (also known as monkey fever) is endemic to the Ghats and was first reported in 1957 from Kyasanur Forest of Shivamogga district in Karnataka.  A tick - Haemaphysalis spinigera - found in forest margins transmits KFD virus to humans. During the past five years, KFD has expanded its range throughout the Ghats and beyond. This indicates its potential as an emerging infectious disease (EID) in India. Thus, it is seen that loss of forests and biodiversity increases the chances of forest-linked disease outbreaks. Experts opine that in a high biodiversity forest, availability of a number of other potential victims of the disease agent creates a “dilution effect” reducing the chances of infection to humans.  Protective factor According to a review of the state of knowledge published by WHO and Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) on “biodiversity and human health” in 2015, rich “biodiversity may serve as a protective factor for preventing transmission, and maintaining ecosystems may help to reduce exposure to infectious agents.” Precluding the emergence of infectious diseases through forest conservation is a recognised novel ecosystem service of forests. Further, the impending climate change has added a whole new dimension to forest-linked disease outbreak as changes in ambient temperature and humidity, drought frequency and rainfall distribution are likely to modify the disease rate, range, seasonality, distribution of disease agents and their hosts, and human-disease host interactions. Risk of infection intensifies when people venture into forest habitats for collection of forest produce, cattle grazing, bush-meat hunting and tourism. Such risk is further compounded due to migration of more-vulnerable poor people into opened up forest areas without adequate housing, water, medical and sanitation facilities.  Creation of buffer area zones between forests and human-cultured landscape and stringent measures against bush-meat hunting and trade in wild animals are necessary to safeguard the larger common interest of preventing zoonotic disease outbreak. It is pertinent to take note in this context that government notifies eco-sensitive zones around national parks and sanctuaries that host rich biodiversity. The outbreak of COVID shows that society ends up paying extremely high economic and social cost for violating natural environment. However, in our pursuit for economic development, we continue to neglect and erode its environmental basis.  Uncaring development process is likely to intensify the possibility for outbreak of forest-linked infectious diseases. Contextually, halting deforestation and defragmenting forests, strengthens the environmental basis of economic development and insures against the outbreak of diseases. There lurks a real risk of next pandemic emerging from forests. Epidemiologists suggest preservation of the health of our forest ecosystems to secure our own. (The writer is Karnataka cadre Indian Forest Service officer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/deforestation-drives-epidemics-833195.html
03-05-2020||National||Government allows weddings, number of guests limited to 50||Here’s some good news for those desperate to get hitched in COVID-19 season.  The Union government has decided to allow marriage functions during the two-week lockdown which will begin from May 4. But there’s a catch: you cannot invite more than 50 for the function. And you will have to ensure social distancing.  The maximum number of guests allowed will not be more than 50, the order issued by the government said. Since March 25, when the lockdown was imposed, people needed to take permission from District Magistrates for marriages and related functions. With restrictions in place, very few marriages took place in the country, and most of them did not have any gatherings. In some instances, people had even violated restrictions by holding post-marriage parties. The new guidelines also allow gatherings of 20 at funerals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-allows-weddings-number-of-guests-limited-to-50-832880.html
03-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Maids allowed to work; salons only in green, orange zones||Domestic helps are allowed to work across the country during the COVID-19 lockdown but authorities have curiously left it to resident welfare associations (RWA) to decide whether to permit them in their localities. Officials in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) have also placed the responsibility on individuals for any incident like the residents contracting the infection by allowing “outsiders” on their premises.  “RWAs should take a call about allowing the movement of outsiders. But keep in mind health protocols. There is no public transport. Also, the responsibility lies with the person calling and allowing them in if there is any incident,” a senior MHA official said. A close reading of the new guidelines issued for the lockdown, which has been now extended till May 17, shows that employing domestic workers during this period is not banned. However, the latest remarks have further heightened the vulnerability of domestic workers across the country, who are denied wages in a large number of cases for April as many could not attend work due to lockdown.  The domestic helps, especially migrants, also complain that they were not able to avail ration besides facing pressure from landlords to pay rent as reported by DH on May 1. Official statistics place the number of domestic workers employed in India at 47.5 lakh, including 30 lakh women, but this is considered an underestimation and the number could be more between two crore and eight crore, according to the International Labour Organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-maids-allowed-to-work-salons-only-in-green-orange-zones-832883.html
03-05-2020||National||Aarogya Setu App: Ravi Shankar Prasad hits back at Rahul Gandhi ||Hitting back at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his criticism against Aarogya Setu App, Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday said the app has a robust data security architecture. "Aarogya Setu is now being appreciated globally. The app is a powerful companion which protects people. It has a robust data security architecture," the Minister said.  Reacting to Rahul Gandhi criticism that the app outsourced to private operators, the Minister said "the  App is NOT outsourced to any private operator. Mr. Gandhi really high time that you stop outsourcing your tweets to your cronies who do not understand India, " Prasad tweeted replying to former Congress National president's tweet.  "Daily a new lie. Aarogya Setu is a powerful companion which protects people. It has a robust data security architecture. Those who indulged in surveillance all their lives, won’t know how tech can be leveraged for good!",Prasad said in his tweet to replying to Rahul Gandhi.   Daily a new lie. Earlier in the day Rahul Gandhi tweeted saying app is a sophisticated surveillance system. "The Arogya Setu app, is a sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a pvt operator, with no institutional oversight - raising serious data security & privacy concerns. Technology can help keep us safe; but fear must not be leveraged to track citizens without their consent," Rahul Gandhi tweeted.   The Arogya Setu app, is a sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a pvt operator, with no institutional oversight - raising serious data security & privacy concerns. Technology can help keep us safe; but fear must not be leveraged to track citizens without their consent. The Arogya Setu app developed by National Infomatics Centre under the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. The government made mandatory for government and private companies employees download app in their mobile. The Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology issued while launching app said that, the app will track users’ “interaction with others”, and will alert authorities if there is any suspicion of the user having been in contact with an infected person.  “Once installed in a smartphone through an easy and user-friendly process, the app detects other devices with Aarogya Setu installed that come in the proximity of that phone. The app can then calculate the risk of infection based on sophisticated parameters if any of these contacts are tested positive,” the government had then said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aarogya-setu-app-ravi-shankar-prasad-hits-back-at-rahul-gandhi-832887.html
03-05-2020||National||Virtual court system comes as saviour during COVID-19 crisis||In the face of unprecedented global crisis in the form of COVID-19 pandemic, Supreme Court has quickly resorted to virtual court system to ensure that it continued to take up urgent matters seeking justice. Instead of regular hearings system, the top court resorted to video conferencing with a view to adhere to social distancing norm to check spread of infection. Maintaining that justice can't be spoon-fed, an official note stated justice delivery, even at the door-steps, required the stakeholders of the ecosystem to diligently discharge their role and duties, prescribed and required in the scheme of things.   In 22 days of hearing, as many as 116 benches assembled to take up 538 matters in additional to 297 connected matters in the month of April in the Supreme Court, according to official data released on May 1. In the period, judgement has been delivered in 57 matters. Besides, as many as 49 special leave petitions, 92 writ petitions, 138 review petitions and 58 pleas for interim relief were taken up.  "This statistics revealed that despite challenging circumstances the Supreme Court has ensured dispensation of justice in cases of urgency with highest number of hearings undertaken to alternative mode best suiting to the circumstances," the official note said. It was also pointed out that the information available on court and other judicial websites indicated that in nations hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic like the USA, the UK, EU, France, Italy, Germany, China, Canada, Australia, Singapore etc, the judicial organs of the State carrying out the administration of justice were mostly relying on virtual court methodologies and online case-management in place in their respective jurisdictions.  It also called upon all stakeholders to accept the virtual court system for a fair adjudicatory process. "The advantages of the virtual court system, especially in terms of time, energy and money saved by the litigants and counsels in ensuring their presence before a court are innumerable and could be game-changers too," the note stated. It also asserted that under the current pandemic, the virtual courts system could not be said to be negating the principles of fairness that were sacrosanct to the administration of justice nor was it failing to adhere to requirements of an ‘open court’ system. In the regular working of the Supreme Court, just before the pandemic struck, only the parties certified by the Advocate-on-Record and advocates were being permitted to be present in the Open Court.  Currently, under the virtual court system, the litigants indicated by the Advocate-on-Record, Advocate-on-Record himself and the senior counsel are provided with the video conferencing links to join from remote points. They are able to hear, see and respond to the other party and the bench simultaneously, during the proceedings of the virtual court, it said. "Notwithstanding the resistance and technological challenges faced by the virtual court system today, at its stage of dormancy, efforts should continue to strengthen its roots and its various delivery mechanism in manner that it may also throw up answer to several ills that have plagued the physical or the traditional court system over the past few centuries," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virtual-court-system-comes-as-saviour-during-covid-19-crisis-832889.html
03-05-2020||National||Reverse engineering: Man held for making liquor from sanitizer||A man was arrested in Raisen district of Madhya Pradesh on Saturday for allegedly making liquor from sanitizer liquid. Alcohol is the main constituent of hand sanitizers. The accused was identified as Indal Singh Rajput, a resident of Boriya Jagir village under Sultanpur police station limits, police said. Liquor shops in the state are closed due to the ongoing lockdown. Several distilleries in the state have been granted permission to manufacture sanitizers which are in high demand due to the coronavirus outbreak. According to police, Rajput made liquor from a sanitizer which contained 72 per cent alcohol. It was a unique case, said superintendent of police Monika Shukla. Rajput was booked under the Excise Act, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reverse-engineering-man-held-for-making-liquor-from-sanitizer-832904.html
03-05-2020||National||Only those authorised by states allowed in special trains during lockdown: Railways||The railways reiterated on Saturday night that it was ferrying only those authorised by state governments in its special trains for people stranded during the lockdown, following reports of unauthorised travel and crowding at some stations. In a late night statement, the national transporter said, "Railways only accepting passengers, brought and facilitated by state governments. No other group of traveller or individual are to come to station."  "Some special trains being run only on state governments' requests. All other passenger and suburban train services remain suspended," it said. The railways also said that no tickets are being sold at any station, advising people not to converge at any rail station. India is under a nationwide lockdown to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, with a ban on rail, air and road traffic. Earlier this week, the Union Home Ministry allowed states to ferry their residents, particularly migrant labourers, students and tourists, stranded outside due to the lockdown in special buses and trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-those-authorised-by-states-allowed-in-special-trains-during-lockdown-railways-832913.html
03-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 3, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Download the e-paper to read today’s edition and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-3-2020-edition-832918.html
03-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: ICMR lauds Kerala's containment strategy||The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday lauded the containment strategy and the robust public healthcare system of Kerala and said it would "continue referring to the Kerala model" for testing and containment strategies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-icmr-lauds-keralas-containment-strategy-832923.html
03-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 3||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 42,248 as of May 3.  States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 1,391     Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 7797   While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-3-832924.html
03-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Greens launch ‘Spit Up’ campaign to check menace in Maharashtra||“We are being repeatedly told by doctors that the novel coronavirus spreads through droplets emanating out of coughing and sneezing. Spitting is obviously much more harmful,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head of NGO Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan.“It is horrible that people lift their face masks and continue to spit on the roads causing a big menace,” Pawar pointed out.Through the campaign on social media, the activists have also appealed to various civic bodies to impose hefty, deterrent fines such as Rs 5,000 per offence and make them clean the spit. The spitting menace also defeats the Swachh Bharat spirit and dirties out streets, Kumar said.Though ghutka is banned in Maharashtra, the addicts have found  their own concoction by mixing tobacco with paan masala which is freely available. The sachets were being sold in black as the shops are officially shut.  Corona or no corona, spitting is a huge public menace, said Kopar Khairane-based home-maker Vijayalakshmi.   “We used to encounter spit areas before we board an auto-rickshaw or even a taxi. And in other public places such as railway stations and bus stops, the situation is worse,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-greens-launch-spit-up-campaign-to-check-menace-in-maharashtra-832932.html
03-05-2020||National||Nine lakh people undertook virtual tour of Patna zoo in a week: Official||Stuck within the four walls of home amid the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, lakhs of people, in search of some solace, have logged in to the social media pages of Patna zoo over the past week to take a virtual tour of the menagerie, which houses at least 800 animals and birds. Several wildlife enthusiasts, following their virtual visit of the Sanjay Gandhi Jaivik Udyaan, have also shared their experiences on its YouTube channel and Facebook page. The state forest department launched the initiative a week ago in a bid to keep the locked-down people, especially children, engaged and entertained, its principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh said on Sunday. "Within a week of the launch of our YouTube channel -- DEFCC Official -- more than nine lakh animal lovers across the globe virtually visited the zoo. The channel has premiered six episodes so far, featuring tigers, birds, rhinoceros, chimpanzees, giraffes and elephants," he said. Children, who tune in to the videos on social media, will get to learn a thing or two about animal behaviour, their food habits and habitat, Singh said. "As the Patna zoo is home to 800 wild animals and birds, the campaign has been divided into a series of episodes. Each episode describes the natural habitat, food habits, reproduction cycle and other interesting facts about one animal," he said The menagerie usually witnesses high footfall round the year, the forest department official said. "The zoo has never remained closed for so long in the past. Just to help people beat lockdown blues, we launched this unique initiative which will allow them to get up close with animals and birds from their homes," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-lakh-people-undertook-virtual-tour-of-patna-zoo-in-a-week-official-832935.html
03-05-2020||National||Lockdown: Collectors to decide on opening liquor shops in MP||Amid the extension of lockdown, collectors of districts in Madhya Pradesh have been asked to decide on opening liquor shops from Monday by following the physical distancing norms and adopting other measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus, an official said. The state excise department on Saturday issued a circular to district collectors, saying liquor and bhaang shops can be opened from 7 am to 7 pm only. A decision on opening these shops should be taken in accordance with guidelines issued by the Centre for green, orange and red zones, an official from the state public relations department said. Passes for operating these shops will be issued only to the licensees and their employees, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-collectors-to-decide-on-opening-liquor-shops-in-mp-832936.html
03-05-2020||National||Col Sharma, martyred in the Handwara encounter, was awarded medals twice for his gallantry||Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, the commanding officer (CO) of 21-Rashtriya Rifles, who was martyred along with Major Anuj, two soldiers and a J&K police inspector while fighting militants in Kashmir’s Handwara, had been decorated twice for bravery. Col Sharma had been part of several successful counter-insurgency operations in Kashmir in the past. Army officials said he served in Kashmir for a long time and was twice awarded Sena Medal for gallantry, including one for his bravery as CO. He received the gallantry award as a CO when he shot a militant-- who was rushing towards his men on a road with a grenade hidden in his clothes-- at close range. On Saturday night as well Col Sharma didn’t care for his own life and entered the house to evacuate the trapped civilians after the firing had stopped for an hour. Col Sharma is the first CO or a colonel rank officer in the last five years to have lost life in an encounter with militants. On 27 January 2005, Col MN Rai lost his life while fighting with militants in Kashmir’s Pulwama district just a day after being awarded Yudh Seva Medal. Same year in November, Colonel Santosh Mahadik – the CO of 41 Rashtriya Rifles - laid down his life battling militants near Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir's Kupwara district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/col-sharma-martyred-in-the-handwara-encounter-was-awarded-medals-twice-for-his-gallantry-832946.html
03-05-2020||National||Two Surat returnees among 3 test positive for COVID-19 in Odisha||Three more persons, including two Surat returnees, have tested positive for COVID-19 in Odisha, taking the total number of such cases in the state to 160, official sources said. Ganjam district, which had so far been a green zone, reported its first COVID-19 cases, after the two, who returned from Gujarat recently, were diagnosed with the disease. The third patient to have tested positive for the disease is a woman from Jharsuguda district, the sources said. With Ganjam, the home district of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, registering two cases, the number of districts under the grip of COVID-19 increased to 16 in the state. Odisha has a total of 30 districts. Both the Surat returnees, aged 17 and 22 years, were asymptomatic, the sources said, adding that contract-tracing and follow-up action have been initiated. A total of 2,065 samples were tested for COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, an official in the Health and Family Welfare Department said. So far, Odisha has examined 38,658 samples.  Of the 160 cases in the state, the number of active cases stands at 103 as 56 have recovered. One person from Bhubaneswar succumbed to the disease on April 6. Jajpur district in Odisha has reported the highest number of novel coronavirus cases at 48, followed by Bhubaneswar in Khurda at 47, Balasore at 20, Bhadrak at 19 and Sundergarh at 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-surat-returnees-among-3-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-odisha-832950.html
03-05-2020||National||2018 image of Muslims offering prayers in UP shared as recent from Tamil Nadu||An image of a group of men, wearing a skull cap, offering namaz is getting shared on social media. It is being shared with the claim that a group of 700 men offered namaz amid the lockdown in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore district. Facebook user Vijay Ajay posted the image with the claim in Tamil on April 30. The image is credited to ‘Alamy stock photo’ and ‘Jaya Murgan’.  Another Facebook page with the name Bjp Coimbatore Thondamuthur Assembly posted the image with the same claim. With a Google reverse image search, Alt News found that the image is from Uttar Pradesh’s Allahabad city, now known as Prayagraj. According to the stock photo agency Alamy, the image was shot on May 17, 2018. “Muslims offer night prayers called taraweeh during Ramadan month in Allahabad, Ramadhan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar, and the month in which the Quran was revealed, Fasting during the month of Ramadan is one of the Five Pillars of Islam. The month is spent by Muslims fasting during the daylight hours from dawn to sunset,” reads the caption. The image is credited to a person named Prabhat Kumar Verma.   Tamil Nadu’s Tirupathur district police also took to Twitter and called out the misinformation circulated on social media. “Picture shot in #allahabad is falsely shared in social media as one taken in #tirupathur district.FIR has been registered against the miscreants,” said the tweet. In conclusion, a 2018 image from Uttar Pradesh was falsely shared to claim that Muslims offered namaz in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore district despite an ongoing nationwide lockdown. Earlier this week, a video from Mumbai shot on March 23 outside a mosque in Dongri was shared with the false claim that it showed Muslims gathering in Ahmedabad’s Jamalpur area amidst the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2018-image-of-muslims-offering-prayers-in-up-shared-as-recent-from-tamil-nadu-832964.html
03-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: First special train to Odisha carrying 1,150 migrants arrives in state||The first 'Shramik Special' train to Odisha carrying around 1,150 migrant workers stranded in Kerala due to the lockdown arrived in Ganjam district on Sunday, officials said. The train had left Ernakulam railway station on Friday evening and arrived at Jagannathpur railway station in Ganjam district in the morning. It further proceeded to Khurda Road railway station, where it terminated, they said. Over 500 passengers, including women and children, alighted at Jagannathpur while the remaining got down at Khurda Road, the officials said. The passengers were screened and given certification for the journey before boarding the train in Kerala, they said. Those alighting at Jagannathpur railway station were sent to their home districts of Kandhamal, Ganjam, Rayagada, Boudh, Nabarangpur and Koraput, the officials said. Steps were taken to ensure that the workers strictly observed social distancing norms after their arrival at the railway stations, they said, adding all workers were wearing masks. The workers were received by government officials. They were given food packets and stamped with indelible ink on their right hands to highlight that they had returned from another state before boarding special buses for quarantine centres, the officials said. The travellers, who had registered themselves with the state government's portal, hail from 23 of Odisha's 30 districts. The highest number of those who returned are from Kandhamal district (382), followed by 283 from Kendrapara and 130 from Ganjam. The public and journalists were not allowed inside railway stations at the time of their arrival to avoid any health risk, an official said.  The state government has made similar arrangements for the return of more migrant workers stranded in Kerala and Gujarat, he said. These trains will halt at stipulated railway stations, from where the migrants will go to their villages along with respective panchayat officials and will be placed under quarantine for 14 days, the official said. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik thanked his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan for taking good care of the stranded people during the lockdown and cooperating with the Odisha government to ensure their safe return. Patnaik also commended the role of the Ganjam district administration and police for the smooth handling of the workers at Jagannathpur railway station. He thanked different government departments for "meticulous planning and precision" in completing the first leg of 'Operation Subha Yatra', the state administration's endeavour to facilitate the return of stranded migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-first-special-train-to-odisha-carrying-1150-migrants-arrives-in-state-832969.html
03-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: ‘Maha’ worries and green shoots amid COVID-19 recession gloom||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-maha-worries-and-green-shoots-amid-covid-19-recession-gloom-832970.html
03-05-2020||National||Scenes of joy at Lucknow station, first special train ferrying 800 migrant workers arrives in UP||Mulayam Singh Yadav was among the first to get off the special train as it arrived at platform number 1 of the Lucknow railway station, where health officials, policemen and news photographers waited for them. The 02121 Shramik Special carried over 800 others from Maharashtra's Nashik, all stranded there for weeks after a lockdown to fight coronavirus was imposed nationwide. While Uttar Pradesh has already brought in several bus-loads of workers back to the home state, Yadav's group is the first batch to be brought home to the state by train. Thirty-two buses waited outside the station to take the labourers to their onward journey to different districts. Eager to reunite with his family in Janunpur's Machlishahr, Yadav said, "It is a matter of barely a few hours." Yadav, in his mid twenties, had boarded the train in Nashik on Saturday morning. It reached Lucknow at around 5.52 am on Sunday. The railways had said it will start "Shramik Special" trains to move migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded in various parts of the country due to the lockdown. At around 5.34 am, the first announcement of the arrival of 02121 Shramik Special from Nashik on Platform number 1 was made. Railway, health and police officials stood alert. The ticket examiners were deployed on the platform to ensure that the arriving passengers adhere to the norms of social distancing. As the train made its halt, the enthusiastic passengers waved at policemen and health officials.  A senior railway official said two exit routes were planned for the passengers. The passengers were allowed to leave the station premises only after their medical check-up was done. Thereafter, they were given food packets and boarded to the UPSRTC buses that would take them to their respective districts. Arun Chauhan, who worked as a driver is Nashik and hails from Azamgarh, was thankful for the arrangements made by the government to facilitate the return of migrant workers to their native places. He, along with his friends Rajesh Kumar, Om Prakash and Neeraj Kumar, boarded the Azamgarh-bound bus and waved at the policemen and other officials as his onward journey to home began.     Surya Jaikumar from Sonbhadra said, "We faced no problem of food and water during our journey. Now, I am looking forward to return back to my village." Mohammed Arif, who hails from Shamli, too was happy to return home. "I worked as a welder. Once lockdown is lifted and travel permission is allowed, I may think of going back. However, till the time lockdown is in place, I will stay in my home," he said. Pramod, who worked as a daily wage labourer and hails from Maharajganj, was tying his jute bag and covering his face with a green-coloured towel as he was readying himself to board the bus for home. The Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation had deployed 32 buses outside the railway station to take the migrant workers home, Regional Manager of UPSRTC's Lucknow depot P K Bose said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scenes-of-joy-at-lucknow-station-first-special-train-ferrying-800-migrant-workers-arrives-in-up-832972.html
03-05-2020||National||CRPF headquarters closed till May 5 morning as driver tests positive for coronavirus||The headquarters of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was on Sunday sealed for sanitisation and its 40 officers and staff, including a Special Director General and a Deputy Inspector General on home quarantine, sent to home quarantine after a driver and personal secretary of an official posted there tested positive for COVID-19. While the CRPF has reported at least 144 cases of COVID-19 among its personnel, including the death of an Assistant Sub Inspector posted in the capital, another paramilitary force Border Security Force (BSF) has 42 personnel, including 40 in Delhi, testing positive for the virus. Officials said the driver and the personal assistant of a senior official tested positive for COVID-19, which prompted the authorities to seal the CRPF headquarters and sending its officers and staff to home. The headquarters located in CGO complex in South Delhi's Lodhi Colony will remain closed till Tuesday morning with orders being issued to all those working there not to come to office and work from home. The officers and staff have been asked to be available on phone to respond to necessary emergencies. Those responsible for collection, collation and dissemination of urgent communication should continue to do so by safe and secure means, an order said. Over 150 personnel from the CRPF located in Delhi have tested positive for COVID-19 with the bulk coming from 31st battalion where 135 have contracted the infection. Tests were conducted on 480 personnel of the 31st battalion out of which 323 have tested negative. Results of 22 personnel are awaited. In a separate incident, a CRPF company, which is part of 246th battalion, comprising 80 personnel has been quarantined in Delhi after one of them was tested positive for COVID-19. The company was located in Narela area. A constable had tested positive following which around 80 personnel in the company was quarantined. Earlier, CRPF Director General A P Maheshwari was sent in home quarantine after he came in indirect contact with positive patients. He later tested negative for Covid-19.  Besides CRPF, the BSF is also hit by COVID-19 cases with an official saying at least 42 personnel have been tested positive for COVID-19 in the force across the country. On Sunday, 25 more personnel attached with 126th Battalion tested positive for the virus. With this, 31 out of 94 personnel in the battalion has contracted the virus. Officials said eight people, including five BSF personnel, have been found COVID-19 positive from the BSF hospital in RK Puram.   "Few critically ill patients are admitted here, who visit different super speciality hospitals. One such kidney patient, who visits an outside super speciality hospital for dialysis, has been found positive on April 29. He has been admitted to LNJP Hospital. Two other BSF personnel suffering from cancer, who visited a cancer speciality hospital, from the BSF hospital ward, were found positive on April 30. Both cancer patients are admitted now to Jai Prakash Narayan Trauma Centre," a senior official said. Following testing of these patients' attendants, other patients and nursing staff, five more cases were reported from this facility. Two BSF personnel posted in Tripura had tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-headquarters-closed-till-may-5-morning-as-driver-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-832973.html
03-05-2020||National||CRPF headquarters in Delhi sealed after staff found COVID-19 positive||The headquarters of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) here has been sealed after a personal staff of a senior officer tested positive for novel coronavirus, officials said on Sunday. A personal secretary of a Special Director General (SDG) rank officer working in the headquarters has tested positive for the virus and hence the building has been sealed by the force, they said. Officials working in the building will not be allowed inside the premises from Sunday, they said. The force has informed the district surveillance officer for "initiating required protocols" as per medical guidelines, for time-bound proper sealing of the building located in the CGO complex on Lodhi Road.  They said a contact tracing exercise has begun of all the personnel who came in contact with the staffer at the headquarter building. The CRPF is the country's largest paramilitary force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-headquarters-in-delhi-sealed-after-staff-found-covid-19-positive-832974.html
03-05-2020||National||Will expose surveys that portray bad picture about press freedom in India: Prakash Javadekar||Asserting that the media enjoys absolute freedom in India, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday said "we will expose" those surveys that tend to portray a "bad picture" about press freedom in the country. On the occasion of the World Press Freedom Day, Javadekar said the media has the power to inform and enlighten people. "Media in India enjoy absolute freedom. We will expose, sooner than later, those surveys that tend to portray bad picture about 'Freedom of Press' in India," he tweeted. India dropped two places on a global press freedom index to be ranked 142nd out of 180 countries in the annual Reporters Without Borders analysis released last month. The Congress, in its message on the World Press Freedom Day, alleged that the BJP is "hell bent on destroying" this fourth pillar of democracy. "India slipped two places in World Press Freedom Index to 142. As we commemorate World Press Freedom Day, we must remember that the BJP is hell bent on destroying this fourth pillar of democracy and we shouldn't let that happen," the opposition party said on its official Twitter handle. "To all the journalists we would say, Daro Mat (Don't be scared)," it said. BJP president J P Nadda said the press is the fourth pillar of India's democracy and plays a great role in the nation by shaping opinions and creating awareness. "On this World Press Day, I salute our media persons for risking their lives to make public aware of various aspects of COVID-19," he said on Twitter. World Press Freedom Day was proclaimed by the UN General Assembly in December 1993, following the recommendation of UNESCO's General Conference. Since then, 3 May, the anniversary of the Declaration of Windhoek is celebrated worldwide as the World Press Freedom Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-expose-surveys-that-portray-bad-picture-about-press-freedom-in-india-prakash-javadekar-832975.html
03-05-2020||National||Income Tax dept cautions people against phishing e-mails promising refund||The income tax department on Sunday asked taxpayers to beware of phishing e-mails promising refund. "Taxpayers Beware! Please do not click on any fake link which promises to give refund. These are phishing messages and are not sent by the income tax department," the department said in a tweet.    According to the latest data, between April 8 and 20, the department issued nearly 14 lakh refunds involving an amount of over Rs 9,000 crore to various taxpayers including individuals, Hindu Undivided Families, proprietors, firms, corporate, start-ups, and MSMEs. On April 8, the finance ministry said it will fast-track issuance of pending income tax refunds up to Rs 5 lakh which will benefit around 14 lakh taxpayers, to provide relief to individuals and businesses hit by the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/income-tax-dept-cautions-people-against-phishing-e-mails-promising-refund-832977.html
03-05-2020||National||Shramik trains should have 90% occupancy: Railways||Indian Railways has issued a set of guidelines for its zones for running the Shramik special trains to ferry stranded people, saying the trains should have at least 90 per cent occupancy to operate. Railways said the local state government authority shall handover tickets of such trains to passengers cleared by them and collect the ticket fare and hand over the total amount to Railways. It also said that the originating state will provide adequate security at the designated station to ensure that only those passengers, who have been cleared by state government to travel and have a valid train ticket for the journey, should enter station premises. "Each Shramik Special train shall be a non-stop train bound for a single destination. Normally, the Shramik Special trains will be run for distances more than 500 kms. These trains will not stop at any in-between station before the destination station. The train with full-length composition with social distancing (not counting the inside middle berths) can carry approximately 1200 passengers each," it said. "The originating state shall plan the group of travellers accordingly. The occupancy of the train should not be less than 90 per cent," the guidelines stated. Railways shall print train tickets to the specified destination, as per the number of passengers indicated by originating state and hand them over to the local state government authority, it said. "The local state government authority shall handover tickets to passengers cleared by them and collect the ticket fare and hand over the total amount to railways," the guidelines stated. The state government shall issue food packets and drinking water at the originating points, it said. "It will be mandatory for all passengers to wear face cover. The state authorities shall advise the passengers to use mask/ face covers "The originating state will encourage all passengers to download and use Aarogya Setu App," it said.  For trains with long journey beyond 12 hours, one meal will be provided by the railways On arrival at their destination, the passengers will be received by state government authorities, who would make all arrangements for their screening quarantine, if necessary, and further travel. The receiving state will make adequate security arrangements at the railway station. "Railways reserves the right to discontinue Shramik Special train operations if safety, security and hygiene protocols are flouted at any stage," the guidelines issued to all zonal general managers said. Indian Railways on Friday last rolled out non-stop "shramik special" trains to ferry migrant workers, students and others stranded since the nationwide lockdown began on March 25 to contain the rising number of coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shramik-trains-should-have-90-occupancy-railways-832983.html
03-05-2020||National||Lockdown: NCW receives 315 domestic violence complaints in April||A girl being physically abused to get married and a man seeking protection for her sister being beaten at her in-laws home were among 315 complaints of domestic violence received by the NCW in April, when the country was under lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. The 315 complaints were received online and on WhatsApp and no complaint was received by post last month. Despite that, the complaints were highest since August last year, the NCW data showed. During previous months, the complaints included those received online and those received by posts. NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma has said the high numbers can be attributed to the lockdown - imposed since March 25 - which has locked the abuser and the victim together. The NCW has launched a WhatsApp number -- 7217735372 -- to report cases of domestic violence. It shared a few case studies of the kind of domestic violence complaints they have received during the lock-down period. In one of the cases, a girl complained that she is being beaten up by her parents and forced to get married. The NCW contacted the police following her complaint and she was shifted to a shelter home. In another case, a man in Tripura complained to NCW that his sister was being physically abused in her in-laws home and she is not able to step out due to lockdown. "We coordinated with the police which rescued her," an NCW member said. Another set of cases relate to women getting locked out of their in-laws home. "Each case is different and whatever the requirement is we act accordingly," the member said. https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-live-news-updates-total-COVID-19-cases-deaths-India-may-2-lockdown-mumbai-bengaluru-delhi-ahmedabad-kolkata-maharashtra-karnataka-red-orange-zone-832551.html In a bid to facilitate women to reach out to seek aid, a number of helpline numbers have been launched for reporting crimes against women, especially domestic violence. A total of 800 complaints were received by NCW of various crimes committed against women, the NCW data showed. While domestic violence constituted nearly 40 per cent of the total, the other offence which saw a significant rise in the month of April was cyber crime. Experts have attributed the rise to the ongoing lockdown which has resulted in "caged predators" attacking women online. According to the NCW data, 54 cyber complaints (online) were received in April in comparison to 37 (online and by post) in March and 21 (online and by post) in February. Due to lockdown, only online complaints were received in April. India is currently under the world's biggest lockdown with around 1.3 billion people asked to stay home in view of the coronavirus outbreak, which has claimed over 1,300 lives and infected 39,980 people in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-ncw-receives-315-domestic-violence-complaints-in-april-832985.html
03-05-2020||National||COVID-19: 63,000 crew, passengers on board ships from China not allowed to disembark till Apr 30||As many as 63,000 crew members and passengers onboard vessels mostly from China have been denied disembarkation at Indian ports so far, as part of efforts to curb the spread of coronavirus, a shipping ministry official said. These crew members and passengers reached Indian ports onboard about 1,990 vessels between January 27 and April 30, the official added. "A total of 62,948 crew and passengers reached India's ports onboard about 1,990 ships, mostly from China. Thermal scanning of all these crew and passengers were done as per the WHO (World Health Organization) guidelines. Besides adhering to all precautions and laid-down protocols to prevent any further spread of COVID-19, no shore passes or daily passes were issued to these people, and EXIM cargo was handled with care," the official told PTI. Of the total 1,990 ships, 1,621 reached major ports and were allowed anchoring at designated places for loading and unloading of export-import (EXIM) cargo. Of these 63,000 crew and passengers on board these ships, 56,000 reached the major ports, the official said. India has 12 major ports -- Deendayal (erstwhile Kandla), Mumbai, JNPT, Mormugao, New Mangalore, Cochin, Chennai, Kamarajar (earlier Ennore), V. O. Chidambaranar, Visakhapatnam, Paradip and Kolkata (including Haldia). These ports handled nearly 705 million tonnes (MT) cargo in 2019-20. For maintaining smooth operations across ports, the shipping ministry has initiated a number of steps that include waiving of rentals. The government has asked all major ports to ensure that no penalties, demurrage, charges, fees and rentals are levied on any port user (traders, shipping lines, concessionaires, licensees, etc) for any delay in berthing or loading/unloading operations or evacuation of cargo caused by the reasons attributable to lockdown measures from March 22. Besides, for existing and operational PPP (public private partnership) projects, major ports can permit waiver of all penal consequences on a case-to-case basis along with deferment of certain performance obligations.  The official said hospitals across the major port trusts have been supplied with personal protective equipment (PPE), and the arrangement of sufficient staff round the clock has been made. Ports and PSUs under the Ministry of Shipping have contributed over Rs 52 crore from the corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds towards PM-CARES Fund. Besides, employees of ports, public sector undertakings (PSUs) and other offices of the ministry have contributed over Rs 7 crore from their salaries towards the PM-CARES Fund. The number of vessels handled by ports during 2019-20 was around 20,837 as against 20,853 vessels in 2018-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-63000-crew-passengers-on-board-ships-from-china-not-allowed-to-disembark-till-apr-30-832990.html
03-05-2020||National||A story to tell grandchildren: Train crew after bringing stranded workers home||For loco driver Haridas and guard Rajeev Raikwar, the 02121 Shramik Special wasn’t just another train. It was something they will tell their grandchildren about when they ask what they did during the lockdown of 2020. The “workers special” the two rolled into Lucknow Sunday morning was the first such train to Uttar Pradesh, bringing home 800 migrant labourers stranded for weeks in Maharashtra. Haridas who drove the train from Jhansi to Lucknow – a part of its journey from Nashik in Maharashtra – had stayed home during the nationwide lockdown against coronavirus. And his family in Jhansi was apprehensive about the job, amid the pandemic. "Going to a red zone gave them tense moments. However, I responded to the call of duty and have no regrets," he told PTI, calling the assignment a “unique experience”. Haridas said he is happy he helped in uniting the stranded workers with their families. "I will also tell stories of my duty during the lockdown to my grandchildren,” he said. Rajeev Raikwar, the guard who got onto the train along with him, too felt happy for doing his bit. "Overall, the experience was good and I will tell my stories of the lockdown and about discharging my duties to my grandchildren,” he said.  “The family was telling me to say no, sensing danger. But duty is duty,” he said. “The RPF personnel in the train informed the passengers at regular intervals that they should not step down at any station,” he said. They workers were to be allowed to head for their home districts only after a medical examination in Lucknow. The train had 12 sleeper coaches, four general coaches and a guard coach, which also accommodated the Railway Protection Force jawans. Social distance was ensured in all coaches, according to the guard. Buses waited for the workers in Lucknow for their onward journeys. Bus driver Nizamuddin, who is from Ballia district, drove the ones headed to Orai, Jhansi and Lalitpur.     "It is for the first time that I am performing a duty of this nature. I feel satisfied that I can give people a reason to smile,” he said. He said his children were worried. “But I have faith in God and believe that everything will be back on track very soon." The Nashik-Lucknow train was among the special trains announced by the railways to ferry migrants to their homes in different parts of the country. It left Nashik on Saturday morning, reaching Jhansi at 11.55 pm. It stopped for five minutes, allowing Haridas and Rajeev Raikwar to get on board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-story-to-tell-grandchildren-train-crew-after-bringing-stranded-workers-home-832993.html
03-05-2020||National||Simplicity should be the way of life: Dharmendra on coronavirus lockdown||Veteran actor Dharmendra believes the biggest takeaway from the coronavirus pandemic should be the importance of leading a simple life. The nationwide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 to contain the spread of COVID-19. Dharmendra, 84, believes people should take the lockdown “positively”. “Due to lockdown there is no pollution, there is so much fresh air, the sky is so clear, everything looks beautiful. I am so happy to see this time it reminds me of the time that we lived back then. We all should take lockdown positively,” the actor told PTI in an interview. “I am living life like this and I am very happy about it. I come to the city when there is work (referring to films) and when not I am happy here in my farmhouse. I am born to give happiness, entertain and inspire everyone,” he added. The actor believes the pandemic is the result of the actions of humans and the only way to survive now is to live in sync with nature. “It is a very tight slap on our face from mother earth. We need to love and nurture nature. The virus has come because of us and we are suffering because of our own actions. “I hope people understand and cut down on a lot of unessential things and not become greedy and be happy with what they have. Less is always good. Simplicity should be the way of life. Everyone must follow this. This is a lesson for life.” Away from the fast-paced life and brouhaha of Bollywood, Dharmendra spends most of his time at his farmhouse in Lonavala. He was last seen in a full-fledged role in 2018 film "Yamla Pagla Deewana: Phir Se" with sons Sunny and Bobby Deol. The actor often shares videos on social media, giving glimpse of vegetables and fruits grown at his farmhouse. He said he loves farming and enjoys this simple life, which he finds comforting. "I am a Jat and Jats love their land and their farms. I love spending time in my farmhouse. Organic farming is our focus. There is so much greenery and freshness here. I love being in the lap of nature. It is a blessing. Whatever money I have earned, I spent everything here.” The actor is saddened with the demise of two stalwarts of Indian cinema – Irrfan Khan and Rishi Kapoor. He believes death is inevitable, but one must learn from the lives of those who have departed. “We are all happy when someone is born in a family but when someone leaves us we cry and mourn. We don’t learn anything from death. I believe every death teaches us something. It is all about living together with love and staying in unity but we all forget this.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/simplicity-should-be-the-way-of-life-dharmendra-on-coronavirus-lockdown-833003.html
03-05-2020||National||Post ICJ, India tried to persuade Pak through back channel to release Kulbhushan Jadhav: Harish Salve||India had hoped it might be able to persuade Pakistan through "back channel" to release retired Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, who was sentenced to death by a Pakistan military court on charges of "espionage and terrorism" in 2017, senior advocate Harish Salve has said. Salve was the lead counsel for India in the Jadhav case at the International Court of Justice (ICJ) which had last year ruled that Pakistan must review the death sentence awarded to the retired naval officer after a closed trial. During an online lecture series organised by the Akhil Bharatiya Adhivakta Parishad, affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Saturday, Salve from London said the Indian side has kept on asking how do Pakistan propose to carry out the ICJ judgement and give effective review and reconsideration, but no answer has been forthcoming. "We were hoping that through back channel, we may be able to persuade Pakistan to let him go. If they want to say on humanitarian ground or whatever, we want him back. We said let him go. Because it has become a big ego problem in Pakistan. So, we were hoping that they will let him go. They haven't," he said, while answering a question on the current situation in the matter. "We have written four-five letters. They just keep on denying," he said. "I think we have reached a point where we have to now decide whether we want to go back to ICJ for consequential directions because Pakistan has not moved ahead." Salve said that following the ICJ order, Pakistan had granted consular access but it was too late and "we have now been in a tussle with Pakistan to get them to set up machinery." "Pakistan believes, first of all they told the whole world they have won the case, good for them. And now, they keep saying that you have to file a proceeding in a Pakistani court or take Pakistani proceedings," he said. "We keep saying how you propose to carry out the judgement of ICJ and give effective review and reconsideration. They refuse to answer that question. We have had exchanges backward and forward. I think the Government of India has been writing to them and who knows the way things are going, we may have to go back in the ICJ someday, trying to get justice for Jadhav," Salve said. He said till date, Pakistan has refused to share the case details such as the FIR, the chargesheet or the judgement of the military court in the matter. Responding to a question about the alleged offensive languages used by lawyer representing Pakistan at the ICJ, Salve said the Pakistan's lawyer had used very "strong language" against India. "In the ICJ, we never used words like these. I did the word check and worlds like disgusting, lying and dishonest have been used by Pakistan many times," he said. Salve said that he did not want to stoop to the Pakistan's level as Indian traditions did not allow him to use such bad words and, moreover, he respected the ICJ and its portal. Salve then referred to a statement of a registrar of the ICJ made to the Indian ambassador during a function. "He (registrar) said that there was so much heat in this case." Salve recalled, adding that he said that the America-Iran sanction case was important one, but that was done peacefully. Sharing the experience about the hearing in the Jadhav case, he said that by the time of rejoinder argument, the Pakistan lawyer was apologetic for the language used. “We are keeping this case under the glare of the international community in the hope that Pakistan does not do what it does,” he said in response to a question as to how to save Jadhav from the fate meted out to Sarabjit Singh in a Pakistan jail. Sarabjit, who was convicted for alleged involvement in bomb attacks in Pakistan's Punjab province in 1990, was brutally attacked by inmates in the Kot Lakhpat Jail and had died in a hospital in the country. Salve, while addressing the lawyers, gave the background of Jadhav’s case and said he is the ex-navy commander and his case is that he carries out business in Iran and one day he was kidnapped. “He was handed over by the Taliban to the Pakistan Army. The fact that he was seized by the Pakistan Army at the Pakistan border with Iran is an admitted fact. Of course Pakistan does not admit that he was kidnapped by the Taliban. There is no clarity. There has been no clarity in Pakistan’s case as to how they nabbed him,” Salve said. “Their case generally is that they caught him trying to infiltrate Pakistan at the Pakistan-Iran border at the place called Chhabahar. That’s where they caught him,” he said. Salve added that before Pakistan informed India about Jadhav’s arrest, they had made his confession global. “The confession makes an interesting reading. It is a very general kind of confession saying that I have been a bad boy. I have indulged in terrorism activities in this place and that place and on behalf of India. I have done lot of bad things in Pakistan. No details, no dates, no incidents mentioned, no specific incidents mentioned. They claim that on basis of this, he was then sent to trial, he was given an Army officer, as a lawyer to represent him. They claim he was tried,” he said. Pakistan has claimed that Jadhav was arrested on March 3, 2016 and India was informed on March 25, 2016, when its Foreign Secretary raised the matter with the Indian consulate in Islamabad. Jadhav was sentenced to death on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017 by the Army court. India had moved the ICJ against the Pakistan Army court. PTI ABA MNL SJK MNL TIR TIR||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/post-icj-india-tried-to-persuade-pak-through-back-channel-to-release-kulbhushan-jadhav-harish-salve-833014.html
03-05-2020||National||BSF, ITBP shelve annual battalion changeover along Pakistan, Bangladesh, China borders amid coronavirus lockdown||The annual rotation of BSF and ITBP soldiers along the Pakistan, Bangladesh and China borders has been shelved till March next year because of the coronavirus outbreak, the top commander of the two forces has said. Surjeet Singh Deswal, the director-general of the two forces, told PTI that only battalions deployed in "extremely hard areas" of these three important Indian frontiers will be rotated after an assessment of the outbreak situation post July. "We have postponed the annual routine rotation of all battalions in BSF and ITBP to next year till March 31," he said. Deswal, a 1984-batch Indian Police Service officer of the Haryana cadre, heads the BSF in an additional capacity. Talking about the Border Security Force, he said 12 battalions were to be replaced along the Indian fronts with Pakistan and Bangladesh, but only four units deployed in high-altitude and harsh weather conditions will be taken out if conditions permit post-July. The BSF guards the 4,096-km-long Indo-Bangla border and about 2,280 kms of the front with Pakistan. Asked about the situation along the two borders, Deswal said the force is ensuring strict sealing of the frontiers. Along the International Border with Pakistan, he said, there has been no incident of infiltration by terrorists till now but "we are very vigilant" and any such attempt will be dealt “much beyond the IB". “We will ensure that all infiltration attempts are foiled along any part of the India-Pakistan IB,” the DG said. Asked about the annual changeover of Indo-Tibetan Border Police battalions along the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control with China, he said the number of soldiers for this exercise in the mountain-warfare trained force was less. There are two ITBP battalions deployed in “extremely hard areas” and their replacement will be decided post July, Deswal said. As per practice in the two forces, a border battalion (over 1,000 troops) is replaced every three years while those posted in hard areas are changed after two years. A similar rotation of two ITBP battalions deployed for anti-Naxal operations in Chhattisgarh has also been shelved this year. The BSF and ITBP chief added that the forces were augmenting manpower across all formations by recalling“a limited number” of those on leave till now due to the nationwide lockdown. "About 4,500 BSF personnel and around 2,000 officials in ITBP have already joined back," the DG said. “This was required as we needed to rotate our men and women who were doing duty for long hours (since the lockdown began on March25),” he said. Some of these personnel also need to go on leave in emergency cases, he said. Deswal said personnel residing in 'green zones' (COVID-19 safe areas) have only been asked to return and join the nearest unit or battalion to avoid long travels. "We have sent our own sanitised vehicles to collect such personnel. All precautions will be taken once they report back and they will be put under compulsory 14-day quarantine before they start," he said. The chief of the two forces added that routine transfers and postings in these forces have also been put on hold and there was "no urgency" on this front. "Transfers already issued will be brought into effect once situation is normal and public transport facilities are available. We are not in urgency to do this," he said. "We will not allow any hardships to our troops," he said. Asked about concerns of the officers regarding a possible delay in their routine promotions and holding of departmental promotion committee (DPC) meetings, the DG said these processes were on course. "There is no halt in DPCs and even MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs) is approving all such proposals sent by us. DPC is a regular process and we are carrying it out. "No promotion will be delayed. All offices are functioning and it is our priority to ensure that all personnel get their promotions on time.The COVID-19 situation will not hinder the process of promotions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsf-itbp-shelve-annual-battalion-changeover-along-pakistan-bangladesh-china-borders-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-833025.html
03-05-2020||National||Jammu & Kashmir chalks out plan for phase-wise return of stranded people||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has chalked out a plan for the phase-wise return of the residents of the union territory including students and migrant labourers stranded in different parts of the country due to the COVID-19 lockdown, an official said on Sunday. The administration, however, said all the returnees will be tested for coronavirus upon their arrival, the spokesperson said. It also announced a 21-day institutional quarantine in Lakhanpur, the gateway to Jammu and Kashmir, in Kathua district for all those who arrive without prior permission of the administration.   The official said that the decisions were taken by Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam during a video conference interaction with Deputy Commissioners while discussing the action plan for allowing local students and migrant labour to return. The government has already initiated the process of bringing back students and labourers stuck in other states in a very controlled and regulated manner. More than 18,000 locals have reached Lakhanpur between April 25 and May 2, with majority of them arriving from Himachal Pradesh. In the first phase, students and migrant labourers from Punjab and Himachal Pradesh would be allowed followed by other states. “All those who will enter the UT without prior permission will be compulsorily sent to institutional quarantine in Lakhanpur, Kathua for 21 days,” the Chief Secretary emphasised. Keeping in view the risk of transmission of the virus, it was decided that 100 per cent testing of all such people would be done to ensure their and others' safety. “All the Deputy Commissioners were asked to coordinate with the health department so that medical teams are deployed for the collection of samples,” the spokesperson said. Asserting that nodal officers have been appointed by the administration for ensuring smooth entry and movement of people, the chief secretary asked the divisional commissioners to ensure that proper computerised record of all the returnees is maintained and a system is evolved so that the entire exercise is carried out smoothly. The chief secretary also reviewed quarantine facilities in the districts and directed the deputy commissioners to create additional quarantine facilities at the village level by utilising all available infrastructure and involving panchayat members and Anganwadi workers. To arrive at an exact number of the students and migrant labour stranded in different parts of the country, the chief secretary said that data is being compiled and would be shared with the districts so that all necessary arrangements are made for their stay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-kashmir-chalks-out-plan-for-phase-wise-return-of-stranded-people-833026.html
03-05-2020||National||Amit Shah salutes 'corona warriors', says entire country stands with them||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday saluted the "corona warriors" for their unmatched contribution and sacrifice in fighting the COVID-19 epidemic. Doctors, paramedics, policemen, sanitation workers and others engaged in different duties in the fight against the COVID-19 are called "corona warriors". "India salutes its heroic corona warriors. I assure you that the Modi government and the entire country stands beside you. We have to free the nation from coronavirus by turning challenges into opportunities and set an example for the world by creating a healthy, prosperous and strong India. Jai Hind!," he tweeted in Hindi. The armed forces conducted aerial fly-pasts and shower flower petals on several hospitals across the country on Sunday to express gratitude to lakhs of doctors, paramedics, sanitation staff and other front-line workers engaged in fighting the coronavirus pandemic. Praising the gesture of the armed forces, the home minister said the respect shown by the Indian armed forces towards the doctors, police, paramilitary forces and others who work day and night to liberate the country from coronavirus, is heart touching. "The bravery shown by these warriors while fighting coronavirus is certainly venerable. The bravery with which India is fighting the coronavirus is truly admirable. "Today the three armed forces paid floral tributes to the brave soldiers fighting the disease, at the National Police Memorial. The whole country stands with their brave soldiers and their families in this difficult time," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-salutes-corona-warriors-says-entire-country-stands-with-them-833031.html
03-05-2020||National||Odisha to change route of transporting stranded migrants after accidents on hilly road||The Odisha government on Sunday decided to change the route of transporting stranded migrant workers from Gujarat's Surat after two buses ferrying them met with accidents on a hilly road in the state, leading to two deaths and several injuries. The state government also ordered a probe into the accidents, which occurred on a stretch of the Kalinga Ghat Road along the border of Ganjam and Kandhamal districts in quick succession on Saturday night and Sunday morning, Transport Minister Padmanabha Behera said. "Steps are being taken to change the route of buses ferrying the stranded migrant labourers from Gujarat after the vehicles enter Odisha as the drivers from the western state are finding it difficult to drive on the Kalinga Ghat Road," Behera told PTI.   Instead of taking the hilly road, the buses coming from Gujarat will enter Ganjam district via Boudh-Charichhak and Nayagarh, he said. One person died on the spot in the first accident in Durgaprasad area in Ganjam district while another seriously injured migrant worker succumbed to injuries in a hospital, police said. Three persons were injured in the second accident that took place on the same stretch, Sub-Divisional Police Officer of G Udayagiri, Jayakrushna Behera, said. In both the accidents, the buses had hit the guard wall of the hilly road, officials said. Behera said a thorough inquiry will be conducted to ascertain the reasons behind the back-to-back accidents. "It seems the mishaps occurred mainly due to lack of knowledge and skill to drive on hilly roads. Hence, steps are being taken to change the routes and a large number of vehicles are bringing back the stranded migrant workers from Gujarat," he said. Most of the Odia migrant workers stranded in Surat hail from Ganjam district and many of them have already returned in special buses and sent to quarantine centres in their respective areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-to-change-route-of-transporting-stranded-migrants-after-accidents-on-hilly-road-833034.html
03-05-2020||National||Migrant labourers stare at bleak future amid coronavirus lockdown||Ratipal Chauhan, a migrant labourer from Uttar Pradesh, is desperate to return home as the coronavirus-driven lockdown has left him jobless and drained his savings of the past eight months. Tens of thousands of skilled and unskilled workers from different parts of the country are putting up in various parts of Jammu region and are facing the heat of the nationwide lockdown that came into effect from March 25. “We do not see the situation improving in the near future. It is better to be with one’s family during this hour of crisis. The lockdown has virtually pushed us to the brink of starvation,” Chauhan (28), a resident of Bardiya Lohar village of Basti district in UP, told PTI. Chauhan, who has been working as a tile and marble setter in Jammu for over a decade, said he along with 23 others from his village are waiting for the first opportunity to return home. “Let this phase pass off… we want to be with our families. We will work on our agricultural land for survival, which is otherwise not possible while staying hundreds of kilometres away from one’s home,” he said. The migrant labourer also rued that no help was reaching people like him and they had to arrange meals from their own pockets. “We had saved some money for our family and are now spending it on food for survival. We are concerned as to how long the situation will continue like this,” Chuhan said as others staying with him at a rented accommodation at Tawi Vihar Colony in Jammu nodded in agreement. The group of skilled and unskilled labourers, including women, is paying Rs 1,700 per month as rent. While Chauhan and his two brothers are held up in Jammu, his another brother is stranded in Bengaluru. Rajesh, a mason by profession, said they had planned to leave for their native place on March 25, but the sudden announcement of the lockdown changed everything. “Now the government has started inter-state transportation of migrant labourers, we are hopeful of making it to our homes soon,” he said. He claimed not a single penny was credited to their bank accounts or ration was supplied over the past one month. A group of labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Punjab had assembled outside the office of Divisional Commissioner, Jammu on Saturday to demand early evacuation to their homes. “We are struggling hard to get one square meal in a day. Some government officials came and recorded our details several times over the past few weeks, but no help came our way,” Rajinder (60), a native of Chattisgarh, said. He along with 150 of his fellow villagers are living in rented shanties in several plots of land in Sidhra area of Jammu. “We will be grateful to the government if the transport is made available to take us to our native places. There is no benefit in staying here under the lockdown,” Neru Lal (58), a mason and a native of Chattisgarh, said. Lal has been visiting Jammu since 1996 for livelihood. He said the government should act immediately as the situation is driving the labourers to desperation. “We will die of starvation if we stay here. Even if the lockdown is lifted, the situation will take a long time to get normal,” the labourer said, expressing apprehension about construction work getting started in the near future. Another group of over 500 labourers, putting up near the railway station here, expressed their gratitude to various government agencies, NGOs and social groups for helping them to cope up with the situation. “The government, NGOs and social groups came forward and lent their support by distributing ration kits after we raised the issue of non-availability of food. We are thankful to the government and the people of Jammu,” Naresh Kumar from Odisha said. However, he said they are also planning to return to their homes till the situation improved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-labourers-stare-at-bleak-future-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-833038.html
03-05-2020||National||Fresh dates for JEE, NEET to be announced on May 5 due to coronavirus lockdown, says HRD ministry||In a relief for engineering and medical aspirants, the HRD ministry on Sunday said fresh dates for competitive exams --JEE and NEET-- will be announced on May 5. The exams were postponed due to nationwide lockdown announced to contain the COVID-19 spread. "The fresh dates will be announced by HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' on May 5. This will put an end to uncertainty for the aspirants. The minister will also interact with students online the same day," a senior ministry official said. While Joint Entrance Exam-Mains (JEE-MAINS) is conducted for admission to engineering colleges across the country, the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) is conducted for medical colleges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-dates-for-jee-neet-to-be-announced-on-may-5-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-says-hrd-ministry-833044.html
03-05-2020||National||Rise in coronavirus cases expected to stabilise soon: Niti Aayog member VK Paul||The continuous rise in the number of people testing positive for coronavirus is expected to stabilise sometime soon, Niti Aayog member V K Paul said on Sunday. He also said the rationale behind the government's decision to extend the lockdown by two more weeks after May 3 is to consolidate the gains of the first and second phase of restrictions. In an interview to PTI, Paul said sudden spurt in number of coronavirus cases is still amenable to containment strategy. "The rationale (behind extending the lockdown till May 17) is that the gains of lockdown need to be consolidated in the country...Real goal of lockdown was to suppress the chain of transmission of the virus. So, we will lose that, if we abruptly end it," he said. Paul, who is heading an Empowered Group on medical equipment and management plan to tackle coronavirus outbreak, said that at the same time where situation is good, the opening will take place with caution and care. Replying to a question that whether India has slipped into community transmission stage, he said, "Essentially, we think it (continuous rise in coronavirus cases) is still amenable to containment strategy". He also noted that India is nowhere close to the kind of escalation of coronavirus cases that it witnessed during the pre-lockdown phase. "In the pre-lockdown stage, we were doubling our number of cases in every five days. Before that even at every 3 days. Now, we are doubling in 11-12 days. "So, overall the rate of spread has diminished but yes the number still has not stabilised. But we expect it to stabilise anytime...," the Niti Aayog member said. Reacting to criticism that India is not doing enough tests, Paul said India's testing strategy has been fine-tuned from time to time based on the stage of coronavirus disease. "And we have build and increased our capacities. Today, we are doing more than 70,000 tests every day and we have done more than 10 lakh tests total," he pointed out. On what will be the new normal after the lockdown ends, the Niti Aayog member said working from home wherever possible, will become a new normal until pandemic is totally extinguished. "After the lockdown ends, our new normal is going to be very different. There will be no big collection of people, there will be no religious congregation or big events. "We will have to wear masks. Lots of things will change until the pandemic is totally extinguished," he observed. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,301 and the number of cases climbed to 39,980 in the country on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The Centre has extended the lockdown by two more weeks after May 3, when the second phase of these restrictions was scheduled to end. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had first announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 25, which was later extended by two more weeks to contain the virus spread. However, several experts have cautioned that the lockdown is severely impacting the economy and many rating agencies and industry bodies have forecast a sharp dip in the country's economic growth rate for the current fiscal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rise-in-coronavirus-cases-expected-to-stabilise-soon-niti-aayog-member-vk-paul-833046.html
03-05-2020||National||PM pays tribute to security personnel killed in Handwara encounter||Condoling the death of security personnel in an encounter with terrorists in Kashmir, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that their valour and sacrifice will never be forgotten.  "Tributes to our courageous soldiers and security personnel martyred in Handwara. Their valour and sacrifice will never be forgotten. They served the nation with utmost dedication and worked tirelessly to protect our citizens. Condolences to their families and friends," Modi said in a tweet. An Army Colonel and a Major were among five security personnel killed in the encounter at a village in north Kashmir's Handwara area, Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh said on Sunday.  Two terrorists were eliminated by security forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-pays-tribute-to-security-personnel-killed-in-handwara-encounter-833048.html
03-05-2020||National||Shramik special trains: Passengers advised to download Aarogya Setu App||Indian Railways has issued a set of guidelines for its zones for running Shramik special trains to ferry stranded people and this also includes passengers being advised to download the Aarogya Setu App. “The train originating state will encourage all passengers to download and use Aarogya Setu App," the guidelines said. The government has already made it mandatory for government and private company employees to download the App, which tracks patients with COVID-19 and alerts others in the proximity of patients. The Railways also said that before starting the train, they needed written approval from both the originating and receiving state governments. Besides, the state governments have to provide adequate security at designated railway stations. The local state government authority has to purchase bulk tickets, hand over tickets of such trains to passengers cleared by them, collect the ticket fare and hand over the total amount to the Railways. The total ticket fare is Rs 50, which includes complimentary meals and drinking water. Those approved by concerned officers of originating states will be allowed to enter the station premises. "Each Shramik Special train shall be a non-stop train bound for a single destination. Normally, the Shramik Special trains will be run for distances more than 500 Km. These trains will not stop at any in between station before the destination station. The train, with full length composition with social distancing (not counting the inside middle berths), can carry approximately 1200 passengers each," the guidelines said. "The originating state shall plan the group of travellers accordingly. The occupancy of train should not be less than 90 per cent," the guidelines stated. On arrival at their destination, the passengers will be received by state government authorities, who would make all arrangements for their screening quarantine, if necessary, and further travel. The receiving state will make adequate security arrangements at the railway station. The Railways, on May 1, rolled out non-stop Shramik special trains to ferry migrant workers, students and others stranded since the nationwide lockdown. The Railways plans to operate special trains as per the requirement of state governments. It is ready to operate 400 special trains and increasing up to 1000 trains for another 15 days, said the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shramik-special-trains-passengers-advised-to-download-aarogya-setu-app-833052.html
03-05-2020||National||Peak power demand still down one-fourth at 134.7 GW||Peak power demand remained down by over 26 per cent in May so far at 134.7 GW despite partial easing of the coronavirus lockdown. In April too the peak power demand was down by about one-fourth as compared to the corresponding month last year. According to power ministry data, the peak power demand in May last year stood at 182.53 GW. The peak power demand met was 131.40 GW on May 1 and 134.70 GW on May 2, 2020. The peak power demand met is the highest energy supply during the day across the country. An industry expert said the relatively cool weather played spoilsport in April as well as May so far, which kept power demand low despite partial easing of the lockdown from April 20. Last month, the peak power demand crossed the 130 GW mark on April 24 (130.02GW), April 29 (131.13GW) and April 30 (132.77GW), the data showed. Therefore, the peak power demand met in April stood at 132.77 GW, almost one-fourth less than 176.81 GW in April 2019. The power demand during April has ranged between 116.89 GW (April 8) to 132.77 GW (April 30). Industry bodies and analysts have been expressing concern about the low power demand amid the lockdown. The power sector is already reeling under financial stress. The discoms (distribution companies) owe more than Rs 92,000 crore to gencos (generating companies) as of February 2020. Industry body CII, in a report last month, said discoms are going to suffer a revenue loss of Rs 30,000 crore due to low demand and will face a liquidity crunch of Rs 50,000 crore. Industry experts said with mercury expected to soar in the coming days and resumption of some economic activities from Monday, power demand may see an uptick. However, they are of the view that touching last year's levels is still a long time away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/peak-power-demand-still-down-one-fourth-at-1347-gw-833057.html
03-05-2020||National||Punjab CM announces Rs 10 lakh aid, job to kin of Army jawan killed in Jammu and Kashmir's Handwara||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announced a Rs 10 lakh aid and a job to the kin of an Army jawan from the state killed in an encounter with terrorists in north Kashmir's Handwara on Sunday. He termed the attack a ghastly act at a time when the whole word was grappling with the coronavirus pandemic. Naik Rajesh Kumar, a soldier who hailed from Mansa district of Punjab, was among five security personnel killed in the anti-terror operation which began on Saturday and continued till late last night. A decorated colonel and a major were also killed in this operation. Extending his heartfelt condolences to the family of Naik Rajesh Kumar of 21 RR (Rashtriya Rifles, parent unit 3 GUARDS ), who belonged to Rajrana village in Sardulgarh tehsil of Mansa, the CM said his heart went out to them. According to a a government release, the CM announced a financial assistance of Rs 10 lakh, including Rs 5 lakh as ex gratia and the remaining in lieu of a plot, to the next of kin besides a government job to one eligible member of his family. The body of the martyr will arrive in his village on Monday where he will be cremated with due honours, keeping the coronavirus safety protocols in mind, said the release. As the news of the martyrdom of the four Indian Army personnel and a J&K policeman came, the CM joined the nation “in saluting the bravery and valour” of the martyrs, and prayed to God to “grant strength to their families in this time of grief.” The chief minister described the attack as a “ghastly and cowardly act by the terrorists, who continued to be pushed in by Pakistan from across the border despite the whole world, including the two nations, currently engaged in a bigger war against the COVID-19”. While terrorism could not be condoned at any time, resorting to such an act at a critical time like this showed a total lack of shame on the part of Islamabad, which seemed hell-bent on exploiting the opportunity for their own gains, said Singh in a statement here. But India would not take such attacks on its security personnel, he added, warning that notwithstanding the COVID battle at hand, nobody should make the mistake of trying to take advantage of the country's perceived vulnerability at this difficult time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-announces-rs-10-lakh-aid-job-to-kin-of-army-jawan-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-handwara-833070.html
03-05-2020||National||Lockdown 3.0 begins May 4 with 'considerable relaxations'; some curbs to continue||The third phase of the countrywide lockdown begins Monday with "considerable relaxations", but curbs will continue in containment areas so that the gains achieved so far in the fight against COVID-19 are not "squandered away", officials said Sunday. The country has been divided in three zones -- Red, Orange and Green - based on coronavirus risk-profiling. The extended lockdown is slated to last till May 17. According to the Home Ministry, activities prohibited throughout the country, irrespective of the zones are: air, rail, metro travel; inter-state movement by road; schools, colleges, and other educational, training and coaching institutions; hospitality services, including hotels and restaurants. Places of large public gatherings -- cinema halls, malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes -- social, political, cultural and other kinds of gatherings and religious or public worship places are in the prohibited list. However, movement of individuals for non-essential activities in all zones, barring containment areas, is allowed but strictly between 7 am and 7 pm.   Barber shops, spas and salons in Green and Orange zones is allowed to open as is the sale of non-essential items by e-commerce firms. Sale of liquor will be allowed with certain conditions in all zones, barring containment area, in standalone shops, not in markets or malls. Sale of liquor, barber shops and salons were not allowed during the first two phases of lockdown. when sale of non-essentials by e-commerce companies was also not allowed. In all zones, persons above 65 years of age, those with underlying health conditions, pregnant women, and children below 10 years shall stay at home, except for essential and health purposes. Movement of people by air, rail and road is allowed for select purposes, and for purposes as permitted by the MHA. In containment areas, movements of people is totally banned and essential services are delivered at the doorsteps. The list of permitted activities also include: OPDs and medical clinics in all zones with social distancing norms and other precautions. However, these will not be permitted in containment zones. All goods traffic will be permitted and no state or UT shall stop the movement of cargo for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries. In Red zones (outside the containment areas), some additional activities are prohibited: plying of cycle rickshaws and auto-rickshaws, taxis and cab-aggregators; intra-district and inter-district buses; barber shops, spas and saloons. Certain other activities have been allowed in the Red zone with restrictions: Movement of individuals and vehicles for permitted activities with a maximum of 2 persons (besides the driver) in four-wheelers, no pillion rider on two-wheelers. In Red zones, e-commerce companies are allowed to sell only essential commodities. Barber shops and salons are not allowed to open. In all liquor shops, customers will have to maintain a minimum six-feet distance (2 gaz ki doori), and no more than five persons allowed at one time. On domestic helps in red zones, resident welfare associations should take a call on allowing in outsiders. If allowed by RWAs, health protocols have to be maintained by the domestic helps and employers, and the responsibility lies with the person who employs maids in case of any mishappening. Industrial establishments in urban areas, like Special Economic Zones (SEZs), Export Oriented Units (EOUs), industrial estates and industrial townships with access control have been permitted from Monday in all zones, except containment areas. Private offices can operate in red zones with up to 33 per cent strength with the remaining persons working from home. In Orange zones, all activities permitted in red zone (outside containment zone) and taxi and cab aggregators (driver with 2 passengers only) are allowed. Inter-district movement of people and vehicles for permitted activities, 4 wheelers with 2 passengers besides driver, pillion riding on 2 wheelers are allowed. However, inter and intra-district movements of buses, except those permitted by the MHA, is prohibited. In Green zones, all activities are permitted except the ones prohibited throughout the country, irrespective of the zone. However, buses can operate with upto 50 per cent seating capacity and depots too at 50 per cent. A district is considered in 'Green' zone if there are no confirmed cases so far or there has been no reported case for the past 21 days. According to the health ministry, as on Friday, there were 130 'Red' zones, maximum of 19 in UP, followed by 14 in Maharashtra. The number of 'Orange' Zones was 284 and 'Green' was 319. All the districts of the national capital have been put under 'Red' zone. Other activities allowed outside containment areas of a Red Zone (with restrictions) in urban areas are: manufacturing of essential goods like drugs, medical devices and their supply chain, manufacturing of IT hardware, jute industry, construction (if workers residing on site). Operations of homes for senior citizens, children, destitute etc., government offices, and emergency, health, sanitation and security services. In rural areas: industrial and construction activities; agriculture, animal husbandry and plantation, financial sector including banks, NBFCs, public utilities, courier and postal services; media; IT, ITeS, warehouses services by self-employed persons, except barbers. States and UTs may put certain restrictions based on their assessment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-30-begins-may-4-with-considerable-relaxations-some-curbs-to-continue-833072.html
03-05-2020||National||25 BSF personnel test positive for COVID-19; total cases 42||The number of COVID-19 cases shot up in the Border Security Force (BSF) on Sunday, with 25 more personnel testing positive for the disease, taking the tally in the force to 42, an official said. The new cases were reported from a unit of the 126th battalion of the force, deployed in the Jama Masjid and Chandni Mahal areas of the national capital on law-and-order duties under the command of the Delhi Police. "A total of 25 troops from this unit deployed in Delhi tested positive for the disease on Sunday. Six from the unit had tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday," a spokesperson of the border-guarding force said. The unit has a total of 94 personnel and five test reports are awaited, he added. So far, 42 BSF personnel have been found infected with the coronavirus infection, including some cases from a unit hospital in Delhi's R K Puram and two in Tripura, the spokesperson said. The 2.5-lakh-personnel-strong BSF is primarily tasked with guarding the Indian borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh, apart from rendering a variety of duties in the country's internal security domain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-bsf-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-total-cases-42-833073.html
03-05-2020||National||Andhra uses village secretariat buildings to ready 1 lakh quarantine beds for people returning to state||The Andhra Pradesh government is making use of its village secretariat buildings as quarantine centres with plans to accommodate even over one lakh people. According to Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Andhra has formulated an action plan to bring back about two lakh of its migrants held up in 13 states. At same time, the state would ensure the safe passage of 12,794 migrants in AP to their home states. Nine special trains have been arranged to bring back Andhra migrants stranded in other states. Efforts are on to provide them with food and other facilities where they are stuck in coordination with respective state governments. The state is ensuring facilities at various quarantine centres are in place, while readying over one lakh beds at village secretariats, with nutritious food, hygienic toilets for the returnees without any compromise, said the minister. Since the central government has eased restrictions on inter-state movement of stranded people especially the migrant workers, Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to make each village secretariat suitable to accommodate 10-15 people as a quarantine. Reddy inaugurated these village offices on October 2. Over 11,000 such villages and about 4000 ward secretariats are available in AP, where village secretaries and volunteers would assist the officials in the virus mitigation. However, the CM has also appealed to people not to rush to return to the state “as the relaxation is only for migrant labour as per the Centre’s guidelines.” During the COVID-19 review meeting on Sunday, Reddy asked people to stay at their respective places and not to take up journeys as the virus spread might increase. Andhra Pradesh continues to report a large number of positive cases. With 58 new cases on Sunday, its total tally is now at 1583. “The CM asked people not to come to the state borders and risk their own families. Currently the state is receiving migrant workers in large numbers and providing quarantine for them has become a challenge,” CMO officials said. While discussing the measures taken for the safe return of AP’s people stranded in other states, the Chief Minister directed that Anganwadis, Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA), and Panchayat Raj etc., departments should collaboratively implement the COVID-19 preventive measures across the state. Reddy asked officials to modify at least 500 APSRTC buses for delivery of daily essential goods and also equip those buses with freezers to store perishable items like milk, curd, eggs, and fruits. The CM instructed the officials to issue a pass for only one person from a household to buy essential goods, in the containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-uses-village-secretariat-buildings-to-ready-1-lakh-quarantine-beds-for-people-returning-to-state-833076.html
03-05-2020||National||Barring containment zones, CM Arvind Kejriwal wants Delhi to be a green zone||Saddled with a bleeding economy and job loss, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday appealed to the Centre to lift the lockdown across the national capital except in containment zones, saying his government is well prepared to handle any health crisis arising out of it. He wanted the whole of Delhi to be declared a green zone from the existing classification as a red zone, while enforcing strict restrictions and sealing the containment zones in around 95 localities. Kejriwal's appeal for opening up the capital came as he highlighted that his government could earn just around Rs 300 crore in April, which usually fetches around Rs 3,500 crore in the same month in earlier occasions. Supporting his argument for lifting restrictions, the Chief Minister said his government has utilised the lockdown to prepare itself for the possible increase in cases when lockdown is eased by earmarking hospitals and arranging medical kits. Giving more weight to his appeal, Kejriwal also announced that his government will allow all relaxations provided by the Centre in its new guidelines during the extended period of lockdown till May 17. "After almost one-and-half months into lockdown, Delhi is now ready for lifting of the lockdown. We have followed all guidelines. We are facing two challenges with the Centre putting the whole of Delhi in red zone. One is that people are troubled. Second is that a number of people have lost jobs. Shops are shut and traders are affected. Industries are also shut," he said. Kejriwal highlighted that this has resulted in the "collapse" of Delhi economy and the revenue earned in April was not even enough for paying salaries of government employees. "How will we run the government?" he said. He said COVID-19 is here to stay and people, governments and the country should be prepared for that, as there will be no situation anywhere in the world that there will be no cases of the virus infection. "I have appealed to the Centre to change the profile of the capital from red zone to green zone barring the containment zones. Markets should open. May be we can think of an odd-even scheme for markets. This is the time to lift the lockdown. There will be an increase in cases. But we are ready to face it because we are prepared. I hope the Centre will positively act on our appeal," he said. Delhi has seen an increase in the number of cases in the previous week when 1,314 cases were reported between April 26 and May 2. This is a rise of 74.73% rise from April 19-25 figure of 752 cases. Kejriwal government has been under pressure from various quarters, especially from the traders, to open up the capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/barring-containment-zones-cm-arvind-kejriwal-wants-delhi-to-be-a-green-zone-833080.html
03-05-2020||National||Lockdown 3.0: Confused home owners, uncertain domestic helps await clarity on relaxation||Babita Rai, a 35-year-old domestic help from Zamrudpur in south Delhi, has been without work for over 40 days now. With her depleted savings and an additional loan of Rs 20,000 coming to an end, Babita and her husband are uncertain about their future even as the country readies to get some relaxation from the ongoing lockdown. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had issued new guidelines on Friday to ease some of the restrictions on essential and non-essential services during the third phase of the lockdown, which starts from Monday. While the ministry asked the resident welfare associations (RWAs) to take a call regarding allowing the movement of outsiders, several house helps were either told to not come or are not aware about the RWAs’ decisions. "No one has asked me to come back for work. I am without any work for over 40 days now. I did call them to check whether we can resume our work, while most denied one family, who are putting up on rent, said the owners of the house are not allowing them,” Rai told PTI.   Before the lockdown came into effect on March 24, Babita was working in three houses in Greater Kailash, earning anything between Rs 6,000 - 10,000 per month. Another worker, Rekha from Vasundhara, Ghaziabad, is afraid to step out fearing the police may reprimand her and has not heard about any RWA decision in this regard. “There is no work and whatever money I had saved is almost gone. I do not know if societies may allow us to work from tomorrow. I do not know how we will survive if we do not go back to work,” she said. Rekha had returned to Ghaziabad from her daughter’s wedding in Bihar just in time before the lockdown restricted inter-state movement. Not just domestic helps, but home-makers are also in the dark as they await to hear from their RWA secretaries. “We were told that there will be an RWA meeting today about allowing maids to come in, but we have not heard anything so far. While it would be of great help if they are allowed, we will still have to be careful,” said Aniket Sharma, a resident of a gated society in Ghaziabad. The movement restriction has hit the lower income class groups hard as another domestic worker Pinky from Noida sector 39 rued that the lockdown has rendered her jobless and her family hungry. “All my employers had told me that they would call when they wanted me to come to work, but I have not heard from anyone yet. Running the household has become extremely difficult. We are eating one meal a day because I have not got my salary for the last two months,” Pinky said. The confusion over permission to domestic workers has not spared the RWAs either. Nivedita Upadhyay, a home-maker from Greater Noida, was told by the Resident Welfare Association of her area that they are awaiting instructions from the state government. “The RWA has told us that they are awaiting guidelines from the state regarding the relaxation. Our society had restricted the entry of maids, drivers, newspaper vendors etc from March 25 itself. Besides, allowing maids to work here is risky since most of the domestic help comes from Aicher village, which of late has recorded a lot of COVID-19 positive cases,” she said. On the other side, Anindyo Sengupta, a homeowner from Gurgaon, was relieved to know that her domestic help can resume work, but only after briefing her on all precautionary measures. “I am actually quite relieved that she will be returning. My husband and I had shared the workload, but it was getting very difficult to manage the household without her. “Since my mother lives with us, I have briefed her on all precautionary measures like keeping her nose and mouth covered, and washing hands and feet before getting started,” Sengupta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-30-confused-home-owners-uncertain-domestic-helps-await-clarity-on-relaxation-833081.html
03-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Now, MHA helpline to aid truck drivers in trouble||Amid complaints of movement of trucks facing trouble, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has now opened its helpline -- 1030 -- for drivers and transporters to address their grievances and ensure smooth movement of goods carriers. The Control Room in the MHA has been drafted in to address the concerns where officers of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways are also being deputed for COVID-19 lockdown management. This is to ensure faster resolution of the complaints and issues faced by drivers and transporters on inter-state movement of goods carriers, including empty trucks, during the lockdown. In addition to the MHA helpline, the drivers and transporters can also use the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways' helpline 1033 for the purpose. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, the National Highways Authority of India, transport departments of states and transport associations will take necessary steps to provide information to drivers and transporters. The officials of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways deputed to the Control Room in the MHA will take necessary steps to assist in grievance resolution releated to transport sector. The MHA had earlier allowed the plying of trucks across the country for transportation of essential and non-essential goods. However, some states had refused entry or created trouble for the passage at borders, seeking passes for doing so. The MHA had repeatedly written to states that trucks do not need special passes and it should allow the passage ofg goods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-now-mha-helpline-to-aid-truck-drivers-in-trouble-833085.html
03-05-2020||National||Escaped coronavirus but lockdown killed over 300 in India: Study||Suicide was the leading cause for over 300 “non-coronavirus deaths” reported in India due to distress triggered by the nationwide lockdown, revealed a new set of data compiled by a group of researchers. The group, comprising public interest technologist Thejesh GN, activist Kanika Sharma and assistant professor of legal practice at Jindal Global School of Law Aman, said 338 deaths have occurred from March 19 till May 2 and they are related to lockdown. According to the data, 80 people killed themselves due to loneliness and fear of being tested positive for the virus. The suicides are followed by migrants dying in accidents on their way back home (51), deaths associated with withdrawal symptoms (45), and those related to starvation and financial distress (36). “There have been a staggering number of suicides, caused by fear of infection, loneliness, lack of freedom of movement, and alcohol withdrawal during the lockdown.   "For instance, unable to handle withdrawal (a medical condition), as many as seven people have died after consuming aftershave and sanitizer lotions. A large number of migrant labourers stuck in quarantine facilities, away from family, died by suicide, fearing infection, and sometimes even the stigma attached to the disease," the group said in a statement. Other causes of the “non-coronavirus deaths” were exhaustion (24), including workers travelling long distances on foot or queuing for ration, police atrocity/state violence (11), lockdown-related crimes (12), including vigilantism for violating rules, and denial of medical care (38). "There are also 41 cases where the specific cause is not clear. An example of such an incident would be where there is a conflict between the account of the state and the family/friends of the deceased about the cause of the death, said Aman. "Also, it must be understood these deaths are likely an underestimate: only a fraction of deaths as per reported by the media and we may have missed some deaths reported in local media as well." The group tracked newspapers and web portals in a handful of languages – primarily English, Hindi, and a few vernaculars (Kannada, Marathi, Tamil, Bengali, Odia, and Malayalam), and social media to compile the data. According to the latest Union Health Ministry data on Sunday morning, the COVID-19 death toll in the country rose to 1,301. The number of cases climbed to 39,980. The nationwide lockdown began on March 25 and will last till May 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/escaped-coronavirus-but-lockdown-killed-over-300-in-india-study-833088.html
03-05-2020||National||Uttarakhand cancer patient discharged from Delhi hospital after testing coronavirus positive||A cancer patient undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Delhi was discharged after he tested positive for coronavirus, following which his family brought him here and he was sent to AIIMS, Rishikesh, officials said on Sunday. The man was admitted to AIIMS on Saturday immediately after the administration was informed that he had tested positive for coronavirus, Uttarakhand Directorate of Health spokesperson JC Pandey said.   The resident of Chaman Vihar area here was admitted to Delhi's Apollo Hospital on April 28 for cancer treatment. He tested positive for COVID-19 on April 30 and was discharged the same day. On May 1, his family brought him here, Pande said.   After the patient was hospitalised, his five family members were also kept in isolation as a precautionary measure and the entire Chaman Vihar area was sealed. His son is in the isolation ward of AIIMS, Rishikesh and four other family members have been admitted to the Doon Hospital here, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-cancer-patient-discharged-from-delhi-hospital-after-testing-coronavirus-positive-833093.html
03-05-2020||National||COVID: Centre asks states to prepare second line of defence with home guards, NCC cadets others||Concerned over scores of frontline security personnel catching the COVID-19 disease, the Centre has suggested to states to prepare an effective second line of defence by deploying home guards, civil defence and NCC cadets among others wherever feasible to contain the spread of the deadly virus. In a communication to all states and UTs, the Ministry of Home Affairs said the police chiefs may consider the option of 'work from home' for personnel not deployed on the frontline, and wherever possible. "To meet the challenge of COVID-19, and to ensure sustainment of control strategy for COVID- 19, police forces need to prepare an effective second line of defence to make up for the police personnel who may be rendered ineffective due to COVID infection during the pandemic," the ministry said. Over 200 central paramilitary personnel have been infected with COVID-19 till now, with a 55-year-old CRPF man succumbing to the disease last week. At least three police personnel of different state police forces have also died because of the virus. The home ministry said police authorities should strictly apply self-quarantine rules to its members, when needed, as per the guidelines issued by the Health Ministry. The home ministry said the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic is a global health crisis which has affected a huge population the world over. The virus which causes the disease is highly infectious and even pre-symptomatic people can infect others. Any person who is in close contact with someone who has suspected or confirmed COVID-19 (e.g. fever, cough, breathing difficulty, etc.) is at risk of contracting the disease. The home ministry said the police and security personnel are among the frontline workers performing duties to implement lockdown orders and government guidelines for containing the spread of the disease. Since they have to interact with the public on a daily basis, they are likely to be more vulnerable to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19). "Instances have been noticed of police and security personnel getting infected. Hence, it is imperative to make police personnel aware of the precautions to be taken while performing their assigned tasks in order to ensure that the strategy adopted for containing COVID-19 spread remains sustainable," it said. In view of such cases, it is considered expedient to issue the guidelines to reiterate the precautions and measures to be taken, it said. The home ministry said police authorities may take necessary precautions to sanitise the physical environment at the place of duty of police and security personnel. Police or security personnel may be advised to keep themselves safe by practicing proper hygiene and physical distancing, it advised. Police authorities should also take care of safety and hygiene of its personnel by providing all necessary materials like hand sanitizers, soaps, masks, face shield, gloves, safe food, etc. and also train the personnel in their proper usage and disposal, the ministry said. It said home guards, civil defence, NCC cadets, Scouts and Guides and Student Police Cadets may be utilised in areas where there are not imminent law and order issues. They can especially be of help in maintaining order at the relief centres and in facilitating the maintenance of supply chain and for coordinating other essential services, according to the ministry. While performing COVID-related duties, police and security personnel should help general public and deal with them with empathy and compassion especially with the weaker sections of the society. They should monitor religious and social congregations during festivals to ensure social distancing, it said. Police should also be watchful of migrant labourers and slums to contain any unexpected and undesirable mass movement, it said, adding most state polices have already set up Control Rooms. It is reiterated that control rooms are the nerve centres of policing and must monitor, round the clock, the minutest concerns of policing during the pandemic, it said. The control rooms may be expanded, resourced and designed to incorporate special COVID-19 Cells, to exclusively look after all issues relating to the pandemic. The staff manning these cells should be trained on elementary modules relating to the epidemic and briefed about appropriate responses to help engage with issues and scenarios they are likely to be confronted with, the ministry said. Such cells should be adequately equipped with men and material, including drones which may be used for aerial reconnaissance, if required on urgent basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-centre-asks-states-to-prepare-second-line-of-defence-with-home-guards-ncc-cadets-others-833094.html
03-05-2020||National||Ministry of Road Transport sets up control room to resolve truckers' issues||With the Union Ministry of Home Affairs allowing inter-state movement of goods vehicles, the Ministry of Road Transport has set up control room to resolving complaints and issues of drivers and transporters on the passage of goods carriers. The control room will also address complaints regarding empty trucks and inter-state movement of drivers and cleaners from their residence to and fro to the truck parking area, the ministry said a statement.  Senior Ministry of Road Transport officials have been deputed to the control room. Officials working in control room will compile the daily reports they receive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-road-transport-sets-up-control-room-to-resolve-truckers-issues-833095.html
03-05-2020||National||Record jump in COVID-19 deaths, cases; toll rises to 1,306, total case tally 40,263||India registered a record jump of 83 deaths and 2,487 cases in 24 hours as the number of COVID-19 fatalities rose to 1,306 and total cases climbed to 40,263 on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 28,070, while 10,886 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said. The total number of cases also include 111 foreign nationals. Of the 83 deaths were reported since Saturday evening, 36 were from Maharashtra, 26 from Gujarat, 11 from Madhya Pradesh, three each from Rajasthan and Delhi, two from Telangana and one each from Tamil Nadu and Bihar. With 521 fatalities, Maharashtra accounts for the maximum of the nationwide 1,306 deaths. Gujarat comes second with 262 deaths, followed by Madhya Pradesh 156, Rajasthan 65, Delhi 64, Uttar Pradesh 43, and West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh 33 each. The death toll reached 29 in Tamil Nadu, 28 in Telangana, while Karnataka has reported 25 fatalities due to the respiratory disease. Punjab has registered 20 COVID-19 deaths, Jammu and Kashmir eight, Kerala, Bihar and Haryana have reported four deaths each. Jharkhand has recorded three COVID-19 fatalities. Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data. The health ministry's Saturday evening update had put the death toll at 1,223 and the number of cases at 37,776 in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-jump-in-covid-19-deaths-cases-toll-rises-to-1306-total-case-tally-40263-833109.html
03-05-2020||National||Tamil Nadu COVID-19 tally crosses 3,000; Chennai continues to be on top||Tamil Nadu reported its biggest spike in number in a single day on Sunday with swab samples of 261 patients rendering positive, taking the number of cases way past the 3,000 mark. Chennai, the state capital, continues to be the biggest hotspot of coronavirus with 1,458 positive patients, of which 203 cases were reported on Sunday alone. The state has seen a spurt in the number of positive cases for the past few days as it ramped up its testing capacity – more than 1.50 lakh samples have so far been tested in the state since the coronavirus outbreak began in March. While 1,40,716 individuals have been tested, 9,391 are repeat samples of positive patients and 1,564 samples are under process. Tamil Nadu effected a major change in its testing policy on April 12 by going in for “aggressive testing” from a strict protocol of testing only symptomatic patients. Since then, it has ramped up its testing capacity and on Sunday alone, the state tested 10,584 samples, one of the highest in the country. The state, specifically Chennai, is also witnessing emergence of new clusters with the Koyambedu market being the biggest for now. More than 100 people who went to the market complex, including vendors and labourers, from across the state have tested positive so far. As of Sunday, the state’s COVID-19 tally is 3,023 including 1,379 discharges and 30 deaths, the latest  being a 44-year-old man from Coimbatore. Also, the state which had more recovered patients than active cases for eight days from April 24, reversed the trend on Saturday. On Sunday, the gap between active patients and those discharged was 232 – the number of active patients stood at 1,611, while the number of discharges were 1,379 – and this is because of the massive increase in the number of patients testing positive for the virus in the past few days. The city of Chennai is witnessing a greater number of active cases – more than 100 in just a week’s time – whose primary source of contact cannot be conclusively established. Also, the spread of the disease seems to be intense. While it took 36 days for the state to reach the 1,000-mark, it reduced to 16 days for 2,000 cases and just 5 days to reach the 3,000-mark.     However, P Kuganantham, former city health officer and senior epidemiologist, said the city was on the “right track” in controlling the disease as it is testing enough and said there was no need to panic. “Any epidemic will hit the peak in the third month and that is what is happening here too. I had seen this in cholera, H1N1 and several other viral infections. The only way to contain the disease is to identify the sources and treat them which is what the city is doing now. By isolating the positive patients in huge numbers, the city is preventing community spread,” he told DH. The epidemiologist also said the city would see increase in numbers till May 15 and would witness a slide after that as testing numbers increase. “Trace, test and treat is what WHO says and that is what is happening extensively here now. People who have infections are being traced, isolated and treated so that they don’t be carriers of the virus,” Dr Kuganantham added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-covid-19-tally-crosses-3000-chennai-continues-to-be-on-top-833110.html
03-05-2020||National||Lockdown effect: Python lays eggs in a closed shop in Kerala; rescued||A jewellery shop owner in Payyanur in Kerala's Kannur district was shocked to see a python with around 20 eggs inside his shop on Sunday when he opened it nearly after a month. He immediately alerted the nearby forest officials. The jewellery shop remained closed due to the nationwide lockdown. The forest officials shifted the snake and the eggs to a sanctuary, where the eggs would be incubated. Since most of the shops in the state remained closed due to lockdown, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had advised shopkeepers to ensure that the shops were cleaned before commencing the normal business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-effect-python-lays-eggs-in-a-closed-shop-in-kerala-rescued-833111.html
03-05-2020||National||Punjab's COVID-19 tally crosses 1000-mark, 55% are Nanded pilgrims||Punjab saw the steepest rise in the number of coronavirus cases on Sunday with 331 more persons, mostly pilgrims returning from Nanded, testing positive for the disease, officials said. With the fresh detections, the number of COVID-19 cases in the state now stands at 1,102. At least 609 of the 4,000 pilgrims who have returned from Hazur Sahib gurdwara in Maharashtra's Nanded in recent days have tested positive for coronavirus, a heath official said. The pilgrims account for 55 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the state, he said. Of the fresh cases, 75 were reported in Amritsar, followed by 62 in SBS Nagar, 46 in Hoshiarpur, 43 in Muktsar, 33 in Bathinda, 24 in Gurdaspur, nine in Rupnagar, three in Mansa, four each in Sangrur, Jalandhar and Fatehgarh Sahib, two each in Mohali, Barnala and Ferozepur and one each in Patiala and Ludhiana, according to a health bulletin. Meanwhile, a 40-year-old, who was undergoing treatment at the Faridkot hospital, died on Sunday. His test report confirming him to be coronavirus positive came after his death. This is the first COVID-19 related death in the district. The number of COVID-19 related deaths in the state now stands at 21. Amritsar topped the COVID-19 tally in the state with 218 cases, followed by 124 in Jalandhar, 111 in Ludhiana, 95 in Mohali, 88 in Hoshiarpur, 86 in Patiala, 85 in SBS Nagar, 50 in Muktsar, 35 in Bathinda, 30 in Gurdaspur, 29 in Ferozepur, 28 in Moga, 25 in Pathankot, 16 each in Mansa and Fatehgarh Sahib, 14 each in Tarn Taran and Rupnagar, 13 in Kapurthala, six in Faridkot and four each in Fazilka and Barnala, the bulletin said. Of the total 1,102 patients, 117 have been cured and 964 are undergoing treatment. Two patients are critical and on ventilator support, according to the bulletin. A total of 26,439 samples have been taken in the state so far, of which 20,197 are negative and reports of 5,140 awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjabs-covid-19-tally-crosses-1000-mark-55-are-nanded-pilgrims-833114.html
03-05-2020||National||Rate of growth of new COVID-19 cases steadying for a while: Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said the rate of growth of new COVID-19 cases has been steadying for a while and the recovery rate improving, adding that India is on the path of success and will win the war against the pandemic. He said around 10,000 COVID-19 patients have recovered so far. "The recovery rate of COVID-19 patients has steadily increased which shows that more and more of these patients are getting better and going back home," he said.  "The rate of growth of new cases has also been steadying for a while," Vardhan said. According to the data received on Sunday, for the past three days, the doubling rate of the virus is 12.0, for seven days it is 11.7 and for 14 days it is 10.4, the minister was quoted as saying in a statement. “We have crossed over 10 lakh tests till date and are performing over 74,000 tests in a day presently,” he said. The minister added that the government has distributed around 20 lakh PPE kits all over India and supplied medicines [both Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and Paracetamol (PCM)] to more than 100 countries. He said India is on a "better footing" as compared to other nations, adding the country is capable to pull off any eventuality with more than 2.5 lakh beds in dedicated COVID-19 hospitals and health centers. Vardhan also urged the people to observe the extended period of lockdown 3.0 (till May 17) in letter and spirit and treat it as an effective intervention to cut down the chain of transmission of COVID-19. “We are on the path of success and we will win this war against COVID-19,” he asserted.  The health minister urged people to not ostracize the doctors treating COVID-19 patients or stigmatize the patients who have won the battle against the deadly disease. “They are our heroes and need a worthy treatment,” he said. The minister also had a word of praise for the “corona warriors”. “Today, the Indian Air Force is acknowledging these warriors, throughout the country, by sprinkling them with flower petals through helicopters,” he said. Fighter jets and transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force on Sunday carried out fly-pasts over major cities and towns, while military choppers showered petals on leading hospitals across the country as part of a mega exercise to express gratitude to lakhs of doctors, paramedics and other front-line workers battling the coronavirus pandemic. Vardhan said the fight of India with COVID-19 is “lauded not only by WHO, but by the whole world in unison”. He also paid a visit to the Lady Hardinge Medical College (LHMC), one of India's oldest and established medical colleges, to review the status of COVID-19 management. At the COVID-19 block in the hospital, Vardhan spoke through video call to two intern doctors who got infected with the virus while treating patients at LHMC, and were admitted at the facility. He also interacted with two patients admitted in the COVID-19 ward through the digital platform, who, in turn, apprised him about the facilities in the coronavirus ward. “In last few days, I have been visiting various hospitals like AIIMS (Delhi), LNJP, RML, Safdarjung, AIIMS Jhajjar, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty and now LHMC to review the preparedness of COVID-19 and I am satisfied with the arrangements made by these hospitals to deal effectively with the outbreak,” he said. He said there are 130 Hotspots Districts, 284 Non-hotspots Districts and 319 Non-infected Districts. According to the health ministry, the total number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the country is 39,980.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rate-of-growth-of-new-covid-19-cases-steadying-for-a-while-vardhan-833116.html
03-05-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh govt issues order regarding relaxations in coronavirus lockdown from Monday||In conformity with the Union Home Ministry guidelines, the Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday issued orders regarding the relaxations to be given during the third phase of the coronavirus lockdown beginning Monday. According to an official, the government accepted the definition of the zones as provided by the Centre. He said everyone in the hotspots has been urged to download the Arogya Setu app. The guidelines include the permission to increase working hours for factories having over 50 employees if both workers and owners agree, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi told reporters. For marriages and performing the last rites only 20 persons will be allowed with a request that they will follow social distancing, he said, adding that the government has asked people over 65 years of age to stay home. The liquor shops, which are not in shopping malls, can be opened from 10 am to 7 pm with social distancing norms in place to ensure that not over five persons are there at a time, he said. "The detailed orders regarding relaxations have been sent to district magistrates and district police chiefs. This is exactly the same as issued by the Home Ministry for red, orange and green zones," Awasthi said. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had asked officials to prepare a plan for the resumption of industrial activity in the state. He asked the infrastructure and industrial development commissioner to prepare a work plan regarding labour reforms and the transfer of allowances into the bank accounts of beneficiaries of different government schemes, a statement read. The chief minister said quarantine centres and community kitchens must be constantly monitored and there should be no laxity in this regard. Referring to the labourers returning from other states, Adityanath said, "They should be properly screened at the quarantine centres. If found fit, they should be given food kits and allowed to proceed to their homes." "If the labourers are found medically unfit, then proper medical treatment should be given to them," he added. He said members of women self-help groups should be roped in for community kitchens, which will provide them employment as well. The UP chief minister instructed the director general of police to keep tabs on people coming to the state from outside. "A special vigil should be maintained to prevent the spread of infection among police personnel and arrange equipment for its prevention," Adityanath said. He stressed the need to strengthen the doorstep delivery of essential services and asked officials to prepare a plan in this regard. The CM said good and sufficient food should be available at every quarantine centre. Orders were also issued to every district magistrate to ensure that the inspection of the medical team engaged in COVID-19 treatment is compulsorily done, the statement said. He directed that a time table should be made for farmers, wholesale and retail traders at the mandis of the state. "The mandis must be continuously and effectively monitored. These should be kept clean and arrangements should be made for sanitisers. Social distancing should be strictly adhered to," he said. The chief minister said following the implementation of the lockdown, there has been a decline in revenue. "Despite this, the state government has already paid salaries to its 16 lakh employees and pension to 12 lakh retired employees." He, however, cautioned that people living in hotspots may become virus carriers for their colleagues. "Hence, these people should not go to their offices," he said. Adityanath directed that emergency services must be started after ensuring that the protocol is completely followed. The Health Department must speak to hospitals starting emergency services in the state. An adequate supply of PPE kits, N95 masks and sanitisers should be maintained, and the capacity COVID hospitals should be increased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-govt-issues-order-regarding-relaxations-in-coronavirus-lockdown-from-monday-833129.html
03-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Those who left native places for regular jobs cannot avail special train facilities, says MHA||Only migrant labourers and not those in regular jobs staying at places other than their hometowns can avail the facility of special trains that are being run for transporting stranded people, including tourists, pilgrims and students, during COVID-19 lockdown. The clarification from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) came through a letter from Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla to states on Sunday. The MHA had on May 1 allowed the movement of migrant labourers, pilgrims, tourists, students and others who are stranded at different places due to lockdown. Following this, Railways started 'Shramik (Workers) Special Trains' from various states to transport such people to their home states. "It is clarified that the MHA orders are meant to facilitate movement of such stranded persons, who had moved from their native places/workplaces, just before the lockdown period, but could not return to their native places/workplaces on account of restrictions places on movement of persons and vehicles as part of the lockdown measures," Bhalla wrote, Bhalla said this facility is meant for "distressed persons" and does "not extend to those categories of persons, who are otherwise residing normally at places, other than the native places for purposes of work, etc and who wish to visit their native places in normal course". This would mean that those regular employees who have relocated to cities and towns from their native places are not eligible for travel in special trains and states should not entertain requests from such people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-those-who-left-native-places-for-regular-jobs-cannot-avail-special-train-facilities-says-mha-833130.html
03-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: MP govt not conducting enough tests, says Kamal Nath||Madhya Pradesh Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath on Sunday said the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government in the state was testing less number of people for novel coronavirus so as to deliberately keep the COVID-19 numbers low. He said people were being tested in some major cities, but the vast rural population in the state was being left out. Speaking to reporters through video conference, Nath said, "The fight against the COVID-19 outbreak is not sufficient (in MP). In which town or village is testing taking place? Fewer tests are being carried out so that the pandemic numbers can be kept low," he claimed. "People are being tested only in big cities like Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur and some district headquarters. Is there a planned way to conduct tests to detect the virus," Nath, who lost his chief ministership on March 20 following a party rebellion, said. Nath said if he was in power now, then testing kits would been given to every district in the state to test people for the virus. He also expressed apprehension on migrants returning to their villages. "Labourers having exposure to the virus are returning to their villages. What will happen now," he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-mp-govt-not-conducting-enough-tests-says-kamal-nath-833131.html
03-05-2020||National||Haryana committed to send migrants in buses, trains safely: Manohar Lal Khattar||The Haryana government has decided to send migrant labourers from states bordering it in buses and those from other states in trains, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Sunday. During a video conference with labour unions affiliated to various political parties, Khattar said his government is committed to ensure all migrant labourers stranded in the state due to lockdown reach their homes at the earliest and safely, according to an official statement. It was decided during the meeting that the migrants from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh will be sent home in buses and those from Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh by Shramik Special trains. The return of migrant labourers of the remaining states, being relatively fewer in numbers, will be ensured through special trains from New Delhi, the statement quoted Khattar as saying. On Saturday, Khattar appealed to migrant workers to not leave Haryana and start working in industrial units allowed to resume operation. He, however, said if anyone still wanted to leave, the state government will make arrangements for their return. At Sunday's conference, there was a consensus that industrial labourers would be encouraged to assist in early reopening of the units, the statement added. The Haryana government has launched a web page where migrant workers who want to return to their home states can register themselves. The move is aimed at facilitating their inter-state movement. Khattar also said the migrants must observe social distancing, try to engage in useful work and learn new skills until arrangements are made for their return home. The government is committed to ensure that no person goes hungry, he said. It was also decided in the meeting that district-level committees including representatives of labour unions will be set up to review the progress of disbursement of salaries for March and April. Khattar assured the labour unions that there was no plan to cut down the 17 per cent Dearness Allowance being paid to government employees. According to state government guidelines issued on Sunday, deputy commissioners will be the in-charge of all movement of stranded persons. The deputy commissioners will decide the entry and exit points as well as the modalities for medical examination of these persons. All persons exiting and entering an area will be provided food and water and arrangements will be made for parking for vehicles and toilets. The deputy commissioners will ensure that permits issued for buses/vehicles clearly mentions the destination state and district, date of journey and the route. However, movement from containment zones will not be permitted, till the restrictions are lifted. The Chief Medical Officer will ensure the medical examination and screening of every incoming and out-going person. PTI SUN VSD ABH ABH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-committed-to-send-migrants-in-buses-trains-safely-manohar-lal-khattar-833133.html
03-05-2020||National||There will be flight of capital from China: Ram Madhav||There will be a flight of capital from China in the post-COVID-19 period and India could emerge as an attractive investment destination for global giants shifting businesses from the neighbouring country, BJP General Secretary Ram Madhav said on Sunday. His comments came in the midst of reports that a sizeable number of global giants including Japanese and American companies are considering to shift their manufacturing facilities to other countries from China in the wake of the pandemic. “In the post-COVID period, there will be a flight of capital from China, and India will certainly be an attractive destination for them,” Madhav told PTI in an interview. He said Asian democracies like Singapore and South Korea along with India have set a "new example that you don't need to be authoritarian to handle such a big crisis". The senior BJP leader said it will be interesting to see what course China takes in the post-pandemic phase. "What course will China take is a big million dollar question. "The way Chinese leadership conducted itself during the crisis has led the world to believe that it has not done enough.... Will the Chinese leadership rethink about the whole system," Madhav said. US President Donald Trump has repeatedly sought to blame China for its handling of the coronavirus pandemic which was first reported in the Chinese province of Hubei before it spread to various parts of the world. The virus has infected 3.4 million people and killed over 2,44,000 globally besides wrecking economies of a large number of countries. Japan has recently indicated that leading companies from the country may quit China in view of the pandemic. The Japanese government has already announced an economic stimulus package to help its companies shift base from China. A number of countries are mulling steps to protect their economic interests in various countries. Tightening norms, India last month made prior clearance mandatory for foreign investments from countries that share a land border with India, in a move aimed at curbing "opportunistic takeovers" of Indian companies by Chinese firms following fall in their valuation due to the coronavirus-induced economic downturn. China criticised India for the new policy, calling it discriminatory and demanded its review. Madhav said the world will "closely watch" the Communist Party of China's upcoming Congress starting May 22 and how it "takes up all these issues". The Indian economy has also been hit by the pandemic. In the last few days, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a series of meetings to discuss strategies to attract foreign investment, promote local manufacturing and boost the economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-will-be-flight-of-capital-from-china-ram-madhav-833135.html
03-05-2020||National||Total lockdown will continue in Jharkhand: Hemant Soren||Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Sunday said a "total" lockdown will continue in Jharkhand for the next two weeks and the Centre's relaxation guidelines will not be applicable in the state. The relaxations given by the central government during the lockdown would not be applied in the state to protect the health of people, he said. On May 1, the Ministry of Home Affairs announced a "limited" lockdown. The suspension of air, train and inter-state road travel will continue to remain in force across the country for two more weeks from May 4, but some activities will be allowed after a classification of districts into "Red", "Orange" and "Green" zones, based on COVID-19 risk-profiling, it said. Taking to Twitter, Soren said, "As a precaution, the lockdown will continue in Jharkhand for the next two weeks." "The central government's fresh instructions regarding relaxations will not be applied in Jharkhand at present. As students, migrant labourers and others are returning home, this is necessary to protect the health of the people of the state," he wrote on the microblogging website. Soren's government had, on April 27, announced that it would not implement the Centre's guidelines on opening of standalone and neighbourhood shops due to a sudden spurt in the number of coronavirus cases in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/total-lockdown-will-continue-in-jharkhand-hemant-soren-833136.html
03-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Centre rushes teams to 20 worst-hit districts; testing in India crosses million-mark||India on Sunday witnessed the biggest increase in COVID-19 cases in a single day as 2,487 fresh infections took the total confirmed cases past the 40,000-mark, even as testing for the virus crossed the one million landmark. The Centre also  rushed medical teams to 20 worst-hit districts across the country to support the states in implementation of the containment measures and assist the state governments. India registered a sharp increase in COVID-19 deaths with 83 patients succumbing to the disease, taking the total deaths to 1,306. The 20 worst-hit districts are Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Delhi (South-East), Indore, Pune, Jaipur, Thane, Surat, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bhopal, Jodhpur, Delhi (Central), Agra, Kolkata, Kurnool, Vadodara, Guntur, Krishna and Lucknow. The Indian Council of Medical Research announced that it had conducted 10,46,450 tests for COVID-19 across its network of over 400 diagnostic labs, including private partners, joining the league of handful of nations to have crossed the landmark. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said that India was now carrying out 74,000 tests per day even as the doubling rate for confirmed cases was now at 12 days if one took into account the past three day. According to the Health Ministry, these 20 districts across the country accounted for 68% of the total cases, prompting the government to tighten measures in these regions. These 20 districts have also accounted for 72% of the total deaths. As of Sunday, India has 28,070 active cases, while 10,886 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals since the first case of COVID-19 in the country was reported on January 30.  In eight districts across the country – Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Central Delhi, Kolkata, North Delhi, Kanpur Nagar and Krishna (Andhra Pradesh) – COVID-19 cases were doubling at a rate faster than 10 days. Seven districts – Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Indore, Surat, Central Delhi and Krishna – were reporting a case fatality rate higher than the national average of 3.2%. On the testing front, nine districts including Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Indore, Thane, Agra, Kurnool, Kolkata had confirmation rates higher than two times of the national average of 4.4%. A more worrying part was nine of the 20 worst-hit districts were short on health infrastructure. “We need to adhere to strict physical distancing and basic hand hygiene etiquettes properly to take lockdown 3.0 to a logical end,” Harsh Vardhan said. The minister also urged the people of the country to observe the extended period of lockdown in letter and spirit and treat it as an effective intervention to cut down the chain of transmission of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-rushes-teams-to-20-worst-hit-districts-testing-in-india-crosses-million-mark-833139.html
03-05-2020||National||Colonel Ashutosh Sharma joined Army in 13th attempt||Unlucky thirteen became lucky for Colonel Ashutosh Sharma to join the Army after attempting it for six-and-a-half years as he had no other dream than donning the olive green uniform. Col Sharma, who was among five security forces personnel killed during an encounter with terrorists in north Kashmir, is the second Commanding Officer of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles who lost his life while combating terrorism. Remembering Col Sharma, his elder brother Piush says that he always used to have his way, come what may. "It was like my way or the highway for him. His only dream was Army and nothing else," says Piush, who works for a pharmaceutical company in Jaipur. "He had waged a war to join the Army some way or the other till he finally achieved success in his 13th attempt (in . From that day, there was no looking back for Ashu (Col Sharma)," Piush told PTI over phone. Col Sharma joined the Army in the early 2000s. Putting up a brave face while recollecting the childhood memories with his brother, who was three years younger to him, Piush recalled a conversation that he had with him on May 1. "It was the Raising Day of Rashtriya Rifles and he informed us about how they had celebrated it amid the COVID-19 pandemic. "I used to caution him many a times and he had fixed a standard reply 'muje kuch nahi hoga, bhaiya' (nothing will happen to me, brother)...," he said, struggling to hold back his tears. Col Sharma sent some pictures and that is the last memory that the family has, he said and added "wish I knew that I am speaking to him for the last time, I would not have ended the call at all." Holding on to Tamanna, daughter of Col Sharma who studies in class sixth, Piush feels that the child was not able to understand the changed realities. "But I must say that she is a brave child of her brave father and she will be fine," he said. "The only regret Ashu had that he could not join Special Forces," he said, while remembering his nature of going out of the way for his jawans and solving all their problems. His friend Vijay Kumar, who is a Deputy Commandant in CISF, recalls memories with Col Sharma and said, "I advised him to look for other paramilitary forces but it was all Greek to him. It has to be only army and army and army was his reply always." "His mannerism was always at its best and I have never seen anyone raising any complaints against him when we used to live in Bulandshahr (Uttar Pradesh)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/colonel-ashutosh-sharma-joined-army-in-13th-attempt-833142.html
03-05-2020||National||Sacrifices of Handwara bravehearts won't go to waste: Jammu and Kashmir LG Murmu||Sacrifices of Handwara bravehearts won't go to waste: J-K LG Murmu   Jammu, May 3 (PTI) Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor G C Murmu on Sunday paid rich tributes to five security personnel killed in an encounter with terrorists in Handwara area of Kupwara district. "We salute the valour of the Army, police and other security forces for playing a crucial role in combating terrorism and ensuring safe and secure environment for the people", Murmu said. Four army personnel, including a colonel and a major, and a police officer were killed in an encounter with terrorists in Handwara. Two terrorists, including a Pakistani national, were also killed in the gunfight. "The supreme sacrifice made by security personnel who attained martyrdom during an encounter in the Handwara area of Kashmir will always be remembered," the Lt Governor said. He also expressed solidarity with the families of the martyrs and said the sacrifices of the bravehearts will not go waste. PTI TAS CK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sacrifices-of-handwara-bravehearts-wont-go-to-waste-jammu-and-kashmir-lg-murmu-833143.html
03-05-2020||National||Six doctors at NDMC-run hospitals, 3 others test positive for coronavirus||Nine more people, including doctors and contacts of COVID-19 patients at NDMC-run hospitals, have tested positive for novel coronavirus, officials said on Sunday. Three doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital and as many doctors from Kasturba Hospital tested positive for COVID-19, an official of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC). Husbands of two nurses working at the NDMC-run Hindu Rao Hospital tested positive for coronavirus, he said. A patient, who was referred by the OPD of Hindu Rao Hospital, was also found infected with the dreaded virus, the official said. The total number of staffers who have tested positive for coronavirus at the Hindu Rao Hospital stands at six. At Kasturba Hospital, two postgraduate students had tested positive for the virus within a span of one week. The tally of infected staffers at the hospital stands at five. All the COVID-19 confirmed cases have been put under quarantine, the official added. Meanwhile, the NDMC said it will take strict action against its employee who violated quarantine protocols and came to work. A lab technician did not inform NDMC officials that his wife had tested positive for coronavirus on April 28. "Instead of being in quarantine, he did not tell us and kept coming to work till May 2. His own report came on May 1, and he didn't inform the authorities," the official said. An ambulance was sent to pick up his family members who were yet to be tested for COVID-19, he said. "While we will help him and his family in view of their current distress, he is also liable for action for having failed to inform us as per law," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-doctors-at-ndmc-run-hospitals-3-others-test-positive-for-coronavirus-833150.html
03-05-2020||National||Birthday wishes pour in for Ashok Gehlot as he turns 69||Leaders cutting across party lines, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, extended wishes to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on his 69th birthday on Sunday. "Greetings to Rajasthan CM Shri@ashokgehlot51 Ji on his birthday. I pray that he is blessed with a long and healthy life," the prime minister posted on Twitter. "Birthday greetings and best wishes to chief minister shri Ashok Gehlot ji. I wish you health and long life," Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot tweeted. Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra, Union ministers Arjun Ram Meghwal, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank', Punjab CM Amarinder Singh and Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel were among other dignitaries who wished Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/birthday-wishes-pour-in-for-ashok-gehlot-as-he-turns-69-833153.html
03-05-2020||National||Cultural factors, like Namaste greeting, may have given protection against COVID-19: report||Ingrained social distancing norms like people greeting each other with a ‘Namaste’ in India may have provided more protection against the coronavirus, which has caused unprecedented devastation in some countries while leaving others relatively untouched, according to a US media report. The coronavirus has touched almost every country on earth, but its impact has seemed “capricious. Global metropolises like New York, Paris and London have been devastated, while teeming cities like Bangkok, Baghdad, New Delhi and Lagos have, so far, largely been spared," The New York Times said in a report ‘The Covid-19 Riddle: Why Does the Virus Wallop Some Places and Spare Others?’. "The question of why the virus has overwhelmed some places and left others relatively untouched is a puzzle that has spawned numerous theories and speculations but no definitive answers. That knowledge could have profound implications for how countries respond to the virus, for determining who is at risk and for knowing when it’s safe to go out again,” it said. The report added that globally there are already hundreds of studies underway looking into how demographics, pre-existing conditions and genetics might affect the wide variation in impact. The report cited interviews with more than two dozen infectious disease experts, health officials, epidemiologists and academics around the globe who said four main factors could help explain where the virus thrives and where it doesn’t: demographics, culture, environment and the speed of government responses. “Cultural factors, like the social distancing that is built into certain societies, may give some countries more protection, epidemiologists said. In Thailand and India, where virus numbers are relatively low, people greet each other at a distance, with palms joined together as in prayer. In Japan and South Korea, people bow, and long before the coronavirus arrived, they tended to wear face masks when feeling unwell,” the report added. The report also noted that in much of the developing world, the custom of caring for the elderly at home leads to fewer nursing homes, which in the Western nations have seen tragic outbreaks and high number of fatalities among the elderly. Director of the Harvard Global Health Research Institute Ashish Jha said that nations “are really early in this disease. If this were a baseball game, it would be the second inning and there’s no reason to think that by the ninth inning the rest of the world that looks now like it hasn’t been affected won’t become like other places.” Many countries that have escaped mass epidemics have relatively younger populations, the report said. “Young people are more likely to contract mild or asymptomatic cases that are less transmissible to others," said Robert Bollinger, a professor of infectious diseases at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cultural-factors-like-namaste-greeting-may-have-given-protection-against-covid-19-report-833159.html
03-05-2020||National||Ensure people returning to Bihar do not face problems: Nitish to officials||Chief Minister Nitish Kumar told officials on Sunday to ensure that the people returning to Bihar from other states do not face any problem. He told the officials to have a better coordination with all the states so that those willing to return to Bihar do not face any difficulties. The chief minister said a screening of all those coming from outside the state should promptly be carried out and the testing of every person showing symptoms of COVID-19 must be carried out according to the protocol. The first "Shramik Special" train to Bihar, carrying 1,187 stranded migrant labourers, reached the Danapur railway station from Rajasthan's Jaipur on Saturday afternoon. Kumar held a review meeting with Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar and other senior officials on the steps being taken to contain the spread of COVID-19 and measures being taken for the people coming from outside the state. "The quarantine centres at the block and panchayat level (in schools) must have excellent food, shelter, sanitation and medical facilities. Toilets and bathrooms should be in adequate numbers and hygienic conditions should be maintained there. Social-distancing norms should be followed everywhere," the chief minister said at the meeting, according to an official release. It should be ensured that those kept at the quarantine centres do not come across any difficulty, he said, adding that all vehicles meant to ferry the people coming from outside up to the district and block-level quarantine centres must be sanitised properly. The chief secretary informed Kumar that 5.76 crore people of 1.05 crore households have so far been surveyed through the door-to-door screening, which is being carried out in the state since April 16 on the lines of the pulse polio drive to identify COVID-19 infected people in all the districts. At least 3,420 people showed symptoms of common diseases such as cold, cough and fever, the chief secretary said . The chief minister directed the officials concerned to carry out a sample-testing of all these people on a priority basis and take necessary and follow-up action according to the protocol. Contact-tracing, sample collection and testing need to be ramped up so that the chain of coronavirus is broken, Kumar said, while asking the health department to ensure the availability and supplies of medicines, testing kits, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and other necessary equipment. Referring to information made available by the health department, Kumar said 25 per cent of all those who got infected with the coronavirus in the state have recovered, which shows that there is no need to panic. People with symptoms such as cough, fever and breathing problems should immediately report for testing at the designated testing centres, he said. The chief minister appealed to people "to stay indoors and be safe and secured and follow social-distancing norms as it is the only effective way to protect oneself from getting infected with the coronavirus".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-people-returning-to-bihar-do-not-face-problems-nitish-to-officials-833168.html
03-05-2020||National||Shops in Chandigarh to open on odd-even basis from May 4||All neighbourhood shops in Chandigarh will remain open from 10 am to 6 pm on an odd-even basis from Sunday, the union territory administration has said. However, malls, market complexes and big shops will remain closed. All shops in internal sector markets will remain open on an odd-even basis -- even numbered shops will open on May 4 and those with odd number on May 5. "There will be strict emphasis on implementation of social distancing norms and other precautions. Milk, vegetables, fruits and chemists are exempted from these timings," an order issued by the Chandigarh administration said. On Saturday, it had announced opening of shops from 7 am to 7 pm. The latest order has instructed people above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years to stay indoors. According to the order, the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm and 7 am. The administration has allowed opening of all government offices under strict social distancing norms. However, no public dealing will be done till May 11, according to the order. Four wheelers, which have been allowed without passes from 7 am to 7 pm, will have maximum two passengers besides a driver whereas pillion rider will not be allowed on a two wheeler, as per order. "All bars, restaurants, sweet shops and eating places will remain closed. All Ahatas (taverns) will remain closed," according to the order. "Inter-state travel will be allowed for permitted activities only. Chandigarh, being a tri-city and capital of Punjab and Haryana, the passes issued by the deputy commissioners of Mohali and Panchkula will be honoured," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shops-in-chandigarh-to-open-on-odd-even-basis-from-may-4-833172.html
03-05-2020||National||Off the Record: May 4, 2020||Weakened CM As chief minister for 13 years, Shivraj Singh Chouhan has had a free hand to choose his confidantes for ministerial posts. That privilege was clearly denied to him for the first time by the BJP high command as a five-member cabinet was sworn-in on April 21. None of the five ministers including two Jyotiraditya Scindia supporters is considered loyal to Chouhan. Now that second, bigger cabinet expansion appears to be on cards, the chief minister is more worried as he is unable to assure his loyalists a berth in his ministry. The cabinet has 29 seats vacant. Of these, eight are ‘reserved’ for Jyotiraditya Scindia-supporters as per the deal the BJP had struck with the royal turncoat for toppling the 15-month-old Kamal Nath government. For the remaining 21, hectic lobbying is on among aspirants. Interestingly, the candidates are pushing their names for consideration of the BJP high command through the RSS rather than trying to woo the chief minister. Rakesh Dixit, Bhopal  Digital tour With museums shut due to lockdown, the National Gallery of Modern Art has taken the digital route to remember the stalwarts in Indian art. The NGMA launched a digital retrospective of the paintings, prints, rare photographs of Raja Ravi Varma to mark his 172nd birth anniversary and Jamini Roy on his 133 birth anniversary. The NGMA website has hosted a virtual tour of the works of Roy that has 203 out of the 215 in its permanent collection. In the Varma retrospective, viewers can begin their journey from Kilimanoor Palace in present-day Kerala, where he was born and raised and move on to the finer nuances found in his paintings. The NGMA is planning to take the digital route to showcase the works of other stalwarts in its collection. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi  A new need  One thing which Kolkata Police needs apart from personnel to enforce the lockdown is guardrails and a lot of them. According to police sources in a normal situation, they need about 10,000 guardrails in the city on weekdays and on Sunday in case there is major political gathering they need about 6000 to 7000 guardrails.“But since the lockdown started we have to use 14,000 guardrails in Kolkata to enforce the lockdown which is the lion’s share of our total stock. With the price of each guardrails varying from Rs. 3800 to to Rs. 5000 total cost of all the guardrails in use is about Rs. 7 crores,” said a senior Kolkata Police official. Soumya Das, Kolkata Wooing philanthropists During his daily press briefing on Covid updates, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan used to read out a long list of key contributions received to the CMDRF for Covid relief activities. But as the list became lengthier day by day, the CM himself said that he would stop reading out the list, instead, it would be provided to the media. The next day, the CM corrected his stand. He said that there were suggestions from certain quarters that reading out the list of contributors could be motivation for more to contribute. This triggered doubts whether the party cadres were wooing many to contribute handsome amounts to CMDRF by offering an announcement by the CM during his live press meet, which has a huge viewership. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram  Tweets can wait After the video of a family carrying the dead body of a pregnant lady, who died due to alleged medical negligence in Kashmir went viral on social media, authorities ordered a probe into the incident. Ordering a probe after every death due to medical negligence and other issues has become routine in Kashmir. But most of these probes have never seen conclusion. But this time babus in Kashmir are busy sharing their efforts on Twitter. Denying an ambulance for a dead body to be carried home is the height of insensitivity. Tweets can wait. Bodies can’t! Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/off-the-record-may-4-2020-833198.html
03-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: NRIs stranded in India desperate to return to US||Tejaswi is worried about missing her appointment with a doctor in Michigan on May 26. The fear of losing his job in Boston is giving Srikanth sleepless nights. Rashmi Deshpande desperately wants to go back to her eight-year-old autistic son in Maryland. They are among the hundreds of the Non-Resident Indians (NRIs), who live and work in the United States, but are now stranded in India due to the ban imposed on international passenger flights to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. They all have now reached the end of their tethers with the government extending the curbs beyond Sunday.    “They are now saying it (the curbs imposed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic) has been extended till May 17. But I don’t know if they will start outbound flights even after May 17,” Tejaswi told the DH from Vijaywada in Andhra Pradesh. “If I miss my appointment with the doctor, it may take months before we will be able to reschedule it.” She lives in Michigan in the United States where her husband Phani is an Informational Technology (IT) professional. She came to Vijaywada on February 15 and was planning to return to Michigan on March 28, but got stuck due to the lockdown and the ban on international flights imposed to stop the spread of the COVID-19 virus. Srikanth came to Bengaluru on March 15 with his children for a family emergency, leaving his wife alone in Boston, where the techie couple has been living for several years now. “I must return immediately or I may end up losing my job,” he said, with reports about the economic downturn and growing unemployment adding to his worries. Rashmi Deshpande has been living in Maryland in the US for the last 18 years. She came to India on March 21 to perform the last rites of her mother, who had passed away a few days ago. “Stuck here since (for) 1.5 (one and a half) months,” she posted on Twitter. “I need to go back home to Maryland to my eight-year-old autistic son.” Another NRI, who did not want to be identified, came to Mangaluru from Atlanta in the US after his father was hospitalized in February. His father eventually passed away on March 3. He, however, got stuck due to the lockdown and travel and transport curbs. “My wife is five months pregnant. She is with my six-year-old son in Atlanta, taking care of him alone,” he said. “It is extremely stressful and traumatic to leave her alone in such a situation and I feel helpless that I cannot do anything” Tejaswi, Srikanth and Rashmi joined many others to urge the government to restart outbound flights from India so that they could go back to their families in the US. “If the government allows a limited number of outbound flights taking people stranded in India to the US, it will not expose the country to any new risk or undermine the efforts to contain the COVID-19,” Srikanth told the DH. “There is no blanket ban on inbound flights in the US.” The stranded NRIs pointed out that the government had already helped the US and other foreign nations to evacuate their citizens from India by special aircraft. “If the government can allow the foreign citizens to leave, why cannot they open some outbound flights so that we can return to our families, our workplaces?” wondered Sai, a research scientist in Oregon, currently stranded in Chennai.    “We read news-reports about the government planning evacuation of citizens from foreign countries. They will obviously send empty aircraft for evacuating people,” Sai said, adding: “What we are urging the government to allow us to board the empty aircraft and reach some place where we can take connecting flights to our respective destinations in the US.” Another NRI, who works in the US on (the) H1B visa, came to India in the last week of February with his wife and newborn baby so that his parents could see their grandchild. They were planning to return on March 26 but got stuck due to (the) ban on international flights. “I am now living in fear of losing (my) job all the time. I am the lone earner in my family. My salary has been stopped already. I don’t know  how I would pay rent, repay my loans and pay for my insurances and other bills in the US. These are really huge amounts and I won’t (be) able to pay anymore without any salary there.” “My job and livelihood everything is at stake. I am on a valid H1B visa and my employer is pressuring me to return back as early as possible,” Shankar (name changed), one of the many stranded NRIs, said. The stranded NRIs started online petitions requesting the government to start outbound international flights. “The inability to return to the destination of choice is causing a lot of problems for people, including but not limited to loss of employment, financial burden and debt due to loss of income, loss of immigration status, anxiety,” one of the online petition, already signed by over 8600 people, pointed out, adding: “If the air traffic is not restored soon, people's lives will be severely upended and people will have to suffer the consequences of it for years to come. While we realize that COVID-19 has put us in an unprecedented situation, we request the government to reinstate international flight traffic in a staggered manner, even with case by case approvals if needed, so that people in dire need to travel can avail this facility.” Many stranded NRIs drew the attention of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi while tweeting about their plight. “Sir, we r (are) emotionally drained, broken being separated 4m (from) family. We have more damages like losing job(s), visa status etc going on than worrying about the hidden virus. Please resume outbound flight to US & (and) let us go,” Subhasree Sridhar posted on Twitter, replying to a tweet by the Prime Minister. “I hope you will listen (to) me. Pls (please) start Int (international) outbound flight. My family is there nd (and) my wife alone now in (the) US with my 5 yr (year) old kid. She is so scared and not able to handle alone. I came here for 5 days due to (a) family emergency and now I am not able to go. Pls (please) help,” Pradeep Choudhary, another NRI, tweeted, replying to a post by Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri.    “My young son is missing primary care from his physician, his vaccines and therapy. We have been stranded here for the last 50 days,” tweeted Sooraj Purandare, who works as a software developer in the US, but is now stranded in India. “We need to get back home. Forget the economic cost. There is a humanitarian cost that is growing each day.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-nris-stranded-in-india-desperate-to-return-to-us-833199.html
03-05-2020||National Politics||COVID-19: BJP president J P Nadda interacts with ayurveda doctors  ||BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday praised the AYUSH Ministry for using standards of modern medical practices, along with ayurveda, in tackling COVID-19 and said it would have far reaching benefits. As part of his ongoing discussions with various professionals on the novel coronavirus pandemic, Nadda on Saturday interacted with ayurveda doctors and others.  Praising the Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (AYUSH), Nadda said the ministry has shared very useful tips for strengthening immunity in the wake of this deadly virus outbreak. He praised the ministry for using standards of modern medical practices, along with ayurveda, in tackling COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-bjp-president-j-p-nadda-interacts-with-ayurveda-doctors-832914.html
03-05-2020||National Politics||Sharad Pawar hits out at PM Modi for shift of IFSC from Mumbai to Gandhinagar||Shocked by the Narendra Modi government's decision to shift the proposed International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) from Mumbai to Gandhinagar, the ruling allies in Maharashtra, led by NCP President Sharad Pawar, mounted a scathing attack at the Centre’s dispensation. The concept of the IFSC came when the Manmohan Singh-led UPA government was in power at the Centre. In a letter to PM Modi, the NCP chief questioned the wisdom behind the decision and said that it would discredit's Mumbai's position. The three Maha Vikas Aghadi allies are rattled with the Modi government's decision. Citing Reserve Bank of India (RBI)'s latest statistical data as at April 23 (2020), Pawar said that the Indian banking sector has deposits worth Rs 145,00,000 crore. “The share of Maharashtra alone in the deposits is 22.8 per cent, followed by Delhi (10 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (7.8 per cent), Karnataka (7.2 per cent) and Gujarat (5.4 per cent). As per the reserve requirement, every bank has to maintain SLR at the rate of 18 per cent of its deposits in the form of government securities (G-Sec). Though this G-Sec, the central government receives funds to the tune of Rs 26,00,000 crore,” Pawar said. Out of these funds, Rs 5,95,000 crore is received from Maharashtra alone against Gujarat’s contribution of Rs 1,40,000 crore, the NCP chief added. “In spite of Maharashtra’s immense contribution to G-Sec, the decision of establishing the IFSC (Authority) in Gujarat is egregious, erroneous and unwarranted. It will be perceived as a move to shift financial institutions and business houses away from Maharashtra and will create unnecessary political disturbances,” cautioned Pawar, a four-time Maharashtra CM. He said that Mumbai is already recognised as the world’s top 10 centres of commerce in terms of global financial flow generating 6.16 per cent of India’s GDP and accounting for 25 per cent of industrial output and 70 per cent of capital transactions to the Indian economy. Veteran Congress leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan, who had also served as minister of state in the PMO, also lashed out at Modi. "There are some of the primary requirements for setting up IFSC, like full array of international banking services for corporates and individuals, full array of international capital markets, products and services and full array of risk management services," he said. Senior Shiv Sena leader and former minister Arvind Sawant said that his party has no grudges for creating another financial centre but strangulating the existing one which has name, fame and strength is not correct.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sharad-pawar-hits-out-at-pm-modi-for-shift-of-ifsc-from-mumbai-to-gandhinagar-833035.html
03-05-2020||National Politics||TMC MP says Centre 'splurging' crores of taxpayer money to renovate Lutyens' Delhi||Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday alleged that the Centre was "splurging Rs 20,000 crore" for renovation of Lutyens' Delhi, an amount he said could have been utilised to provide food to millions of people in the country. Abhishek, the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, said the purpose behind the move was to enable those in the ruling dispensation to "stay isolated in renovated chambers". "The Centre is splurging Rs 20,000 crore of the taxpayers' money to renovate Lutyens' Delhi. For the same amount at Rs 30 per meal, they could have fed 2 meals a day to 1.85 crore Indians for the next 6 months," the TMC MP from Diamond Harbour wrote on Twitter. "The only explanation is that they want to stay isolated in renovated chambers," he added. The chief minister has been embroiled in a bitter war of words with the central government and Governor Jagdeep Dhankar over the state's handling of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-mp-says-centre-splurging-crores-of-taxpayer-money-to-renovate-lutyens-delhi-833096.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi crosses 4000-mark with 386 cases, highest for a single day||Delhi on Saturday recorded 384 fresh cases of COVID-19, the highest for a single day, even as the number of cases crossed the 4,000 mark. Compared to previous week, this week has recorded a 74.73% rise in number of cases. With this, the total number of cases has now risen to 4,122. On Friday, 222 cases were reported.  Of the 4,122 cases, 1,015 cases are from containment zones. At present, there are 96 containment zones after the authorities lifted restrictions in six such zones. Three deaths were also reported during the day, taking the total toll to 1,256. Eighty-nine people were discharged from hospital, as the recoveries touched 2,802. It took just five days from April 27 (3,108 cases) to add another 1,000 cases to cross the 4,000 mark. It had taken eight days from April 19 (2,003 cases) to cross the 3,000 mark. Delhi had crossed 1000-mark on April 11 when it registered 1,093 cases. Between April 19 and 25, an analysis of the figures provided in medical bulletins showed that there were 752 cases during the week. Between April 26 and May 2, there were 1314 cases reported.  On April 26, Delhi had reported 111 cases while it rose to 190 and 206 in the next two days. On April 29, the number of cases came down to 125 and the next day, it further decreased to 76, before recording a jump on Friday and Saturday. Meanwhile, the Delhi government also issued guidelines on issuing state unique ID to all Covid-19 positive patients to ensure patient wise tracking and providing the best possible services andcare to patients within the government facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-crosses-4000-mark-with-386-cases-highest-for-a-single-day-832888.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi asks officials to arrange ventilators in 20 districts  ||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday directed officials to make arrangements for ventilators in 20 districts of the state which do not have them in the next three days. He said training of doctors and paramedics should be continued along with private doctors and Ayush practitioners so that their services could be availed in COVID-19 hospitals as per the requirement, according to Chief Secretary Awanish Kumar Awasthi. Coronavirus positive children and those above 60 years should be treated in L2 or L3 COVID-19 hospitals, the chief minister instructed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-asks-officials-to-arrange-ventilators-in-20-districts-832915.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Role of Tablighi Jamaat was most condemnable, says UP CM Adityanath  ||Holding the Tablighi Jamaat responsible for the spread of COVID-19, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that being infected with a virus is not a crime but to hide it is definitely a crime. Speaking at a programme of a news channel, Adityanath said, "The role of Tablighi Jamaat was most condemnable. To get a disease is not a crime but to hide a disease which is infectious is definitely a crime. And this crime has been done by those associated with the Tablighi Jamaat."  "In Uttar Pradesh and other places where the spread of the coronavirus has been seen, Tablighi Jamaat is behind it. Had they not hidden the disease and went about like its carriers, then perhaps we would have controlled the coronavirus outbreak to a large extend," he said. The chief minister said action would be taken against them for the "crime that they have committed". A Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in March turned out to be a major source of COVID-19 cases, with those who attended the meet returned home in different parts of the country after being infected with the deadly virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/role-of-tablighi-jamaat-was-most-condemnable-says-up-cm-adityanath-832916.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Over 800 UP migrant labourers reach Lucknow in a special train from Nashik||Over 800 labourers hailing from Uttar Pradesh arrived in Lucknow in a special train from Maharashtra's Nashik on Sunday morning amid ongoing lockdown. This is the first special train to arrive in Uttar Pradesh with stranded migrant workers. The special train started from Nashik on Saturday morning and arrived in Lucknow via Jhansi and Kanpur. The railways had said it will run "Shramik Special" trains on the "Labour Day" to move migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places due to the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown that came into force from March 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-over-800-up-migrant-labourers-reach-lucknow-in-a-special-train-from-nashik-832927.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Colonel, Major, police officer among seven killed in terrorist encounter in Kashmir’s Handwara||A Colonel, a Major and a police officer were among seven killed in an overnight encounter between security forces and militants in Handwara area of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Sunday. The martyred soldiers were identified as Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, Commanding Officer of 21-Rashtriya Rifles unit, his subordinates Major Anuj Sood, Lance Naik Dinesh and Naik Rajesh and J&K police sub-inspector Shageer Qazi. Two militants, including self-styled Chief Commander of Lashkar-e-Taiba in Kashmir, identified as Haider were also killed in the fierce gun battle that broke out on Saturday evening when the Army and J&K police zeroed in on a residential house in Chanjimulla, Handwara, 80 kms from here. Sources said security forces launched the operation after ‘specific inputs’ that the militants had taken shelter in the house while escaping from the nearby Rajwar forest on Friday afternoon. “While the security forces had inputs about the presence of two to three militants in one house, a group of eight to 10 ultras may have been hiding in multiple houses in the area,” they said. “As soon Colonel Sharma along with Major Anuj and other slain personnel in the line of duty ventured in one of the houses to take cover to launch an assault on militants believed to be hiding in a nearby house, they came under intense firing from one corner of the very house they were entering,” sources revealed. “As it was a dark night, some militants managed to give a slip while two who could not escape were neutralized after the Army carried out a final assault with the first light of the morning. There was also the possibility of civilian casualties in the area,” they added. Active in Kashmir since 2015, Haider was the main face of terror in Kashmir, recruiting and motivating youth to join militant ranks. He was a Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK)-based resident. The identity of the second militant was not known till evening, but he is also believed to be a Pakistani. Giving details, the Army said a team comprising five soldiers and police personnel entered the target area occupied by the militants to evacuate the civilians and successfully extricated them. “However, during the process, the team came under a heavy volume of fire by the militants and in the ensuing firefight, two terrorists were killed and the five Army personnel and a policeman were martyred in the line of duty,” the Army said. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi while paying tributes to the martyred soldiers and a police officer, tweeted: "Tributes to our courageous soldiers and security personnel martyred in Handwara. Their valour and sacrifice will never be forgotten. They served the nation with utmost dedication and worked tirelessly to protect our citizens. Condolences to their families and friends.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/colonel-major-police-officer-among-seven-killed-in-terrorist-encounter-in-kashmir-s-handwara-832930.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: 500 students stranded in Kota reach Delhi in 40 buses||Nearly 500 Delhi students stranded at coaching hub Kota in Rajasthan during the lockdown reached Kashmere Gate ISBT here in 40 buses early Sunday morning. Delhi's Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said the students would be sent to their homes from Kashmere Gate ISBT after medical tests. Help desks were set up at Kashmere Gate inter state bus terminus (ISBT) where doctors, police personnel, transport, civil defence and other personnel were deployed to assist the students for medical tests and boarding DTC buses for their homes. "A total of 480 students have been brought from Kota. All the students are reportedly fine," said Rajiv Singh, ADM (Central) nodal officer for the evacuation operation of the Delhi government. The students preparing for competitive medical and engineering exams were stranded in Kota for weeks during the coronavirus-induced lockdown and appeals were made by their parents to the Delhi government to bring them back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-500-students-stranded-in-kota-reach-delhi-in-40-buses-832933.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Ladakh records highest single-day jump with 18 new COVID-19 cases||In a sudden spurt, Ladakh Union Territory (UT) reported 18 COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday taking the total number of active positive cases in the UT to 24. Rigzin Samphal, commissioner secretary health and medical education, Ladakh in a tweet confirmed that all 18 positive cases were reported from Chuchot-Yokma. “18 new Positive Cases from Chuchot Yokma. Please Stay Home and respect the rule of Social Distancing (sic), ”he Tweeted. With 18 new cases, the total number of positive cases in Ladakh has gone up to 41, of which 17 have been cured and discharged while six are under treatment. Total active cases in the UT now stand at 24, including today’s 18 cases.  The Ladakh UT, which has a population of 2.74 lakh (2011 census), was one of the first few regions in the country to report a positive coronavirus case. The first two positive cases in the UT were reported on March 7 with both the patients having travel history to Iran. Last week a COVID-19 laboratory was set up in Ladakh to ensure timely and cost-effective sample testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-records-highest-single-day-jump-with-18-new-covid-19-cases-832949.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||2 deaths, 31 fresh cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan||Rajasthan recorded two more coronavirus deaths on Sunday, while 31 people tested positive for the virus, officials said. The deaths were reported in Jaipur, taking the total number of fatalities in the state to 70, including 40 alone in Jaipur. Of the 31 fresh cases, 9 are from Jodhpur, 8 from Jaipur, 5 from Udaipur, 3 from Chittorgarh, 2 each in Ajmer and Pratapgarh and one each from Kota and Dungarpur, according to an official of the state government.   With this, the total number of positive cases in the state has climbed to 2,803.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-deaths-31-fresh-cases-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-832953.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Teaching in Kashmir goes online, but low speed internet an issue||Students in Kashmir are keeping up with their academics by taking to the online mode of education amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, even as the clamour for the restoration of high-speed internet services has grown in view of the difficulties faced by them to access the study material. In Kashmir, school education has been affected severely over the last few months. First, there was no schooling in the valley for six months last year because of the situation following the abrogation of Article 370 by the Centre. The schools reopened briefly in March only to be closed days later because of the coronavirus scare. However, to salvage the academic session, schools in the valley took to various means, including online classes, to impart education to the students. Teachers from both the government as well as private schools have started delivering online lectures through various platforms like WhatsApp, Zoom and Google Classroom among others. Irfan Ahmad, a government school teacher in Ganderbal district in central Kashmir, uses WhatsApp and Zoom applications daily to connect with and deliver lessons to his students. "It is the only option we have to replace the physical classes. I use these applications on a daily basis to deliver my lectures to the students and to try to answer their questions," Ahmad said. He said the students have already been affected due to the situation since August last year and there was a need to salvage the academic session so that they do not lose much.  Touqeer Javaid, a student of Class 7 at a private school in Ganderbal, logs on to Zoom application at 11 am daily to connect with his classmates and teachers. "We start the class at 11 am. A few of my classmates, who have smartphones, are there and our teacher comes online to deliver lessons," Javaid said. He said while it does not feel like an actual class, it was important to keep the education going. "Education is important and in these times of competition, we can hardly afford to miss our lessons. At least, we are getting something," he added. Sehar Jan, a student of class 6 at a private school in Srinagar, said apart from the video-conferencing application Zoom, her school also uses WhatsApp to deliver lessons and assignments to the students. "We get regular assignments from the school which we work on and then submit back to the school. It keeps us involved at home as well as helping in our education," she said. However, some parents complain that the schools were putting the students under tremendous pressure by way of too many assignments. Recently, an audio clip went viral on social media where a parent complained that the schools were putting the students under too much pressure. "This is just a formality by the schools. They send too many assignments on a daily basis. It is not humane. They are putting too much pressure on the children as well as their parents. They are giving them more work than they actually do at the schools," the parent complained. Assignments are not the only issue of complaint by the students or the parents. Many of them lament the slow network speed which hamper the online classes and delivery of assignments. "The internet speed at 2G is very low and it becomes very difficult to attend the online classes. Sometimes, we do not even see the teacher clearly and often we miss whatever he says," Irtiqa, a student, said. A private school owner in the city here acknowledged the difficulties faced by the students as well as teachers and went on to say that the online classes were just for the sake of formality. The problems are more in far flung or rural areas where broadband internet penetration is very low and the people have to rely on erratic 2G mobile internet. "I have a broadband connection at home which makes my life a little easier while delivering lectures. However, many students in my school face problems due to slow network speed. Most of the times, I do not understand what they say," Ahmad, the government school teacher in Ganderbal district, said. In a tweet recently, principal secretary School Education department, government of Jammu and Kashmir, Asgar Samoon acknowledged that low internet speed was hampering online education as the department released funds for distributing books among the students of Classes 1 to 8 in the union territory. "kids have no ipads/no access to desktops; cant download text books as internet is slow; Rs 2030.87 lac released for 1st-8th classes; DSEJ Rs 1105.44 lac & DSEk Rs. 925.43 lac; kmr div/ distributed books; remaining Jmu districts-dsej/ ceos/zeos to expedite in 2 wks (sic)," Samoon said. Private Schools Association Jammu and Kashmir (PSAJK) has filed a petition in the Supreme Court contending that the lack of 4G connectivity for internet in Jammu and Kashmir is infringing the fundamental right to education. PSAJK president G N Var said while about 70 per cent of 2,675 private schools in the valley have started online classes for their students, they were facing problems due to connectivity issues. To deal with the problems due to internet speeds, Directorate of School Education, Kashmir, is starting educational broadcast (audio classes) for the students of the valley, the officials said. They said the broadcast is being organized in collaboration with All India Radio, Srinagar. Director, School Education, Kashmir, Mohammad Younis Malik said these platforms have been kept available for the children so that they do not feel isolated and can continue with their studies while staying at their home due to the lock down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-teaching-in-kashmir-goes-online-but-low-speed-internet-an-issue-832961.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Deeply disturbing and painful: Rajnath Singh on killing of 5 security personnel in Kashmir||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday described as "deeply disturbing and painful" the killing of five security personnel including two senior Army officers, a colonel and a major, in an anti-terror operation in the Handwara area of north Kashmir. Singh said the security personnel showed exemplary courage in their fight against the terrorists and that their bravery and sacrifice will never be forgotten. "The loss of our soldiers and security personnel in Handwara (J&K) is deeply disturbing and painful. They showed exemplary courage in their fight against the terrorists and made supreme sacrifice while serving the country. We will never forget their bravery and sacrifice," the defence minister tweeted. The operation at a village in Handwara began on Saturday and continued till late last night. "I offer my tributes to the soldiers and security personnel who fell in action. My heart goes out to the families who lost their loved ones today. India stands shoulder to shoulder with the families of these brave martyrs," Singh said. Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, who laid down his life in the encounter, was a decorated army officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deeply-disturbing-and-painful-rajnath-singh-on-killing-of-5-security-personnel-in-kashmir-832976.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand: One more tests positive for coronavirus at AIIMS Rishikesh||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 at AIIMS, Rishikesh on Sunday, officials said. This is the sixth case of coronavirus at the hospital in the last nine days. The latest case is that of a 29-year-old nursing officer at the facility, nodal officer for corona cases at the hospital Madhur Uniyal said. She was posted in the ICU of medicine department and had come in indirect contact with the brain stroke patient who had tested positive for COVID 19 and passed away on Friday. Meanwhile, additional SDM Apoorva Pandey said the lane where the nursing officer's house is located on Veerbhadra Marg has been sealed. The nurse showed symptoms of COVID-19 on April 30.  After testing positive for the pandemic, she has been shifted from home isolation to the quarantine centre at AIIMS, Uniyal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-one-more-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-at-aiims-rishikesh-832994.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Armed forces salute 'corona warriors' by showering flower petals from choppers on hospitals||Showering flower petals on hospitals and police memorials, flypast by fighter jets over state capitals, performance by military bands, the Armed Forces pulled out all stops to extend a special gesture of gratitude to health workers and police personnel engaged in the fight against COVID-19. The day began with three service chiefs laying wreaths at the Police Memorial in the national capital as a helicopter flew past showering flower petals. Overcast skies in the national capital delayed the flypast by IAF fighter jets and transport aircraft over the Rajpath. Once the skies cleared, Sukhoi 30Mkis, MiG 29 s and Jaguars soared over Rajpath, showering petals over India Gate and Red Fort. The mighty C-130 transport aircraft followed a similar route. The aircraft encircled the capital showering petals over various hospitals engaged in the fight against COVID-19. “Saluting those who are at the forefront, bravely fighting COVID-19. Great gesture by our armed forces,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter and posted a short video of the actions of the armed forces. Saluting those who are at the forefront, bravely fighting COVID-19. In port cities of Mumbai, Chennai, Vishakhapatam, navy personnel illuminated naval warships, blared sirens and lit up fire flares to salute Corona Warriors.  India’s air carrier INS Vikramaditya paid special tributes to the frontline workers by symbolically "punching" the deadly coronavirus. In the video circulated by defence authorities, a clenched fist, lit in green colour lights, was seen dealing a blow to a symbolic coronavirus-like figure lit with red colour lights on the deck of INS Vikramaditya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/armed-forces-salute-corona-warriors-by-showering-flower-petals-from-choppers-on-hospitals-833006.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Eight civilians injured in explosion in Kashmir’s Handwara||At least eight civilians were injured after an explosive device went off in the air at Ahgam, Handwara, in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Sunday afternoon. Local news gathering agency KNO quoting sources said that an explosive device exploded at Ahgam area in Zachaldara block, which is five Km away from the encounter spot where five security forces personnel, including a colonel, a major and a police officer, were killed earlier in the morning. Eight people have sustained injuries and were being evacuated for treatment. A police official said that the details related to the incident were being gathered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eight-civilians-injured-in-explosion-in-kashmir-s-handwara-833010.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court registry official tests coronavirus positive, admitted to LNJP Hospital||A Delhi High Court registry official has tested positive for coronavirus and has been admitted to LNJP Hospital here, sources in the court said on Sunday. According to the sources, the official had not attended the court after the announcement of the nationwide lockdown on March 25. He never came to the court complex since then, they added. The official, posted in the original side in the registry, was admitted to Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital on Saturday and his condition is stated to be stable, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-registry-official-tests-coronavirus-positive-admitted-to-lnjp-hospital-833012.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Make plan for resumption of industrial activity, Yogi Adityanath tells officials||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asked officials to prepare a plan for the resumption of industrial activity in the state during the third phase of the coronavirus lockdown beginning Monday. Chairing a meeting of senior UP Government officials at his official residence in Lucknow, Adityanath directed to issue an advisory regarding it, a UP government statement said. He also asked the infrastructure and industrial development commissioner to prepare a work plan regarding labour reforms and the transfer of allowances into the bank accounts of beneficiaries of different government schemes, the statement read. The chief minister said quarantine centres and community kitchens must be constantly monitored and there should be no laxity in this regard. Referring to the labourers returning from other states, Adityanath said, "They should be properly screened at the quarantine centres. If found fit, they should be given food kits and allowed to proceed to their homes.” “If the labourers are found medically unfit, then proper medical treatment should be given to them," he added. He said members of women self-help groups should be roped in for community kitchens, which will provide them employment as well. The UP chief minister instructed the director general of police to keep tabs on people coming to the state from outside. "A special vigil should be maintained to prevent the spread of infection among police personnel and arrange equipment for its prevention," Adityanath said. He stressed the need to strengthen the doorstep delivery of essential services and asked officials to prepare a plan in this regard. The CM said good and sufficient food should be available at every quarantine centre. Orders were also issued to every district magistrate to ensure that the inspection of the medical team engaged in COVID-19 treatment is compulsorily done, the statement said. He directed that a time table should be made for farmers, wholesale and retail traders at the mandis of the state. "The mandis must be continuously and effectively monitored. These should be kept clean and arrangements should be made for sanitisers. Social distancing should be strictly adhered to," he said. The chief minister said following the implementation of the lockdown, there has been a decline in revenue. “Despite this, the state government has already paid salaries to it 16 lakh employees and pension to 12 lakh retired employees." He, however, cautioned that people living in hotspots may become virus carriers for their colleagues. "Hence, these people should not go to their offices," he said. Adityanath directed that emergency services must be started after ensuring that the protocol is completely followed. The Health Department must speak to hospitals starting emergency services in the state. An adequate supply of PPE kits, N95 masks and sanitisers should be maintained, and the capacity COVID hospitals should be increased. There are 155 L-1 COVID-19 hospitals in the state (mainly the community health centres), 78 L-2 hospitals (where oxygen facility is attached with the bed) and 6 L-3 hospitals (where ventilators are available) in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/make-plan-for-resumption-of-industrial-activity-yogi-adityanath-tells-officials-833017.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Around 32,500 Amethi people stuck outside UP, will bring them back soon: Smriti Irani||Union minister and Amethi MP Smriti Irani on Sunday said she has received information about around 32,500 people from her constituency stranded in other states due to the coronavirus lockdown and assured that they will be brought back soon. In an around 15-minute video conference with mediapersons, she also hoped that the normalcy will return soon. I had got a record of around 32,500 people from Amethi stranded outside, she said, adding that they will return to their homes very soon after the completion of all formalities by the authorities. She asked mediapersons to give suggestions in public interest and appealed to people to maintain social distancing to keep Amethi free from the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/around-32500-amethi-people-stuck-outside-up-will-bring-them-back-soon-smriti-irani-833024.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Suspected coronavirus patient dies at Shahjahanpur hospital in Uttar Pradesh||A 55-year-old suspected coronavirus patient died during treatment at a medical college in UP's Shahjahanpur on Sunday, a senior official said.   The patient, a resident of Piprola village in the Kant area of the district, was admitted to the medical college on Saturday night after he complained of fever and breathing issues, Chief Medical Officer Dr Rajiv Gupta told PTI. He was kept in quarantine and his sample was taken for testing, he said, adding that his test report was awaited. The CMO said no virus case has been reported in the district so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspected-coronavirus-patient-dies-at-shahjahanpur-hospital-in-uttar-pradesh-833028.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Haryana mulling to impose new COVID cess on liquor, says Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala||The Haryana government is considering to impose a variable "COVID cess" on liquor to support the areas or institutions adversely hit by the pandemic, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said on Sunday. Haryana has been suffering monthly revenue losses of Rs 6,000 crore due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. "The government is considering new COVID cess so that those areas or those institutions which have been adversely hit by the pandemic and need support can be helped," Chautala told a news conference here on Sunday. Asked how much cess the government is contemplating to impose, he said, "Discussions are on. Every product is different, fixed cess is not possible, so it will depend on product and quantity. The cess will be variable". The deputy chief minister indicated that the cess could be anywhere between Rs 2-20. Chautala, who also holds the portfolios of Excise, Industry and Commerce Departments, said no decision has yet been taken on when to open the liquor vends. He, however, said suggestions including from media have been sought so that steps are taken accordingly. It will have to be ensured that there is no crowding and proper social distancing is maintained at the vends, as and when these are opened, he said. The state government has also sought report from deputy commissioners on whether vends should be opened or not as COVID-19 situation varies from district to district, he said. To a question, Chautala said stock of warehouses involved in liquor distribution was checked on three different occasions in the past over a month and irregularities were found in 53 of these and FIRs were registered and fines imposed. On giving relaxations to industry in accordance with the Centre's guidelines, he said from April 20 onwards they have been easing out restrictions, barring those units which are in containment zones, so that economic activity can be resumed. "From May 4-10 and from May 11-18, we will give more relaxation to industry, but with more strictness than even what MHA guidelines say so that our industry is revived on one hand, while on the other we are able to check coronavirus infections too on the other," he said. In the IT sector, workforce with 33 per cent in red zone, 53 pc in orange and 100 pc in green zone will be permitted while in second phase (May 11-18) it will be 50 pc, 75 pc and 100 pc, respectively. In rural area, for the red zone, industry will be given permission to open with 33 per cent workforce and with 50 per cent for in-situ where units can retain workforce at places of work. Likewise, industry will be given permission to open with 75 per cent and 100 per cent in orange and green zones, respectively. For e-commerce, for the period between May 11-18, only essential goods will be allowed in red zone, Chautala said. Shops in rural areas have been opened, he said, while adding in the urban areas, in non-containment zones, especially those in orange and green zones, deputy commissioners have been authorized to decide whether to open shops by odd-even system (on the basis of shop numbers). With MSME sector being adversely hit, Chautala said the Haryana government will be extending a financial support of nearly Rs 250 crore to them. On current crop procurement, he said 41.23 lakh metric tonne (LMT) wheat and 3.62 LMT mustard has been procured. From June 1-30, sunflower will also be procured at the rate of Rs 5,650 per metric tonne, he said. He said despite the challenges of labour shortage and other difficulties in view of the lockdown, procurement was going on smoothly. "I am hopeful that we will touch 75 lakh MT target of wheat procurement in next 10 days," he said. On Congress' criticizing the state government for hiking VAT rate on diesel and petrol and increasing bus fares, he said while people are not complaining as they fully know the present crisis situation, the Opposition is doing politics over the issue. Hitting out at Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, who has been critical of the Manohar Lal Khattar government on various issues, Chautala said, "Why did he not raise voice when the Congress government in Rajasthan revised diesel and petrol rates on three occasions in recent times, why does he not dub it as Jazia Tax there?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-mulling-to-impose-new-covid-cess-on-liquor-says-deputy-chief-minister-dushyant-chautala-833029.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Medico, nurse suspended over pregnant lady's death due to medical ‘negligence’ in Kashmir||A doctor and a nurse were suspended after a pregnant lady and her yet to be born baby died due to alleged delay in treatment and subsequent transfer to another hospital in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district. After a video of the family members of the deceased carrying the body out of the hospital on a trolley went viral on social media, authorities immediately placed a medical officer Dr Ridwana and staff nurse Zareefa, who were on night duty when the incident took place, under suspension. Reports said Shakeela, wife of Zahoor Ahmad, resident of Salia, Anantnag was admitted at Sub District Hospital, Seer on Saturday night and was later shifted to Maternity and Child Care Hospital (MCCH), Anantnag where she breathed her last on Sunday morning. Soon after her death, family members and relatives of the lady assembled outside Sub District Hospital, Seer and alleged that the lady died due to medical negligence of doctors at Seer. They alleged that doctors delayed her treatment and later asked to shift her to the MCCH. After the death of the lady, the family marched outside the MCCH with the body on a trolley demanding stern action against the doctors and other medical staff deputed at SDH Seer. “The doctors were asking us to shift the body to the Deputy Commissioner office. They want to make it a case of coronavirus and dispose of the entire matter,” a family member of the deceased alleged. Chief Medical Officer Anantnag, Mukhtar Shah said the concerned Block Medical Officer (BMO) has immediately ordered an enquiry into the case. “The BMO took action and suspended a doctor and a staff nurse till enquiry concludes in the case. The enquiry report is to be completed within two days,” he said. The latest incident happened a week after another pregnant woman died along with her unborn twins at MCCH Anantnag. The woman, who eventually was declared COVID-19 positive, came from a Red Zone area and had been allegedly denied swift treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/medico-nurse-suspended-over-pregnant-ladys-death-due-to-medical-negligence-in-kashmir-833036.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Congress shocked over killing of security personnel in Handwara in Jammu and Kashmir, demands 'effective action'||The Jammu and Kashmir Congress on Sunday expressed shock over the killing of five security personnel, including three officers, in an encounter with terrorists in Handwara town and demanded “effective action” to save precious lives. It also condemned Pakistan for its continued support to militancy and increased ceasefire violations to facilitate infiltration of terrorists into the Union Territory. "The martyrdom of five jawans including a colonel, a major and a police sub-inspector is shocking," J&K Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) chief G A Mir and other senior leaders said in a joint statement here. "We strongly condemn the Pakistan-sponsored militancy, which is against the basics of humanity and would achieve nothing except death and destruction." Saluting the sacrifice of the security personnel and expressing sympathies with their families, relatives and colleagues, the party said: “The loss of precious lives of our officers and jawans is unbearable and the nation shall ever remain indebted to them and their families”. “The frequent incidents of militant attacks and increased ceasefire violations on our borders have led to a number of sacrifices of our jawans and civilians in recent years, which is a matter of grave concern for all,” the statement said. It said such an activity cannot be tolerated and the government must take effective actions to save precious lives of the jawans and the civilians. “The entire rank and file of the Congress pays homage to the martyrs and all those who sacrificed their lives for the nation and ensure safety of common citizens,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-shocked-over-killing-of-security-personnel-in-handwara-in-jammu-and-kashmir-demands-effective-action-833037.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Opposition slams Centre for charging train fare from migrant workers||The opposition parties on Sunday slammed the Centre for charging train fare from the migrant workers, who were returning home by speacial trains from different parts of the country. Samajwadi Party (SP) President Akhilesh Yadav accused the BJP of ''being friendly'' with the rich and demanded that the centre should use the PM-CARES Fund to pay the Railways for ferrying the migrant workers. ''Charging fare from migrant workers is condemnable....it is now clear that the BJP is with the rich and against the poor,'' Akhilesh said in a Tweet. अब तो भाजपा के आहत समर्थक भी ये सोच रहे हैं कि अगर समाज के सबसे ग़रीब तबके से भी घर भेजने के लिए सरकार को पैसे लेने थे तो PM Cares Fund में जो खरबों रुपया तमाम दबाव व भावनात्मक अपील करके डलवाया गया है उसका क्या होगा? अब तो आरोग्य सेतु एप से भी इस फंड में 100 रु वसूलने की ख़बर है ''What will happen to the money donated under pressure and after emotional appeals to the PM-CARES Fund if the government were to charge fare from the people, who came from the weakest section of the society?'' he asked. UP Congress leaders also joined the SP in criticising the Centre for charging fare from the migrant workers. The Railways had in a circular said that those travelling by the 'Shramik Special' trains, would have to pay the fare along with some additional charges. The concerned state governments were tasked with collecting the fare and deposit the same with the Railway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-opposition-slams-centre-for-charging-train-fare-from-migrant-workers-833047.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi airport to resume flights from Terminal 3 amid lockdown 3.0, will allot entry gates, check-in bays to airlines||Commercial passenger flights at Delhi airport will initially operate from Terminal 3 after the lockdown ends, said a senior official of its operator DIAL on Sunday, adding that entry gates, self-check-in machines and check-in bays will be allocated to airlines to avoid overcrowding by air travellers. The airport will keep all food, beverage and retail shops open to avoid overcrowding at one place and use "ultraviolet disinfection tunnels" for all incoming baggage, according to a plan prepared by the GMR group-led Delhi International Airport Ltd. The plan said the passengers of Vistara and IndiGo would enter the airport through gates 1 and 2 only. These two airlines will have check-in rows A, B and C among them, it said. AirAsia India and Air India passengers will use entry gates 3 and 4. These passengers will then go to rows D, E and F where the staff of these two airlines would assist them check-in, according to the plan. SpiceJet and GoAir passengers would enter through gate 5 towards the staff of these two airlines at rows G and H for check-in. Passengers of all other domestic airlines will enter through gate 5 and will head to row H, the plan said. All international airlines' passengers would be entering the airport using gates 6, 7 and 8. The staff of these airlines would be sitting at rows J, K, L and M for check-in at Terminal 3. The DIAL's exit plan stated that entry gates, self-check-in machines and check-in bays would be allocated to airlines to ensure smooth flow of passengers from the forecourt into check-in hall and security thereafter. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected around 40,000 people and killed more than 1,300 people in the country till now. All commercial passenger flights have been suspended for the lockdown period. However, cargo flights, medical evacuation flights and special flights permitted by the aviation regulator DGCA are allowed to operate. "Initially, once the lockdown is over, the commercial passenger flights will be operating from Terminal 3 only. Later, once the number of flights increases, other terminals will be used," the DIAL official said. The DIAL would be preparing stringent standard operating procedures (SOPs) for food, beverage and retail shops in order to ensure social distancing, the exit plan noted. The operator will promote digital payments and digital menus at various outlets to minimise human contact. Moreover, DIAL would encourage usage of self-ordering kiosks at the food court to reduce queues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-airport-to-resume-flights-from-terminal-3-amid-lockdown-30-will-allot-entry-gates-check-in-bays-to-airlines-833055.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Congress will return to power in MP after bypolls, says former Chief Minister Kamal Nath||Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Sunday claimed that the Congress will sweep in the forthcoming by elections and return to power in Madhya Pradesh. Talking to reporters via videoconferencing,  the senior Congress leader said  the party will win 20-22 seats out of the 24 seats where by-elections are due. “Will this government be able to survive after that?” he asked. The 15-month-old Kamal Nath government fell on March 22 after 22 Congress MLAs defected to the Congress and joined the BJP led by disgruntled leader Jyotiraditya Scindia.  “Today, voters are aware. Although they stay quiet, they understand what is happening around them and refuse to be deceived,” the former chief minister said. Nath also claimed many BJP leaders were in touch with him. “When the time is right, they will come out,” he said. The ousted chief minister denied the allegation that his government fell because many Congress MLAs were disgruntled as he did not care for their pleas.  “I don’t think our MLAs were upset with anyone. I hadn’t outsourced my government like the previous one, but was running it on my own. We had a renewed vision.” Expressing concern on the prevailing COVID-19 situation in the state, Nath dared the BJP government to declare the number of ventilators, PPE kits and testing kits it had procured. “There is delay in testing at least by 10 days, by when a fit person can easily contract the illness at a hospital,” he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-will-return-to-power-in-mp-after-bypolls-says-former-chief-minister-kamal-nath-833056.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||UP cops torture mentally challenged youth||On a day when the Indian Air Force conducted flypasts across the country to honour health workers and others, including the police, who were battling the coronavirus, a video, showing brutal torture of a mentally challenged youth by two Uttar Pradesh cops, went viral on the social media. This left the UP government red faced. The video shows the two cops kicking the youth, identified as Sunil Yadav, a resident of Bibamau village in UP's Etawah district, about 250 kilometres from Lucknow, in the face and also crushing his face under their boots. One of the cops was later suspended and a probe was ordered into the incident, a senior police official, who termed the torture as 'light force', said on Sunday. According to reports, the cops had gone to the village upon receiving a complaint that Sunil had assaulted some residents. The cops claimed that, when confronted, Sunil, who they said was a ''drug addict'', attacked them with knife. ''We had to use light force to neutralise the threat,'' the official said quoting the two cops. The video, however, tells a different story. The mentally challenged youth could be seen begging for mercy as the cops kicked him, crushed his face with their boots and beat him with a lathi. In another incident, the cops in the same district ordered a mentally challenged youth, who was found to be violating the lockdown, to treat them with a dance performance on a popular desi number. A police outpost in-charge was suspended in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cops-torture-mentally-challenged-youth-833063.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Ram Madhav warns Pakistan against anti-India, pro-terrorism campaign||The post-COVID19 world order will be "markedly different" and it will be in Pakistan's own interest to change its actions like supporting terrorism, BJP General Secretary Ram Madhav said on Sunday, asserting that India knows how to handle such countries. In an exclusive interview to PTI, he also said that there will be a flight of capital from China in the post-pandemic phase and India will be an attractive destination for investments by global corporate giants. Strongly rejecting allegations of "Islamophobia" in India, Madhav said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is enjoying the support of all communities in the fight against coronavirus and those suffering from "Modi-phobia" are trying to communalise the country's discourse. In an apparent reference allegation of Muslims being targeted for the spurt in COVID-19 cases after a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, the BJP general secretary said: "It will not be fair to blame an entire religious community for perceived mistakes of some members of a group. It doesn't help the community and country at large." On Pakistan, Madhav said the country has not relented on its anti-India and pro-terror campaigns even when the entire world is focusing on dealing with the coronavirus crisis. “It shows that somewhere something is hugely amiss in Pakistan's leadership. It doesn't want to improve relations with India,” he said. Madhav said Pakistan itself will be forced to decided what place it wants in the post-COVID19 global order. “It is as much a question to Pakistan as much to China.” He further said: “It will be in Pakistan's own interest to change its actions in the emerging new world order and India knows how to handle such nations.” Pakistan has been unrelenting in its efforts to push militants into India as there have been rising incidents of unprovoked firing by Pakistan military along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir in the last few weeks notwithstanding the coronavirus crisis, according to military officials. Talking about China, Madhav said he felt many companies will move out of the neighbouring country in the wake of the coronavirus crisis and India will be an attractive destination for them. “In the post COVID period there will be a flight of capital from China and India will certainly be an attractive destination for them,” he said. The BJP leader said the allegations of “Islamophobia are nothing but some sort of propaganda and are not based on the ground reality.” There has been a wave of angry reactions on Twitter by leading citizens and rights activists from various Arab countries following allegations that Muslims are being blamed for spreading COVID-19 in several parts of India. The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, a powerful bloc of 57 countries, recently accused India of "Islamophobia". India rejected the charges as regrettable. Crediting Modi's leadership for effectively handling the pandemic, Madhav said: "India has set a shining example that how visionary leadership, democratic governance and popular support can work together to face such challenges.” He said one of the major reasons for successful handling of coronavirus crisis is that the country is "unitedly" standing behind the government. Referring to surveys showing higher approval ratings for Modi among global leaders, Madhav said they reflected that he is enjoying the support of Muslims, Christians and all other minorities. “Look at the way the country has responded to his clarion calls to light lamps or clap for corona warriors. But some elements are trying to communalise the discourse as they are suffering from Modi-phobia,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-madhav-warns-pakistan-against-anti-india-pro-terrorism-campaign-833077.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan reports 3 coronavirus deaths, 60 new positive cases||Rajasthan reported three more coronavirus deaths on Sunday, while 60 people tested positive for the virus, officials said. Two deaths were reported in Jaipur and one in Pratapgarh, taking the total number of fatalities in the state to 71, including 40 alone in Jaipur. Of the 60 fresh cases, 27 are from Jodhpur, 17 from Jaipur, five from Udaipur, three from Chittorgarh, two each in Ajmer, Bharatpur and Pratapgarh and one each from Kota and Dungarpur, according to a state government official. With this, the total number of positive cases in the state has climbed to 2,832.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-reports-3-coronavirus-deaths-60-new-positive-cases-833078.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||SC to take up plea against burial of COVID-19 deceased||The Supreme Court on Monday is going to consider a plea against burial of the bodies of those who died of COVID-19 at three cemeteries of Mumbai's Bandra area due to the potential catastrophe that may befall upon the residents living in densely populated surrounding area. A bench of Justices R F Nariman and Indira Banerjee would take up on May 4 a special leave petition filed by Pradeep Gandhy. The petitioner submitted that there is no study or research to say with certainty that the infection would not spread from the buried infected bodies through the soil and underground water to the neighboring areas.  "Even though there may be no scientific basis to the contrary, it is precautionary in nature and imperative to be “safe rather than sorry” in extraordinary times such as the present situation where there is no cure to the disease," he contended. The petitioner challenged validity of the Bombay High Court's order of April 27, refusing to stay burial of such deceased at Ward Konkani Muslim Cemetery no. 80, Khoja Sunnat Jamat Kabrastan. Bandra West and Khoja Isna Asheri Jamaat Kabrastan, Bandra West. "In the absence of any interim protection the petitioners’ writ petition would be infructuous as the burial process will continue and irreversible damage would be caused to the neighbouring area if the COVID-19 virus spreads due to the infected buried bodies," the plea claimed. The petitioner claimed the state government had originally issued a circular on March 30, directing that all COVID-19-infected deceased should be cremated and not buried, to avoid the risk of spreading of infection. However, due to undisclosed reasons, it modified this circular, and issued a fresh on April 9, 2020, permitting burial to take place in 20 notified cemeteries.     He submitted that the present unprecedented health situation ought to take precedence over the religious rights of the deceased’s family members seeking to bury the deceased at the subject cemeteries.  In the context of shifting of graves of Muslims vis-à-vis their right to religion under Article 25 and 26 of the Constitution, the Court has consistently reiterated the fact that such right must be subject to public order and health of the larger community, the petitioner said. He also pointed out across the world the different government has advised on cremating the body of deceased who have died due to COVID-19 infection. Notably, Muslim scholars' group Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind has filed a plea to oppose the petition, saying  the apprehension that burial of such persons would risk the spread of infection in the vicinity was "unfounded".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-take-up-plea-against-burial-of-covid-19-deceased-833092.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||With 35 more positive patients, COVID-19 cross 700-mark||COVID-19 cases crossed the 700-mark in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday as 35 more people tested positive for the virus in the Union Territory. According to officials, 34 of the new coronavirus patients are from Kashmir while one COVID-19 case was reported in the Jammu division on Sunday. Among cases in Kashmir, one is a nursing mother from southern Anantnag district, who was detected COVID-19 positive after delivering a baby at Lal Ded Hospital in Srinagar on Saturday. J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal in a tweet informed that Jammu and Kashmir increased the testing capacity, saying that over 2500 people were tested in a single day. “Finally J&K breaks the 2000 tests a day barrier. Over 2500 tests conducted in a day. New positives 35; Recoveries 33. Total Cases now 701(Kashmir 640, Jammu 61),” J&K government spokesperson," Rohit Kansal tweeted. While 24 among the new cases were tested positive for COVID-19 at the virology lab of tertiary-care SKIMS hospital, 11 cases were detected at the Government Chest Disease Hospital in Srinagar. 11 of the fresh cases are from north Kashmir’s Kupwara district followed by Anantnag with 10 cases, Budgam five, Shopain four, Baramulla two and Srinagar and Jammu one each. Jammu and Kashmir has reported eight deaths so far, seven from Kashmir and one from Jammu. The deceased include an expecting mother from Anantnag who tested positive for COVID-19 after her death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-35-more-positive-patients-covid-19-cross-700-mark-833098.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||With 66 new COVID-19 cases, Haryana records highest single-day spike||Haryana on Sunday registered its highest single-day increase in coronavirus cases with 66 new infections, taking the COVID-19 tally to 442, officials said. Majority of the new cases are from NCR districts -- Faridabad, Gurgaon, Sonipat and Jhajjar. Eighteen fresh cases were reported from Sonipat, 12 from Faridabad, nine from Gurgaon, 11 from Panipat, two each from Jhajjar and Palwal, four from Fatehabad, two from Yamunanagar and six from Jind, according to the state health department's daily bulletin. Three doctors from Sonipat, four scribes from Panipat and four pilgrims from Fatehabad who returned from Hazur Sahib Gurdwara in Nanded, Maharashtra are among those infected with the virus, officials said. This was the highest single-day spike in cases, with previous being close to 30 last month. Haryana's recovery rate, which had been one of the best in the country, dropped from 72 per cent to 55.43 per cent on Sunday, the official said. According to the bulletin, 245 patients have been discharged from hospitals. Expressing concern over the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the state, Health Minister Anil Vij said, "If Chief Minister M L Khattar asks me, I would advise him to put in stricter measures in view of the fresh developments." Haryana has maintained that many of the coronavirus cases in its NCR districts have their origins in infections emanating from the national capital and authorities had ordered sealing of the districts with Delhi to check spread of infection. The worst-affected districts of the state with maximum number of positive cases are Faridabad (73), Gurgaon (72), Nuh (58), Sonipat (44), Jhajjar (42) and Palwal (36). The number of fatalities due to COVID-19 stands at five. Among the total 442 coronavirus cases in Haryana, 64 are from other states and 24 are foreign nationals. Out of these 24 foreigners, 13 Italian tourists have been discharged from hospitals, while one elderly woman died last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-66-new-covid-19-cases-haryana-records-highest-single-day-spike-833141.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||6.44 lakh stranded migrants in Punjab wish to return to their homes||More than six lakh migrants stuck in Punjab due to the coronavirus lockdown have applied with the state government for returning to their respective states, official said on Sunday. Most of them are migrant labourers from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand, they said.  The state has around 10 lakh migrant workers, of which 7 lakh are in Ludhiana alone. The Punjab government had asked those who wish to return to their native places to apply online and 6,44,378 migrants have registered. According to a government data, 3.43 lakh of them are from Uttar Pradesh and 2.35 lakh from Bihar. Over 10,000 people have registered to return to Jharkhand and West Bengal and 5,000 migrants wish to go back to Jammu and Kashmir, the data said.  Migrants have also registered to return to Andaman and Nicobar, Arunachal Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Goa, Nagaland, Sikkim, Puducherry, among other states and union territories. Earlier this week, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) allowed the states to ferry migrant labourers, students and tourists back home in buses or special trains||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/644-lakh-stranded-migrants-in-punjab-wish-to-return-to-their-homes-833144.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||SAD, Congress leaders trade barbs as over 600 Nanded pilgrims contract coronavirus||A war of words erupted between Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Sunday as the state’s coronavirus count crossed 1,000 with over 600 Sikh pilgrims returning from Maharashtra's Nanded testing positive for the infection. While Majithia accused the state government of "mismanaging" the return of the pilgrims from the Nanded's Hazur Sahib gurdwara and sought the minister's sacking, Sidhu hit back at the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), daring its leaders to apologise for their “misleading propaganda”. So far, 609 of the 4,000 pilgrims who recently returned from Nanded have tested positive for coronavirus.   Health Minister Sidhu in a statement here said the pilgrims contracted the disease before entering Punjab while stressing that 'sewadars' of the gurdwara have also tested positive for the virus. Religious leaders have testified that Nanded pilgrims were tested in Maharashtra but the Punjab government did not receive any test report from the state government till now, said Sidhu, who is under fire from the Opposition. Lashing out at SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and former state minister Bikram Singh Majithia, Sidhu accused them of “indulging in political one-upmanship” over a sensitive issue, that too “without verifying facts”. “These leaders unnecessarily hyped this issue by spreading this propaganda that pilgrims are being labelled as coronavirus positive as part of a conspiracy,” said Sidhu. By politicising this issue, Akali leaders were not only trying to demoralise all frontline warriors who are going beyond their call of duty to save Punjab but also giving false and fabricated comments over such a sensitive issue, Sidhu alleged. Sidhu said there is no need to worry or panic after the spike in cases with the return of pilgrims. He said the pilgrims have been given the best treatment and also assured that the state will recover from the challenge just as it did first from situations arising out of the return of foreigners and then Tablighi Jamaat members. Meanwhile, Majithia asked Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to sack Sidhu from the cabinet. Majithia alleged that Sidhu had started defaming the pilgrims by stating that they had spoiled all the good work done by the Punjab government in controlling COVID-19. Stating that the "good work" of the Health Department has already been exposed by health workers who had “failed” to get PPE kits and facilities like ambulances and ventilators, the Akali leader said Sidhu has proven to be “utterly incompetent” and should quit his post immediately. Majithia claimed that it was a fact that the Punjab government did not follow the ICMR guidelines while repatriating the pilgrims. He said air-conditioned buses were used against established norms. "Social distancing was not followed. The buses came through red zones and it was because of this mishandling that pilgrims, who were in good health in Nanded for more than one month, tested positive for COVID-19 on their return to Punjab", claimed Majithia. He said this had also been borne out by the statement of Congress minister from Maharashtra Ashok Chavan who blamed the Punjab government for the plight of the pilgrims. Majithia said the Congress-led government had first targeted NRIs and was now targeting Sikhs. "If the state government commits mistakes in repatriation by mishandling the operation, it should not try to put the blame on others," he said. He also sought from the Punjab government to shift the pilgrims to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee 'sarais' for quarantine purposes. He claimed that the pilgrims from Nanded have been quarantined in unhygienic government facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-congress-leaders-trade-barbs-as-over-600-nanded-pilgrims-contract-coronavirus-833176.html
03-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: At 427 cases, Delhi records highest single-day spike||Delhi on Sunday added 427 more COVID-19 cases, the highest for a single day, taking the total number of cases to 4,549. No deaths were reported during the day while 106 people were discharged from hospitals following their recovery. The national capital recorded 1,034 cases in the first three days of May -- 223 on May 1 followed by 384 on Saturday and 427 on Sunday. Saturday's figure was the highest for a single day before Sunday's figure overtook it. Authorities are attributing the rise in numbers to aggressive testing even as the health bulletins issued by Delhi government's Health Department has not been giving statistics on testing since April 29. The total toll remained at 64 while the number of those who have discharged has risen to 1,362. The figures came on a day Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the national capital will have all relaxations provided by the Centre for red zones. Entire Delhi has been profiled as a red zone even as Kejriwal appealed to the Centre to classify the capital a green zone barring those localities declared as containment zones. Delhi had crossed the 1000-mark on April 11 when it registered 1,093 cases. It had taken eight days from April 19 (2,003 cases) to cross the 3,000 mark. It took just five days from April 27 (3,108 cases) to add another 1,000 cases to cross the 4,000 mark. Between April 19 and 25, an analysis of the figures provided in medical bulletins showed that there were 752 cases during the week. Between April 26 and May 2, there were 1314 cases reported. On April 26, Delhi had reported 111 cases while it rose to 190 and 206 in the next two days. On April 29, the number of cases came down to 125 and the next day, it further decreased to 76, before recording a jump on May 1 and May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-at-427-cases-delhi-records-highest-single-day-spike-833189.html
03-05-2020||Opinion||What might you have learnt at Dewan Purnaiya’s Yelandur home?||As every researcher of history learns very quickly in India, scorpions and snakes, rather than trained archivists or cataloguers, are often in charge of archives that remain unexplored -- disinterest, masked as fear or superstition, effectively preserves the material from all but the most persistent scholars. So, when Tahsin Ahmed, the tahsildar of Yelandur in 1987, decided to risk entering the locked and neglected white building in the centre of Yelandur town, to track down an old file from the then Taluk Cutcherry, he was taking on an old fear of a hairy snake that purportedly guarded Purnaiya’s long-lost treasure. What he stumbled on went far beyond the greedy fantasies of bounty hunters. The hairy snake remained elusive, and may have been no more than an overactive imagination that had encountered cobwebs. Medium-sized grey trunks did hold treasure, and coins, Ahmed recalls, but it was the black cloth manuscripts covered with chalk writing that were the sensational archival find. The records – as material objects – were themselves unusual, each one a black cloth-covered board measuring 15 feet in length, and folded in an accordion style for easy storage. Inscribed in white chalk were the meticulous records of the transactions of the Yelandur Jagir, an inam of 46 villages that was gratefully given in 1807 to Dewan Purnaiya by the British. For serving his new masters well, paying the subsidy on time and accumulating a surplus in the treasury. The kadathas (as the black books were called) of the Yelandur Jagir, were donated in two jeep-loads to the Mysore Divisional Archives Office, attracting the attention of a handful of scholars. Purnaiya’s residence in Yelandur is a dignified colonial building, with an arched doorway replete with Corinthian columns, flanked by two similarly ornamented doorways, this time with pediment and entablature as well. The upper storey is simpler, with a series of arched and pilastered windows flanking a deep verandah, with arched openings. The two clockfaces on either end of the building publicly announce the arrival of modern clocktime. Since Ahmed’s bold entry (which regrettably earned him no laurels but only a ‘show cause’ notice!), the house fell once more into neglect until recently renovated by the heritage commissioner to become a historical museum. One searches in vain for an engaging encounter with one of Mysore’s important statesmen and administrators, and above all with a formative period of Mysore history. Purnaiya was among Tipu Sultan’s senior-most and trusted administrators, after having served Haider Ali; he transitioned to serve the (initially) minor Krishnaraja Wodeyar III until 1811 as the Dewan of princely Mysore, under the watch of the British. The museum, however, reveals no sign of this critical transition, and Purnaiya’s unique place in it. What we have is an eclectic collection of images – ironically, largely of the 20th century Wodeyars -- some historical records (largely, copies of typed 20th century official documents from the Karnataka State Archives), random images of Mysore monuments, sculptures, and some inscriptions pertaining to Chamarajanagar district. Another surprising inclusion is the copies of traditional Mysore paintings. Only small remnants remain of the beautiful original tiling, vigorously replaced by bright spartek tiles. The two-storeyed structure reveals no trace of that treasure trove of kadatha records, and what they might tell us about the socio-economic and cultural frameworks that Purnaiya himself may have shaped. Imaginative museology would not only have engaged with historical writing on this period, but also possibly have brought this structure into conversation with another structure from another time, serving quite another purpose, which nestles just below this stately mansion. It is the ornate 16th century Gaurishwara temple at Yelandur, whose darker stone offsets the white of the Purnaiya museum. It is a late Vijayanagar monument, in which the mahadwara seems to have traded thegopura for the large interlocked (and monolithic, jointless) stone rings that give it its name – bale mantapa. The much simpler temples within the courtyard speak of multiple layers of building over the 16th and 17th centuries. At first sight, nothing links the two structures, in either form, materials used or in their communication of power – one thickly encrusted with reference to Hindu myths and scriptures, the other marking a secular modernity. That link can only be the result of a creative museologist, who is interested not just in conservation, or in undiluted regional pride, but in what visitors can be made to critically think about. How do these texts of power relate to the rich agricultural landscape of which they are a part? What were the diverse local commercial, political, religious and cultural interests that waxed and waned over four centuries, to which these monuments have been witness? How, above all, do the people of Yelandur themselves remember these histories, and relate to these important historical monuments? This is an approach that will yield unexpected and delightful results, which will reward and stimulate the visitor to Yelandur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-might-you-have-learnt-at-dewan-purnaiya-s-yelandur-home-832906.html
03-05-2020||Opinion||Fatalism, fear and the coronavirus||In my 20s, I naively thought I could control my life and it would turn out how I envisaged. However, it turned out I was wrong. Life had something very different in store for me. A series of unplanned events propelled me to take a leap of faith into the unfamiliar, where I often felt like I was being guided by a powerful intangible force -- a force that I hadn’t known existed. Living in India has been an enlightening journey of adjustment. I’ve experienced events that would be unfathomable for me back in Australia -- a devastating sweeping terrorist attack on my city (Mumbai), debilitating dengue fever and malaria, and the trials and tribulations of a surprise demonetisation. I’ve also witnessed the ongoing tragedies that have given rise to Mumbai being repetitively lauded for its indomitable “spirit”. The floods, the building and bridge collapses, the fires, the stampedes, and the routine hardships.   The coronavirus grimly shocked the western world, by snatching its freedom and penetrating its illusion of invincibility with death. I’m surprised how calm I am about the virus. To me, it’s just another adversity to be faced and dealt with. A tragedy happens somewhere every day in India. Yet, people pick themselves up and resiliently continue on. They have no choice. More than that though, they’re empowered by the belief that their fate is already set. When and how they will die is out of their hands. There’s nothing they can do about it. Although this fatalistic attitude largely belongs to India’s working-class poor, it’s what gives me the greatest stability in this extreme era of uncertainty. If my time is up, a mask and sanitiser won’t save me. If it’s not up, I’ll survive.   The reality is that the virus isn’t going to disappear anytime soon in India, where it has proved impossible to enforce social distancing in densely crowded areas. The lockdown can only hold back the spread of the virus for so long, while economic distress deepens and job losses grow. Many experts now believe that the infection is far more prevalent than initially thought, given the number of people showing only mild symptoms or none at all. Without broad testing, no one can be certain what we’re dealing with. Decisions are being driven by fear, rather than conclusive information, and the harsh truth is that there’s no guaranteed solution to the problem. Nevertheless, we are going to have to get on with our lives sooner rather than later. And, we’re going to have to do it alongside the virus, taking whatever precautions we deem necessary. Deaths will inevitably occur -- if not from the virus, from economic depression and destitution. The possibilities are scary, no doubt. So, how do we not be overwhelmed by fear? By adjusting to what can’t be changed. The virus is just one more thing, out of many, that has the potential to kill us. I’m not pessimistic or hopeless about it. I’ll keep looking after my health and behaving responsibly. However, I’m not going to stress myself out over the existence of the virus. What control do we really have over how our life ends anyway? Even an innocuous act of supposed free will can bring us to our death. Take for example, the Mumbai doctor who decided to wade through waterlogged streets to reach home during the monsoon a few years ago. He fell into an open manhole and got washed away down the drain. When your time is up, indeed it’s up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/fatalism-fear-and-the-coronavirus-832907.html
03-05-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus: It took a virus to show, a man’s place is in the kitchen||It was mid-morning. I was glued to Doordarshan channel, watching the great archer Arjuna, for now all feminine and with red painted lips as Brihannala, teaching delicate dance moves to princess Uttara; and He-Man Bheema come out of a palace kitchen with a ladle in his hand. His wife, erstwhile queen Draupadi, her luxurious hair untied, is waiting with flaming eyes to give him a piece of her mind – this, a scene out of Mahabharat, the mega-hit TV serial of the 90s that airs twice a day to keep ‘We, the locked-down people of India,’ at home. Bheema was stirring the ‘bhojan’ pot nicely, when my phone rang. It was a close friend from Mumbai -- a man from the media world, who lives all by himself. “Listen, I am trying to make small-onion sambhar, ok? I have kept everything here near the stove, the tomatoes, tamarind & sambhar powder, ready-made, I mean. Just go on telling me the sequence in which I have to put things in? And say it slowly.” My eyes still on master-chef Bheema, I rattled out the recipe to this suave, flamboyant friend, who now sounded like an unsure schoolboy taking down missed class notes. Ever since the lockdown began on March 24, ‘recipes’ have peaked to an all-time high in online searches. Google Trends showed that both coffee and pani puri witnessed a 120% rise in searches. Uttapam and hummus were first-rankers too, but none more than a Korean coffee that took the world by storm this season, rhyming with Corona –- Dalgona. I am not sure what the big deal is about this milky-sweet frothy coffee since Korean actor Jung Il-woo showed how to make it, but what I am sure of is this: Men have morphed in this Covid phase into cooking-cleaning-chopping (& coconut-scraping) creatures like never before in history. Every woman’s dream! Except, are they? One friend actually posted a picture of the coconut he had cracked using a hammer, like it was a war trophy, and the ‘eelige maney’ (the centuries-old South Indian iron implement attached to a wooden seat), that he sat down to scrape the hard nut with. Another posted a grand picture of a…roti, and the process of how he had made it round. Two dozen comments commended him on the heroic effort. I laughed out loud reading this to the husband, who unsmilingly looked into my eyes: “Do not overestimate the skill of getting a roti right.” Well, if you try to keep 130 crore people locked up at home, what else will we do if not talk food all the time? Besides watching Netflix, playing Ludo, and ordering condoms and pregnancy kits apparently, as the media reported. So, have all the dish-washing men and kids left the ladies to put their feet up, twirling hair and colouring their nails? Not if you were to read messages on women’s WhatsApp groups, one of which read: “I want to push my husband & the daughter out of the house. They are nice and all, but getting on my nerves.” With schools showing no signs of opening, online projects promptly arriving, parents, especially moms, can’t wait to run off to office. Except, most companies are now so much at home with ‘work from home’ that home will be the office even when offices open. Cranky kids’ shrieks, men slipping on shirts on their boxer pants and women wearing jackets right over their nighties, is all legit on video-conference calls. And then comes WWW: World-wide, Webinar, the new virus that will whack humanity even after Corona goes away. ‘Webinarred’ might be an actual disorder psychiatrists will have to figure a cure for. Remember, you read it here first. So that’s a gist of how we have held up so far. Vanity took a backseat. Selfies vanished, flashbacks flourished. Someone even came up with Me@20 -- a challenge on social media that asks you to post a picture of you as a 20-year-old, in dewdrop-fresh youth; not of the new-and-now you, when salons and beauty parlours lie sealed, that have left your face and hair with one or more of the fifty shades of grey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-it-took-a-virus-to-show-a-man-s-place-is-in-the-kitchen-832908.html
03-05-2020||Opinion||Embracing, integrating the North East||A recent article by young law student Thangminlal (Lalcha) Haokip in Round Table India asks a provocative question: Is there space for the North-Eastern identity in student politics in Indian universities? Drawing on his own experience and of others from the North-East hill tribes, he finds that the four main streams of political thought in mainland university politics (Hindu right-wing, feminism, Marxism and Ambedkarite) offer little to the peoples of the North-East hill tribes. Not for lack of trying, he points out -- their concerns, worldviews, positions and articulation are all entirely alien to those from India’s geographical margins. This is a superbly written and thought-provoking article and has found broad agreement among those from the region. Haokip extends his argument to Indian politics in general -- none of the major streams of political thought have found a way to reach out to and create a space for the North-Eastern identity in the larger Indian politics. The Congress and BJP may have won a lot of seats and elections in the region, but this has been the result of horse-trading and coalition-building, a pragmatic rather than a principled accommodation. How did the framers of the Constitution think about the issue of creating space for the North-Eastern identity within the larger Indian identity. Areas of the North-East (they were not all distinct states then) were to be governed by the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution. These provisions give such regions a form of autonomous government, creating district councils and regional councils for the areas covered by the Schedule. They are like the tribal areas in the rest of India, which are covered under the Fifth Schedule, with a key difference: Fifth Schedule areas are notified and under the executive supervision of the Union government; Sixth Schedule areas are under the state governments. As with the Fifth Schedule, the Sixth Schedule is also the result of the tireless efforts of a remarkable gentleman who has been somewhat forgotten: Reverend JJM Nichols Roy. A member of the Khasi tribe of what is now Meghalaya, he was the only representative of all the North-East hill tribes in the Constituent Assembly. He, like Jaideep Singh Munda for the Adivasis, was a firm advocate of the tribal way of life finding its own space under the Constitution. Unsurprisingly, then as now, provisions of the Sixth Schedule were met with fierce resistance by members of the Constituent Assembly, most notably those from Assam who seemed to think that Naga hill tribes (among others) were head-hunting “primitives” who needed to be dragged, kicking and screaming, into “modernity” by the Indian State. Rev. Roy, however, responded to this outpouring of bile with calm and reasoned points. As someone who believed in the Indian State and the principles of fraternity and equality it chose to espouse, Rev. Roy defended the culture of the hill tribes as one which was arguably superior in many ways to the culture in the Indian plains. He argued that the way forward for Indian peoples, whether of the plains or of the hill tribes, was to put themselves in the other’s shoes and understand their ambitions and aspirations with empathy and love, not fear or disgust. He believed that the compromise in the Sixth Schedule was a great way to preserve local culture and unify India and give the two groups of cultures an opportunity to live with each other harmoniously. Rev. Roy’s vision, however, is still to be fulfilled. At the political level, mainland India is still unwilling to put itself in the shoes of the North-East peoples and engage with them as equals, preferring violence and intimidation to empathy and understanding. This approach extends to the average individual also. The Indian State and people of the rest of the country have made little effort to understand the cultures and ways of living of the North-East. This has taken a sinister turn now when they are called offensive names and attacked by mobs as has happened following the outbreak of Covid-19. Even as more and more people from the North-East move to settle in mainland India, there’s a need perhaps to think beyond a pragmatic, grudging accommodation and think of ways to embrace the peoples of the North-East. While anti-racism legislations might help discourage some of the worst behaviours directed toward them, it is also incumbent on the Indian government and civil society to find ways to engage politically, culturally and socially with the North-East peoples on a large scale. That is the only way Rev. Roy’s vision will be fulfilled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/embracing-integrating-the-north-east-832909.html
03-05-2020||Opinion||Three fallacies, one great tragedy||A lot of people ask, what can I do to help during the pandemic? For most of them, the only practical answer is to think about the next one and prepare for it better than we did this time. A fast-spreading virus which could kill large numbers of people was not entirely unexpected. Nonetheless, we didn't expect it. Why? There are three fallacies that accompany people's lives, in a lot of situations. First, people tell themselves that 'nothing bad will happen'. This is clearly not true, since we can plainly see an abundance of unfortunate things happening all the time. To avert their eyes from this, people tell themselves: 'nothing bad will happen to me'. This is slightly more tenable. While it is true that accidents and crimes and many other things happen all the time, it seems plausible that they might not happen to us. The percentages are favourable, we tell ourselves. People don't wear helmets, they do wheelies on their bikes, they go swimming in waters they don't understand...the list is long. And then there's the third fallacy. People know, even if they do not admit it to others, that bad things do happen and they can sometimes happen to them. But they comfort themselves, 'nothing so bad will happen to me that I cannot recover from it'. This might work for a tumble from your bicycle or a coconut falling out of a tree on to your head, but it is less true if you're hit by a tsunami or a coronavirus pandemic. Why do we believe these things? They're plainly not true. One explanation is that these may serve a psychological function. Perhaps it is comforting to look away from the things that could go wrong, but that doesn't really make those risks disappear. It just keeps them out of our sight. About thirty years ago, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was formed, and since then we've seen a steady stream of research and news reminding us that we're heading to a climate management cliff's edge. We've not only known the problem, we've even known many of the solutions all these years. But that hasn't stopped us from hurtling on, with emissions bringing us ever closer to irreversible harm. Not only climate change, Covid-19 is a mirror to our inaction on so many fronts. We've told ourselves repeatedly that doomsday will not arrive, that it will perhaps arrive in another country or neighbourhood even if it does, and that in the unlikely event of it hitting us directly, we'll somehow find a way past it. And then, along comes a virus that swats each of those aside before we can take a breath. And now we're scrambling. We've got to stock our hospitals with ventilators and buy enough protection kits for medical workers. We've got to conduct high-speed scientific research to find a drug or a vaccine that can help, we've got to keep people alive while their livelihoods are tumbling, we've got to do so much just to feel there's a chance to be normal again. Was it worth it? Can we look back now and say that our inattention to really important things, despite the risks being pointed out by so many, were simply a combination of hubris and madness? Can we really treat this as the third fallacy, and say that it's alright as long as we eventually get back on our feet? Not really. By failing to prepare, we have prepared to fail -- this is the only lesson we can learn now. Perhaps, in the aftermath of such devastation, we will invest more in public health and scientific research, we will ensure better housing for the millions who migrate for work, we will get serious about poverty and livelihoods on the edge. And perhaps, in doing all this, we'll avert a million small instances of avoidable suffering, and even the next pandemic. In the last century, we've made tremendous progress. There are things we know today that we were totally wrong about even a hundred years ago, and there are things mankind can do today which were unthinkable then. But that isn't enough. The frontier isn't only technological anymore. It's social, and political, and moral. It can happen again. It can happen not only to others, but also to us. And it can hurt millions of us so badly that we may not recover from it, ever. If we begin to believe that, and our choices and actions demonstrate that in the future, then perhaps the great tragedy of Covid-19 will have a small silver lining.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/three-fallacies-one-great-tragedy-832910.html
03-05-2020||Panorama||Post-COVID, farmers will be in distress, revamp APMC laws ||Amidst a nationwide lockdown announced on March 24, 2020 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease, even as an overwhelming share of the economic activity has come to a grinding halt, agriculture too has suffered a major jolt. The crisis has come at a time when Rabi crop (October 2019 – March 2020) mostly winter staple wheat, is ready for harvest. While on one hand-harvesting operation have suffered due to shortage of labour (courtesy, sudden stoppage of all modes of transport and workers getting stuck where they were), on the other, farmers are unable to move harvested crop to the market.  According to an estimate, already they have suffered the loss of about Rs 15,000 crore (due to crashing prices of horticulture crops such as fruits, vegetables etc, besides wastage due to lack of buying). In view of the extension of the lockdown for this is expected to increase to over Rs 50,000 crore.  The government has exempted agricultural activities from the purview now. It has also made elaborate arrangements for procurement of wheat under the MSP (minimum support price scheme) programme and asked states to start procuring 25% of pulses and oilseeds under its price support scheme. Besides, under the market intervention scheme (MIS), it has issued orders to compensate horticulture farmers for a dip in wholesale prices. But has it thought through a major impediment that farmers face even in normal times? This has to do with a highly restrictive legislation – the APMC (Agriculture Produce Market Committee) Act. The Act empowers state governments to specify market areas where farmers bring their produce for sale. These are operated and regulated by market committees. There are a total of about 5,000 such markets (mandis).    The stated objective of the APMCs is to promote organised marketing of farm commodities to ensure fair play, achieve an efficient system of buying and selling of commodities, protect farmers from intermediaries and traders and to ensure better prices and timely payment for the produce. Far from achieving these objectives, farmers are being exploited by a network of licensed traders and middlemen who have a complete stranglehold over these platforms. While on one hand, they don’t get to sell their entire produce at the MSP on the other, no alternative platforms are available where they can sell. Even government agencies such as the Nafed (National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Limited) etc, don’t come forward to buy when the market price dips below the MSP. Actually, the problem is much deeper.     This has to do with a cozy nexus between politicians and grain traders (in many cases, the former also happen to be deeply entrenched in this business) that has existed and flourished for decades. A grain trader has a fundamental interest in ensuring that he minimises his payout to farmer for the grains he buys from him/her. He can succeed in this game plan if farmer is left high and dry by state agencies. So, he collaborates with the politicians in the ruling establishment to ensure that state agencies remain weak and de-motivated. This nexus also comes in the way of making amendment in the APMC Act to open alternative channels of selling such as private yards/markets, direct purchase centres, consumer-to-farmer markets for direct sale, contract farming, special commodity markets and promotion of public-private partnership in management and development of agricultural markets.  Giving more options to farmers for selling are included in Centre’s Model Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing – (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2017. But states have refused to budge. The revenue they get from levy of market fee on transactions at the mandis is also a major deterrent. Direct purchase Meanwhile, during a video conference with chief ministers on April 11, 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the states to suspend certain provisions of their respective APMC laws for three months to make way for purchase of farmer’s produce directly from their doorsteps by large farmers’ produce organisations, large buyers, cooperatives and individual traders.  But, so far only two states - Tamil Nadu and Karnataka - have given their consent to amend their respective APMC laws. Even if all states agree to go ahead and act promptly to issue necessary ordinance, one wonders whether the alternative channels will be able to galvanise their machinery at such short notice to complement mammoth procurement efforts of state agencies. But the bigger question is: what happens after the relaxation period (say, three months) is over? Will things be back to square one? Do the states have the gumption to let this amendment stay on the statute permanently? Should they not think in terms of dismantling the APMC Act or at the least, amending it on the lines of the Centre’s Model Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing – (Promotion & Facilitation) Act, 2017?   Much will depend on the ability of the state administrations to break the nexus between politicians and grain traders. To get a sense of whether or not they can do it, look at the following: In August 2018, the then Devendra Fadnavis government had approved amendment to the Maharashtra Agricultural Produce Marketing (Development & Regulation) Act, 1963 in line with Centre’s model Act. As per the amendment, the entire state was declared a single market instead of the earlier rule of notifying “market areas” where sale/purchase of farm commodities could take place. This would have allowed a trader to obtain a single license for purchase of farm produce from any mandi within Maharashtra. Further, it allowed trade in all farm commodities, including livestock, outside the regulated APMC wholesale markets or mandis. While this was done by promulgating an ordinance, it could not be enacted into law (in fact, the state government was forced to withdraw the bill on November 28, 2018 from the Legislative Council, a day after it was passed). In this backdrop, to expect that APMC reforms will see light of the day looks like daydreaming. (The writer is a New Delhi-based policy analyst)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/post-covid-farmers-will-be-in-distress-revamp-apmc-laws-833197.html
03-05-2020||Second Edit||COVID-19 eating into our mental health||The COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdowns have ratcheted up anxiety and depression worldwide in recent months. People are apprehensive about contracting infection. Testing positive is triggering alarm as many are wrongly interpreting this as a death sentence. In addition to heightened anxiety is this feeling of impending doom and helplessness. There have been several cases of people awaiting test results or having tested positive committing suicide. In addition to the intensification of anxiety is the prolonged sense of dread, helplessness and hopelessness.  People are watching news around the clock and this is feeding morbid and obsessive thoughts. Uncertainty over the future has been running high especially with the imposition of the lockdown and the consequent restriction on access to food and the impending loss of jobs. The past few months have not been easy for those already struggling with mental health problems. Some are dealing with an intensification of their symptoms. The pandemic has reaffirmed what used to be irrational fears in the past. The elderly, especially those with cognitive decline and dementia, are showing more anger, stress and agitation. Having to live and work within the four walls of the house all day and every day is taking a heavy toll on all of us and the fact that there is little clarity over the timeline for this ongoing surreal experience has not been easy to deal with. At the best of times, accepting and addressing mental health issues have been difficult for several reasons. For one, mental health problems are not easy to identify or diagnose. Often we tend to mask our personal struggles. Besides, there is a lot of stigma attached to mental health issues, making it difficult for those struggling with these problems to seek professional help. Additionally, countries like India face a severe shortage of trained mental health professionals.  The problem is particularly severe in rural and small towns. These challenges have intensified during the COVID-19 pandemic. People struggling with anxiety and other mental health issues are unable to access treatment and counselling because of the lockdowns. While several hospitals are providing online support for patients, such facilities cannot be accessed by those who do not have Internet facilities. COVID-19’s implications for our mental health are likely to last long after the threat posed by the coronavirus goes away. We need take it more seriously. What is visible of this problem is just the tip of the iceberg. The pandemic is eating into our mental health steadily and very insidiously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/covid-19-eating-into-our-mental-health-833190.html
03-05-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Migrant workers stage flash protest defying curbs in Chennai||Defying curbs and norms like physical distancing, migrant workers on Saturday staged a flash protest at different locations here, demanding that authorities send them to their home states like Jharkhand immediately, an official said. The workers, mostly involved in construction activities and housed at various facilities here, suddenly converged at locations, including Velachery, Pozhichallur and Guindy Industrial Estate, demanding that they be sent home, he said. Groups of people from states including Odisha and West Bengal, meanwhile, thronged the Collectorate at Vellore District, urging authorities to facilitate their return to their home towns. Approximately 3,000 people are stranded at Vellore, including Bangladeshis, most of whom had come to the city to avail treatment at the Christian Medical College Hospital.  Asked about people wishing to return to their home towns, another official merely said that TNePASS (tnepass.tnega.org) system is in place for processing requests. However, he did not elaborate. The website read: "Individuals can apply for marriage, medical emergency or close relative's death only." A large gathering of workers from various states, including Odisha and Jharkhand -engaged in various construction activities in southern suburbs- staged a demonstration at Pozhichallur. Clad in lungies and towels and sans face masks, they raised slogans, demanding that the authorities send them home. Police and revenue officials assured them that their demand would be considered expeditiously. Another protest was held at the Five Furlong Road junction in Velachery.  The protests led to anxiety for a while, the official said, adding that authorities pacified the workers and sent them back to their respective locations of stay. One more group of labourers gathered in front of a construction site at Guindy. They had worked at that site ahead of the clampdown due to COVID-19. Munna, a worker from Bihar told PTI: "We are prepared to walk all the way home if it is not possible for the government to arrange transport to our hometown. Deb, another worker from West Bengal, said he and his colleagues have been confined to an under-construction building in Velacherry for a little over a month and was struggling without wages. I cant sit idle here, without work or wages. I would rather go home to be with my family, he said. On the claims on another protest at Maduravoyal here, a police official said "no protest happened there today." Government authorities indicated that the return of guest workers was being planned and their journey to their home states through trains will be scheduled soon. However, the authorities remained tight lipped about the timing, hinting at the possibility of huge crowds of workers turning up simultaneously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-workers-stage-flash-protest-defying-curbs-in-chennai-832900.html
03-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: IAF chopper showers flower petals on Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad||Expressing the gratitude of the Defence forces to the coronavirus frontline 'warriors', an Indian Air Force helicopter showered flower petals over the state-run Gandhi Hospital here on Sunday. It was part of the nation-wide thanksgiving effort by the armed forces to honour doctors, paramedics, sanitation staff and other front-line workers battling coronavirus. At around 10.30 am, the Chetak helicopter hovered over the hospital and showered petals as doctors, nurses, paramedical, sanitation and other staff and police personnel assembled near the premises. The COVID-19 'warriors' were seen taking videos and photos from their mobile phones while some others clapped. The Gandhi Hospital is among the designated facilities in Telangana for treatment of COVID-19||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-iaf-chopper-showers-flower-petals-on-gandhi-hospital-in-hyderabad-832948.html
03-05-2020||South||IAF helicopter showers flower petals to honour coronavirus warriors in Kerala||Flower petals were showered by an Indian Air Force helicopter on two hospitals here on Sunday in honour of the front-lineworkers fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. At around 10 am, the Sarang helicopter of the IAF flew past the Government Medical College Hospital and the General Hospital here as part the nation-wide initiative by the armed forces to honour doctors, paramedics, sanitation staff and other front-line workers battling coronavirus. It hovered over a statue of 'motherand child' at the medical college hospital and moved towards the main entrance showering petals. The lightweight chopper flew past over the hospital once again and left for the General Hospital to honour the COVID-19 warriors there. A Defence release said the "Indian Coast Guard will honour the front-line workers by illuminating the Coast Guard Ships (Dress Overall) at Shangumugom Area on May 2 and 3 from 6.15 p.m to 8.30 p.m."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iaf-helicopter-showers-flower-petals-to-honour-coronavirus-warriors-in-kerala-832959.html
03-05-2020||South||58 fresh coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh; Total mounts to 1,583||A major COVID-19 hotbed Kurnool continued to be a cause for worry as it contributed 30 out of the 58 fresh cases reported in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday as the state's aggregate rose further to 1,583. The latest health department bulletin said 47 patients got discharged from hospitals in different districts and there was no fresh death reported in the state where the toll remained at 33. With this, the total number of those discharged in the state went up to 488 and the active cases stood at 1,062. COVID-19 cases kept mounting in Kurnool district, touching 466, as local transmission of the virus continued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/58-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-total-mounts-to-1583-832979.html
03-05-2020||South||'Learn to live with coronavirus': Telangana minister KT Rama Rao; Seeks Rs 4,000 Cr from Centre for Pharma City||Stressing that people will have to "learn to live with coronavirus" until a vaccine or drug is invented, Telangana Minister for IT and Industries KT Rama Rao has said the Centre needs to extend help to states for infra creation to access newer avenues as many companies across the globe are on the lookout for new geographies as part of de-risking strategy post-COVID-19 situation. The suave leader said the Telangana government sought about Rs 4,000 crore from the centre for providing infrastructure at the upcoming "Pharma City" near here to make it a world-class facility following the increased importance of drug and vaccine manufacturing facilities due to COVID-19 pandemic. "There are two important things to understand. First is that we have to come to realisation and conclusion that till such time that a vaccine or drug is discovered, tried and tested and is proved, we have to learn to live with this virus." "Let us come to that understanding first that no matter how much we would like to get rid of this virus, the fact is that there is no vaccine," the southern satrap told PTI in an interview. Maintaining that there should not be a "toss between lives and livelihood," KTR, son of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, said the whole world is now appreciating India for its strategies to contain the coronavirus spread and that made attractive new investments into the country as many big corporates are looking to expand newer geographies as part of their de-risking policy. He said India compared to other countries, is doing well in containing the virus spread because of the lockdown and with the concerted efforts both by the Centre and states, the curve has been flattened. "There are silver linings also in this cloud. I think India has a great opportunity to grab a big manufacturing piece from China. Also, India was appreciated for the way the coronavirus spread was handled. All of these will put us in a good light," he opined. KTR said he already wrote a letter to Union Minister for Railways and Commerce Piyush Goyal requesting the Centre to invest more in industrial corridors with self-contained township which would be insulated in case of any pandemics. "Hyderabad Pharma City project can be a project for international interests. So is Kakatiya Mega Textile Park at Warangal. We need, just for Pharma City, 900 megawatts of power. We need about Rs 1,200 to Rs 2,000 crore on just power. I need another 2000 crore for water provision," the minister said. He said in Telangana the rate of recovery from the virus is much higher than the rate of infection giving an edge to move towards restoring certain aspects of functioning as a society to a large extent. Post-COVID-19, according to him the business will not be as usual with new styles of functioning and work cultures in place. Highlighting that personal hygiene of employees would be the paramount objective for companies, Rama Rao said de- densification of the workforce would become the order of the day. "The biggest challenge for the government or private sector is to inspire confidence among the employees to work. They need to feel safe (at workplaces). We have to give them the confidence," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/learn-to-live-with-coronavirus-telangana-minister-kt-rama-rao-seeks-rs-4000-cr-from-centre-for-pharma-city-833008.html
03-05-2020||South||Cauvery Delta farmers hope for bumper short-term crop||The water level at the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur that stands at 100 feet has enthused lakhs of farmers in the Cauvery Delta region in Tamil Nadu. The farmers hope water from the reservoir will be released on June 12, the scheduled date of opening of the dam, for the first time in eight years to facilitate the cultivation of kuruvai (short-term crop). The date for the release of water from the 87-year-old reservoir was set for June 12 keeping in mind the arrival of the south-west monsoon that usually hits Kerala on May 31 and Karnataka a little later. Due to low storage at the Mettur dam, water was not released in June from 2012 to 2019 – the sluices of the reservoir were opened on July 19 in 2018 and on August 13 in 2019. The water level in the dam has been hovering around 100 feet for the past few months and recent rains in catchment areas have raised hopes of more water reaching the reservoir -- the inflow at Mettur dam on Sunday was 1,252 cusecs even as the water level stood at 100.03 feet. Kuruvai (short-term crop) is cultivated in more than 5 lakh acres in the Cauvery Delta region, benefitting 15 lakh farmers. However, the area shrunk to just 1 lakh acres in the past few years due to non-release of Cauvery water on time -- only farmers who have borewell connection were cultivating kuruvai.   “Release of water in June would mean farmers going in for kuruvai in 5 to 6 lakh acres of land. And the atmosphere is conducive this year for water to flow from Mettur in June. Ideally, the government should release water from Mettur on June 9 this year so that it reaches the Grand Anaicut on June 16 and can be released for farmers’ use,” ‘Mannargudi’ S Ranganathan, general secretary of Cauvery Delta Farmers Association, told DH. This will ensure that the sowing is over by the end of June and the short-term crop can be harvested in early October without having to depend on the monsoon. “If all goes well, Cauvery Delta will have a bumper kuruvai harvest this season. We hope to cultivate and harvest kuruvai crop on time for the first time in nine years,” Ranganathan added. P R Pandian, President of Tamil Nadu All Farmers Organisations Committee, says the government should ensure that the water is released on June 12 or a week before that to ensure kuruvai is taken up at large scale for the first time since 2011, when the sluices of Mettur Dam was opened on June 6. “Though we have all been affected by COVID-19 lockdown, the water level in Mettur is very good news for us. The water level standing at 100 feet means a lot for the farmers who are hoping to cultivate and harvest kuruvai on time,” he added. Though the decision on the opening of Mettur dam is taken by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, the agriculture department is getting ready by stocking up seeds and fertilizers. “The water level in Mettur dam is very good and water can be released for cultivation. The department is ready to assist farmers to take up cultivation. As far as the release of water is concerned, the decision has to come from the top,” a senior official told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cauvery-delta-farmers-hope-for-bumper-short-term-crop-833041.html
03-05-2020||South||At the time of COVID-19 around the world, a blogging initiative by 'Kantharis'||While Amrita Gyawali from Nepal laments how the differently abled could not stock up enough drugs and essential commodities before the lockdown came into effect, Rahel Zegeye, who is stranded in Ethiopia, highlights the plight of domestic migrant workers of Lebanon and their children who are starving due to the lockdown. Kanthari, a leadership training centre based in Thiruvananthapuram, is bringing together the life of people in various parts of the world at the time of COVID-19 through a blogging series. With COVID-19 literally paralysing many parts of the world and bringing to halt many social service activities, Kanthari has initiated the blogging with one of its graduates daily writing about life at the time of COVID-19. Amrita, who suffered a spinal cord injury in an accident that claimed the lives of her parents and siblings when she was three, is now actively involved in social services. In her blog, she says: "I believe that during the corona pandemic, the whole health system has more or less forgotten us, the chronically ill and disabled. None of us had enough time before the lockdown was imposed to stock up on drugs, urine bags and diapers for adults." Zegeye, a Kanthari graduate of 2017, is from Ethiopia. She said that the COVID-19 pandemic came on top of an already simmering internal crisis. "Many domestic migrant workers and their children are starving, they are on the streets or sharing a small room with 10 to 12 other women. Eleven domestic workers have taken their own lives in the last few weeks,” she said. Ajith Kumar T, administration manager of Kanthari, which was founded by German Tibetologist Sabriye Tenberken and Paul Kronenberg in 2007, said that 226 persons from 48 countries had already graduated from the institute. Over 130 organisations that address social issues like the environment, disability, education, human rights, women empowerment and health have been initiated by Kanthari graduates across the world. Fleur Rakoto, a half-German, half-French, now working in Madrid, tells how her dog came to her relief as pet owners are allowed to take them for a walk. Riya Orison, who quit her corporate job last year and now ‘trapped’ in Kanthari owing to the lockdown, recollects on her blog how she enjoys cleaning the nearby Vellayani lake adjacent to Kanthari campus in the evenings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/at-the-time-of-covid-19-around-the-world-a-blogging-initiative-by-kantharis-833068.html
03-05-2020||South||No fresh COVID-19 cases in Kerala for second time in three days||Kerala recorded no fresh COVID case for a second day in three days on Sunday while one infected person recovered, bringing down the COVID-19 active cases to 95. A Kasargod native who was under treatment in Kannur district recovered from the infection. Kannur district continues to have highest number of patients at 37, while Kasargod has five COVID-19 active patients. No COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala on May 1 also, while two cases were reported on Saturday. Meanwhile, five more trains for migrant workers were operated on Sunday. Only those who insist on returning to their native places were being allowed to go. The state government also issued guidelines for entry of Keralites stranded in other states to enter the state by road. Six entry points have been designated, which includes Manjeshwaram in Kasaragod and Muthanga in Wayanad. Testing and quarantine facilities were being set up at the entry points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-for-second-time-in-three-days-833082.html
03-05-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Wine shops to open in parts of Andhra Pradesh from May 4||The Jaganmohan Reddy government has decided to open the wine shops in Andhra Pradesh, except those in containment zones and malls, from Monday. The shops closed since the implementation of the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown, would now be open from 10 am to 7 pm, adhering to the social distancing norms. Excise is one of the major income sources for state governments. However, after assuming power in June last year, Reddy announced a gradual move towards complete prohibition in the state. His government brought in a new excise policy in October, taking control of the wine shops which were earlier auctioned to be operated by the private players. While reducing the number of outlets and timing, Reddy has also increased liquor prices as a deterrent to help lower liquor consumption. But now, AP, facing a financial crisis because of the COVID-19-caused revenue loss, is one of the first states to roll up the shutters of its wine shops. There are reports of instances of black marketing of alcohol for the past few weeks, with some people paying several times the regular price of a bottle.    “The government has decided to open AP State Beverages Corporation Limited retail liquor shops in the state both in urban and rural areas, except in containment zones/clusters and shops located in malls from Monday,” officials said. “Consumers should make use of the business hours without any health risk, while salespersons shall wear masks and keep sanitizers for use in the shops.” According to officials, not more than five customers would be allowed at a time at a shop, who will stand in the five circles separated by six feet. The shop operators can take the help of the police or the village/ward volunteers. In case of excess gathering, the shops would be immediately closed to be opened only after the social distancing norms are put in place. “In no case bars, clubs, and AP Tourism Development Corporation liquor licenses shall be allowed to function,” officials stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-wine-shops-to-open-in-parts-of-andhra-pradesh-from-may-4-833132.html
03-05-2020||State||Treating each COVID-19 patient costs up to Rs 3 lakh||The government is spending between Rs 1.40 and Rs 2.8 lakh for the treatment of a single Covid-19 patient in the state, experts said. The price variation is due to the diverse range of Covid-19 treatments, explained senior doctors across a variety of Covid-designated hospitals contacted by DH. “There is no one-fit-all financial figure for Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment in the state because there are a variety of factors dictating treatment, such as whether a patient is in ICU and what the duration of treatment is,” said Dr C Nagaraja, director of the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD). According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare, of the 271 people discharged, the majority (46 people) have spent 22 days in hospital quarantine and care.  A survey of hospital costs by DH across various Covid-19-designated hospitals in Bengaluru has revealed that the cost of care for non-ICU patients ranges from Rs 10,000 to 20,000 in government hospitals per day. There is a 55% cost increase for ICU care. There are currently seven patients in ICUs in the state. According to one senior doctor, standard Covid-19 bed charges at most hospitals cost nearly Rs 8,000 per day. However, at Victoria Hospital which currently houses 58 out of 67 active Covid-19 cases in the city, bedding costs amount to about Rs 3,000 per patient and about Rs 8,000 for a patient in the ICU, according to another senior doctor at the hospital, who clarified that these are government-subsidised rates. “At other Covid hospitals, including at RGICD, rates are much higher,” the doctor said. Medicine costs additionally between Rs 500 and 4,000 per person per day, various Covid doctors said. Other expenses are: patient food, a 15% increase in the salaries of Group D workers (an average of 10 of whom are on shift at any given time at Victoria) and other miscellaneous costs.  Testing, ambulances The cost of care also includes testing, as two negative tests results are required before a patient can be discharged. Conducting each test, according to the Minister of Medical Education Dr K Sudhakar, costs the exchequer Rs 3,200, including the cost of PPE kits for testing staff, plus the associated costs of running an RNA extractor, plus the actual RT-PCR test itself. Ambulance fees also figure in tallies. An official at 108 Ambulance said that each Covid-related trip amounts to an additional Rs 2,400 over the standard rate of Rs 1,400. “This is due to PPEs, N95 masks, a Rs 500 hazard pay bonus for ambulance staff, plus sanitisation costs,” he said. Value of PPEs Although the move towards indigenous manufacturing of PPE kits, from Chinese units costing Rs 1,500, was intended to drive down costs, the government still mandates the price of a single PPE at Rs 1,250, although some are available at Rs 800, a source said.  The PPEs have a use-lifespan of only four hours and the cost of maintaining a stockpile adds up, added a senior doctor at Victoria Hospital. “This is all tied in with patient care costs,” the doctor said. Dr K Sudhakar said the government has not sanctioned a detailed assessment to determine how much it costs per person per treatment, because the state is focused more on saving lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/treating-each-covid-19-patient-costs-up-to-rs-3-lakh-832882.html
03-05-2020||State||Karnataka: Congress raid unearths BJP-branded ration||In a major embarrassment to the ruling BJP, the Opposition Congress raided a state-run godown where government ration was allegedly repackaged in covers that had the saffron party’s logo. On Saturday, KPCC president D K Shivakumar demanded action against officials and local BJP leaders. In a widely circulated video, Bangalore Rural MP D K Suresh was seen questioning officials as to why the ration was being repackaged with the BJP logo. The video also showed an official admitting to the lapses.   Shivakumar said the godown located in Sarjapur had ration meant for anganwadis. When Congress leaders visited the spot, it was found that packets of ration were being repackaged with the BJP logo. “The packet will be sent to the prime minister. I demand the chief minister take action against those involved. If not, the Congress party will stage protest," Shivakumar said.  The KPCC chief, who also visited the KR Puram market on Friday night, said farmers were being harassed by the police and they had no support from the government to sell their produce. Several farmers from Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Malur, Chintamani, who were selling their produce at KR Puram market for several years, are unable to sell it now, he said.   "None of the officials has lent them an ear. Even with the pass, the police are not allowing them to sell their produce. I tried reaching out to the Horticulture Minister and the Cooperation Minister. There was no response," Shivakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-congress-raid-unearths-bjp-branded-ration-832885.html
03-05-2020||State||We fear hunger, not coronavirus, say migrant workers||A day after the Union government allowed the railways to ferry inter-state migrant workers, hundreds of them came to the railway and bus stations to return to their homes in Bihar, UP and other states only to find that there was no such facility. Arun Kumar Jha, a 53-year-old migrant, a vendor at the railway station, said they got the news through social media and rushed to the railway station.”In the last two months, we received food for only one week. We are running out of all our savings. We need to go back home at the earliest,” Jha said. Raju Das, a young construction labourer, said they had been trying to reach the nodal officers notified by the state government but none of them was receiving the calls. “We were first told to go to a police station to register for the journey. But the police said only BBMP officials can help us,” he said.  DH provided them with a copy of government order with phone numbers of the IAS and IPS officers designated for each district. Over the next 30 minutes, the workers tried to reach the officials appointed for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar but did not succeed. “We do not want to die here. Hunger is a bigger problem for us than the virus,” he said.  Revenue Department Principal Secretary R Manjunath Prasad, one of the four officials vested with overall charge of the movement of labourers, said nodal officers have been appointed to migrant colonies. “The officials will enrol the migrants in a portal after which their journey will be planned,”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/we-fear-hunger-not-coronavirus-say-migrant-workers-832951.html
03-05-2020||State||Karnataka: 3 more test positive for COVID-19 in Kalaburagi||Out of the total positive cases, a total of 18 patients were discharged from the hospital after recovering from the virus and five have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-3-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kalaburagi-832958.html
03-05-2020||State||Kannada Nityotsava poet KS Nissar Ahmed passes away||Nityotsava poet of Kannada literature Prof K S Nissar Ahmed passed away on Sunday at his residence. He was 84. He was suffering from illness for the last few days.  Prof Ahmed was shattered after the death of his son in America recently. Much against the advice of doctors, he had got himself discharged from the hospital. Kokkare Hosahalli Shekh Haider Nissar Ahmed, the Nityotsava (celebration of every day) poet of Kannada was born on February 5, 1936 at Devanahalli.  He was a leading poet in Navya literary movement. His works include Manasu Gandhi, Bazaru, Nityotsava, Sanje Aidara Male and Manadondige Mathukathe. His Anaamika Anglaru, an anthology of poems, won Karnataka Sahitya Akademi Award in 1982. He was the recipient of Padma Shri, Pampa and Rajyotsava awards. He served as an assistant geologist in the  Mysore Mines and Geology at Gulbarga (now Kalaburagi). He worked as a lecturer in Geology at Central College, Bengaluru. He also taught at Sahyadri first grade college in Shivamogga. He chaired 73rd Akhila Bharata Kannada Sahitya Sammelana in Shivamogga. He inaugurated the 407th edition of Dasara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kannada-nityotsava-poet-ks-nissar-ahmed-passes-away-832989.html
03-05-2020||State||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa, Kumaraswamy, others condole poet Nissar Ahmed's death||Tributes poured in following the demise of eminent Kannada poet and write K S Nissar Ahmed with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa calling it as an "irreparable loss" to the state and the Kannada literary world. Ahmed's contributions have been some of the best works in all genres of Kannada literature, Yediyurappa said, noting the accolades won by him including Padma Shri award and Karnataka Sahitya Academy Award. ಹಿರಿಯ ಸಾಹಿತಿ ಕೆ ಎಸ್ ನಿಸಾರ್ ಅಹಮದ್ ಅವರ ನಿಧನ ದುಃಖ ತಂದಿದೆ. ಅವರು ಪ್ರಾಧ್ಯಾಪಕರಾಗಿ, ಭೂ ವಿಜ್ಞಾನಿಯಾಗಿಯೂ ಸೇವೆ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದ್ದರು. ಸಂವೇದನಾಶೀಲ ಲೇಖಕರಾಗಿ, ಜನಪ್ರಿಯ ಕವಿಯಾಗಿ ಅವರು ಗುರುತಿಸಿಕೊಂಡಿದ್ದರು. 1/2 Dy CM CN Ashwath Narayan recalled his famous poems 'Nityotsava', 'Kurigalu sir Kurigalu' and 'Benne Kadda Namma Krishna'. Ahmed's contribution to modern Kannada literature was immense and his ideas have filled his readers with vim and vigour, he said in a condolence message. ನಿತ್ಯೋತ್ಸವದ ಕವಿ, ಕನ್ನಡ ಕಾವ್ಯ ಜಗತ್ತಿಗೆ ನವೋಲ್ಲಾಸ ತಂದುಕೊಟ್ಟ ಉತ್ಸಾಹದ ಚಿಲುಮೆ ಪ್ರೊ. ಕೆ ಎಸ್ ನಿಸಾರ್ ಅಹಮದ್ ನಿಧನದಿಂದ ನನಗೆ ತೀವ್ರ ಆಘಾತವಾಗಿದೆ. ಅವರ ಕುಟುಂಬಕ್ಕೆ, ಸಾರಸ್ವತ ಲೋಕಕ್ಕೆ ಇವರ ಅಗಲಿಕೆಯನ್ನು ಭರಿಸುವ ಶಕ್ತಿ ದೊರೆಯಲಿ. ಪ್ರೊ. ನಿಸಾರರಿಗೆ ಚಿರಶಾಂತಿ ಸಿಗಲಿ ಎಂದು ಪ್ರಾರ್ಥಿಸುತ್ತೇನೆ! JD(S) leader Kumaraswamy, in a tweet said that Nissar's 'Jogada siri belakainalli' still rang in his ears. "Literary contributions of Nissar, the cultural ambassador of our state, was unique," he said. Congress leader Siddaramaiah said that the poet had not restricted himself to any group or community and worked on his literature as a free bird. Several other political leaders from the State also condoled the poet's demise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-kumaraswamy-others-condole-poet-nissar-ahmeds-death-833018.html
03-05-2020||State||2,571 people tested for COVID-19 in Tumakuru||As many as 2,571 people have been tested for COVID-19 in the district to date said District Health Officer Dr B R Chandrika, here on Sunday.  Of these, 2,218 throat swab and sputum samples have tested negative for the virus, she added. A total of seven people tested positive for the pandemic and two of them are dead. Two have recovered fully. As many as four people infected with the virus are being treated at the district hospital. A total of 24 samples were rejected and 322 reports are awaited the doctor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2571-people-tested-for-covid-19-in-tumakuru-833084.html
03-05-2020||State||Govt notifies Raichur University||The state government has issued a notification in connection with the establishment of Raichur University after Governor Vajubhai Vala gave ascent to the Karnataka State Universities (Amendment) Act.  The notification was issued on Saturday (May 2) making Raichur University the 26th state-run university in Karnataka. According to the notification, the territorial jurisdiction of the university will extend over Raichur and Yadgirdistricts. Raichur University is expected to come up on a 300-acre land and colleges of Raichur and Yadgir districts will be affiliated to the university from the next academic year. Though the university was a long-pending demand, efforts to set it up was initiated by the government only a few years ago, after it appointed a special officer for the purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-notifies-raichur-university-833196.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Karnataka announces free bus travel for labourers||The Karnataka government on Sunday announced that migrant labourers returning home could travel for free for the next three days on state-run buses. Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa has urged the labourers to maintain social distancing at the bus station and assured adequate facilities would be provided for them..||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-announces-free-bus-travel-for-labourers-832952.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs on to national digital supply chain for agricultural markets, e-NAM||A pioneer in linking agriculture markets electronically, Karnataka has now boarded the national digital supply chain, allowing its farmers to sell their produce beyond the boundaries of the state. This silent revolution began on Friday when farmers in Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh and Hubbali traded in maize and groundnuts using the e-National Agriculture Market platform. Besides Hubbali, the wholesale market at Chincholi too has joined the e-NAM platform, along with 198 wholesale markets across seven states, allowing farmers to sell their produce without visiting the crowded markets, particularly during the COVID-19 outbreak. The trade between markets in Hubbali and Kurnool also marked the integration of the e-NAM with the Unified Market Platform of Karnataka’s Rashtriya e-Market Services, promoted by the Karnataka State Agriculture Marketing Board. “With the integration of 200 additional mandis (markets), the total number of e-NAM markets have now reached 785. By the end of this month, we intend to take that number to 1,000,” Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said. Tomar said the interoperability of e-NAM and UMP will help farmers of Karnataka to sell their produce to large number of traders registered with e-NAM. Even farmers from e-NAM mandis in other States will be able to sell their produce to Karnataka traders who are enrolled with ReMS platform of Karnataka, he said adding that this will also promote inter-state trade between the States on-boarded on e-NAM platform and Karnataka. Launched in April 2016, e-NAM now has 1.66 crore farmers and 1.28 lakh traders registered across the country who have so far achieved a total trade volume of 3.4 crore tonnes and 37 lakh bamboos and coconuts worth Rs one lakh crore. Last month, the Centre added two more options on the e-NAM platform that allows farmer producer organisations to trade from their collection centres and a “warehouse module” that allows farmers to sell their produce stored in registered warehouses. “This would help farmers sell their produce without bringing it to the markets,” Tomar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-on-to-national-digital-supply-chain-for-agricultural-markets-e-nam-832999.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru urban, 4 districts to be treated as single unit for travel amid coronavirus lockdown, says Karnataka govt||The Karnataka government on Sunday said Bengaluru urban and its four neighbouring districts would be treated as a single unit for inter-district movement of individuals and vehicles to undertake permitted activities during the extended period of the COVID-19 lockdown. The Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar has issued an order to this effect, in continuation of that issued on Saturday, along with guidelines on lockdown measures which would come into effect from May 4 for the period of two weeks. Bengaluru Rural, Urban, Ramanagara, Chikkaballapur and Kolar districts will be treated as a single unit for the purpose of movement between 7 am to 7 pm to carry out permitted activities with the production of a letter from the company they are working in and the official Identity Card, it said. Hence, no other inter-district passes will be required to move across these districts, it added. However, for other districts, inter-district movement passes for permitted activities would be required and it would be issued by concerned either Deputy Commissioners of districts or DCPs in Commissionerates. No inter-district passes shall be issued for non-permitted activities except on one-time basis for stranded people. For the movement of individuals during night time curfew timings between 7 pm to 7 am, passes already issued for all essential activities only, shall continue to be valid. "For IT, BT, industries etc., departmental secretaries will recommend issue of curfew passes to concerned DCPs in Commissionerates or Deputy Commissioners of the districts," the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-urban-4-districts-to-be-treated-as-single-unit-for-travel-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-says-karnataka-govt-833066.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka judge moves SC against elevation of junior as HC judge||The Supreme Court is scheduled to take up on Monday a plea by a principal district and sessions judge for quashing the Presidential order of April 30, appointing a "junior" as additional judge of the Karnataka High Court. On April 30, the Law Ministry issued the notification, appointing judicial officers Shivashankar Amarannavar, Smt M Ganeshaiah Uma, Vedavyasachar Srishananda, Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, and Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai as additional judges for a period of two years. A bench of Justices Deepak Gupta and Aniruddha Bose would take up the matter at 10 am on Monday, as the swearing in ceremony of all the five judges is to be held at Bengaluru at 10.30 am. In a writ petition filed on Saturday, Sri Master RKGMM Mahaswamiji contended the order passed to elevate Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai from district judiciary as additional judge of the HC for a period of two years, was "arbitrary, unconstitutional, unlawful and in total disregard of existing binding executive instructions". His petition filed by advocate Sanjay M Nuli claimed his name was ignored and not taken into consideration for promotion or elevation, along with his batch mates. He also submitted that his service record from the date of his appointment on February 25, 2008 to December, 2018 was clear from any adverse remarks. Except Desai, four other officers who were elevated, are either batch mates or senior to the petitioner, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-judge-moves-sc-against-elevation-of-junior-as-hc-judge-833104.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Liquor shops in Karnataka gearing up to start operations amid lockdown 3.0||Erection of barricades and drawing up of boxes or circles aimed at maintaining social distancing were seen in front of liquor shops in different parts of Karnataka on Sunday, a day ahead of their reopening after a gap of over 40-days, due to the lockdown. Karnataka Excise Commissioner on Saturday had ordered that only CL-2 (retail shops) and CL-11C (state-run retail shops like Mysore Sales International Limited) would open from May 4. It had permitted liquor sale liquor between 9 am and 7 pm only in areas that are outside COVID-19 containment zones. Reports of barricades being erected to ensure that people stand in line and drawing of boxes or circles in front of shops to maintain social distancing in front of retail and MSIL shops have emerged from across the state, including the state capital. Also, reports about shop keepers doing special poojas outside liquor shops in Kolar and some even illuminating their outlets with lights from outside have surfaced from other parts of the state. Meanwhile, officials were engaged in checking stocks ahead of the shops opening on Monday morning. "We are making all preparations to ensure that government rules are followed. We also seek the cooperation of the people and police," the manager of a shop said. Another said there may be a rush initially, after which things may get back to normal. "We expect things to go on smoothly," he added. Calling for a number of customers to be limited to five at a time while ensuring that they maintain social distancing of not less than six feet distance, the order states that customers and the staff will have to wear masks and sanitizers should be used at the shops. Only stand-alone CL-2 and CL-11C shops are allowed to commence liquor sale and not those at malls and supermarkets, it said. Officials in Bengaluru said liquor sale is prohibited in 26 containment zones in the city, while in other places rules that have been prescribed need to be followed. In case of any violation, strict action would be taken, including imposing of penalty, they said. There was pressure on the government to kick start economic activities, including allowing the sale of liquor, to boost the state's finances as excise is the key area which generates revenue. State Excise Minister H Nagesh had recently pegged the losses at Rs 60 crore per day because of the closure of liquor shops, due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/liquor-shops-in-karnataka-gearing-up-to-start-operations-amid-lockdown-30-833123.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka judge moves SC against junior’s elevation as HC judge ||A principal district and sessions judge has approached the Supreme Court for quashing the Presidential order appointing a “junior” as additional judge of the Karnataka HighCourt. On April 30, the Law Ministry issued the notification appointing judicial officers Shivashankar Amarannavar, M Ganeshaiah Uma, Vedavyasachar Srishananda, Hanchate Sanjeevkumar and Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai as additional judges for a period of two years. The swearing-in ceremony of all the four judges would take place on Monday at 10.30 am. In a writ petition on Saturday, master RKGMM Mahaswamiji contended that the order passed to elevate Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai from district judiciary as additional judge of the HC was “arbitrary, unconstitutional, unlawful and in total disregard of existing binding executive instructions”. His petition filed by advocate Sanjay M Nuli claimed that his name was ignored and not taken into consideration for promotion or elevation along with his batchmates. He also submitted that his service record from the date of his appointment on February 25, 2008 to December 2018 was clear from any adverse remarks. Except Desai, four other officers who were elevated, are his batch mates, he claimed||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-judge-moves-sc-against-junior-s-elevation-as-hc-judge-833175.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Trains with migrant workers leave from Karnataka for Odisha, Bihar||After weeks of waiting, inter-state migrant labourers finally started journey towards their home towns as the first two “Shramik Special” trains left from two stations in Bengaluru division on Sunday. The labourers within Karnataka, however, continued to suffer as lack of first-mile connectivity forced many to walk kilometres. The South Western Railway’s first special left Chikkabanavara at 9.20 am carrying 1,190 passengers to Bhubaneswar in Odisha. The second train to Danapur in Bihar with 1,200 passengers departed at 2.35 pm on Sunday. The state government decided the list of passengers and ferried them to the station in BMTC buses. “SWR is transporting passengers to their destination only when there is a demand from the state government with proper protocols. These special trains are being run from point to point with no stoppages en route,” the SWR said in a release. It said care was being taken to ensure social distancing during the boarding. The passengers were medically examined by the state government and were issued a certificate. Thermal screening was again done by railway medical teams. “None of the passengers was detected with high temperature,” the railways said. NGOs extended support to the passengers by providing lunch packets, biscuits, water bottles and fruits. The IRCTC will provide meals en route. The Railway Protection Force is escorting the train and details of passengers, coach wise with address and mobile numbers have been obtained.  The migrants from various districts of the state, especially those from north Karnataka, continue to walk kilometres to reach the Kempegowda Bus Station as lack of city bus service cut off the first-mile transport. The KSRTC, too, has employed thermal scanning before boarding the bus. Similar to the railways, there will be no boarding of passengers in between the origin and destination, the KSRTC said in a release. The passengers will be home quarantined once they reach their destination, KSRTC said. Monday schedule  The buses to Bidar, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Koppal, Ballari, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Belagavi, Gadag, Dharwad, Haveri, Yadgir will depart from BMTC bus station, while those headed to Shivamogga, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Mangaluru, Madikeri, Udupi, Chamarajanagar, Chitradurga and Davangere will leave from KSRTC terminal-1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-30-trains-with-migrant-workers-leave-from-karnataka-for-odisha-bihar-833178.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||State eases inter-district transport between Bengaluru, 4 dists||In order to ensure free movement of top management of industries from Bengaluru to industrial estates in nearby districts, the state government will consider Bengaluru Urban and four districts surrounding it as a single unit. This will ensure that inter-district passes are not required for commute between Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagar, Chikkaballapur and Kolar districts. They will be “treated as a single unit for the purpose of movement during daytime between 7 am to 7 pm to undertake permitted activities only with the production of letter from the company/organisation they are working in and the official identity card of the organisation. Hence, no other inter-district passes will be required to move across these districts,” an order by Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar said. In other districts, inter-district movement passes for permitted activities will be issued by the DCs of districts or DCPs of Commissionerates. For movement of individuals during night curfew timings between 7 pm to 7 am, passes issued for essential services will remain valid. “For IT, BT, Industries, etc, departmental secretaries will recommend the issue of curfew passes to the concerned DCPs in Commissionerates and Deputy Commissioners in other districts,” the orderadded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/state-eases-inter-district-transport-between-bengaluru-4-dists-833180.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Child abuse in lockdown: Karnataka reports highest cases among southern states||The state has witnessed the highest number of child abuse cases since the lockdown compared to neighbouring states, statistics show. As per the data available with the department of Women and Child Welfare gathered through Child Line, Karnataka has witnessed 312 child abuse cases, the highest among the southern states. The data shows the abuses include sexual abuse, physical abuse, child marriage, child labour and child trafficking. “The Child Line authorities have intervened to rescue children from the abuses, after calls were received,” said an official from the department. Tamil Nadu recorded second highest child abuse cases with 224, followed by Kerala with 181, Andhra Pradesh 129, Telangana 10 and Puducherry (UT) 7. Y Mariswamy, former chairperson, Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said, “As the government is concentrating on Covid-19 pandemic, the child abusers have become active and manipulative. The stakeholders who work for children’s welfare should come to the fore and protect children from abuses.” “There is a need to extend psychological support to the children and the police should monitor the situation. We all should be sensitive towards children’s issues,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/child-abuse-in-lockdown-karnataka-reports-highest-cases-among-southern-states-833183.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Undiagnosed TB cases put their contacts at risk of COVID-19  ||Tuberculosis (TB) patients are most susceptible to COVID-19 as their lungs are already compromised because of the pulmonary disease.  With the coronavirus-driven lockdown in force, 54.60% lesser patients were detected in Karnataka in April compared to March.   Ever since the lockdown began on March 25th, many private clinics and labs have remained shut owing to dwindling patient footfalls. Therefore, many people who may have TB, are not getting diagnosed, and risk of transmission among the family members has increasedmanifold.  As opposed to 6,345 TB patients diagnosed in Karnataka in March (only 1,386 from private sector), only 2,880 were diagnosed in April (private sector accounted foronly 430). In January and February, the new patients detected were much higher at 8,251 and 7,406 respectively. “TB leads to an immunocompromised state and patients are likely to have worse treatment outcomes than the general population if they contract COVID-19, since both diseases primarily affect the lungs,” said Jyotsna Singh, senior advocacy officer, Doctors Without Borders. Dr Ramesh Reddy, Joint Director, Tuberculosis, health department said, “Whatever (cases) found was because of active case-finding by the government TB staff. Due to non-mobility, number of outpatients are very less. To avoid delay in transportation of samples, we have even instructed our field staff to make use of postal service and government vehicles for drug susceptibility testing of samples using CBNAAT machines.”  Currently, if a patient has two weeks of cough, a spike in fever in the evening, and some degree of loss of appetite, a TB test is done. Most of these symptoms are similar to those of COVID-19. Any suspect tested for SARS-CoV-2 is also being tested for TB.  Drug resistant  Singh also pointed out patients’ inability to get injectables. “Among the worst affected are drug-resistant TB patients who are on regimens containing injections. Since injections are to be administered by a health worker, patients are unable to get their crucial weekly injections and this has put their treatment in a disarray,” she said.   Currently, injections are only meant for DRTB patients on shorter regimen. A private practitioner is reimbursed Rs 24 per prick according to the state health department, which has received no reimbursement claims so far. “There are totally 834 patients on treatment with short and long regimens. Of which, only 326 patients need injections. Also, patients whose treatment was initiated in December 2019 would have completed treatment by now,” Reddy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/undiagnosed-tb-cases-put-their-contacts-at-risk-of-covid-19-833188.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DyCM promises to airlift UAE Kannadigas||DyCM C N Ashwath Narayan on Sunday reassured Kannadigas in United Arab Emirates that the Karnataka government will petition the Centre to airlift them. According to entrepreneur Praveen Shetty based in Dubai, as many as one lakh Kannadigas were in Dubai, of which 20,000 were facing immense challenges due to the lockdown. He also sought immediate assistance of 270 people from Karnataka who arrived in Dubai on a visiting visa before the Covid-19 pandemic shut off all air travel. "Government should come to their rescue as they neither have jobs nor shelter," he said. Ashwath Narayan said that arrangements will be made to airlift the stranded Kannadigas, and said that the government was arranging facilities to quarantine 10,000 to 12,000 people from the state who are expected to return once the Centre lifts the ban on air travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dycm-promises-to-airlift-uae-kannadigas-833191.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka labourers stranded in Maha won't be brought back||Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi has ruled out the possibility of running a special train to ferry migrant Karnataka labourers stranded in Maharashtra. “A large number of Covid-19 cases have been reported from Maharashtra. There is no chance for the Karnataka labourers to return from that state. Hence, a train won’t be run to ferry them,” he told reporters here on Sunday. The Indian Railways had decided to run special trains to ferry migrants labourers to their home states based on the approval by the Central government. Nodal officers had been appointed the monitor the process. As many as 16,000 labourers in Rajasthan had registered their names wishing to return to their home states, he said. Angadi said that the trains would be run based on demand. The Karnataka government too had written a letter seeking running of a special train. The Central health and disaster management team would look into the matter. “The states should conduct medical tests of migrant labourers, besides bearing transport expenses to send them to their home states,” he clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-labourers-stranded-in-maha-wont-be-brought-back-833192.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||K'taka laboures stranded in Maha won't be brought back||Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi has ruled out the possibility of running a special train to ferry migrant Karnataka labourers stranded in Maharashtra. “A large number of Covid-19 cases have been reported from Maharashtra. There is no chance for the Karnataka labourers to return from that state. Hence, a train won’t be run to ferry them,” he told reporters here on Sunday. The Indian Railways had decided to run special trains to ferry migrants labourers to their home states based on the approval by the Central government. Nodal officers had been appointed the monitor the process. As many as 16,000 labourers in Rajasthan had registered their names wishing to return to their home states,he said. Angadi said that the trains would be run based on demand. The Karnataka government too had written a letter seeking running of a special train. The Central health and disaster management team would look into the matter. “The states should conduct medical tests of migrant labourers, besides bearing transport expenses to send them to their home states,”he clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ktaka-laboures-stranded-in-maha-wont-be-brought-back-833200.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown exemptions, rain triggers agricultural activities||Farmers in parts of north Karnataka have started preparing land for the kharif season, following the exemptions granted to farming and related activities. A few spells of pre-monsoon showers have prompted the farmers in Hubballi taluk to take up leveling and tilling the farmlands despite an acute shortage of agricultural labourers owing to the coronavirus-induced shutdown. After the farmers harvested the rabi crops, the nationwide lockdown was clamped to mitigate the virus spread. The farmers had a tough time in selling their produce before the government rushed to their rescue. After the lockdown was eased for agri and related activities, several farmers dusted off tractors and agri implements to initiate the farm activities for new crop season. In the last few days, farmers from Kusugal, Siraguppi, Hebasuru, Byhatti and surrounding villages in Hubbali taluk were seen preparing lands using tractors and oxen. Shankar Patil, a farmer from Siraguppi told DH, “The farmers in the region have begun preparing land for kharif season. But for cotton crop at few places, most of the rabi crops in the region have been harvested. Agricultural activities in April was standstill due to the lockdown.” “A few spells of pre-monsoon showers have helped the farmers prepare their land for monsoon season. The farmers have cleaned jowar and cotton plants and started tilling their lands. Also, buffalo manure is being sprayed to the land to enhance the soil fertility,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-exemptions-rain-triggers-agricultural-activities-833203.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Activists urge govt to cancel pending SSLC, PU exams||The People's Alliance for Fundamental Right to Education Karnataka has requested the state government to cancel the SSLC and PU (one subject) examinations or to conduct them at the school level. In a representation to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the convener of the Alliance Prof V P Niranjanaradhya said, "It is difficult to maintain social distance during exams and considering this the government should drop board exams for this year or should make them as a school level affair with lesser students." In the representation they even highlighted about the risk of spreading the virus during examination and evaluation. "As online teaching is going on and rural students are deprived of the same, government should allow students in rural areas to attend schools twice a week with one teacher. For this necessary safety measures like mask, sanitizer must be provided to the schools," they mentioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/activists-urge-govt-to-cancel-pending-sslc-pu-exams-833205.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM, other leaders condole Nissar Ahmed's death||Tributes poured in following the demise of eminent Kannada poet and writer K S Nissar Ahmed with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa calling it as an "irreparable loss" to the state and the Kannada literary world. He has contributed some of the best works in all genres of Kannada literature, Yediyurappa said, noting the accolades won by him including Padmashri award and Karnataka Sahitya Academy award. DyCM C N Ashwath Narayan recalled his famous poems 'Nithyotsava', 'Kurigalu Sir Kurigalu' and 'Benne Kadda Namma Krishna'. Ahmed's contribution to modern Kannada literature was immense and his ideas have filled his readers with vim and vigour, he said in a condolence message. JD(S) leader Kumaraswamy, in a tweet said that Nissar's 'Jogada Siri Belakainalli' still rang in his ears. "Literary contributions of Nissar, the cultural ambassador of our state, was unique," he said. Congress leader Siddaramaiah said that the poet had not restricted himself to any group or community and worked on his literature as a free bird. Several other political leaders from the state also condoled the poet's demise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-other-leaders-condole-nissar-ahmeds-death-833208.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Child abuse in lockdown: K’taka reports highest cases among southern states||The state has witnessed the highest number of child abuse cases since the lockdown compared to neighbouring states, statistics show. As per the data available with the department of Women and Child Welfare gathered through Child Line, Karnataka has witnessed 312 child abuse cases, the highest among the southern states. The data shows the abuses include sexual abuse, physical abuse, child marriage, child labour and child trafficking. “The Child Line authorities have intervened to rescue children from the abuses, after calls were received,” said an official from the department. Tamil Nadu recorded second highest child abuse cases with 224, followed by Kerala with 181, Andhra Pradesh 129, Telangana 10 and Puducherry (UT) 7. Y Mariswamy, former chairperson, Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said, “As the government is concentrating on Covid-19 pandemic, the child abusers have become active and manipulative. The stakeholders who work for children’s welfare should come to the fore and protect children from abuses.” “There is a need to extend psychological support to the children and the police should monitor the situation. We all should be sensitive towards children’s issues,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/child-abuse-in-lockdown-k-taka-reports-highest-cases-among-southern-states-833209.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannadigas top list of workers heading home from Goa||Kannadigas top the list of migrant workers who want to head back home from Goa, after central government guidelines last week allowed transport of stranded workforce across state borders, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday. Sawant, however, urged all migrant workers to stay back in Goa, stating that economic activity as well as large scale maintenance works in the state had resumed and the state needed the services of the migrant labour force. "As of now, 71,000 migrant labourers have registered for going back to their home states through various government offices. Out of that 18,000 are from Karnataka, 17,000 are from Uttar Pradesh and 11,000 from Bihar," Sawant told a press conference on Sunday. The chief minister said that the state administration was in the process of dialogue with the Indian Railways to facilitate the transportation of migrant workers back to their respective states. "We will be arranging for the trains, which will leave from one station in Goa to one identified station in the destination state," Sawant said. Sawant also made an appeal to the migrant labour force to stay back in Goa, saying their availability was essential to completion of government maintenance works as well as construction, sewerage and other activities. "We need the labour force. Contractors should convince migrant labourers to stay back. If the labour force leaves, we will be in a big problem," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannadigas-top-list-of-workers-heading-home-from-goa-833211.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Nityotsava' poet Nissar Ahmed no more||‘Nityotsava’ poet Prof K S Nissar Ahmed passed away at his residence here on Sunday. He was 84 and was suffering from age-related illness for the last few days. His last rites will be held on Monday.  The death of his son in America about 15 days ago had shattered Prof Ahmed. Despite doctors’ requests, he had got himself discharged from the hospital recently. Nissar, as he was fondly called, and his wife Shahnawaz Begum had escaped death as they were metres away during a terrorist blast in Jaipur some years ago. His wife passed away last year. Kokkarehosahalli Sheikh Haider (KS) Nissar Ahmed, born on February 5, 1936, at Devanahalli, was a leading poet of Navya literary movement in Kannada. His works include ‘Manasu Gandhi Bazaaru’, ‘Nityotsava’, ‘Sanje Aidara Male’ and ‘Manadondige Mathukathe’. His ‘Anaamika Anglaru’, an anthology of poems, won the Karnataka Sahitya Akademi Award in 1982. He had published 15 anthologies of poems, five collections of prose, translations of William Shakespeare’s selected plays, Pablo Neruda’s poetry and five science books for children. A Geology professor, Nissar spoke Urdu but chose Kannada to express his feelings. He also knew Arabian and Sanskrit languages. He was a recipient of Padma Shri, Pampa, Nadoja and Rajyotsava awards. Karnatak University, Dharwad, Kuvempu University, Shivamogga and Bangalore University had conferred honorary doctorates on him. He presided over the 73rd Akhila Bharata Kannada Sahitya Sammelana held in Shivamogga in 2007, besides chairing the Alva’s Nudisiri Sammelana at Moodbidri, Dakshina Kannada, in 2012. He inaugurated the 407th edition of Mysuru Dasara in 2017. CM B S Yediyurappa, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy and Congress leader Siddaramaiah have expressed condolence over his death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nityotsava-poet-nissar-ahmed-no-more-833212.html
03-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Apartment residents relish fruits of farmers’ labour, thanks to Hopcoms||When the lockdown was announced, Santosh Kumar, a horticulturist from Moka village in Ballari district, was left with about 12 tonnes of harvested sapota on his hands. No transport was available and the price for his produce was rapidly falling. In Bengaluru, people were unsure of the supply of fresh fruits and vegetables. At the same time, they were watching reports on television and social media about farmers being forced to leave their produce to rot in the fields. In such a situation, the Bengaluru Apartments Federation (BAF) with support from the Horticultural Producers Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society (Hopcoms) is helping farmers in Karnataka connect directly with residents across the city.  The initiative was started during conversations the BAF - a body representing some 725 apartment complexes in the city - had with the BBMP, to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the early days of lockdown. “We need to consume fruits and vegetables, while the farmer needs a market. We found this beneficial mutually,” says Arun Kumar, the Vice-President of BAF. The Hopcoms, which has 250 outlets across the city, started servicing the apartments with mobile vans, whose number now stands at 40. Between them, some of the mobile units cover 60-70 apartments every day.  Most Hopcoms vans arrive at the apartments twice a week, with the bigger apartments (having more than 500 units) being visited more frequently. Despite a fall in demand at its outlets and from institutions like factories and resorts, Hopcoms’ sales have doubled over the course of the lockdown, from an average of 45 tonnes per day to nearly 95 tonnes per day, says B N Prasad, the Managing Director of the farmers’ cooperative. During lockdown, the cooperative is also sourcing its produce from some farmers who are not its members. “Still, we cannot absorb all the produce that the farmers have grown,” Prasad says.  Other apartments have also reached out to farmers directly, like the Whitehouse Apartment in RT Nagar. Initially, the Hopcoms started by covering watermelon and muskmelon farmers in distress, which did not take off, as residents demanded more fruits and vegetables. Eventually, the residents could purchase a whole range of fruits and vegetables, from farmers as far as Kalaburagi, Ballari, Yadgir and Shivamogga. Farmer Producer Organisations and some enterprising cultivators from districts around Bengaluru are reaching out to apartments in the city on their own.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/apartment-residents-relish-fruits-of-farmers-labour-thanks-to-hopcoms-833213.html
03-05-2020||West||Fratricide at BSF camp: Jawan kills SI before killing self in Rajasthan||A jawan allegedly killed his senior, a sub-inspector, before taking his own life in a fratricidal incident at a BSF camp in Rajasthan, officials said. They said the incident took place at about 6:30 AM at border outpost 'Renuka' in Sriganganagar district of Rajasthan where a unit of the 125th battalion of the force is deployed. Head constable Shiv Chander Ram is reported to have shot dead his senior and sub-inspector R P Singh before he killed himself using a service weapon, a senior official of the border guarding force said. Senior officials are at the incident spot to ascertain the cause of the fratricidal incident, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fratricide-at-bsf-camp-jawan-kills-si-before-killing-self-in-rajasthan-832963.html
03-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Mumbai metropolitan region continues to be concern area||Nearly two months of fighting COVID-19,  the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) continues to be the biggest concern area of India.  With close to 350 deaths and 10,000 positive cases, Mumbai and its suburban areas contribute to the maximum cases of the deadly viral pandemic in the country.  The MMR comprises of three districts of Mumbai City,  Mumbai Suburban and Thane and parts of Palghar and Raigad districts. The MMR is spread across 6,355 sq kms,  around 2 per cent of India's geographical area of 32,87,266 sq km. The MMR is one of the congested places and has a population density of 4,764  persons/sq km. The MMR has nine municipal corporations of Mumbai, Thane,  Navi Mumbai,  Kalyan-Dombivli, Panvel,  Vasai-Virar, Mira-Bhayender,  Bhiwandi-Nizampur and Ulhasnagar.  Besides,  it has nine municipal councils of Ambernath, Badlapur,  Uran,  Alibaug, Pen,   Matheran,  Karjat,  Khopoli and Palghar.  Till Saturday evening,  the MMR has registered 9,709 cases and 348 deaths.  Of these,  the nine municipal corporations including Mumbai account for 9,581 cases and 344 deaths.  In Mumbai's Dharavi area,  there are 500-odd COVID-19 cases. On the other hand,  the nine municipal councils, zilla parishad and gram panchayat areas account for 128 cases and 4 deaths.    "Mumbai-MMR by and large is a congested area. There is a huge movement of people. The chances of spread of any disease is very high," said Dr Suhas Pingle,  chairman, action committee, Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra State.  Veteran analyst Ajit Joshi said Mumbai-MMR is the origin point of Central Railway,  Western Railway and Konkan Railway and have several bus depots.  It also houses the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport.  On the large number of cases,  a senior government official said that one also needs to take  a view of the large number of tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-mumbai-metropolitan-region-continues-to-be-concern-area-832966.html
03-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Defence aircraft shower petals on Mumbai hospitals||The Indian armed forces on Sunday thanked those engaged in the fight against COVID-19 by showering flower petals from their aircraft on various hospitals in Mumbai and carrying out a fly-past over the Maharashtra Governor's house here. An aircraft of the Indian Air Force dropped flowers on the state-run J J Hospital, KEM Hospital and the Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, which have been treating coronavirus patients here, a defence official said. The India Navy and the Coast Guard also flew their Chetak helicopters to shower flowers on the J J Hospital and naval medical hospital Asvini in the state capital. Besides, the Sukhoi-30 fighter planes flew over the city's iconic Marine Drive and carried out a fly-past over the Governor's house here, said the official. The country's armed forces on Sunday engaged in a nationwide exercise to express gratitude to lakhs of doctors, paramedics, sanitation staff and other front-line workers involved in fighting the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-defence-aircraft-shower-petals-on-mumbai-hospitals-832987.html
03-05-2020||West||Maharashtra's MMR continues to be COVID-19 concern area||After nearly two months of starting the fight against COVID-19,  the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) continues to be the biggest concern area of India.  With close to 350 deaths and 10,000 positive cases, Mumbai and its suburban areas contribute to the maximum cases of the deadly pandemic in the country.  The MMR, spread across 6,355 sq kms, comprises three districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban and Thane and parts of Palghar and Raigad districts, which is around 0.2 per cent of India's geographical area of 32,87, 266 sq km. The MMR is also one of the more congested places in the country with a population density of 4,764  persons/sq km. The MMR, with nine municipal corporations -- Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Panvel, Vasai-Virar, Mira-Bhayender,  Bhiwandi-Nizampur and Ulhasnagar -- till Saturday evening had registered 9,709 cases and 348 deaths. The nine municipal corporations, including Mumbai, account for 9,581 cases and 344 deaths.  Besides the municipal corporations, it has nine municipal councils -- Ambernath, Badlapur, Uran, Alibaug, Pen, Matheran, Karjat, Khopoli and Palghar. The nine municipal councils, zilla parishad and gram panchayat areas account for 128 cases and 4 deaths.   In Mumbai's Dharavi area, there are 500-odd COVID-19 cases.  "Mumbai-MMR by and large is a congested area.  There is a huge movement of people. The chances of spread of any disease is very high," said Dr Suhas Pingle, Chairman, action committee, Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra State.  Veteran analyst Ajit Joshi said Mumbai-MMR is the origin point of Central Railway, Western Railway and Konkan Railway and have several bus depots.  It also houses the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport.  On the large number of cases,  a senior government official said that one also needs to take a view of the large number of tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-mmr-continues-to-be-covid-19-concern-area-833023.html
03-05-2020||West||COVID-19: 10 Ahmedabad wards so far declared containment zones||One more ward of Ahmedabad city was declared as a COVID-19 containment zone on Sunday, taking the total number of such wards here to 10, a senior civic official said. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation is taking steps to ensure lockdown rules are strictly followed in these affected areas to contain the spread of coronavirus, he said. The Maninagar ward in south Ahmedabad is the latest to be added in the list of containment zones, the official said. The COVID-19 figures in Ahmedabad till Saturday are as follows: Total cases-3,543, deaths-184, active cases-2,815, discharged-525, total samples tested-30,166 (at the rate of 5,000 samples per million), the official said. Ahmedabad has been declared a red zone by the Centre, and the state government will decide on the lockdown rules for the city in the third phase, starting May 4, based on guidelines issued by the central government. "The Jamalpur, Khadia, Dariyapur, Shahpur and Asarwa from the city's central areas, Behrampura, Danilimda and Maninagar from south Ahmedabad, Gomtipur from north city and Saraspur from eastern part of the city have been declared as containment zones," Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra said in a video message. He said the Jamalpur ward is the worst affected, accounting for 33 per cent of the total COVID-19 deaths in the city and the highest number of cases. In order to ensure people of the affected zones follow lockdown rules, the civic body has appointed 10 nodal officers to co-ordinate with the police, he said. These officials will also rope in local political, religious and social leaders to persuade people to follow the lockdown norms, which people were not following in entirety, especially in the affected areas, Nehra said. To further restrict movement, the civic body has also decided to block five bridges in the city, where no movement will be allowed even if people have a valid pass, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-10-ahmedabad-wards-so-far-declared-containment-zones-833027.html
03-05-2020||West||Shops selling non-essentials, including liquor allowed to open from May 6 in Maharashtra amid lockdown 3.0||The Maharashtra government on Sunday announced that shops selling non-essential commodities, including liquor, will be allowed to open from Monday in the COVID-19 non-containment zones across the state. Senior IAS officer from the Maharashtra Chief Minister's Office (CMO), Bhushan Gagrani, told this to reporters on Sunday. A similar decision had already been announced for the COVID-19 green and orange zones, and such shops in these two zones were scheduled to open from Monday. However, the state government on Sunday extended the easing of restrictions for shops in the red zones as well. "Even in the red zone districts, there are some areas where coronavirus infection has been not prevalent since over a month now. These areas are known as non-containment zones. "Such non-containment areas will have some relaxation, where shops selling non-essential commodities, like clothes, footwear, liquor, stationery, among others will be opened," Gagrani said. The decision has been taken after discussions with the Centre, he said. "Only five shops in one lane will be allowed to operate during the entire day. But this particular restriction is not applicable to the shops selling essential items such as medical and grocery. As of now, there are no restrictions on the timing of the shops to remain open," Gagrani said. Sale of liquor in standalone shops will be allowed, he said. However, social distancing norms have to be followed by all the shops. "To maintain social distancing, only a limited number of shops will be opened from Monday," he added. The timing of the shops will be finalised by the local authorities, such as municipal commissioners as well as district collectors, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shops-selling-non-essentials-including-liquor-allowed-to-open-from-may-6-in-maharashtra-amid-lockdown-30-833049.html
03-05-2020||West||25 labourers hire bus to reach Rajasthan from Mumbai amid coronavirus lockdown; police allows||Twenty-five migrant labourers from Rajasthan, who were stranded in Mumbai due to the lockdown, hired a private bus to go to their native places and sought travel permission from the police, which they granted after submission of documents, an official said on Sunday. The bus carrying these migrants, who work at Metal Market, Dawa Bazar and other commercial places in South Mumbai, left around 5.30 pm on Sunday, the official said. "They were stuck in the city due to the COVID-19 lockdown. However, after the Centre allowed the movement of stranded migrants, these people approached us with a request to allow them to travel to Rajasthan in a bus hired by them. They also submitted their documents," he said. Before starting the journey, Jalam Singh, one of the passengers who hails from Jalore district in Rajasthan, said, "We are happy that we are finally going to our native place. We had approached the MRA Marg Police Station and sought their nod saying that we have hired a bus for travelling to Rajasthan. We submitted our documents and the police gave permission." Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone 1), Sangramsinh Nishandar, said, "These migrants had arranged the bus for themselves. It left the CST Junction in the evening. We sanitised the bus and screened the passengers, after which they were allowed to go."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/25-labourers-hire-bus-to-reach-rajasthan-from-mumbai-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-police-allows-833099.html
03-05-2020||West||Railway Chief Yard Master works before retirement to ensure movement of trains||Call of duty comes on top. But for Vilas V Pagare, the Chief Yard Master, of Mulund Container Terminal, Mumbai,  gave extra effort just before retirement to ensure movement of trains. According to the Central Railway, Pagare, continuously worked at the terminal staying there from 23 March to 22 April  on his 'own will' during lockdown period to handle the growing number of freight trains loading and unloading at the terminal.  During that time, he handled placing of 40 rakes, its deformation, loading and unloading, reformation.   Pagare after serving for 35 years with Central Railway retired on 30 April. Even at the fag end of his career, he displayed zeal, a great commitment and passion to his work stayed at the terminal leaving his family for almost a month aiding the supply of essential goods to citizens, thus proved to be a great warrior during this time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/railway-chief-yard-master-works-before-retirement-to-ensure-movement-of-trains-833105.html
03-05-2020||West||Dharavi COVID-19 tally crosses 500-mark, toll at 20||COVID-19 cases continue to compound in Mumbai 's Dharavi with the total number of positive cases crossing the 500-mark. On Sunday, 94 new cases and 2 deaths were reported. With this, the total cases in Dharavi stands at 590 and 20 deaths. Over the last three days, Dharavi, the biggest slum cluster of Asia, saw exponential jumps. On Friday, Saturday and Sunday, 38, 89 and 94 cases, respectively, were reported. In fact, the first case and death in Dharavi was reported on 1 April, nearly a fortnight after the first casualty in Mumbai and Maharashtra. After that, the cases have surged at an alarming level. The state's first two COVID-19 cases was confirmed on 9 March, when a Pune couple, who had returned from Dubai, had tested positive.  The first death was reported on 17 March,  when a 64-year-old Mumbai resident,  who had a travel history to Dubai, passed away due to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavi-covid-19-tally-crosses-500-mark-toll-at-20-833124.html
03-05-2020||West||Gujarat COVID-19 cases up by 374 to 5428; 28 die in single day||Gujarat on Sunday reported 374 new COVID-19 cases and the highest single-day deaths at 28, with Ahmedabad alone accounting for 23, taking the overall number of the affected people to 5,428 and fatalities to 290, a Health department official said. The number of recovered patients in the state crossed the 1,000-mark and stood at 1042. While Ahmedabad reported 274 new coronavirus positive cases, Vadodara and Surat reported 25 cases each and Mehsana 21, the official said. With this, the total number of the cases in Ahmedabad, which is the worst-hit, rose to 3,817, the official said, adding that the number of the infected people in Surat and Vadodara now stands at 686 and 350, respectively. "A total of 23 of the 28 deceased were from Ahmedabad. Of the remaining five, two deaths were reported from Surat, and one each in Vadodara, Anand and Gandhinagar," said Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi. She said 24 of the 28 deceased were suffering from either of underlying health conditions like lung disease, asthma, hypertension, diabetes, kidney disease among others. The overall number of the people who have succumbed to the COVID-19 disease in Ahmedabad district now stands at 208. Surat and Vadodara have reported the overall death toll at 30 and 25, respectively, Ravi added. Meanwhile, the number of the recovered patients in the state crossed the 1,000-mark and stood at 1,042, after 146 more people discharged on Sunday, including 71 from Ahmedabad and 57 from Surat, Ravi said. Recovery of COVID-19 patients was also reported from eight other districts, she said. Devbhoomi Dwarka district has become the 31st district in the state to report COVID-19 cases. "Three cases were reported from Devbhhomi Dwarka district," Ravi added. Fresh cases were also reported from Mahisagar (10), Gandhinagar (3), Patan (1), Banaskantha (7), Botad (3), Dahod (1), and Aravalli (1). Gujarat now has a total of 4,096 active cases, 31 of whom are on a ventilator, she said. "The state has so far tested 80,060 samples, including 5,944 in the last 24 hours," Ravi said. Gujarat COVID-19 cases are as follows: Positive cases 5,428, new cases 374, deaths 290, discharge 1,042, active cases 4,096 and people tested so far 80,060.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-cases-up-by-374-to-5428-28-die-in-single-day-833154.html
03-05-2020||West||Amid lockdown, 1 killed, 6 injured in clash in Maharashtra's Latur||Amid the lockdown for the novel coronavirus outbreak, a man was killed and six others were injured in a clash over removal of silt from a lake in Udgir in Maharashtra's Latur district, police said on Sunday. The incident took place in Deoulwadi village on Saturday morning.  "Five people came to remove slit from a lake when two others approached them and picked up a fight. Rudrappa Gatate (29) was injured in the clash, in which sticks and and an axe were used, and died in a hospital later. The four men with him are undergoing treatment in Udgir while the two accused also got injured. A case has been registered," the Wadhwana police station official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-lockdown-1-killed-6-injured-in-clash-in-maharashtras-latur-833157.html
03-05-2020||West||8 trains carrying migrants to Odisha, UP leave Gujarat in 2 days||Eight special trains carrying stranded people, including migrant labourers, tourists and pilgrims, left Gujarat for different destinations in Odisha and Uttar Pradesh in two days, a senior official said on Sunday. While four trains left on Saturday, as many others started their journey on Sunday, he said. Apart from them, two more trains are scheduled to leave the late-night on Sunday, the official said. "Four trains- two each from Ahmedabad and Surat- left on Saturday for places in Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. Four other trains carried passengers from Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Palanpur on Sunday for those two states. Two more special trains will leave late tonight," Additional Chief Secretary Vipul Mittra, said. These ten trains will carry around 9,500 passengers to their destinations in Odisha and Uttar Pradesh, from where the state governments will make further arrangement for them, he said. The Gujarat government has appointed Mittra as the nodal officer to coordinate with the Railways and respective state governments for the movement of stranded migrant workers and other passengers in special trains. "Since yesterday, we have been constantly coordinating with the railways and the state governments to streamline the movement of labourers to their home states. Trains are being run at half their capacity to maintain social distance norms," he said. According to him, in order to avoid unnecessary crowding at the stations, the district collectors have been asked to inform the labourers in advance that they should not ask other unregistered persons to accompany them. All the passengers were screened before the journey to ensure that only asymptomatic persons board the trains, he said. "District collectors are working out lists of people to be shifted over the next seven days. The host states are being given the entire list and phone numbers of the travelling passengers well in advance to enable them to arrange for further logistics on arrival," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/8-trains-carrying-migrants-to-odisha-up-leave-gujarat-in-2-days-833182.html
