04-05-2020||In Perspective||Taking stock: What we know, what we don’t||As we step into the third phase of the lockdown and even as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to play havoc with lives and livelihoods in most parts of the world, several questions are still far from settled. We, of course, know that there is no vaccine or cure as of now. Experiences from different countries have also taught us that early testing and then isolating or quarantining people afflicted with the disease along with ‘contact tracing’ and ‘social distancing’ do help in restricting the spread. ‘Flattening the curve’ is needed for three reasons. It prevents the medical system from being overwhelmed by the surge of critically ill patients requiring ICU care with ventilator (in acute short supply all over the globe) support on any given day. In addition, by delaying the process, a country buys critical time to better prepare to fight the silent and invisible enemy. Third, more time enables the country to know the unfolding hot spots or clusters to focus on. We also know that people who do not show any significant symptoms (‘asymptomatic’) can be carriers of the virus and can transmit it to others, especially to more vulnerable people like senior citizens and those with pre-existing health issues. Hence, even with social distancing and staying at home, some spread of the disease and even death is inevitable. With ‘herd immunity’ -- when a sufficiently large number of people get infected and cured, thereby developing some degree of immunity -- the spread of the disease would naturally slow down. People with proven immunity (which anti-body tests are expected to reveal) can then safely go back to work. But this is a long-drawn process, and at enormous human cost. At the same time, no one knows how long this ‘natural vaccination’ would remain effective. There are even conflicting reports about the distance (from 1 metre to 3 metres or more) that the virus can spread by discharge of droplets. Hence, wearing a mask is now being declared a must, though initially it was not the case. The problem is that this is a really novel virus and it would take many more months of research to reveal all the mysteries surrounding it. It is even possible that if and when a vaccine is developed, say, after a year or so, the virus would have mutated so much that the vaccine proves largely ineffective against the new mutated one. Testing is not fool-proof either. COVID-19 tests can sometimes give wrong results, both false positive and false negative. Some test kits (made in China) have been found to be faulty. But in the absence of anything better (vaccines, cures), we have to depend on tests, even if they are not entirely trustworthy. Also, there are multiple alternative tests (blood test, swab tests, test within a week of contact, test after a week, anti-body test) which can be performed on the same individual to minimise errors.  Of course, resource constraints would not allow testing everyone. Testing will have to be reserved for all people manning essential services and those showing symptoms or randomly selected people in hotspots.  Is lockdown of selected districts with manifestations of the virus (while withdrawing lockdown from districts with no known cases) a better option than quarantining only ‘hotspots’ or ‘clusters’ with more severe outbreak of the disease? Given the impossibility of stopping inter-district movement of people – unless there is total quarantine of the most affected district(s) by police/military and total stoppage of transportation (including trains and buses) across districts -- it is not practical. Logistically, it may be easier to quarantine a badly affected cluster (like say, the Dharavi slum). Balancing lives saved against saving livelihoods is a trade-off which would become tougher, the longer the nationwide lockdown continues. The elected political leaders would have to take the call by weighing the risks in terms of additional lives lost involved in relaxing lockdowns against the risks of plunging millions of people into unemployment and loss of income. No amount of cash transfers, income supplements, free food grains and fiscal and monetary stimulus – especially given the tardy implementation mechanisms -- would be able to compensate the huge economic losses. But then, it should also be emphasised that without shutdown, many thousands of people would die and many people, including migrant workers (except the most desperate poor), would not want to return to unsafe workplaces. That, too, would make the economy collapse. Hence, the so-called trade-off may be a false one, to a large extent. It is highly likely that in the coming weeks and months, there will be lots of forward and backward movements (as the virus appears in new hotspots, especially when domestic and international travel resume) in policy and strategies to combat the enemy. The approach would have to be incremental and cautious so that repeated total shutdowns can be avoided. Nothing hurts economic activities, investment and jobs than the possibility of repeated sudden closures of business. In the absence of vaccines and cures, how is the disease going to die down?  The likely scenario is that with each relaxation of lockdown, there will be fresh waves of infection, but each time the severity would be less than before as more and more people join the ‘herd immunity’ ring. Also, the system would be better prepared to handle the new medical cases as time passes.  As a pandemic expert put it, “The virus would set the timeline, not us. We have to simply adjust our strategies.” (The author is a former Professor of Economics, IIM, Calcutta and Cornell University, US)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/taking-stock-what-we-know-what-we-don-t-833588.html
04-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Karnataka's Kalaburagi records sixth COVID-19 death||The deceased, a known case of SARI, was admitted to the hospital on April 29 with complaints of cough and fever.   Chest X-ray showed bilateral patchy pneumonitis. He died at the designated hospital in Kalaburgi, stated the state bulletin.  With his death, the toll rose to six in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/karnatakas-kalaburagi-records-sixth-covid-19-death-833334.html
04-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Coronavirus: Kalaburagi reports two fresh COVID-19 cases||The infection was confirmed in a 37-year-old man from Chincholi town of Kalaburagi district. He has travel history to  Hyderabad. The test result of a 36-year-old woman returned positive. She came in contact with P-604. Of the 63 patients, six died of COVID-19 in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/coronavirus-kalaburagi-reports-two-fresh-covid-19-cases-833336.html
04-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Wine shops remain closed in Kalaburagi||"Deputy Commissioner B Sharat has called a meeting with the officials today (May 4). A call on giving permission to reopen liquor vending outlets will be taken only after the meeting", said a district official.  There are 164 wine shops in the district and circles have been drawn in front of the outlets to avoid the people scrambling to get liquor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/coronavirus-lockdown-30-wine-shops-remain-closed-in-kalaburagi-833371.html
04-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Mandya||P637 and P638, aged 20 and 19 years, have a travel history of Mumbai, Maharashtra. With this, the number of positive cases has gone up to 28 in Mandya. They are being treated at the designated COVID-19 hospital in Mandya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-mandya-833322.html
04-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: KSRTC resumes its service in Chikkamagaluru||About 200 passengers have travelled to Sringeri, Mudigere, Koppa and Kadur taluks since morning.  According to KSRTC Divisional Controller, passengers who wish to travel to taluk centres have to register half an hour prior to the journey. Sanitisers were placed in the bus stand in Chikkamagaluru to sanitise hands before boarding the buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-30-ksrtc-resumes-its-service-in-chikkamagaluru-833341.html
04-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||11 recover from coronavirus in Belagavi||A total of 11 persons, who recovered from COVID-19, were discharged from Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital on Monday, Director Dr Vinay Dastikopp informed.  Among those discharged, 4 are from Camp in the city, 4 from Kuduchi town in Raibag taluk and one each from Yellur and Hirebagewadi in Belagavi taluk and from Sankeshwar town in Hukkeri taluk.  Those discharged are P355, P356, P358 and P359 from Camp, P296, P297, P299 and P301 from Kuduchi, P293 from Sankeshwar, P295 from Yellur and P193 from Hirebagewadi. District until now has recorded 73 COVID-19 positive cases of whom 26 have recovered and 1 died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/11-recover-from-coronavirus-in-belagavi-833388.html
04-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Minor clash in Mandya over sale of liquor||A clash between two groups was witnessed in front of a wine shop, on Bengaluru-Mysuru highway, as the people jostled with each other to queue up to buy liquor in Mandya on Monday. There was commotion, when people started pushing and shoving in the queue, after the liquor shop opened for business. One of them tried to attack the other with a machette. The police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. The police resorted to mild caning near a wine shop on 100 ft road, when there was a mad rush to buy liquor. No social distancing was maintained at several places. Due to the commotion, Excise Commissioner Shivakumar directed to close the shop at 5 pm. In all, 100 wine shops and 34 MSIL shops were opened for business on Monday. In all, 158 shops were opened and did brisk business in Hassan district. The customers braved the scorching sun and were drenched in rain by evening, to buy liquor. With the state government's permission to open wine shops, a large number of people thronged them in Hassan city and also in rural areas. The authorities suspended the licenses of around 22 shops that did not follow the guidelines. The shopkeepers had erected barricades and markings were made for customers to stand in a queue. But, no social distancing was maintained. Many, were waiting from early morning and rushed to buy, as soon as the shops opened. The police had to use mild caning to streamline the crowd. Even though masks were made mandatory, many were without masks. Sanitisers were missing at several shops. A kilometre long queue was seen at several wine shops in the city. Youths, senior citizens and women were seen in queues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minor-clash-in-mandya-over-sale-of-liquor-833538.html
04-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Chinese show interest to invest in drug company||Chinese investors have expressed their intent to invest in a drug discovery company, to develop a molecule invented by a city-based scientist. K S Rangappa, who was vice chancellor of the University of Mysore and also Karnataka State Open University, has come up with a drug — a molecule named N-cyclopentyl-3-((4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl) piperazin-1-yl) (2-hydroxyphenyl)methyl) benzamide (NPB) — to treat all types of cancer, along with scientists in China. Now, Rangappa and his team are invited by the Chinese investors to set up a company at Ningbo city in China. Rangappa said, “A series of video conferences were held since one month in this regard, due to Covid-19 lockdown. The Chinese investors are interested in developing our molecules as anti-cancer drugs. They are also interested in giving the responsibility of establishing the pharmaceutical company to me, along with Ningbo University. The final meeting with the investors was held on May 2, Saturday, through video conference, to start the Chinese Indian Drug Research and Development Centre in China.” Rangappa is also a distinguished professor of University of Mysore, Institution of Excellence; General President of Indian Science Congress; UGC-BSR Faculty Fellow; and Chief Scientific Adviser to Hong Kong-based Sinotar Pharmaceutical (Schenzen). Rangappa said that surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and immunotherapy are the major treatments now available for cancer. “Besides, there are other types of treatment, depending on the kind of cancer. However, they have a lot of side-effects. Even then, the rate of survival is not encouraging. NPB is a drug-based treatment and can be adopted in chemotherapy. The NPB targets and attacks only affected cells in the human body and will affect healthy cells,” he said. Rangappa said, “We designed and identified the molecule that specifically targets bcl2 family member gene called Bcl-2 agonist of cell death (BAD), which exists in higher amounts in cancer cells and forms a heterodimer with anti-apoptotic gene to stop the cancer ‘cell-death’, where most of the cancer cells escape this process and become immortal.” Scientists C D Mohan, R Shobith and Basappa were lead by Rangappa and Peter E Lobie of Tsinghua University in China. “We unravelled the anti-cancer effects of BAD targeting molecule. Our work was published in ‘Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences’, an American journal, earlier,” he said. “BAD is a protein essential for driving cancer cells towards death. Cancer cells oppose their death by expressing increased concentration of proteins called Bcl-2. The inactivation of Bcl-2 or anti-apoptotic genes results in the induction of cancer cell-death. We initially designed the molecule targeting BAD gene, using cheminformatics platform that fitted with high-end computers and identified NPB as a lead structure, which can act as an anti-cancer agent against a wide range of cancers,” Rangappa explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chinese-show-interest-to-invest-in-drug-company-833541.html
04-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Liquor sale: consumers flout social distance norm||As liquor shops opened after a gap of nearly one-and-a-half months, sales is in full swing. Thousands of people across the district were seen waiting in queues in front of the shops from early hours on Monday. The authorities have allowed the sales from 9 am to 7 pm. According to them, 301 shops, including MSIL and other stores, were opened across the district. However, no bar and restaurant was allowed to open. There are 181 CL 2 shops and 35 MSIL stores in the district. In addition, 82 CL 2 and three MSIL shops function in Mysuru City Corporation limits. The Excise and Police departments and district administration authorities had directed the shop owners to take necessary measures to regulate the customers. Despite the warning, people violated lockdown norms and flouted social distance in parts of the district. In some parts of rural Mysuru, people were standing close to each other without wearing masks. However, in Mysuru city, people maintained social distance and were also wearing masks. As the people failed to follow the guidelines, a wine shop owner was forced to down the shutters for a while. A large number of people gathered in front of a wine shop on BN Road in Mysuru. Despite repeated requests by the shopkeeper, the customers did not follow the guidelines and thus, the owner closed the shop for a while. A video of one Krishna, demanding the state government, to ban alcohol has gone viral on the social media. Krishna purchased alcohol on Monday. According to him, the people quit consuming alcohol if it is not available. “Now, the government itself is forcing us to consume alcohol and thus I am consuming. I will support the government, if it is banned,” he said. Krishna said that he did not consume alcohol for 40 days, during the lockdown. “Now I consume as the government has opened the stalls. The government claims liquor is the main source of revenue. I will contribute Rs 5,000 every year as revenue, if the government bans it. Not only me, several people are ready to donate money, if liquor is banned,” he said. According to him, many families are facing hardships and there is no peace in the families due to liquor. Not only poor people, but, well educated and rich people are also suffering due to the consumption of alcohol, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/liquor-sale-consumers-flout-social-distance-norm-833543.html
04-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress goes ballistic, ropes in grassroots workers to welcome migrants||Stepping up its game, the DK Shivakumar-led Congress has decided to use its workers’ base to help receive migrants arriving into the state and ensure they reach their homes. Shivakumar has ordered all block-level and district-level party leaders to make the migrants feel welcome. “Receive them and make them reach their villages. This will be a big humanitarian service,” Shivakumar told party workers in a video message.  Going ballistic against the ruling BJP, Shivakumar on Monday handed over a cheque of Rs 1 crore to Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, the transport minister, towards footing the travel cost of migrants. But Savadi mocked the Congress for this: “If a national party like the Congress, which has plenty of resources, wishes to contribute it can donate to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.” Apparently, the KSRTC has not accepted Shivakumar’s cheque. The Congress has aggressively attacked the BS Yediyurappa administration over the humanitarian crisis, especially migrants. "Don't you have a heart? Did you see how migrants were on the streets, with little children? This government is unfit," Shivakumar told reporters. During the day, Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah met Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar and demanded special ‘Shramik’ train services to ferry Kannadigas stranded in other states. “We are ready to bear the monetary costs to be paid to the Railways in our effort to help the cause of Kannadigas and Karnataka,” Shivakumar said in his petition. On his part, Siddaramaiah shot off a 7-page letter to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa with various demands, mainly a special economic package for the working classes. “The daily wagers, street vendors, migrants, pourakarmikas, domestic helps, agricultural labourers and others in the working classes are bereft of earnings because of the lockdown. A special package should be designed for them so that each one gets at least Rs 10,000 per month,” the former CM said. Irked by the Congress’ moves, Revenue Minister R Ashoka accused the party of politicking during the pandemic. “For two months, they slept while the government spent crores of money. Karnataka today is one of the better states when it comes to handling Covid-19,” he said. “All they've given is Rs 1 crore. For a party with over 100 years of history, they've just embarrassed themselves.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-goes-ballistic-ropes-in-grassroots-workers-to-welcome-migrants-833479.html
04-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||KSTDC storehouse in-charge admits liquor theft, suspended||The storehouse in-charge of Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation’s (KSTDC) Mayura Pine Top (MPT) at Nandi Hills has been suspended in connection with the theft of 21 tins (each 300 ML) of liquor during the lockdown period. Following the confession of Jayabheema, the storehouse in-charge that he had stolen the tins, the suspension order has been issued. “Jayabheema confessed that he had stolen the tins and had sold them illegally. He has paid for the liquor stolen,” KSTDC managing director  (MD) Kumar Pushkar told DH. A case had been registered against him with Nandi Giridhama police station. CCTV footage had been obtained and a departmental enquiry was on, he said. Liquor and cold beverage bottles in the storehouse were intact when the stocks were verified on March 21 in the presence of Manjegowda, the manager and the auditor. The theft came to light when he verified the stocks in presence of staff members on April 24. Manjegowda, in the letter to the MD on April 28, had stated that the monkeys destroyed the tins. He had also stated that Jayabheema was in possession of keys of the store house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/kstdc-storehouse-in-charge-admits-liquor-theft-suspended-833481.html
04-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||CB’ Pur man tests positive for Covid-19||A 30-year-old man, a resident of ward-17 here, tested positive for Covid-19. A 69-year-old man, a resident of Anjuman road in ward-17, contracted novel coronavirus on April 13. He died on April 15. The virus was transmitted from him to six others due to direct and direct contact. The 30-year-old man is son-in-law of one of the six. A total of 21 people, including 12 from Gauribidanur and 9 from Chikkaballapur, tested positive so far in the district. About 11 patients from Gauribidanur have been discharged after they recovered. Five people are being treated at the district hospital at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/cb-pur-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-833482.html
04-05-2020||Main Article||Time for governance reforms||There can be no question that when a pandemic of the enormity of COVID-19 disrupts the world, nay world order, governments worldwide are bound to be overwhelmed. There can also be no question that under these situations any government could do with some extra help from its citizens. Thus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s repeated appeal to citizens for their support and sacrifices under the circumstances is understandable. After all, half our population lives on less than a couple of dollars a day, with a tax-paying population that’s wafer thin. And without the entire nation stretching itself, the government could indeed find it difficult to ride out the situation on its own. And people, for the most part, have uncomplainingly risen to the occasion in more ways than one. Millions have lost their livelihoods and jobs because of the lockdown while others have calmly accepted lower earnings and salaries. Tradesmen like barbers, plumbers, electricians, daily-wage construction workers and marginal farmers – always the worst hit in any disaster, whether an act of nature, man or God – have stoically borne the brunt of the pandemic. Many have made significant donations, fed the hungry and the homeless. The corporate sector and citizens alike have been urged to continue paying wages to staff, landlords exhorted to waive rents, private hospitals to lend their facilities to COVID detection, hostels of schools and colleges to quarantine facilities and much more, for in a time of crisis the entire nation must share the burden. While it may not cost a college much to give up its hostel for quarantine during the summer break, it is difficult to see how long a hotel or an airline, and many others, can continue to pay for labour and overheads when their revenues are near zero. Nevertheless, citizens have uncomplainingly stood by the government in these trying times, because this is no time to complain. Instead, they are using the lockdown time to shine up their housekeeping. But the government on its part has announced no cogent, meaningful and substantial economic package for the nation reeling under the effect of its summary lockdown. Perhaps it’s because its coffers are empty, which in turn is because of our large-scale corruption. It’s time to realise that what we are looking at is possibly the beginning of a new world order. It can hardly be business as usual after COVID-19. That is why we need to rethink all our initiatives at a fundamental level—not just in terms of what to do, but more in terms of how to do them, going forward. We have to seize on the lockdown pause as the opportunity to change the course of things, to work on a new governance order with significantly reduced corruption and greater transparency and accountability. The government needs to rejig its housekeeping on many dimensions. Unfortunately, in this government, every decision seems to flow only from the PMO, perhaps to project a single powerful leader. It is as if no single minister or ministry counts for much beyond the PM. Why else would the Home Minister be entirely absent in the public discourse or domain? Or why would a need for a ‘PM-Cares Fund’ be felt beyond the PM’s National Relief Fund? This needs to change. Every ministry should be asked to count for itself during this nationwide pause. For instance, the HRD Ministry should be required to reflect and work on a white paper on what can be done to focus on learning outcomes, especially in government schools. The same needs to be done by the Ministry of Health for the government hospitals in terms of health outcomes. The Home Ministry should be asked to develop blueprints for police reforms. The Ministry of Law & Justice and the Supreme Court should be required to brainstorm on how to streamline judicial reforms to deliver a semblance of justice to the common man. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry needs to work on how to ensure that the MSME sector – especially the micro sector – will not be completely wiped out under the load of the COVID-19 lockdown. They need to strategise how the manufacturing and construction sectors will lure workers back from their rural homes to which they are in the process of trekking, left largely bereft by the government, when the lockdown ends. They need to brainstorm how to help the corporate sector manage their capacities which would have shrunk significantly post-lockdown. The Ministry of Petroleum should be reflecting on why the price of diesel and petrol at our pumps have remained at around Rs 65-75 per litre, from the time when international crude prices reigned at $106 a barrel until today when it is at $20 or thereabouts! Shouldn’t a fair government, which has linked fuel retail prices to international prices, be passing on at least some of the benefit of the fall in prices to its citizens? The Finance Ministry needs to work out how to put money into the hands of the people so that the demand-side of the economy doesn’t dry up. They should think about issuing 30-year and 50-year bonds in the economy to fund long-gestation infrastructure projects and invest in such projects. This could also be the time to deploy a thin, specialised workforce adequately protected, and provided with supporting eco-system, using entirely mechanised methods to repair all our pathetic roads and create an infrastructure for a cleaner India. This is also the time to reflect on cleaning up electoral funding, which is the lodestone of all corruption in the country. Considering that the current dispensation came to power precisely because the last one was highly corrupt, lack of action in this regard is lamentable. Now is the time to act. It is time to reset the national conscience to higher standards and get our ministries judiciary and police to be more fair, clean and accountable. (The writer is Director, Schulich School of Business, India Programme)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/time-for-governance-reforms-833589.html
04-05-2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: As liquor shops open after 40 days, long queues seen in front of outlets in Mysuru||As liquor shops are opened after a gap of nearly one and a half months, the sales are on full swing. Thousands of people across the district were seen waiting in queues in front of the shops from early hours on Monday morning in Mysuru. The authorities have allowed the sale from 9 am to 7 pm. In Mysuru city, the people maintained social distance and were also wearing masks. However, in some parts of rural Mysuru, people were seen standing close to each other without wearing a mask. Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth has warned of legal action against the shop owner if the people failed to abide with the guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/coronavirus-lockdown-30-as-liquor-shops-open-after-40-days-long-queues-seen-in-front-of-outlets-in-mysuru-833289.html
04-05-2020||National||States assert more as coronavirus lockdown 3.0 begins||As India enters Lockdown 3.0 on Monday, the fight against COVID-19 will get more federal in nature and decentralised in approach, with states playing an active role in deciding the strategy, revising guidelines and even disagreeing with what the Centre has proposed on many counts. The new guidelines give more teeth to the states, enabling them to make the norms more stringent. The signs of the states’ increasing role began to emerge after the nationwide lockdown completed over a month. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee — who had initially raised questions over the visit of central teams to monitor containment strategies in states — on May 1 wrote to the Centre, objecting to its “erroneous assessment” of red zones and sending a “correct classification” made by her government.  Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also disagreed with the Centre’s declaration of all 11 districts as red zones. He said only containment zones, and not entire districts, should be declared as red zones. “I have my differences on this,” he acknowledged. On Saturday, Karnataka expressed disagreement with the Centre’s classification of Bengaluru Rural in the red zone and sought its exclusion. It told the Centre that Bengaluru should not be considered as one entire district for COVID-19 containment purpose. Chairing a key meeting in Patna on May 3, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar asked officials to coordinate with all states to ensure that those returning to Bihar don’t face any trouble. As per the Centre’s guideline, the period of quarantine is 14 days whereas Bihar increased it to 21 days.  Two days before the Centre announced Lockdown 3.0, the Congress-ruled Punjab announced its own decision to extend curbs till May 17. Telangana had announced much earlier on March 19 that it would extend lockdown till May 7, becoming the first to do so. Just five days before, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the end of Lockdown 2.0. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu suggested that while the Centre was in the forefront during the last two lockdowns, stakeholders including states are the key players now. He said this decision puts the onus of taking forward the virus fight more on stakeholders including people, state governments and agencies concerned, commercial and industrial establishments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-assert-more-as-coronavirus-lockdown-30-begins-833218.html
04-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: We fear hunger, not COVID-19, says migrant workers||A day after the Union government allowed the railways to ferry inter-state migrant workers, hundreds of them came to the railway and bus stations to return to their homes in Bihar, UP and other states only to find that there was no such facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-we-fear-hunger-not-covid-19-says-migrant-workers-833240.html
04-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 4||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 47,388 as of May 4. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 1,488 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 11,762 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-4-833241.html
04-05-2020||National||Lockdown 3.0 Rules: Full list of activities permitted in Red, Orange and Green Zones from today||The government, on Friday, announced that the coronavirus lockdown will be extended for two weeks beyond May 4, but with some easing of restrictions. The Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement that in view of "significant gains in the COVID-19 situation", areas with few or no cases would see "considerable relaxations". The MHA also issued new guidelines to regulate different activities in this period, based on the risk profiling of the districts of the country into Red (hotspot), Orange, and Green zones. The new guidelines have permitted considerable easing of restrictions in Green and Orange zones. These zones have been classified in terms of districts with either zero confirmed cases till date; or, no confirmed case in the last 21 days. Here's the full list of activities permitted and prohibited in Red Zone, Green Zone and Orange Zone districts across India from today:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-30-rules-full-list-of-activities-permitted-in-red-orange-and-green-zones-from-today-833243.html
04-05-2020||National||Who is Colonel Ashutosh Sharma? 10 things to know about officer killed in terrorist encounter in J&K's Handwara||In the biggest loss in recent years, two senior Army officers, including a colonel, were among five security personnel killed during an encounter with terrorists in north Kashmir, officials said on Sunday. The encounter in Handwara in Kupwara district claimed the lives of Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh and Lance Naik Dinesh, all from the Brigade of the Guards regiment, and at present part of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles, who were deployed to counter terrorism in the hinterland. A Jammu and Kashmir Police Sub-Inspector, Sageer Ahmad Pathan alias Qazi, also fell victim to the bullets of terrorists.  Meanwhile, here are things to know about Colonel Sharma: 1) Colonel is originally from Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh and is survived by his wife and his 12-year-old daughter. 2) Col Sharma had been part of several successful counter-insurgency operations in Kashmir in the past. He served Kashmir for a long time and was twice awarded Sena medal for gallantry, including one for bravery as CO. 3) He received the gallantry award as a CO when he shot a militant-- who was rushing towards his men on a road with a grenade hidden in his clothes-- at close range.  4) Col Sharma is the first CO or a colonel rank officer in the last five years to have lost life in an encounter with militants. Before this, the Army had lost two colonel-ranking officers in separate terror incidents in 2015. 5) He had told his colleagues that he would nab or gun down the Lashkar-e-Taiba commander, according to India Today. 6) Attempting to get into the army for six-and-a-half years, Col Sharma successfully joined the Army in his thirteenth attempt. 7) Col Sharma used to go out of the way for his jawans and solve their problems, reported Economic Times. 8) Before the encounter, intelligence inputs indicated the presence of the same group of terrorists inside a house at Changimulla village, prompting Col Sharma to launch a cordon-and-search operation along with his team and Qazi. 9) According to the officials, the team came under heavy fire after rescuing the civilians and all communication link with Col Sharma and his team was snapped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-is-colonel-ashutosh-sharma-10-things-to-know-about-officer-killed-in-terrorist-encounter-in-jks-handwara-833245.html
04-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: India to evacuate 200 of its nationals from Maldives this week||The High Commission of India in Male stated that a ship would evacuate 200 Indian citizens, who were stranded in Maldives due to the restrictions imposed on international travels in both the nations to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. The ship would ferry the evacuees to Kochi in Kerala where they would be quarantined for at least 14 days before being allowed to move to their respective destinations depending on the extant policy and directives of the Centre and the Government of Kerala regarding the movement of people within and outside the State, it added.  “Preference would be accorded to already registered cases with the High Commission on compelling grounds such as medical/pregnancy/elderly/death in family/stranded tourists/workers who lost jobs and destitute cases,” High Commission of India in Male stated. While the first ship would bring home 200 Indians from the archipelago, it has not yet been decided when the next evacuation will take place. The High Commission forewarned the evacuees that the 48-hour sailing from Male to Kochi might be rough due to pre-monsoon weather conditions and the facilities and medical support on the ship would be “basic”. The facilities would also be “basic” where the evacuees would be quarantined on their arrival in Kochi from Male and they would have to pay for it, it added. India earlier evacuated its nationals from China, Italy, Iran, Afghanistan and Japan in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and the travel and transport restrictions imposed to contain it. New Delhi also facilitated the return of Indians stranded in Malaysia and a few other countries.  The government, however, has not carried out any evacuation mission during the past few weeks. “There are around 2000 Indians stranded and in dire straits in Maldives due to lack of funds, food and accommodation and their lives in danger. The epidemic is spreading like wildfire because of population density. Please repatriate on highest priority,” Dileep Kumar, a Twitter user, posted on the micro-blogging platform on May 2, drawing the attention of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-india-to-evacuate-200-of-its-nationals-from-maldives-this-week-833270.html
04-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Uddhav Thackeray asks Centre to not charge migrants train fare||Nearly five lakh migrant labourers have been given food and shelter for 40 days in various state facilities, and now they have expressed the desire to go back home in view of the current situation, Thackeray said in a communication to the Centre late Sunday night. "These people have no source of income since last some weeks. Hence, on humanitarian ground, the Centre should not charge them for travelling," the chief minister said. Many NGOs, social workers and individuals have come forward to bear the cost of train tickets for migrant labourers, he said.  Thackeray also asked the state officials concerned to be ready to handle large scale groups of migrant workers, if the Centre decides to run trains from cities like Mumbai, Thane and Pune to take them to their hometowns. Maharashtra Power Minister Nitin Raut has already requested the Railway Ministry to bear the cost of transportation of the migrant labourers to their destinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-uddhav-thackeray-asks-centre-to-not-charge-migrants-train-fare-833281.html
04-05-2020||National||One more COVID-19 case reported in Odisha, count rises to 163||A person from Odisha's Sundergarh district tested positive for novel coronavirus on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 163, a health official said. The fresh case has taken Sundergarh's count to 11, of which six are active cases and five persons have recovered. The tribal-dominated district is in the 'orange' zone, he said. A total of 2,470 samples were tested for COVID-19 on Sunday, the Health and Family Welfare Department official said. The Odisha government has tested 41,128 samples so far, he said. Of the total 163 cases, 102 are active ones while 60 persons have recovered. One person from Bhubaneswar died of the disease on April 6. The highest number of cases were reported in Jajpur district (48), followed by 47 in Bhubaneswar (Khurda district), 21 in Balasore, 19 in Bhadrak and 11 in Sundergarh. Two cases each have been reported in Ganjam, Jharsuguda, Kendrapara, Bolangir, Keonjhar and Kalahandi and one each in Cuttack, Puri, Dhenkanal, Deogarh and Koraput districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-more-covid-19-case-reported-in-odisha-count-rises-to-163-833283.html
04-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Goa Police use drones to monitor lockdown violators||Goa Police used drones to keep an eye on lockdown violators in some densely populated and slum areas of the coastal state. This was done after the police got to know that people were gathering at a volleyball ground and some open areas in South Goa district, but running away when the security personnel reached there, Superintendent of Police (South) Arvind Gawas said on Sunday. The drones last week helped the police to aerially monitor the movement of people in South Goa's Zuarinagar, located near Vasco city, and the Housing Board colony and Kharebandh locality, both situated in Margao city. Zuarinagar is one of the biggest slum areas in Goa, while the Housing Board colony and Kharebandh have very narrow bylanes where reaching by four-wheelers is difficult. "The challenge was how to monitor children and youth venturing out of their homes in those areas. Every time we sent the police force, these people used to rush back home before the security personnel reached there," Gawas said. That is when the police thought of using drones to track them, he said. "After seeing drones in the area, people realised that police were keeping an eye on them. The violations then stopped immediately, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-goa-police-use-drones-to-monitor-lockdown-violators-833284.html
04-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Indian Railway has subsidised 85% fare for migrant workers, says BJP||The BJP said on Monday the railways has subsidised 85 per cent of ticket fare for special trains being run to transport migrant workers and the state government has to pay the remaining 15 per cent, soon after the Congress attacked the central government over the issue. The state government concerned can also pay for the tickets, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said. He said the Madhya Pradesh government is doing so and asked Rahul Gandhi to tell the Congress-ruled states to follow suit. He was responding to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's attack on the railways for charging poor migrant labourers ticket fare, even as it donated over Rs 151 crore to the PM-CARES Fund.  "Rahul Gandhi ji, I have attached guidelines of MHA which clearly states that 'No tickets to be sold at any station'. Railways has subsidised 85% & state govt to pay 15%. The state govt can pay for the tickets (Madhya Pradesh's BJP govt is paying). Ask Cong state govts to follow suit," Patra tweeted.  The BJP leader further clarified that for each 'Shramik Express', special trains being run for migrants, about 1,200 tickets to the destination are handed by the railways to the state government concerned.  State governments are supposed to clear the ticket price and hand over the tickets to workers, he said.  Seeking to corner the central government, the Congress on Monday said its state units will bear the cost of rail travel of needy migrant workers and labourers stranded at their workplaces due to the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus.  Congress president Sonia Gandhi in a statement announced the party's decision and said this would be the Congress' humble contribution in standing shoulder to shoulder with these workers.  In a tweet, BJP MP Subramanian Swamy claimed that migrant workers returning home will not have to pay money as the rail travel will be free from now onwards. Swamy, in a tweet, said, "Talked to Piyush Goel office. Govt will pay 85% and State Govt 15%. Migrant labour will go free. Ministry will clarify with an official statement."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-indian-railway-has-subsidised-85-fare-for-migrant-workers-says-bjp-833290.html
04-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Zoom, Google meets and work from home technology in lockdown||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-zoom-google-meets-and-work-from-home-technology-in-lockdown-833299.html
04-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Eminent personalities slam TMC MP Mahua Moitra for criticising NRI doctors||In a statement issued here on Sunday, the eminent personalities, including filmmakers, actors, music composers and professors, said they are "embarrassed of such a reaction from an MP in the wake of the pandemic". The signatories include filmmakers Buddhadeb Dasgupta, Tarun Majumder, Kamaleswar Mukhopadhyay and Suman Mukhopadhyay, artist Wasim Kapoor, actor Sabyasachi Chakraborty, music composer Debajyoti Misra, professor Ambikesh Mahapatra and educationist Pabitra Sarkar. In a letter to Banerjee in late April, 14 NRI doctors had cautioned the state government against "under-reporting of COVID-19 cases and deaths", saying, "it will have a direct impact on the spread of the virus and lead to a massive crisis in the state". In response to the letter, Moitra had tweeted: "11 of 14 NRI docs writing to WB CM in US, 2 in UK & 1 in Ger.W/due respect you choose to live practise pay taxes elsewhere Suggest you get down to work in yr adopted countries!"  Criticising Moitra, the personalities said, "The petty insinuations made were uncalled for diverting attention from the real issues and unnecessarily politicising the pandemic. We are afraid that this reaction from a representative of Parliament could dissuade NRI specialists from coming forward to offer their knowledge and expertise during critical times." "Today, more than ever state officials should rise above petty whataboutery and listen to experts in dealing with health crisis," it added. Referring to Moitra's famous speech in Lok Sabha, the eminent personalities wondered how "the same person in her address had pointed out that criticising the government is not criticising India and said that gagging freedom of speech is a sign of fascism".  "Why then, raising public health concerns about the state is equated to criticising West Bengal? Or is she trying to imply that their non-resident status precludes these scientists from questioning things at home?" the statement said. The personalities asserted that NRI doctors are renowned public health scientists and physicians from premier institutions in the US, UK and Germany. Several of them are engaged in data science and modelling initiatives related to COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-eminent-personalities-slam-tmc-mp-mahua-moitra-for-criticising-nri-doctors-833303.html
04-05-2020||National||Balancing between duty and family: Women govt officials unfazed||Work-life balance has got an entirely different meaning for a group of women government officials in West Bengal. They are in charge of implementing lockdown and other preventive measures in Baruipur which although a subdivision covers a massive area of 1350 square kilometres, larger than the Kalimpong district in North Bengal.  It is located in South 24 Paraganas district. The woman officials are engaged in the herculean task of monitoring and implementing lockdown measures among a population of at least 22 lakhs. While some of them have to console their children after returning home late night others are handling household chores with a smile on their face after gruelling days at work. The team is led by the Sub Divisional Officer (SDO) Debarati Sarkar. It comprises of two Deputy Magistrate Rakhi Pal and Deputy Collector Roshni Sarkar, Officer in Charge of Baruipur women police station Kakali Ghosh  Kundu along with other officials. Since domestic help is unable to come to work due to the lockdown things have become even more challenging for Debarati Sarkar. After returning home from the office she constantly coordinates with other officials over the phone while cooking and cleaning. However, one thing has lightened her mood. Understanding her mother’s stress Debarati’s 10 years old is doing her best to help her in cooking. Deputy Magistrate Rakhi Pal’s husband is also a government official. When they return home at night their five-year-old daughter clings to her parents, unable to understand their prolonged absence from home.  “ It is a crisis situation. We have to keep our families safe and do our duty with equal dedication. We are hopeful of emerging victorious in the battle against COVID-19,” said Rakhi. As for Roshni Sarkar although her three-year-old daughter is peeved with her mother’s prolonged absence from home the well being of the people is her main cause of concern now. District Magistrate of South 24 Paraganas P Ulganathan said that “the way the women officials of the district is successfully doing their work while looking after their families also is definitely worthy of praise.” For these women officials the boundaries between office and home have become blurred and they are unfazed in face of the battle against COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/balancing-between-duty-and-family-women-govt-officials-unfazed-833305.html
04-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: States will have to pay Indian Railways for transporting passengers||Since passengers can't travel without a ticket, the states sending them should take the responsibility of paying money to the Railways, the Railways said.   "As per the guidelines issued by the Indian Railways, the sending state will pay the consolidated fare to the Railways. The sending state, where the train is originating, may decide to bear this cost or take it from passengers or take it from the receiving state or may charge it to any fund. It's purely their prerogative," said an official. Since the trains' movement is allowed purely based on the states' request, railways have no role in it. It is the states' prerogative to whom to allow to board the trains. The state government officials have to bring the passengers to board the train, said the officials. The railway will not issue tickets to passengers. Moreover, allowing free travel would be a catastrophe as a large number of people would travel and the receiving state may not be able to handle them to accommodate in quarantine centres, said the officials. Before allowing the passengers to board, the Railways must ensure that the details of passengers and their mobile numbers are collected so that the receiving states can track them, said the official.  Several state chief ministers have criticised the collecting of fare from railway passengers saying that this would burden migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-states-will-have-to-pay-indian-railways-for-transporting-passengers-833309.html
04-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Railways not collecting fare from passengers travelling in Shramik special trains||Amidst criticism that the railways was charging stranded migrant workers for ferrying them home, sources in railways said that it is not collecting any fare from passengers in Shramik Special trains. "The railways are running Shramik special trains keeping berths empty in each coach to maintain social distancing. The trains are returning empty from destinations under lock and key. Free food and bottled water is being given to migrants by the railways. We have run 34 such trains so far and we will continue to do so. Nowhere in our SOP, we have said that the fares be collected from travelling migrants," said a senior official in the railways. "Railways is charging only standard fare for this class from state governments which is just 15% of the total cost incurred by Railways. Railways is not selling any tickets to migrants and is only boarding passengers based on lists provided by states,"railway official said here.  "Government of India or Indian railways never said anything about charging migrantworkers migrants. The Government of India bearing  85% costs, while 15% to be borne by states,"  said  Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare told media during daily briefing.  Shramik special trains being run keeping berths empty in each coach to maintain social distancing. The trains are returning empty from destinations under lock & key. Free food and bottled water is being given to migrants by railways, said an railway official separately. Since rules says every passengers must have ticket to travel , either sending states in co-ordination with receiving ststes have to make arrangements for the tickets said the official. Railways are not selling tickets. It is operating special train on the request of states. It only allow to board the train only those passengers brought by sending states authoritis. The railways give bulk ticket to sending states authorities and they will decide to whom to give. A controversy erupted on Monday after several opposition parties demanded that migrant workers should not be charged for the train tickets. While the Congress offered to pay for them, the BJP said the railways was already providing subsidised tickets bearing 85 % of the travel costs.  Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said passengers coming to Bihar need not to pay any charges instead the state government will pay on their behalf. Earlier except Maharashtra most of states allowed free travelling of migrants. However Maharashtra requested the Centre to bear the entire cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-railways-not-collecting-fare-from-passengers-travelling-in-shramik-special-trains-833321.html
04-05-2020||National||Maharashtra: Plea against 'detention' of 1,408 people at coronavirus quarantine centres||Justice A S Kilor of the Nagpur bench on Sunday took up for urgent hearing the petition filed by local resident Mohammad Nishat, alleging that the city civic authorities illegally detained 1,408 people from Satranjipura and Mominpura areas on the ground that they were high-risk contacts of those who tested positive for COVID-19.  According to the petitioners advocate Tushar Mandlekar, the authorities randomly picked 1,408 people and thus, violated the prescribed protocols and guidelines issued by the Union government and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Mandlekar argued that only persons found to be coronavirus positive or their high-risk contacts can be detained and quarantined for 14 days. The 1,408 people detained by authorities do not fall under these categories and hence, detaining them amounts to infringement of their fundamental rights, he said.  However, the Nagpur civic body's advocate Sudhir Puranik told the court that as per preliminary information obtained from the authorities concerned, only the persons who are identified as high-risk contacts have been taken to the quarantine facilities. Puranik further told the court that all guidelines issued in respect of COVID-19 were being strictly followed. Mandlekar then told the court that these people have been sent to quarantine facilities set up in the MLA Hostel and Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT), which are located in crowded areas. As per guidelines issued by ICMR and the Union government, the quarantine facility should preferably be on the outskirts of a city, Mandlekar argued. The court posted the matter for further hearing on May 5, and directed the government and the Nagpur civic body to file their affidavits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-plea-against-detention-of-1408-people-at-coronavirus-quarantine-centres-833328.html
04-05-2020||National||Immediately vacate J&K areas under illegal occupation: India to Pakistan||India has conveyed its strong protest to Pakistan over an order by that country's supreme court allowing the conduct of general elections in Gilgit-Baltistan. The Ministry of External Affairs said Pakistan was told that entire Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of India and that Islamabad should immediately vacate the areas under its illegal occupation. In a recent order, the Pakistan Supreme Court allowed the amendment to the Government of Gilgit-Baltistan Order of 2018 to conduct the general elections in the region. "India demarched senior Pakistan diplomat and lodged a strong protest to Pakistan against Supreme Court of Pakistan order on the so-called 'Gilgit-Baltistan'," the MEA said in a statement. "It was clearly conveyed that the entire Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of India by virtue of its fully legal and irrevocable accession," it said. The MEA said the government of Pakistan or its judiciary has no locus standi on territories "illegally and forcibly" occupied by it. "India completely rejects such actions and continued attempts to bring material changes in Pakistan occupied areas of the Indian territory of Jammu and Kashmir," it said. "Instead, Pakistan should immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation," it added. The MEA said Pakistan's recent actions can neither hide the "illegal occupation" of parts of union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh by it nor the "grave human rights violations, exploitation and denial of freedom" to the people residing in these areas for the past seven decades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/immediately-vacate-jk-areas-under-illegal-occupation-india-to-pakistan-833329.html
04-05-2020||National||Lockdown: Maharashtra Congress says will bear migrants' rail travel cost||The Maharashtra Congress on Monday said it would bear the fare for people being transported to their native states on 'Shramik Special' trains amid the lockdown for the coronavirus outbreak, and accused the Narendra Modi government of leaving such stranded migrants and poor to fend for themselves. These trains are being run from point to point on the request of states to clear stranded labourers etc amid strict social distancing norms. Maharashtra Congress unit chief Balasaheb Thorat tweeted, "The Modi govt left the stranded workers to fend for themselves. Many have been walking for hundreds of kilometres to reach home. Now, as per the announcement made by @INCIndia president Soniaji Gandhi, the ticket cost of these migrants will be borne by the @INCMaharashtra". Earlier in the day, Congress president Sonia Gandhi had announced that her party would bear the cost of rail travel of needy migrant workers stranded at their workplaces due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown and seeking to return home.  With the Centre facing a backlash for not making such travel free, the ruling BJP said the railways had subsidised 85 per cent of ticket fare for Shramik Special trains and that the state government has to pay the remaining 15 per cent. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had, on Sunday, urged the Centre to transport these people for free as they had no source of income for several weeks now due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-maharashtra-congress-says-will-bear-migrants-rail-travel-cost-833343.html
04-05-2020||National||Jharkhand govt not to implement lockdown relaxations for now||The Jharkhand government will not implement any of the relaxations granted by the Centre from Monday and has decided to extend "total" lockdown in the state for two more weeks till May 17. The Ministry of Home Affairs has given considerable relaxations for the third phase of the lockdown beginning Monday. At a meeting on Sunday, the Jharkhand government decided that the relaxation norms would not apply to the state to protect residents in the aftermath of the arrival of a large number of stranded people from states "severely" affected by COVID-19. "It was felt that there is a need to take a cautious approach as many of the migrant workers have started entering the state from various states affected severely by COVID-19. It was accordingly decided not to implement any new relaxation in all three zones," according to the minutes of the meeting, a copy of which was released to the media. Regarding the interstate movement of migrant labourers, students, tourists and other people, it was decided that priority would be accorded to those stranded in green and orange zones, it said. "The central government's fresh instructions regarding relaxations will not be applied to Jharkhand at present. As students, migrant labourers and others are returning home, this is necessary to protect the health of the people of the state," Chief Minister Hemant Soren had tweeted on Sunday. The state government had on April 27 announced that it would not implement the Centre's guidelines on opening of standalone and neighbourhood shops due to a sudden spurt in the number of coronavirus cases in the state. The state now has 85 active cases. Twenty-seven people have recovered while three people suffering from coronavirus have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-govt-not-to-implement-lockdown-relaxations-for-now-833351.html
04-05-2020||National||Centre indicts West Bengal govt over COVID-19, says 13.2% mortality highest in country||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla in a strongly worded letter to West Bengal Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha on Wednesday said that low rate of testing and high mortality rate of COVID-19 patients in the state show poor surveillance, detection and testing. “The response to COVID-19 in the state of West Bengal is characterized by a low rate of testing in proportion to the population and very high mortality of 13.2% for the state, by far the highest for any state,” stated Bhalla in his letter. He also said that there is a need to increase random testing in crowded areas.  Bhalla stated that not only were the lockdown measures being violated in Kolkata and Howrah by “specific groups in specific localities” but also there have been media reports of “corona warriors” including police being attacked in such localities. He said that such incidents have made stricter enforcement of lockdown measures with heavy police deployment necessary. “Instances of problems faced due to ostracism and lack of quarantine facilities is also worrying,” stated Bhalla. He also said that lockdown violations in the state such as large crowds in market places, people freely moving around without masks, bathing in rivers, serious laxity in enforcing lockdown in the containment zones are examples of “poor supervision and implementation of crowd control measures” by the district authorities. “There remains gaps in the surveillance and contact tracing of positive cases. The state has not furnished any data regarding the number of households contacted and surveyed for signs of coronavirus symptoms,” stated Bhalla. Before wrapping up its two-week trip, the IMCT also accused the state's TMC government of being "antagonistic" to the panel. The extremely high mortality rate of 12.8 per cent is a clear indication of low testing and weak surveillance and tracking. This is the highest in the country," the team led by Apurva Chandra, an additional secretary rank officer in the Defence Ministry, said in a stinging indictment of the state government. "In his parting shot, the IAS officer said though the state government claimed "very high level" of daily surveillance of individuals in containment zones, no database was shown or results were made available to the team. "Collating and evaluating a database of this magnitude requires a very robust system to be in place. However, no such evidence was available," he wrote in a letter to the state's chief secretary Rajiva Sinha. The state, he said, needs to be transparent and consistent in reporting figures and not downplay the spread of the virus.    Since the day the teams arrived, TMC said they have been working with a malafide intention to malign the state and its efforts to tackle the pandemic, responding to the claims. The BJP has sent these teams with a motive to malign the people of the state, TMC Rajya Sabha MP and senior leader Santanu Sen said. The two teams which arrived in Bengal on April 20, allegedly without prior intimation to the state government, were stationed in Kolkata and in Siliguri in North Bengal. They had flagged alleged instances of non-cooperation by the state government in providing logistical support and relevant information during field visits. A discrepancy has been brought out in the number of COVID-19 cases reported by the state in its medical bulletins and its communications with the Government of India, Chandra wrote in the letter. The bulletin of April 30 showed active coronavirus cases as 572, discharged after treatment - 139 and expired due to COVID-19 - 33, making a total of 744. In a communication to union health secretary on the same day, total number of cases was indicated to be 931 leading to a discrepancy of 187 cases, the letter said. Chandra said despite his insistence on meeting officials of the Home, Urban Development and Municipal Affairs, and Food and Civil Supplies that did not materialise. "....the IMCT could interact only with the principal secretary health through a video conference... There has been no response or interaction with any other department of the state government. In short, the state government has taken an antagonistic view to the IMCT and has not supported the IMCT in the performance of its duties," he wrote. He said it was in "absolute contrast" to the experience of central teams on similar assignment to other states. The team, however, appreciated the state government for raising the number of tests from 400 a day till April 20 to 2,410 on May 2. Chandra said he will submit his report to the Ministry of Home Affairs and hoped the state government will take the suggestions in the right spirit.   (With Inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-indicts-west-bengal-govt-over-covid-19-says-132-mortality-highest-in-country-833359.html
04-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: MFIs set to resume operations in orange, green zones||Nearly 88 lenders belonging to the micro-finance industry are making preparations to resume operations in green and orange zones, the Microfinance Institutions Network (MFIN) said on Monday. The lenders will adhere to all health and safety precautions related to COVID-19, the industry body of MFIs said in a statement. It, however, did not specifiy when the MFIs would resume operations. The lenders have also agreed to extend the three-month moratorium provided by the RBI on term loans to borrowers, the statement said, adding, collections will be made only from customers who have opted out of it. Demand for micro-finance will increase once MFIs start full-fledged operations after the lockdown is lifted, th MFIN said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-mfis-set-to-resume-operations-in-orange-green-zones-833362.html
04-05-2020||National||COVID-19: ICMR deploys IBM's Watson to expedite responses from testing||Indian Council of Medical Research has deployed IBM's artificial intelligence tool Watson Assistant to expedite and simplify responses from testing to provide accurate and updated data on COVID-19, the IT company said on Monday. The virtual chat assistant will give responses based on the final guidelines issued by ICMR and also filter old rules that remain valid for handling tests, sample collection, diagnostics, data entry etc related to coronavirus cases. ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said that it is critical to remain focused on testing, diagnosis and treatment of coronavirus patients in order to lower the growth curve. He said with the number of on-field testing teams expanding across the nation as part of India's COVID-19 measures, collaboration with IBM will help automate responses from the field and facilitate access to accurate and updated data on the coronavirus diagnostics and reporting. "This will help augment our teams' response time and allow them to concentrate on priorities like developing and updating testing and treatment protocols and guidance for COVID-19," Bhargava said. Coronavirus cases in the country have increased to 42,533 till date and killed 1,373 people. "Technology continues to play a significant role in India's fight against COVID-19, and it is crucial to evaluate and leverage the most effective solutions to support these initiatives. The deployment of IBM's chatbot AI platform is aimed to help ICMR effectively manage the process of capturing data relating to COVID-19," Ministry of Electronics and IT Additional Secretary Gopalakrishnan S said. The virtual agent has been deployed on protected pages of the ICMR website that can be accessed only by authorized personnel who are involved with sample collection and testing in hospitals and diagnostic labs, the statement said. "As India rises to meet the challenge of COVID-19, it is crucial to enable government bodies such as ICMR to utilize data and capabilities effectively for rapid detection and treatment," IBM general manager for India and South Asia, Sandip Patel said. Watson virtual agent will handle text based queries in Hindi and English language. "Queries will be categorized under various headings such as governance, logistics, data entry and sharing, staff training and testing and for complex questions, pre-defined contact information of ICMR is made available. The virtual agent is also expected to help in on-boarding new data entry operators and staff of diagnostic centres, as the COVID-19 test network expands across the country," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-icmr-deploys-ibms-watson-to-expedite-responses-from-testing-833363.html
04-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Rajya Sabha plans to save Rs 80 crore this fiscal||The Rajya Sabha Secretariat drew up an elaborate plan after Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu instructed it to prepare a road map in this regard. Already, the Secretariat has identified areas to save Rs 60 crore against the budget of Rs 423 crore and it is targeting a total saving of Rs 80 crore as the financial year progresses.  Naidu on Monday chaired a meeting with eight top officials, including Secretary General Desh Deepak Verma, of the Secretariat to review the plan prepared by them. Verma informed Naidu that austerity measures identified include not undertaking fresh recruitment for this fiscal, deferring of purchase of vehicles, keeping on hold international travel and training of officials, reduced study visits by committees and prioritisation of publications. He also informed the meeting that other measures include putting on hold award of fellowships and internships under Rajya Sabha Research Scheme and increased use of e-office to save stationery among others. During the meeting, Naidu directed strict monitoring of expenditure to increase savings in view of economic slowdown and decline in the revenues of the government. With the meetings of Parliamentary Standing Committees not taking place due to lockdown, Naidu also said there is a need for the undivided focus of the executive on containing the pandemic. So, he said, a view on holding meetings of these panels and other committees of Rajya Sabha will be taken later. Naidu was informed that the Rajya Sabha has at present 20 vacancies in a House of 245. These include 18 seats for which elections were deferred, one caused by the disqualification of Sharad Yadav, which is sub-judice and another caused by the demise of Beni Prasad Verma. On the oath-taking of 38 new MPs, who were recently elected unopposed, it was decided that oath will be administered to them inside the Chamber of the Rajya Sabha after the lockdown, if feasible before the next Session so as to comply with the norm of physical distance with their family members likely to attend.  He also directed officials to initiate the process to fill up the vacancies of Chairmen of eight Committees caused by the retirement of some MPs from Rajya Sabha. These vacancies include Chairmen of Standing Committees on Human Resource Development and Industries held by Satyanarayan Jatiya and K Keshava Rao, respectively. Chairmanship of three panels on Privileges, Subordinate Legislation and Papers Laid on the Table also fell vacant with the terms of Harivansh, T Subbarami Reddy and C P Thakur, respectively, expiring. Three other committees without the Chairmen are Ethics, MPLADS and Provision of Computers for Members of Rajya Sabha held by Prabhat Jha, Harivansh and Tiruchi Siva.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-rajya-sabha-plans-to-save-rs-80-crore-this-fiscal-833367.html
04-05-2020||National||Migrant rail fare row: States, barring Maharashtra, paying for travel of migrants, say sources||Amidst criticism that the railways was charging stranded migrant workers for ferrying them home, sources said payments for 34 Shramik Special trains that have been run so far have been made by the state governments, barring Maharashtra. A controversy erupted on Monday after several opposition parties demanded that migrant workers should not be charged for the train tickets. While the Congress offered to pay for them, the BJP said the railways was already providing subsidised tickets bearing 85 percent of the travel costs. The railways is yet to issue an official statement on the issue, which it, unofficially, said was a "political battle", but officials have been maintaining that it was charging only standard fare for these special trains from the state governments which is just 15 percent of the total cost incurred. "The railways are running Shramik special trains keeping berths empty in each coach to maintain social distancing. The trains are returning empty from destinations under lock and key. Free food and bottled water is being given to migrants by the railways. We have run 34 such trains so far and we will continue to do so. Nowhere in our SOP, we have said that the fares be collected from travelling migrants," said a senior official of the railways. Sources said states like Rajasthan, Telangana, where Shramik Special trains have originated, are paying for the migrants, while Jharkhand, which has only received such trains, has also paid for the travel of workers. The Gujarat government has roped in an NGO to pay part of the travel cost, sources said, adding only the Maharashtra Government is charging the migrants for the trips. Maharashtra state minister Nitin Raut has written a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray requesting him to bear the travel cost of migrants leaving the state. On Sunday, Raut also wrote to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal requesting that the railways bear the cost of transportation of migrants from the state.  Meanwhile, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar in a video statement on Monday said the state government has been giving money to railways for the transport of migrants. "No migrant needs to pay for their travel," he said. The railways is charging the fare of sleeper class tickets, plus a super-fast charge of Rs 30 and an additional charge of Rs 20 for the Shramik Special Trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-rail-fare-row-states-barring-maharashtra-paying-for-travel-of-migrants-say-sources-833369.html
04-05-2020||National||UPSC defers civil services preliminary exam scheduled on May 31||The preliminary examination for the Civil Services scheduled for May 31 has been deferred indefinitely taking into account the COVID-19 situation in the country. The decision was taken at a special meeting held by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Monday after reviewing the situation post the second phase of the nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19. "Taking notice of the extension of restrictions, the Commission decided that it will not be possible to resume examinations and interviews for the present. The Civil Services (Preliminary) Examination, 2020, scheduled to be held on May 31 therefore stands deferred," an official statement said. Since this examination also serves as the screening test for the Indian Forest Service Examination, the schedule for the Indian Forest Service Examination has also been deferred. The situation will be reviewed again on May 20, 2020 and fresh dates for these examinations shall be notified on the UPSC website in due course.  "As and when dates are decided for the deferred tests/examinations, it will be ensured that candidates are given a notice of at least 30 days," the statement said. The Commission has already deferred personality test for remaining candidates for the Civil Services Examination 2019, NDA and Naval Academy Examination 2020 and notifications for the Indian Economic Service/Indian Statistical Service Examination 2020, Combined Medical Services Examination 2020 and Central Armed Police Forces Examination 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upsc-defers-civil-services-preliminary-exam-scheduled-on-may-31-833376.html
04-05-2020||National||India will give proportionate response to all acts of terrorism by Pakistan: Army Chief Naravane||In a stern warning to Pakistan, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane said India will respond appropriately and with "precision" to any acts of cross-border misadventure unless Islamabad gives up its policy of state-sponsored terrorism and coercing people in Kashmir to follow its "Azadi narrative". In an exclusive interview to PTI, the chief of the 1.3 million-strong Army said Pakistan is still following a "myopic" and "limited" agenda of pushing terrorists into Kashmir and called the country a "global risk" to peace and stability. Referring to the Handwara encounter, Gen. Naravane said India is proud of Col Ashutosh Sharma, the Commanding Officer of 21 Rashtriya Rifles battalion, and four other security personnel who laid down their lives saving civilians from terrorists at a village in Handwara in north Kashmir on Saturday night. "I would like to emphasise that Indian Army will give proportionate response to all acts of infringement of ceasefire and its (Pakistan's) support to terrorism. The onus remains with Pakistan to bring peace in the region," the Chief of Army Staff said. "Unless Pakistan gives up its policy of state sponsored terrorism, we will continue to respond appropriately and with precision," he added. After the Pulwama attack, India effected a doctrinal shift in its counter-terror policy by bombing a Jaish-e-Mohammad facility deep inside Pakistan. Gen Naravane said the recent infiltration attempts by Pakistan along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir showed that Pakistan is not interested in battling the coronavirus pandemic and is still following its "own myopic and limited agenda of pushing terrorists inside India." "Even in the hinterland, Pakistan backed terrorists are resorting to targeting innocent civilians with an aim to coerce them into following their Azadi narrative. Pakistan claims to be a friend of Kashmiris; I want to ask what sort of friend resorts to killing and spreads terror," he asked. There have been frequent incidents of ceasefire violation by Pakistani side since India announced its decision to withdraw special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcate the state into two Union Territories in August last year. On implementation of recommendations of anti-terror watchdog FATF by Pakistan, Gen Naravane said the country has sought to "blindside" the international community by making superficial changes and amendments to its "non-existent" checks on terror financing and money laundering. "It still continues to employ proxies to inflict terror and violence not only inside India but also in Afghanistan where it supports the Taliban militarily and financially," he said. "The sudden spurts in violence against Afghan security forces are indicative of the illegal and illicit drug and money laundering networks that fuel the conflict," Gen Naravane added. He also referred to Pakistan removing names of "hardcore terrorists from the terror watch list", saying it proves that Islamabad still believes in exporting terrorism as an instrument of state policy. "The low priority given to the Pakistani citizens by its own government and the army is apparent by the exponential rise in cases and massive shortages of medical equipment and supplies in Pakistan," he said. Gen Naravane said even during an India-initiated SAARC video conference, Pakistan's "narrow-mindedness" was on full display when it used the platform to complain about "non-existent" violations of human rights in Kashmir instead of finding ways to keep its citizens safe from the pandemic. "The increased intensity of ceasefire violations by the Pakistan army, where its targets innocent civilians on the LoC, just shows that the country is a global risk and is not interested in providing relief to its own citizens," he said. The Army Chief also said that Pakistan has been trying to mislead the international community on the situation in Kashmir. "It is unfortunate that while the world has got together to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, Pakistan has resorted to firing heavy calibre artillery and killing of innocent Kashmiris to garner international attention," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-give-proportionate-response-to-all-acts-of-terrorism-by-pakistan-army-chief-naravane-833380.html
04-05-2020||National||Bengal Governor accuses CM of hogging media focus by attacking him||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday launched a scathing attack on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee accusing her of hogging “media focus” by using phrases such as “I beseech you to desist from intensifying your efforts to usurp powers” in her last letter to him. “The bitter truth is people in the state know too well ‘ Who in the state is a usurper and extra-Constitutional fountain of power’! Who runs government and syndicates Who is this ABCD! An open secret!,” stated Dhankhar. The Governor further alleged that with increasing police action against anyone making social media post not to the liking of the ruling dispensation, West Bengal was gradually becoming a police state. He also said that the state government was trying to control “political opinion” and incidents of “political victimization” was steadily rising in Bengal. Dhankhar stated that Banerjee’s “misplaced stand” that the Chief Minister with the majority in the state Assembly is “impregnably uncountable” and that as Governor he has “ no role” is lamentable. “This smacks of authoritarianism that has no place in a democracy where all are accountable...I had indicated to you- none is above law. Law catches with all,” wrote Dhankhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-governor-accuses-cm-of-hogging-media-focus-by-attacking-him-833385.html
04-05-2020||National||WAPC urges all governments to aid journalists involved in war against COVID-19||The World Association of Press Councils has urged media persons to remain careful in disseminating news about coronavirus and called on governments to provide all help to the journalists involved in the "war" against the pandemic. The World Association of Press Councils, an umbrella organisation of Press Councils and similar bodies of various countries, organised a unique on-line meeting on the occasion of World Press Freedom Day on Sunday on the topic 'Media before and after the coronavirus pandemic'. Prof Sule Aker, President of the WAPC, advised fellow media persons to remain careful and disseminate authentic news about the disease, a statement said. She also urged all governments and media houses to keep the interest of the media persons at the top of their minds. Kishor Shrestha, Secretary General of the WAPC and Chairman of the Nepal Press Council, gave details of the work done by the council in his country. He also urged all governments to come to the aid of the journalists who are fighting the "war" against the virus like scores of health professionals and others. Members from Northern Cyprus, Turkey, Nepal, Azerbaijan, India, Tanzania, Kenya, Iraq, Kosovo and many other countries participated in the conference. Concluding the conference, Aker said there is a universal acknowledgement of the need for a free and unrestricted flow of information beyond the boundaries with the media embracing the role of a public trust. United Nations General Assembly declared May 3 to be World Press Freedom Day to raise awareness of the importance of freedom of the press and remind governments of their duty to respect and uphold the right to freedom of expression enshrined under Article 19 of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wapc-urges-all-governments-to-aid-journalists-involved-in-war-against-covid-19-833386.html
04-05-2020||National||Maharashtra govt writes to Centre, ask them to waive off railway fare||In what could snowball into a big issue, the Maharashtra government has asked the Centre not to charge the migrant workers who are returning back home in trains. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has made a formal request to the Narendra Modi government. "The migrants have been deeply affected as they have no source of income for the last few days because of the COVID-19 outbreak," Thackeray said and requested the Railway Ministry not to charge any fare from them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-govt-writes-to-centre-ask-them-to-waive-off-railway-fare-833391.html
04-05-2020||National||Spike in COVID-19 cases continue in UP, returning migrant workers give officials scare||As the spike in the COVID-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh continued to spike, the flood of returning migrant workers was certain to be a huge scare for the authorities in the state. UP recorded an increase of over 700 COVID-19 cases in the past one week even as the state government ramped up testing, which stood at over one lakh as on Monday. Over 1.47 lakh people have been put under home isolation. The Taj city of Agra, where the first COVID-19 case in the state had been reported, continued to witness a sharp increase in the coronavirus positive cases. The district alone accounted for a little less than one-fourth of the total over 2700 cases in the state. The mayor of Agra, Naveen Jain, a senior BJP leader, even said that the district could well be on the way of becoming 'Wuhan' of the country. Ironically the centre had, in the early days of Virus spread, praised what the state government had touted as the 'Agra Model' in containing the infections.  The situation in the state capital of Lucknow was no better as it was in the 'red zone'. Several areas in the city had been designated as hot spots. Amid the rising cases of COVID-19, the expected arrival of lakhs of stranded migrant workers from different parts in the country was certain to give sleepless nights to the authorities, especially when around a dozen migrant workers, who had returned to the state before the 'Shramik Special' trains started, tested positive for Coronavirus in some districts. All those, who tested positive, had arrived in the state from Maharashtra and Gujarat. The authorities suspect that there may be coronavirus positive cases among the migrant workers, who are returning from the special trains. Around two lakh migrant workers and their families, who included both residents of the state and Bihar, had arrived in different parts in the state after the first lockdown was declared. The arrivals continued in the second lockdown as well. The state government was also facing problems in accommodating such a huge number of people in the quarantine centres. Complaints of humiliation and mistreatment of the people and acute shortage of food and other eatables had poured in from different places. Videos of the chaos and pitiable condition of the quarantine centres went viral on the social media prompting the state government to initiate a probe into the complaints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spike-in-covid-19-cases-continue-in-up-returning-migrant-workers-give-officials-scare-833394.html
04-05-2020||National||Stranded workers, not allowed to travel back home, attack police again in Surat||Even as the Gujarat government claimed that over 21,000 migrant workers would have left the state by Monday in as many as 18 special 'Shramik' trains, hundreds of migrant workers hit the streets in Surat and went on a rampage while clashing with the local police demanding permission to travel back home. This is the third time in nearly 40 days lockdown, that workers' agitation, demanding permission to go back to their respective states, turned violent. The fresh incident reported in Vareli village, home to a large number of textile units, located on the outskirts of Surat city. It is the same village associated with the "Garden Vareli" brand of sarees popularised by several top models and actresses in the early 90s. The village, a textile hub, houses power looms and embroidery units along with a large number of workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha among other states.   "Several hundred workers from different states had gathered on the road demanding they be permitted to travel back home. When we tried to apprise them with the situation, they started attacking our police team. They pelted stones and damaged some of the vehicles. We have brought the situation under control," Surat district Superintendent of Police A M Muniya told DH over the phone. He said that the police had to resort to mild lathi-charge and teargas shells to disperse the mob.  Police sources said that in the past two to three days hundreds of migrant workers had tried to leave Gujarat but were turned back from Gujarat-Madhya Pradesh (MP) border. Most of these workers are from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. "Uttar Pradesh government has not decided whether it will accept the migrants coming back from other states or not and that's reason MP government is not letting them pass through its territory which comes on the way. These workers had spent their money on bus fares, trucks and other vehicles they had arranged. This situation has made them more frustrated as they didn't get their money back. They are desperate to go back home and the police can't do anything to help them. This is certainly not the law and order problem," said a senior police officer requesting not to be quoted. As a matter of fact, in the last two days, stranded workers have clashed with police in Dahod district, close to MP Border and Vadodara for the same reason. Meanwhile, a group of over 200 workers had attacked police in Shamlaji in Aravalli district who were not letting them leave the shelter home where they have been staying for more than 40 days now. Meanwhile, secretary to chief minister Ashwin Kumar said in his daily news briefing that by Monday night, 21,500 workers will leave Gujarat to states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha. These trains are departing from Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, and Rajkot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stranded-workers-not-allowed-to-travel-back-home-attack-police-again-in-surat-833398.html
04-05-2020||National||India is proud of Col Sharma, others who laid down their lives to save civilians: Gen Naravane on Handwara encounter||Army Chief General MM Naravane on Monday said India is proud of Col Ashutosh Sharma, the Commanding Officer of 21 Rashtriya Rifles battalion, and four other security personnel who laid down their lives while saving civilians from terrorists at a village in Handwara in north Kashmir. "We lost five brave officers and jawans of Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police while saving civilians from terrorists at a village in Handwara. I wish to convey my heartfelt condolences and gratitude to these valiant braves," the Army Chief told PTI in an interview. "The nation is proud of their actions especially of the Commanding Officer who led from the front and ensured that there were no civilian casualties or collateral damage during the entire operation," he said. Apart from Col Sharma, a decorated Army officer, the others who fell to the bullets of terrorists were Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh, Lance Naik Dinesh and Sub-Inspector of Jammu and Kashmir Police Sageer Ahmad Pathan alias Qazi. "I also take this opportunity to tell the families of our bravehearts that, we, the entire Army fraternity, is immensely proud of their gallantry and assure you that we stand in solidarity with you during this extremely difficult time," the Chief of the Army Staff said. The operation was launched following inputs that a number of civilians were being held hostage in a house in Chanjmulla locality of Handwara. Two terrorists were killed in the operation. The killing of Col Sharma was a major loss to the Army as he had led several successful anti-terror operations in the Valley in recent months. He was conferred with Sena Medal, a prestigious peace-time gallantry award, twice. There have been frequent incidents of ceasefire violation by Pakistani side since India announced its decision to withdraw special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcate the state into two union territories in August last year. Pakistan often resorts to ceasefire violations to push militants into the Indian side. Indian troops have also been retaliating to Pakistani actions under its policy of hot pursuit. According to official figures, Pakistani troops resorted to 3,200 instances of ceasefire violations in Jammu and Kashmir in 2019, which was the highest in the last 16 years. Of these, 1,565 ceasefire violations took place between August and December after the India reorganised Jammu and Kashmir. In 2018, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 2,936 instances of ceasefire violations by Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-proud-of-col-sharma-others-who-laid-down-their-lives-to-save-civilians-gen-naravane-on-handwara-encounter-833405.html
04-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Amazon partners with NGOs to donate hygiene aid kits, PPEs||Amazon India on Monday said it has partnered with several Non-Government Organisations across the country to donate hygiene aid kits, Personal Protective Equipment kits and groceries in support of healthcare workers and communities most affected by COVID-19. "These donations are being distributed across Maharashtra, Haryana, Delhi NCR, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh through its NGO partners that include United Way, Oxfam India, Concern India, India STEM Foundation, Read India, American India Foundation, Care, Learning Links Foundation, Indian Women and Children Foundation, ASVSS, and Forum for Rural Development," the company said in a statement. It added that it has donated one lakh N95 and 65,000 Personal Protective Equipment masks to hospitals for use by frontline health workers such as doctors and hospital staff. In addition, over 40,000 basic hygiene kits that include 3 ply masks, soaps and hand sanitizers have been donated to prevent the spread of the virus in local communities. The company has also distributed clsoe to 10,000 grocery kits to vulnerable families. Minari Shah, Director Public Relations, Amazon India said "We firmly stand with communities and the country in our collective effort to curtail the spread and limit the impact of COVID-19."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-amazon-partners-with-ngos-to-donate-hygiene-aid-kits-ppes-833418.html
04-05-2020||National||Students not to pay train fare; migrant workers to get full reimbursement: Nitish||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday made it clear that no fare will be charged from students returning to the state by special trains while migrant workers will be reimbursed the expenses incurred, besides getting additional assistance, after they complete the mandatory 21-day quarantine. In a video message, Kumar said these measures were already in place but blamed bayaanbaazi (political statements by the opposition) for the confusion which he felt was imperative to dispel. No fare is being charged from the students. The migrant labourers are being taken from railway stations to their respective block headquarters where they have to stay in quarantine for 21 days. Once they come out, they will be reimbursed the full expenses and get an additional aid of Rs 500 each. Thus, each worker will be getting a minimum of Rs 1000, he added. Kumar said the students returning to the state from places like Kota and elsewhere will not have to cough up money by way of fare. It is being paid by the state government directly to the Railways, the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/students-not-to-pay-train-fare-migrant-workers-to-get-full-reimbursement-nitish-833421.html
04-05-2020||National||Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu holds first meeting with Rajya Sabha officials during lockdown||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday held the first meeting with senior officials of the Secretariat since the lockdown was imposed on March 25 and discussed several issues, including the oath-taking of new members and the election of chairpersons of various standing committees. A decision on holding meetings of the standing committees would be taken after May 17, when the third phase of the lockdown ends, according to an official statement. उपराष्ट्रपति तथा राज्य सभा के सभापति श्री एम वेंकैया नायडू ने आज उच्च अधिकारियों के साथ उपराष्ट्रपति निवास पर बैठक की। During the hour-long meeting with the Secretary General and other senior officials, the chairman discussed the oath-taking of new members elected unopposed, electing chairpersons of standing committees that have fallen vacant after retirement of members, physical distancing and safety norms and saving resources. He directed officials to initiate the process to fill the vacancies of chairpersons of eight such committees. These vacancies include the chairpersons of Standing Committees on Human Resource Development and Industries held by Satyanarayan Jatiya and K Keshava Rao respectively. Chairmanship of three standing committees of Rajya Sabha - on Privileges, Subordinate Legislation and Papers Laid on the Table also fell vacant on the retirement of Harivansh, the deputy chairman, T Subbarami Reddy and C P Thakur. respectively. Three other committees without a chairmen are on Ethics, MPLADS and Provision of Computers for Members of Rajya Sabha held by Prabhat Jha, Harivansh and Tiruchi Siva, respectively. Regarding vacancies in Rajya Sabha, Naidu was informed that there were 20 vacancies. These vacancies include 18 for which elections were deferred, one caused by the disqualification of Shri Sharad Yadav, which is sub-judice, and another caused by the demise of Beni Prasad Verma, the statement said. Naidu observed that in view of the extension of lockdown till May 17 and the need for undivided focus of the Executive on containing the coronavirus outbreak, a view on holding meetings of the department-related standing committees and other committees of the House will be taken later, the statement said.  On oath-taking by 38 members who have been elected unopposed, it was decided that the oath will be administered inside the Chamber of Rajya Sabha after the lockdown, if feasible before the next Session. Naidu sought to know the details of expenditure reduction plan. Secretary General Desh Deepak Verma informed that savings to the tune of Rs 60 crore has been identified against the annual budget of Rs 423 crore for the Secretariat for 2020-21. He said a total saving of Rs 80 crore is being targeted as the financial year progressed. Austerity measures identified include deferring of purchase of vehicles, keeping on hold international travel and training of officials, reduced study visits by Committees, prioritisation of publications, putting on hold award of fellowships and internships under Rajya Sabha Research Scheme, not undertaking fresh recruitment for this financial year, increased use of e-office to save on stationary. Naidu directed officials for strict monitoring of expenditure to increase savings. The Rajya Sabha chairman also sought details of safety norms being followed in the Secretariat which has been functioning since April 20 and also the work transacted by the Secretariat and the functioning of RSTV during the lockdown, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chairman-m-venkaiah-naidu-holds-first-meeting-with-rajya-sabha-officials-during-lockdown-833425.html
04-05-2020||National||SC dismisses Karnataka judge's plea against elevation of junior as HC judge||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea by a principal district and sessions judge for quashing the Presidential order of April 30, appointing a "junior" as additional judge of the Karnataka High Court. Just minutes before swearing in of five judges at the High Court in Bengaluru, a bench of Justices Deepak Gupta and Aniruddha Bose took up the matter through virtual court system. The court, however, declined to consider the petition by Master RKGMM Mahaswamiji, saying it cannot entertain a plea filed at the last moment.  The bench also told his counsel Sanjay M Nuli that the court normally would not interfere with the Presidential orders on judges appointment. On April 30, the Law Ministry issued the notification, appointing judicial officers Shivashankar Amarannavar, Smt M Ganeshaiah Uma, Vedavyasachar Srishananda, Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, and Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai as additional judges for a period of two years. In his writ petition filed on Saturday, Mahaswamiji contended the order passed to elevate Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai from district judiciary as additional judge of the HC was "arbitrary, unconstitutional, unlawful and in total disregard of existing binding executive instructions". His petition filed by advocate Sanjay M Nuli claimed his name was ignored and not taken into consideration for promotion or elevation, along with his batch mates. He also submitted that his service record from the date of his appointment on February 25, 2008 to December, 2018 was clear from any adverse remarks. Except Desai, four other officers who were elevated, are either batch mates or senior to the petitioner, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-karnataka-judges-plea-against-elevation-of-junior-as-hc-judge-833428.html
04-05-2020||National||Lockdown 3: No relaxation as no green zone in Bihar||Though only four coronavirus-related deaths have taken place in Bihar since March, the Nitish Kumar regime on Monday declared there will be no relaxation in lockdown rules and guidelines for common people in any of the 38 districts in the State. “Five districts in Bihar have been put under red zone while the remaining 33 districts in the orange zone. There is no green zone in the state. Except for emergency purposes and other essential services, there will be no relaxation in the lockdown rules,” said Bihar DGP, Gupteshwar Pandey. In Bihar, which has seen 523 positive cases in the last 50 days, which includes four deaths, will, in the next few days, witness more influx of migrants and students stuck in other states. The Centre has arranged 12 special trains for Bihar which have been carrying migrant workers and students from Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Kerala. “Each of the trains is carrying around 1150 to 1250 passengers, maintaining social distance and taking all health precautions as per the protocol. The first such train arrived from Jaipur to Patna on Saturday. Till Monday, five trains have arrived from different States. The remaining seven trains will reach Bihar by Tuesday. This includes two special trains from Ernakulam which will reach Barauni and Muzaffarpur railway stations (both in Bihar) on Tuesday respectively,” said Chief Public Relations Officer (CPRO) of the East Central Railway (ECR), Rajesh Kumar. The train passengers, who have already arrived here in the last two days, have been duly screened and then sent off to their respective districts in Government buses with a mandatory advisory of 14 days of home quarantine or stay at government’s isolation ward. Male vs Female More than the females, it’s the male members who have been afflicted with COVID-19 in Bihar. Till Sunday, out of 502 positive patients, the number of males were 338, while females 164, which essentially means that for every one female afflicted with coronavirus in the State, there are roughly two male patients. Besides, altogether 29,254 tests have been carried out in Bihar. “In the last 24 hours, 1423 tests were carried out. Of this, some new positive cases were reported from different districts thereby taking the tally to 523,” said a Health Department source, wishing not to be identified. Money Matters Meanwhile, the Nitish Government has transferred Rs 1000 each to 18.78 lakh migrant workers of Bihar stuck in different States. The cash dole has been transferred to them (through DBT) after identifying and verifying the beneficiaries’ applications submitted online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-3-no-relaxation-as-no-green-zone-in-bihar-833430.html
04-05-2020||National||Punjab CM seeks Shah's intervention for homeward journey of migrant workers||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday sought Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s intervention for the homeward journey of over six lakh migrant workers stuck in the state due to the coronavirus lockdown, saying they were eager to go home. In a letter to the Union minister on Monday, the chief minister urged to arrange special trains for the next 10-15 days, a release said. Though the state government has made all possible arrangements to provide them with food and shelter in the past six weeks, they were now naturally keen on getting back home, said Amarinder, urging the home minister to immediately intervene in view of the “special exigency.” The chief minister requested Shah to direct the Ministry of Railways to make suitable arrangements since the migrant labourers stranded in Punjab were “understandably restless to return to their native places.” The chief minister’s request came as over 6.44 lakh migrant workers interested in returning to their home states successfully registered on the state government’s portal in this regard, the official release said. The chief minister told Shah that his government will indicate its daily requirement of trains in advance to the Ministry of Railways for the next 10-15 days to transport all people who registered on the government portal. At the local level, Amarinder Singh said Punjab officers were coordinating with senior railway officers and the authorities of other states to plan a smooth movement of the migrants. The chief minister said a large number of labourers come from UP, Bihar and other eastern States to seek temporary employment in both industrial and agricultural sectors in Punjab. These people, who were due to leave in March, normally after Holi, could not leave due to the imposition of lockdown this year, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-seeks-shahs-intervention-for-homeward-journey-of-migrant-workers-833434.html
04-05-2020||National||Lockdown side-effects: Unable to repay loan, couple commits suicide||The extended lockdown is now having its cascading effect. A young couple in Bihar committed suicide after they failed to repay their loan. The tragic incident took place in the Vaishali district where a 35-year-old businessman Ramesh Shah hanged himself shortly after his wife Suman set herself on fire and died. The couple had borrowed a loan of Rs 5 lakh to hire a truck. The heavy motor vehicle was used for commercial purposes and helped the couple eke out their livelihood. Suman, through her earnings from the truck, used to repay the installment of her loan. However, ever since the lockdown came into force on March 24, her commercial activities took a nosedive. The ban on plying of vehicles only added to her woes. So much so that the couple faced acute hardship in running their household. In the meantime, lenders mounted pressure for early repayment of the loan. With no money to pay the loan installment, Suman and Ramesh had a verbal altercation.    In a fit of rage, Suman set herself on fire. The husband made his best efforts to rescue her but Suman, by then, had suffered 90-percent burn injuries. She succumbed while being rushed to the hospital. Shocked over his wife’s death, Ramesh hanged himself to death. The couple has left behind two kids, Prince (10) and Sunny (7). “Prima facie, it appears there was a tiff between husband and wife over non-payment of the loan. The verbal duel apparently escalated which eventually led to the tragic incident,” said station house officer (SHO) of Sarai police station, Sunita Kumari. “The bodies have been sent to Hajipur Sadar Hospital for post-mortem,” the SHO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-side-effects-unable-to-repay-loan-couple-commits-suicide-833438.html
04-05-2020||National||What's holding back Kerala government from opening liquor outlets?||Kerala government's decision not to open liquor outlets all on a sudden seems to be not just to avoid crowding but also in view of strong resentment from a large section of women and prohibition activists against resuming liquor sales in Kerala. While some states already decided to resume liquor sale after the center relaxed lockdown norms, the left-front government in Kerala decided not to swiftly open the shops citing that the crowd at liquor outlets could be beyond the control and hence there could be the risk of COVID-19 spread. However, it seems that the Pinarayi Vijayan government, which gained much popularity with its drive against COVID-19, was quite concerned if the opening of liquor shops may cause a dent on its image as a large section of women and prohibition activists strongly objected to the opening of liquor outlets citing that many alcoholics were slowly recovering from addiction as the liquor outlets were remaining shut for over a month. Teeradesha Mahilavedi, a forum of women of coastal areas, recently submitted a memorandum to Kerala government pointing out that after the liquor sales were stopped there was a peaceful atmosphere at many families in coastal areas as men in the family were not consuming liquor. A recent survey conducted by the Kerala Institute of Local Administration also cited that non-availability of liquor led to peaceful living in many families and enhanced family bonding. However, there were also instances of women facing harassment from men as a result of withdrawal syndrome, said the study. Many political leaders and prohibition activists also took a stand against resuming liquor sales. These factors seem to have prompted the government not to hastily open liquor outlets as it could invite displeasure of a large section, especially women of coastal areas who are often considered as potential vote banks on many parts of Kerala. The local body elections are set to happen in a few months' time and the Assembly elections in another one year time. Kerala had even initiated an attempt to supply liquor to those suffering from withdrawal syndrome based on the doctor's prescription. But that was stayed by the Kerala High Court. It also triggered strong resentment against the government. Hence the government would be more cautious in further steps towards liquor sales. However, since the liquor sales are major sources of revenue of around Rs. 2,500 crore annually, the cash strapped government may not be able to hold back liquor sales for long.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whats-holding-back-kerala-government-from-opening-liquor-outlets-833451.html
04-05-2020||National||3 CRPF personnel killed in militant attack in Kupwara||At least three Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were killed while six others were injured when militants ambushed a paramilitary patrol in Handwara area of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Monday. The encounter comes a day after the death of Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, Major Anuj, Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, Major Anuj, Sub Inspector Sageer Ahmad Qazi, Lance Naik Dinesh, Naik Rajesh and J&K police sub inspector Sageer Qazi in a face-off with militants in the same district. Reports said militants attacked a patrolling party of the CRPF at Wangam, Qaziabad in Handwara, 75 kms from here, in which three paramilitary personnel were killed and six others were injured. One among the injured CRPF men is in critical condition, reports added. The CRPF unit repulsed the attack and reinforcements from other security agencies rushed to the spot, officials said. Earlier, soon after the attack, officials had said that one militant was also gunned down. However, later it was found that the person had no weapon besides him and that his body was taken for identification. This is the second big loss to the CRPF in the last one month. Earlier, on April 18 three CRPF personnel were killed and two others injured in a similar attack in neighboring Sopore town. Meanwhile, a Central Industrial Security Forces (CISF) jawan was injured after militants’ hurled a grenade towards Power Grid Station at Wagoora, Nowgam area in central Kashmir's Srinagar district. A police official while confirming the incident said one CISF jawan received minor splinter injuries in the attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-crpf-personnel-killed-in-militant-attack-in-kupwara-833455.html
04-05-2020||National||Centre, Jammu and Kasmir oppose in SC pleas for 4G network, say high speed internet can be used to track troops||The Supreme Court on Monday reserved its judgement on a plea for restoration of 4G internet services in Jammu and Kashmir, which was strongly opposed by the Centre and the Union Territory administration saying that the terrorists might use it to threaten the National Security. Attorney General K K Venugopal submitted before a bench of Justices N V Ramana, R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai that there were specific orders stating that restrictions in internet speed were required for national security.   During the over 2-hour hearing, held via video conferencing, Venugopal said the government's policy decision should not be questioned as the restriction was meant to protect the entire population of the state and not only patients. "This is about the protection of the lives of the entirety of the population of Jammu and Kashmir. Yesterday, there were some tragic events (at Handwara). These men could easily take videos of the troop movements. The enemy could know the troop movements if they had 4G internet," he said. Venugopal also said such plea must be examined against a larger interest of national security. “Terrorists are being pushed into the country. Yesterday, there were some tragic incident,” Venugopal said, adding that videos of the troop movements can be shared with the enemy by using 4G and there was no denial of the fact that security of the state was considered while taking such a decision. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the UT administration, submitted after complete lockdown imposed on abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution, landline was first started, followed by 2G internet services. "These decisions are taken at the ground level and orders are not passed in mechanical manner," he said. Mehta also pointed out broadband connection were also available. These landlines could not be used for anti-national activities. Mobile phones are used and thrown away, he said, adding that the review committee will take the decision on the restoration of the 4G. The senior lawyer said that doctors are unable to access information about COVID-19 treatment in the UT, where there was 701 COVID cases as on date. Arguing for petitioners NGO 'Foundation for Media Professionals' and others, senior advocates Huzefa Ahmadi and Salman Khurshid contended absence of 4G internet services affected students studies as schools were not able to hold video conferencing. The counsel also claimed the citizens right to access medical help was seriously jeopardised.  Ahmadi said that in the 1990s, the number of terrorist activities was more, even though there was no internet. He said the government was not able to show any direct nexus between terrorist activities and the 4G network. Ahmadi referred to the orders passed by the UT administration on curbing of internet speed and said nothing substantial can be done by using 2G. The right to access information is inherent under Article 21 and deprivation of fundamental rights has to be judged in the light of the fact that there was a pandemic and the rights of persons to access doctors and of children to access schools are restricted, he said. Ahmadi alleged that rights to livelihood and access to telemedicine have been affected and people have been denied the right to connect with their friends and family. They also alleged that the right of children to access schools through the high-speed internet service have been hampered. Khurshid, appearing for Private Schools Association J and K, said private schools were under government directions to provide education via video-conferencing. We have obligation under the right to education to provide education.  Prior to this, the top court had issued notices to the Centre and Jammu and Kashmir administration on the PILs seeking restoration of 4G internet services in the Union territory.    (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-jammu-and-kasmir-oppose-in-sc-pleas-for-4g-network-say-high-speed-internet-can-be-used-to-track-troops-833458.html
04-05-2020||National||SC reserves order on plea for 4G internet services in J&K||The Supreme Court on Monday reserved its judgement on a plea for restoration of 4G internet services in Jammu and Kashmir, which was strongly opposed by the Centre and the Union Territory administration saying terrorists might use it to threaten the national security. Attorney General K K Venugopal submitted before a bench of Justices N V Ramana, R Subhash Reddy, and B R Gavai that there were specific orders stating that restrictions in internet speed,  is required for national security. "This is about the protection of the lives of the entirety of the population of Jammu and Kashmir.  Yesterday, there were some tragic events (at Handwara). These men could easily take videos of the troop movements. The enemy could know the troop movements if they had 4G internet," he said. Venugopal also said such a plea must be examined against the larger interest of national security. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the UT administration, submitted after complete lockdown imposed on abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution, the landline was first started, followed by 2G internet services. "These decisions are taken at the ground level and orders are not passed in a mechanical manner," he said. Arguing for petitioners NGO 'Foundation for Media Professionals' and others, senior advocates Huzefa Ahmadi and Salman Khurshid contended absence of 4G internet services affected students' studies as schools were not able to hold video conferencing. The counsel also claimed the citizens' right to access medical help was seriously jeopardised. Ahmadi said in the 1990s, the number of terrorist activities was more, even though there was no internet. He said the government was not able to show any direct nexus between terrorist activities and the 4G network. Khurshid, appearing for Private Schools Association J and K, said they are following the government 's right to education policy to teach children via video-conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-reserves-order-on-plea-for-4g-internet-services-in-jk-833465.html
04-05-2020||National||1,074 COVID-19 patients recovered in last 24 hours, highest in single day: Health Ministry||As many as 1,074 COVID-19 patients have recovered in the last 24 hours, the highest number of recoveries recorded in one day, the health ministry said on Monday. Addressing a press briefing, Joint Secretary at the health ministry Lav Agarwal said the recovery rate stands at 27.52 per cent with 11,706 COVID-19 patients cured till now. In the last 24 hours, 1,074 COVID-19 patients have recovered, the highest number of recoveries in one day, Agarwal said. He further said the outcome ratio of COVID-19 -- the ratio of recoveries and deaths of closed cases -- was recorded at 90:10. "The outcome ratio on April 17 was 80:20 which is now 90:10 which can be seen as an improvement," Agarwal said. In the last 24 hours, 2,553 COVID-19 cases were reported, taking the number of overall cases to 42,533, while the total active cases stand 29,453, he said. Agarwal also said that the COVID-19 curve is relatively flat as of now and it was not right to talk in terms of when the peak would come. “If we collectively work then peak might not ever come while if we fail in any way we might experience a spike in cases,” he said. Agarwal assured that there is no shortage of testing kits. "On Sunday, 57,474 tests were conducte. We have progressively increased our testing capacity as per need," he said. Amitabh Kant, Chairman Empowered Group dealing with civil society, NGOs, industries and international partners, said in 112 aspirational districts, "we worked with the collectors and in these 112 districts only 610 cases have been reported which is 2 per cent of the national level infection". In these 112 districts, 22 per cent of India's population resides, he said. In a few districts like Baramulla, Nuh Rachi, YSR, Kupwara and Jaisalmer more than 30 cases have been reported, while in the rest of the places very few cases are there, Kant, who is also the CEO of NITI Aayog, said.  Kant said the telemedicine service is now available on the Aarogya Setu application. He said 90 million people have installed the Aarogya Setu app till now. "Arogya Setu Mitra which has telemedicine features is also there," he said. The mobile application helps users identify whether they are at risk of the COVID-19 infection. It also provides people with important information, including ways to avoid coronavirus infection and its symptoms. "The application enables people to assess the risk of exposure to COVID-19 infection based on their interaction with others, using cutting edge bluetooth technology, and artificial Intelligence enabled algorithms," he said. Kant said the Empowered Group 6 has mobilised over 92,000 NGOs and CSOs and appealed them to assist state governments and district administrations in identifying hotspots and delivering essential services to the vulnerable including the homeless, daily wagers and migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1074-covid-19-patients-recovered-in-last-24-hours-highest-in-single-day-health-ministry-833468.html
04-05-2020||National||UP lawmaker tricks officials into issuing pass to visit Hindu shrines||An Uttar Pradesh lawmaker, who tricked the officials in the neighbouring Uttarakhand into issuing him a pass to visit the famous Hindu shrines of Badrinath and Kedarnath on the pretext of performing rituals for UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath's father, who had died recently, was arrested in the hill state. The lawmaker, Aman Mani Tripathi, an independent MLA from Maharajganj district in the state, was arrested at Rishikesh in Uttarakhand late on Sunday night along with ten others. Tripathi, the son of rape-murder convict former UP minister Amar Mani Tripathi and the members of his group, were later released on bail. According to the police sources here, Tripathi had told the Uttarakhand officials that he wanted to visit Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines to perform some rituals for Adityanath's dead father. Although the portals of the Badrinath temple was yet to be opened, the officials issued a pass to Tripathi and ten other members of his group. Sources said that the MLA managed to get through several barriers and check posts and reached Chamoli before being intercepted and sent back.  A case was registered against Tripathi and others. UP government would also conduct a probe into the matter, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-lawmaker-tricks-officials-into-issuing-pass-to-visit-hindu-shrines-833472.html
04-05-2020||National||Railways and States should arrange for free travel of stranded migrant workers: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday was told that migrant workers who have been stranded for no fault of their own, with zero earnings and no financial support are being charged very high train fares for their journey to native places and railways and the States should not charge them. The petitioners Jagdeep S Chhokar, former director in-charge of IIM, Ahmedabad, and lawyer Gaurav Jain, who have sought direction to authorities to allow migrant workers across the country to return home after conducting coronavirus tests, filed an affidavit saying railways and the states should not be charging them for the train and bus travel being arranged for them for journey to their native places. “That migrant are being required to pay around Rs. 800 as train fares and the same is highly unjustified…It is submitted that migrants have been stranded for no fault of their own, with zero earnings and not financial support. Therefore, it must be made clear that the Railways and the states would not be charging the migrant workers for the train and bus travel being arranged for them,” the supplementary affidavit filed on Monday said. It said that on May 3, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in a letter to Chief Secretaries and Administrators, clarified about the movement of distressed stranded persons, in which the ministry has given a very narrow definition of stranded migrants by including only those who had moved from their native places just before the lockdown period but could not return to their native places on account of restrictions placed on movement of persons and vehicles as part of lockdown measures. “It is common knowledge that a very large number of migrants, including labourers, street vendors, maids, factory workers etc., stay in their cities of migration for months and thus, such a narrow definition would exclude millions who have lost all income and savings and wish to go back to their native villages. Thus, it is submitted by the Petitioners herein that this Court may direct the Centre that all migrants should be allowed to travel back to their native hometowns and villages,” it said. The petitioners said that all the migrant workers who wish to go back to their hometown/villages, including those who are living in shelter homes/relief camps as well as those who might be stuck in rented accommodations, must be treated as ‘stranded’ and their travel by trains or buses should consequently be facilitated free of cost by the central government. “It has come to light that the Centre is taking a narrow view of the category of people who are eligible for travel under Home Ministry’s order dated April 29 and resultantly, many migrant workers who may not be living in shelter homes/relief camps and might be stuck in rented accommodations may be excluded from the Centre’s definition of the word ‘stranded’ qua the order dated April 29,” it said. The affidavit, while referring to media reports said that some states have already started sending the migrants to their native places and the MHA by its order of April 29 has left it upon the States to allow the travel of migrants to/from other states after both the states agree. “It is submitted that all the migrant workers who wish to go back to their native hometowns and villages should be allowed to go back after screening as a matter of right and no migrant desirous of travelling back to his/her home should be left behind…the right of migrants to go back to the native places should not be dependent on the States’ willingness and it should be the centre’s obligation to allow their travel,” it said. The affidavit while referring to a report published by Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN), based on the interaction with 1,531 groups of workers (around 16,863 people), said that around 50 per cent workers had rations left for less than one day which has remained unchanged since the first phase of the lockdown. “Further, since the national lockdown began, 4 out of 5 workers who reached out do not have access to government rations while 68 per cent still do not have access to cooked food. The report further states that with no cash relief for migrants, 64 per cent have less than Rs. 100 left with them and that more than 97 per cent (out of 0,383) have not received any cash relief from the government,” it said. On April 27, the apex court had said, “This institution is not hostage of government,” after advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for petitioners alleged that the government's view is being blindly considered by the courts without verifying it, while fundamental rights of people especially migrant workers are not being enforced. Chhokar and Jain in their plea had said that in wake of the extension of the nationwide lockdown, the migrant workers who are among the worst affected category of people must be allowed to go back to their homes after being tested for COVID-19. The apex court on April 27 had sough response of the Centre on their plea. It said that those migrant workers who test negative for COVID-19 must not be forcefully kept in shelters or away from their homes and families against their wishes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-and-states-should-arrange-for-free-travel-of-stranded-migrant-workers-sc-833474.html
04-05-2020||National||Rajasthan: People venture out of homes to attend offices, buy essentials||With the government lifting some of the restrictions imposed to check the coronavirus spread in non-containment zones, people in parts of Rajasthan ventured out of their homes to attend offices, purchase grocery and stationery items. People also thronged liquor vends but at many places, these were shut due to the violation of social distancing norms. Shops repairing electronic items were also opened. Deserted roads came alive with some people taking out personal vehicles to reach their offices or shops. However, in many Jaipur areas, people rode pillion in violation of the government orders. “I stepped out today for resuming work from office. Since there are restrictions on the number of staffers, there is limited staff. It's good to be back to the normal office routine,” Mahesh Kumar, who runs an IT consultancy, said. The government has given some relaxations during the third phase of the lockdown in the areas marked as green and orange zones. The high-risk areas have been identified as red zones with more restrictions. As on May 2, seven districts of Baran, Bundi, Ganganagar, Jalore, Sirohi, Pratapgarh and Churu were identified as green zones while eight districts of Jaipur, Jodhpur, Ajmer, Nagaur, Bharatpur, Banswara, Jhalawar and Kota are in red zone. The remaining 18 districts have been classified as orange zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-people-venture-out-of-homes-to-attend-offices-buy-essentials-833483.html
04-05-2020||National||Aarogya Setu app registers 9 crore downloads: Kant||Aarogya Setu, a government app for tracking coronavirus patients, has recorded close to 90 million (9 crore) downloads till date, and is being updated with features like telemedicine, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Monday. The Centre has made it mandatory for government and private sector employees to use Aarogya Setu mobile application to bolster the efforts to fight COVID-19 pandemic, and entrusted the organisational heads with ensuring its 100 per cent coverage. "The Aaroygya Setu app has close to 90 million downloads till date & is being regularly updated, with feature like telemedicine being added," Kant told reporters in a media briefing. The mobile application helps users identify whether they are at risk of COVID-19 infection. It also provides people with important information, including ways to avoid coronavirus infection. Kant, who also heads the Empowered Group 6 on coordinating with private sector NGOs and international organisations to tackle coronavirus outbreak, said the panel has mobilised more than 92,000 NGOs/CSOs registered on NGO Darpan. "EG 6 has made an appeal to NGOs and CSOs (civil society organisations ) to  assist states and districts in identifying hotspots, deputing volunteers and helping people in need," he said. Kant also pointed out that the 112 aspirational districts of India are leading India's fight against COVID-19. "As of now there are about 610 cases in 112 aspirational districts which is considered fairly low at less than 2 per cent of the national level of infections," he said.  Kant pointed out that the EG 6 has mobilised various UN Agencies and facilitated them in creating timely response action plans in coordination with various states and line ministries through intensive collaboration with the UN Resident Coordinator for India, and country heads of WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, UNDP, ILO, UN Women, UN-Habitat, FAO, World Bank, and Asian Development Bank.   The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,389 and the number of cases climbed to 42,836 in the country on Monday, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aarogya-setu-app-registers-9-crore-downloads-kant-833486.html
04-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Over 3,000 workers brought to Uttar Pradesh in special trains from Maharashtra||A day before, over 2,000 workers—around 800 from Maharashtra and 1,205 from Gujarat’s Ahmedabad-- were brought to the state in the special Shramik trains. According to officials, two trains with 2,127 labourers reached Gorakhpur from Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi and the Vasai Road railway stations in the early hours on Monday. In Lucknow, over 1,021 stranded labourers arrived from Nagpur at 8.30 am. They were screened for coronavirus and sent to their homes. Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation deployed 44 buses to carry the migrant workers who arrived in the state capital to their destinations, Lucknow Depot Regional Manager PK Bose said. "These buses were sanitised. At 11 am, the labourers boarded the buses. They were provided with food, water and masks. The buses then departed for Gorakhpur, Basti, Moradabad, Prayagraj and Sonbhadra," Bose said. Gorakhpur’s SDM (Sadar) Gaurav Singh Sogarwal said, "The first train from Bhiwandi brought 1,145 passengers at 1.20 am on Monday. The other train from the Vasai Road railway station brought 982 passengers around 5.30 am.” A large number of them belonged to Khajni, Bansgaon and Gola tehsils of Gorakhpur, he said. Social distancing norms were maintained in trains and buses. A labourer, Ram Shabad, who worked in a loom in Maharashtra’s Bhwandi expressed joy over the return to the state. "I am happy that finally I reached my hometown. On the way, we got food and water. Before boarding the train, my documents were checked. At the Gorakhpur railway station, my thermal screening was done." "I am happy that after a long time, I will be able to see my family,” he added.  According to officials, only 54 people were allowed in a bogie of a train. Travelling ticket examiners and the RPF staff were also deployed in the trains. Those who arrived in Kanpur on Sunday belonged to 53 districts of the state. They were examined and sent to their homes in 43 buses, Kanpur City Magistrate Himanshu Gupta said. Some labourers told mediapersons that they had to pay the fare of general class.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-over-3000-workers-brought-to-uttar-pradesh-in-special-trains-from-maharashtra-833487.html
04-05-2020||National||Harsh Vardhan appeals to people, NGOs to donate blood||Amid the coronavirus outbreak, Union Heath minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday appealed to voluntary organisations, NGOs and people at large to donate blood so that there is ample stocks to meet any eventuality in the country. Urging people to follow lockdown 3.0 by observing physical distancing, Vardhan said India at present has ample number of COVID-19-dedicated hospitals, Personal Protection Equipments (PPEs) and ventilators. He also asked the Red Cross to keep sufficient blood stock for transfusion by promoting blood donation and providing facilities of pick up and drop to donors.    "Blood donation saves lives, let us raise awareness for blood donation and ensure that the needy have timely and affordable access to safe and quality blood. "Let us all donate blood, be there for someone else," said Vardhan at a blood donation camp organised at Indian Red Cross Society building. The Union minister said a healthy person can donate blood every three months till the age of 65. That is four times an year one can go for blood donation and stay healthy, he said.    Elaborating on how blood donation brings several benefits to the human body, Vardhan said it prevents heart attack, controls Blood Pressure, the cholesterol level in the blood goes down and the obesity is checked among others. He urged people to donate blood at least once in a year, on their birthday or marriage anniversary, to make the occasion special for not only themselves but for the people who need blood.    He said he receives several appeals and complaints through Twitter and other social media platforms from terminally-ill patients who require regular blood transfusion to stay healthy. "It is our duty to meet their requirements at all times and keep the regular flow of fresh blood in blood banks," he said. The Union minister also asked the Indian Red Cross Society to send mobile blood collection vans to the premises of regular blood donors to facilitate them to come forward for blood donation during the COVID-19 crisis.  Vardhan said he had also written to State health ministers to promote blood donation and had also conducted a video conference in this regard. "During the difficult times of COVID-19, we are able to manage the critical supply of blood to the needy patients," he said. Vardhan said he called the meeting of Red Cross officials to mobilise blood donation and extended help by arranging 30,000 passes for Red Cross Society workers and their vehicles engaged in promoting blood donation. He further informed that he himself had donated blood over 100 times in his life. He said, "Indian Red Cross Society is an voluntary humanitarian organization having a network of over 1100 branches throughout the country, providing relief in times of disasters/emergencies and promotes health and care of the vulnerable people and communities." Vardhan said India imposed the lockdown at the right time to stop the spread of the virus. He urged everyone to follow lockdown 3.0 in letter and spirit and observe physical distancing as a social vaccine. He said right now India has ample number of COVID-19 dedicated hospitals, PPEs, N95 masks, ventilators and medicines.  "We are at the better footing as compared to rest of the world. I really value Indian Red Cross fraternity having given a great contribution in our fight against COVID-19 too where they have provided equipments, sanitizers, food, PPE kits and N95 masks etc. to several hospitals in India," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-appeals-to-people-ngos-to-donate-blood-833488.html
04-05-2020||National||COVID-19 must not become excuse for creation of 'surveillance state': Tharoor on Aarogya Setu app||The government making the Aarogya Setu mobile application mandatory for all employees raises serious data protection questions, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Monday, asserting that COVID-19 must not become an excuse for the creation of a "surveillance state" in India. The mobile application helps users identify whether they are at risk of the COVID-19 infection. It also provides people with important information, including ways to avoid the coronavirus and its symptoms. "The government's requirement that the Aarogya Setu app is now mandatory for all employees, public or private, raises serious privacy and data protection questions. COVID-19 must not become an excuse for creation of a 'surveillance state' in India," Tharoor tweeted. The central government has made it compulsory for all its employees to download the app and urged private entitles to also ask their employees to use it. Tharoor's attack on the government came two days after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the Aarogya Setu mobile application is a "sophisticated surveillance system" outsourced to a private operator, raising serious data security and privacy concerns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-must-not-become-excuse-for-creation-of-surveillance-state-tharoor-on-aarogya-setu-app-833492.html
04-05-2020||National||Complicated reporting system led to difference in COVID-19 figures: WB Govt||West Bengal government on Monday admitted that its “highly complicated” system of reporting COVID-19 cases led to the difference in figures regarding COVID-19 cases in the state. However, it clarified that it was “not intentional” and has been rectified. Addressing media persons at the state secretariat Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said it had come to their notice that due to the complicated reporting system sometimes the cases which came up after issuing the daily bulletin were not recorded anywhere. “We were unable to understand the reason behind the difference in figures at several places. The biggest problem was that our reporting system was highly complicated as a result we have seen that the cases which came up after the bulletin was issued have not been recorded anywhere.  It was not intentional,” said Sinha.  “When the system started we thought that it was foolproof. We were updating the system and it took two to three days. Hence we were not able to give a cumulative figure as we were not sanguine about it,” said Sinha. He also said that there was a “gap in reporting” as data on the real-time chart was not coming as smoothly from private hospitals as it was coming from government hospitals. Sinha said that the number of total COVID-19 cases in Bengal as on May 4 stands at 1259 out of which 218 have been discharged after being recovered.    “Active cases in Bengal today is 908. The recovery rate in the state is 17.32%. The rate of positive cases per million population is 13.98%.  The rate of deaths per million population is 1.47%. Currently, we are conducting 279 tests per million population,” said Sinha. As for the death toll, he said that the expert committee has examined 105 death cases and said 33 died directly due to COVID-19 conditions and 72 because of co-morbid conditions. “As of today, 61 have died directly due to virus… so far 25116 samples have been tested in the state,” said Sinha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/complicated-reporting-system-led-to-difference-in-covid-19-figures-wb-govt-833494.html
04-05-2020||National||MHA proposes work from home for policemen not on frontline||Police and paramilitary forces could consider the option of giving 'work from home' for personnel who are are not deployed on the frontline, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has said, as the number of COVID-19 cases in the forces have risen in the past few days. The MHA has also asked states to prepare an "effective second line" of defence to make up for the police personnel who may be rendered ineffective due to COVID-19 infection during the pandemic by deploying home guards, civil defence, NCC cadets and student cadets among others wherever feasible to contain the spread of the deadly virus. Issuing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the force to handle the emerging situation, the MHA also said authorities should ensure strict self quarantine rules among personnel. The CRPF and BSF headquarters were sealed for sanitisation on Sunday and Monday respectively after its personnel working there contracted the virus infection. A 55-year-old CRPF personnel has died while around 150 personnel have been tested positive for COVID-19. At least, 43 in BSF, 13 in SSB and 12 in ITBP have also tested positive besides scores in state police forces. "To meet the challenge of COVID-19, and to ensure sustainment of control strategy for COVID-19, police forces need to prepare an effective second line of defence to make up for the police personnel who may be rendered ineffective due to COVID-19 infection during the pandemic," Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said in the letter sent on Sunday.   The MHA said the police and paramilitary personnel are among the frontline workers performing duties to implement lockdown orders and government guidelines for containing the spread of the disease and they are more vulnerable to COVID-19 as they have to interact with the public on a daily basis. "Instances have been noticed of police and security personnel getting infected. Hence, it is imperative to make police personnel aware of the precautions to be taken while performing their assigned tasks in order to ensure that the strategy adopted for containing COVID-19 spread remains sustainable," it said. The MHA said that police stations and other facilities should be sanitised and personnel should be advised to keep themselves safe by practising proper hygiene and physical distancing. They should be provided with hand sanitisers, soaps, masks, face shield, gloves, safe food, etc. and also train the personnel in their proper usage and disposal. Home guards, Civil Defence, NCC cadets, Scouts and Guides and Student Police Cadets could be utilised in areas where there are not imminent law and order issues. The MHA suggested that they could be deployed at relief centres and in facilitating the maintenance of supply chain and for coordinating other essential services. It suggested to police and paramilitary authorities that those personnel who are not on the frontline be given the option of 'work from home' wherever possible. Police should also be alert about any "unexpected and undesirable mass movement" like migrant workers leaving cities in bulk. The MHA said the Control Rooms set up by police in states should be expanded, resourced and designed to incorporate special Covid-19 Cells, to exclusively look after all issues relating to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-proposes-work-from-home-for-policemen-not-on-frontline-833495.html
04-05-2020||National||CPI(M) writes to opposition leaders to form joint economic roadmap for post-COVID-19 India||The CPI(M) has written to Opposition leaders to join the party in forming a comprehensive economic roadmap for a post-COVID-19 India. In the letter, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury has said the Left party has prepared an economic roadmap to tackle the issues emerging out of the pandemic and urged the other parties to give their views on it. "I am forwarding this roadmap, which has been formally sent to the President and the Prime Minister, for your consideration and any proposals that you may have. I request you to also share any ideas that you may have for any sort of a joint move on these proposals. The CPI(M) is ready to host a video consultation on our server, if you agree. The details, date and time can be fixed subsequently," the letter stated. The document has been sent to Congress President Sonia Gandhi, SP leader Akhilesh Yadav, DMK's M K Stalin and T R Balu, RJD's Tejashwi Yadav, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and CPI general secretary D Raja among others. The CPI(M) has suggested that as an immediate measure, the central government must make available to every non income tax paying household Rs 7,500 per month for a period of three months, and to every individual 10 kg of free foodgrains per month for a period of six months. It has urged the centre to pay its GST dues to the states and also to double the states' borrowing limits as immediate measures. It has also suggested mid-term and long-term methods which include facilitating return of migarants, recoveries of MSMEs and hike in public investments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-writes-to-opposition-leaders-to-form-joint-economic-roadmap-for-post-covid-19-india-833514.html
04-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Long queues as liquor stores reopen across India; some defy social distancing||Liquor shops reopened across the country in the non-containment zones after 40 days from Monday with people queuing up in large numbers, giving social distancing norms a toss at some places. The Ministry of Home Affairs had extended the 40-day nationwide lockdown from Monday for two more weeks and allowed liquor and tobacco shops to open in the green and orange zones. In the national capital, many government-run liquor shops had to be shut as people, who gathered outside the outlets, did not follow social distancing norms, while in some cases police had to use mild force to disperse the unruly crowd. According to an official, about 150 government-run liquor shops have been allowed to open from 9 am to 6.30 pm in the national capital in accordance with the latest lockdown relaxations given by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Large number of people made a beeline in Uttar Pradesh that reopened 26,000 liquor stores, while Rajasthan had to close most of the shops where social distancing norms were not being followed. As per the government notification, shops selling liquor have to ensure social distancing and also make sure that not more than five people are present at one time at the shop. Liquor shops across Noida and Greater Noida witnessed scores of customers queuing up right from 10 am, as the sale of liquor resumed for the first time since the nationwide lockdown came into force on March 25. In an official order on Sunday, the Gautam Buddh Nagar administration allowed opening of retail and wholesale licensed liquor stores from May 4 between 10 am and 7 pm with certain restrictions. Only stores outside hotspots and containment zones have been allowed to resume sales, while people have been prohibited to sit and consume alcohol at model shops and country bars, District Magistrate Suhas L Y stated in the order. "Not more than five customers are allowed at any liquor store at any given point of time and they too have to observe a gap of at least two years between them. Five circles should be marked outside the shop at a distance of six feet where people can queue up, one person in a circle," the order stated. Rajasthan also witnessed a similar situation with some people struggling to carry liquor bottles, while a few followed the social distancing norms and stood in circles marked in front of shops and on roads. Policemen were also deployed near the shops to ensure that liquor stores are not crowded. Meanwhile, complaints were made to the excise department in Rajasthan that liquor shops are overcrowded and no social distancing norm was being followed, prompting the department to order closure of all such shops till proper arrangement sare made.  "There were complaints that shops were overcrowded so the shops were closed and the licensees were asked to make proper arrangements for effective social distancing," district excise officer Sunil Bhati said. Chaotic scenes outside liquor stores in some parts of Uttar Pradesh were witnessed, while elsewhere serpentine queues were seen long before the outlets opened. Principal Secretary, Excise, Sanjay Bhoosreddy along with officials of the department inspected liquor shops in various parts of Lucknow, which include Mahanagar, Aliganj, Indiranagar, and instructed all the shopkeepers to ensure that social distancing is strictly adhered to and that sanitisers are made available.  "Orders have been issued to allow 26,000 liquor shops in the state to open. Liquor shops have opened in most districts of the state, while adhering to the rules and regulations of social distancing. Sale of liquor is going on, while maintaining cleanliness aroundshops. There is an estimate that on the first day itself, the government is likely to earn Rs 100 crore as revenue," Bhoosreddy told PTI. In Chandigarh, the city administration allowed reopening of all shops in the non-containment zone areas. It had announced reopening of shops in the internal sector markets from 10 am till 6 pm on an odd-even formula in the non-containment zones. People, wearing masks, gathered in large numbers in Himachal Pradesh without maintaining social distancing norms to buy liquor at the stretch between CTO and Scandal Point. With just one active coronavirus case in Himachal Pradesh currently, most areas of the state has been designated green zone. Kangra is one of the districts which still come under orange zone. Long queues were seen outside liquor outlets in Mumbai and Pune in Maharashtra, a day after the state government said shops of non-essential items, including liquor, will be allowed to open in non-containment zones, but to the dismay of the customers, they remained shut. A senior state government official said no order has been issued to keep these liquor shops closed. Tipplers queued up outside liquor shops in Dahisar, Matunga, Santacruz, Malwani, Kandivali and other places since early hours of Monday, but found the outlets closed. In some areas, police announced that the liquor shops will not open on Monday and asked people to go back home. Select liquor shops in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka pulled up shutters, with tipplers thronging them in huge numbers at many places. In Goa, people observed social distancing rules while standing in queues outside these shops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-long-queues-as-liquor-stores-reopen-across-india-some-defy-social-distancing-833523.html
04-05-2020||National||Liquor stock to expire in hotels||The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) has written to the Maharashtra Government pleading hotels and restaurants in the State to be given permission to liquidate perishable liquor stocks lying with them. Estimated to be in excess of Rs.10 Crore with all license holders, the goods including liquors and beers are likely to perish due to the expiry of the products. The association has stated that allowing liquidation of the unsold stock will minimize the losses and introduce working capital by encashment of the existing liquor stock. “The hospitality industry is under lockdown now for almost 45 days. Further, all sale of Liquor under FL3 Licenses have been prohibited by the declaration of Dry Day pursuant to the order issued by the State Excise. But now with the Government relaxing the ban on the sale of liquor, we are hoping to salvage from the unsold stock which in turn can induce some liquidity into our businesses. This will introduce working capital for many establishments that are bleeding in outgoing expenses and are sitting on dormant stocks,” says Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, President, HRAWI. In the letter to the Government, the HRAWI has requested that either it directs manufacturers to replace liquor stocks that are on the verge of expiry or already expired or allow the sale of perishable liquor stocks from the outlets of FL3 License Holders, as and when the same is advisable, under the present circumstances. “Under the present situation of chaos at the liquor shops across the country, we believe allowing all FL3 licensees to sell liquor would help the cause of social distancing, maintenance of law and order, and reducing the risk of crowding at public places," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/liquor-stock-to-expire-in-hotels-833528.html
04-05-2020||National||Haryana cadre IAS officer resigns, cites 'personal safety on govt duty' as reason||A 2014-batch IAS officer of the Haryana cadre resigned on Monday, citing ‘personal safety on government duty’ as the reason for it. The Opposition Congress termed her resignation 'shocking', asking Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar if it was not a "proof of his failure". Rani Nagar (35) currently held the charge of the director, Archives Department; and the additional director, social justice and empowerment. Recently, Nagar had posted on her Facebook page that she will resign after the coronavirus lockdown was lifted. She sent her resignation to state chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora, requesting her to forward it to a competent authority in the Union government. The letter has been received at the chief secretary's office, an official said. However, Nagar did not elaborate on what she meant by the reason of her resignation. The officer could not be contacted over the phone.   Nagar has also sent copies of the resignation to the president, prime minister, Haryana governor and the chief minister through e-mail. “The reason for submitting this resignation is the personal safety on government duty," she said in a letter to the chief secretary. "I do hereby most humbly submit to you my resignation from the post of Indian Administrative Service with immediate effect, that is effective from May 4, 2020, forenoon," she wrote. The letter was also posted on her Facebook page. She later left Chandigarh for her hometown Ghaziabad with her sister. She posted on her Facebook page that she had taken permission to move out of the city. Commenting on it, Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala termed her resignation “a shocking incident”. Hitting out at the BJP-JJP government in the state, Surjewala said, “A senior woman IAS officer has given her resignation stating that she feels unsafe.” “If a woman IAS officer resigns on the grounds citing personal safety on government duty as the reason, then who will safe in Haryana. Is this not no confidence in your government, is this not a living proof of your failure,” Surjewala said hitting out at the chief minister. Nagar had come into limelight in June 2018, when she accused an additional chief secretary-level bureaucrat of harassing her.   The state government had conducted an inquiry into the allegations, but the charges did not hold against the officer, a senior official said on Monday. In an earlier post on her Facebook page, Nagar, who was living in the UT guest house of Chandigarh since 2018 along with her sister, had claimed that despite numerous complaints against the senior bureaucrat, no action was taken against him. Nagar had mentioned that last year, she had lodged a complaint against the bureaucrat before a court and claimed there is a constant threat to “our lives" (she and her sister), while requesting her Facebook friends to report the matter to the court, if they go untraceable. In December 2017, when she was posted as the subdivisional magistrate of Dabawali in Sirsa district, police had lodged a case of tresspass against an unidentified person on her complaint. Nagar had then posted a video on her Facebook page, alleging that police “failed to initiate a prompt action” on her compliant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-cadre-ias-officer-resigns-cites-personal-safety-on-govt-duty-as-reason-833529.html
04-05-2020||National||New COVID-19 case in Himachal Pradesh after 10 days||A 30-year-old man who returned from Delhi last week tested positive for novel coronavirus in Mandi district on Monday, the first case in Himachal Pradesh in the past 11 days, officials said. The man who was already kept under home quarantine showed some symptoms for COVID-19 and his samples were taken for testing, Deputy Commissioner Rugved Thakur said. The 30-year-old was found positive for coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on Monday. He had returned to his native Makreri village in Jogindernagar subdivision from Delhi last Wednesday, the official said. The entire area of 3-km radius from the village has been declared as a containment zone and 5-km area as buffer zone as per protocol, the official said. The new case takes the number of active cases in the state to 2 and the total confirmed cases to 42. The other active case from Sirmaur district is being treated at a hospital in Baddi. Earlier in the day, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said: "Of the 247 samples sent for testing today, 136 tested negative for the infection, whereas the report of the rest is awaited." Ten out of total 12 districts of the state are coronavirus-free now. These include Kangra, Una, Chamba, Hamirpur, Solan, Shimla, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Bilaspur and Kullu. Two people have died of COVID-19 in the state so far. Thirty-four patients, including 16 from Una district, six from Chamba, five from Solan, four from Kangra, two from Hamirpur and one from Sirmaur district, have recovered so far. Four patients were taken to a hospital outside the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-covid-19-case-in-himachal-pradesh-after-10-days-833532.html
04-05-2020||National||61 recover in Kerala, no fresh COVID-19 cases||In a major relief to Kerala, 61 COVID-19 patients were tested negative on Monday, while no fresh cases were reported. With this, the number of COVID-19 active cases in the state came down to 34. Kerala so far recorded 499 COVID-19 cases of which 462 already got recovered. It was for the second consecutive day and the third in four days that the state was facing nil fresh COVID-19 cases after the lockdown came to effect. Kannur district, which was having the highest COVID-19 active cases in Kerala, witnessed the highest recovery of 19 patients on Monday. Now only 18 coronavirus active patients were remaining in the district. Now six districts of Kerala, including Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, and Kozhikode, have no COVID-19 cases. The first coronavirus case in India was reported in Kerala on January 30. The state witnessed a spike in the cases from March. But the state managed to flatten the curve owing to the effective implementation of the lockdown and medical care. Several COVID-19 infected aged people, including a couple aged around 90, and several foreigners recovered from critical conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/61-recover-in-kerala-no-fresh-covid-19-cases-833536.html
04-05-2020||National||Govt to bring back Indians from abroad but charge them for airfare, stay in quarantine||The Government will restart facilitating repatriation of citizens stranded abroad from Wednesday, but the returnees would have to pay, not only for travelling on special aircraft, but also for accommodation in the quarantine facilities, where they would have to mandatorily stay for at least 14 days after arriving in the country. The decision to charge the returnees for travelling on special aircraft from abroad as well as for staying in quarantine facilities arranged by the State Governments were taken amid a raging political debate over reports that the jobless migrant workers travelling within the country onboard special trains arranged by the Indian Railways were being made to pay fares. The returnees will also have to register themselves on Arogya Setu app of the Government after their arrival in the country, the union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said. A large number of Indians got stranded in the United States, Canada, Mexico, United Kingdom, France, Italy, Iran, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Malaysia and several other countries around the world due to the ban imposed on arrival of international passenger aircraft in order to stop the spread of the COVID-19 virus. The Government on Monday said that it would start facilitating return of the Indians, who would want to come back to the country from abroad for compelling reasons. The MHA issued a press-release in New Delhi stating that a Standard Operating Procedure for facilitating the return of the citizens from abroad in a phased manner had been prepared. India’s diplomatic and consular missions abroad are preparing a list of distressed citizens stranded abroad for facilitating their return to the country. “This facility would be made available on payment-basis. Non-scheduled commercial flights would be arranged for air travel. The travel would begin in a phased manner from May 7,” the MHA stated. The Indian Navy will also deploy ships to bring home the stranded citizens from foreign nations. The missions will arrange medical screening of the returnees and only the ones having no symptoms of the Covid-19 infection will be allowed to board the aircraft and the ships. “During the journey, all the passengers would have to follow the protocols, such as the Health Protocols, issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Ministry of Civil Aviation.”   The Government had earlier sent Air India aircraft to evacuate Indians from Wuhan in China – the “ground zero” of the CIOVID-19 pandemic. It had also airlifted citizens from Italy, Iran and Afghanistan, apart from facilitating the return of Indians stranded in Malaysia and a few other countries.  It, however, has not carried out any evacuation mission during the past few weeks. The Government had sent medical teams to Italy and Iran to collect swab samples of the prospective returnees. The samples had been brought to and tested in the labs in India and only the ones, who had been confirmed to be COVID-19 negative, had been allowed to board the special aircraft. “Everyone would be medically screened (after arrival in India). After scrutiny, they would be quarantined for 14 days, either in a hospital or in an institutional quarantine on payment-basis, by the concerned State Government,” the MHA said, adding that the returnees would be tested for COVID-19 infection after 14 days and “further action would be taken according to health protocols”. The High Commission of India stated that a ship would evacuate 200 Indian citizens, who were stranded in Maldives due to the restrictions imposed on international travels in both the nations to contain the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-bring-back-indians-from-abroad-but-charge-them-for-airfare-stay-in-quarantine-833539.html
04-05-2020||National||Rajasthan govt will bear rail fare for migrant workers||The Rajasthan government will bear the cost of rail fares for migrant workers returning from the state to their homes in different parts of the country besides not charging any money to drop them by buses within the boundaries of the state.  Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday, while addressing a video conference with officials, said the state government will bear the cost of return of the migrant workers who were stranded in Rajasthan due to the lockdown and want to go back to their homes in different states. He said the state government will ensure that the workers stranded in this hour of crisis do not have to pay the travel fare themselves to go home. The state government will pay the rail fare, he said. At the same time, the Rajasthan government will also make arrangements to transport those going by road to the border of Rajasthan without charging any fare, Gehlot said. He directed officials to ensure compliance of fresh guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs for the inter-state transport of migrant workers.  The Chief Minister said to prevent infection, migrants and workers from other states would necessarily have to live in quarantine. Gehlot directed that strict action should be taken against private hospitals which are not fulfilling their moral obligation of treating patients during the health crisis. District Collectors should take strict action against complaints against such private hospitals, he said. The CM asked the officials to ensure strict compliance of Lockdown 3.0.  Deputy Chief Minister and Panchayati Raj Minister Sachin Pilot on the other hand demanded that the Centre bear the full fares of the migrant workers returning to their homes after staying away for 40 days under the lockdown.  He said when people from abroad can be brought to the country in chartered planes, then migrant workers can also be sent back to their homes without charging them for the fares. Pilot also thanked Congress President Sonia Gandhi for taking the decision that the Congress party will bear the travel expenses of the migrant workers if the central government cannot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-govt-will-bear-rail-fare-for-migrant-workers-833546.html
04-05-2020||National||Activist asks SC to direct all migrants go back to native places||A prominent activist on Monday asked the Supreme Court to direct the Centre that all migrants should be allowed to travel back to their native hometowns and villages, instead of just stranded ones. On May 3, 2020, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), has shockingly, given a very narrow definition of "stranded migrants" by including only those who had moved from their native places just before the lockdown period but could not return to their native places on account of restrictions placed on movement of persons and vehicles as part of lockdown measures. "A very large number of migrants, including labourers, street vendors, maids, factory workers etc, stay in their cities of migration for months and thus, such a narrow definition would exclude millions who have lost all income and savings and wish to go back," an affidavit filed by Jagdeep Chhokar said.   Chhokar, along with advocate Gaurav Jain, has a PIL contending forcing the migrant workers to stay away from their families and living in unpredictable and arduous conditions, calling it unreasonable restriction upon their rights of free movement. On April 27, the Supreme Court had asked the Centre to tell within a week if there is any proposal to allow inter-state movement of migrant workers, stranded in several states due to the countrywide lockdown imposed since March 25. In an affidavit, the petitioner also submitted that railways and the states should not be charging the migrant workers for the train and bus travel being arranged for them.  He alleged that migrants were being required to pay around Rs 800 as train fares, which was exorbitant and highly unjustified. These workers have been stranded for no fault of their own, with zero earnings and no financial support, he said. "All the migrant workers who wish to go back to their native hometowns and villages should be allowed to go back after screening as a matter of right and no migrant desirous of travelling back to his or her home should be left behind," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/activist-asks-sc-to-direct-all-migrants-go-back-to-native-places-833549.html
04-05-2020||National||Haryana: One coronavirus patient dies, 75 fresh cases push state tally to 517||One coronavirus patient died while 75 fresh cases surfaced in Haryana, taking the infection count in the state to 517 on Monday, a Health Department bulletin said. So far, six people have succumbed to the infection in the state. The fresh death was reported from the Rohtak’s PGIMS, where a 45-year-old man belonging to Gurgaon died on Sunday, officials said. Among the new virus cases, the maximum 29 were reported from Sonipat, followed by 23 cases from Ambala; 14 in Jhajjar; three in Panipat; two each in Jind and Faridabad; and one each in Gurgaon and Nuh. In Ambala, a doctor tested positive for the virus while the rest were labourers involved in a construction work, the officials said. The worst-hit districts are Faridabad (75), Gurgaon (73), Nuh (59), Sonipat (73), Jhajjar (56), Ambala (37) and Palwal (36). According to the bulletin, the number of active cases has gone up to 257 from 81 in a few days. Haryana's recovery rate, which had been one of the best in the country, dropped from 72 per cent last week to 49.13 per cent due to it. Haryana Health Minister Anil expressed concern over the rise in cases. He said during third phase of the coronavirus lockdown, which began on Monday, several relaxations have been given but it was observed that many people did not follow the guidelines. “It seems people have not yet made social distancing a habit,” he said. “It is not possible to deploy police at every shop. People will have to take their own initiative, only then one can remain safe, otherwise, results can be bad,” Vij added while commenting on reports that rush was witnessed in many markets in the state on Monday with some people violating social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-one-coronavirus-patient-dies-75-fresh-cases-push-state-tally-to-517-833552.html
04-05-2020||National||No new COVID-19 case in Jharkhand for over 48 hours||For the second consecutive day Jharkhand did not report any COVID-19 case on Monday as the total stood at 115 for over 48 hours, officials said. Ranchi is the only district in the state marked as Red Zone. According to the latest COVID-19 bulletin, active cases in the state are 85, including 68 in Ranchi, while 27 persons have recovered and discharged from hospitals. Three persons had died from the infection since the first positive case was detected on March 31 when a 22-year- old Malaysian woman tested positive for coronavirus. She has since recovered and has been discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-new-covid-19-case-in-jharkhand-for-over-48-hours-833568.html
04-05-2020||National||Steep price hike no deterrent, serpentine queues at AP's liquor shops||Despite a steep 25 percent hike in prices, liquor enthusiasts in Andhra Pradesh thronged wine shops across the state, throwing COVID-19 cautions to the wind at several places. While opening the wine-shops shut for the last 40 days, the Jaganmohan Reddy government has from Monday revised prices to serve as a deterrent like a 650 ml beer bottle now costs Rs 30 more. However, serpentine queues were witnessed in many places since the early morning. Liquor shops except those in the containment zones are now allowed to be open from 10 AM to 7 PM, with the help of the police. Wherever police were deployed, the queue lines were in order, maintaining social distancing norms. In Telangana, where liquor consumption is also relatively high, is expected to take the decision on Tuesday when Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and his cabinet ministers will meet to discuss the COVID-19 situation and formulate the easing of lockdown restrictions.  The AP wine shops in the vicinity of the Telangana border like one near to Bhadrachalam saw huge lines of buyers, many among them from Telangana. TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu criticized Reddy as failing to put out a plan to control the expected crowds. “Shocked to see today’s scenes at liquor shops in AP. Common Sense says that people will throng in large numbers, but there is no contingency plan from Jaganmohan Reddy nor is there care for social distance. This comes amidst a steep rise in COVID-19 cases in AP,” Naidu tweeted.   The state has as of Monday morning reported a total of 1650 positive cases, with 67 new cases added in the last 24 hours. The Reddy government is attributing the alarming numbers to the highest average number of tests they are doing in the country.  During a review meeting on the state’s COVID-19 situation, officials informed CM that so far, 1,25,229 COVID-19 tests were conducted in AP averaging to 2345 tests per million population. 10,292 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, through 11 labs. Officials said that the 32,792 people identified through a household survey will undergo the tests in the next 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/steep-price-hike-no-deterrent-serpentine-queues-at-aps-liquor-shops-833575.html
04-05-2020||National||India, Pakistan in war of words over Gilgit-Baltistan||India on Monday served a démarche to Pakistan protesting against an order by the Supreme Court of the neighbouring country allowing the conduct of elections in Gilgit-Baltistan. New Delhi reiterated that Gilgit-Baltistan was part of two Union Territories of India - Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. India also asked Pakistan to vacate the J&K territories it illegally occupied. Pakistan too retaliated and rejected what it called “baseless and fallacious contention” of India. The Supreme Court of Pakistan recently allowed the government of the neighbouring country to amend a 2018 administrative order to conduct general elections in the region. The Gilgit-Baltistan Order of 2018 provided for administrative changes, including authorizing the Prime Minister of Pakistan to legislate on a range of subjects. The officials of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) conveyed to a senior diplomat of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi that the entire Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, were an integral part of India by virtue of its fully legal and irrevocable accession. “The Government of Pakistan or its judiciary has no locus standi on territories illegally and forcibly occupied by it. India completely rejects such actions and continued attempts to bring material changes in Pakistan occupied areas of the Indian territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” New Delhi conveyed to Islamabad. The MEA officials told the senior diplomat of the Pakistan High Commission that Pakistan should immediately vacate all areas of India’s J&K and Ladakh of its illegal occupation. “Such actions can neither hide the illegal occupation of parts of Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh by Pakistan nor the grave human rights violations, exploitation and denial of freedom to the people residing in Pakistan occupied territories for the past seven decades,” India noted in its démarche. “The position of the Government of India in the matter is reflected in the resolution passed by the Parliament in 1994 by consensus.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pakistan-in-war-of-words-over-gilgit-baltistan-833587.html
04-05-2020||National||Chhattisgarh govt to bring back stranded migrant workers||The Chhattisgarh government has stepped up efforts to bring back around 6000 migrant workers stranded in Madhya Pradesh , Rajasthan and Gujarat even as number of COVID-19 positive patients rose to 57 following detection of 17 fresh on Sunday. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday said the state government will bear expense for repatriation of migrant workers. On his direction, the state’s transport commissioner Dr Kamal Preet Singh has written a letter to the Indian railways, demanding running of special trains for migrant workers. Chhattisgarh has recorded 57 COVID-19 cases including 21 active ones. Of the 14 new cases, eight were detected in Durg and six in Kavardha district on Sunday.  They have been shifted to the AIIMS, Raipur.  A total 36 patients have been discharged following their recovery.   About 200 people have been quarantined after they came in contact with the infected migrant workers who came from five states to Chhattisgarh on Sunday. Three more migrants were detected positive in Surajpur four days ago, taking the total to 17. Superintendent of police Ajay Yadav said the eight labourers who were found in Durg district came from Nagpur, Mumbai, Gondia, Ahmedabad and from the cities in West Bengal and Odisha. Chhattisgarh health department has asked collectors of all 28 districts to conduct health tests on each and every migrant entering their respective jurisdiction.   The state government sources said 6074 migrant labourers holed up in other states have contacted for their safe return to Chhattisgarh. Of these, 5130 are from Rajasthan, 500 from Gujarat and 445 from Madhya Pradesh.  Efforts are also being made to send migrant labourers stranded in Chhattisgarh to their respective states, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-govt-to-bring-back-stranded-migrant-workers-833600.html
04-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi tacitly slams Pakistan at NAM call as President Arif Alvi raises Kashmir issue||Pakistan President Arif Alvi alleged that the situation in Indian occupied Jammu and Kashmir had aggravated in the wake of the pandemic. “(The) Kashmiris being denied access to medical supplies and high speed Internet,” he said during the video-conference. “Indian move to alter the demographic structure of occupied Jammu and Kashmir in complete violation of international law and relevant UNSC (United Nations Security Council) resolution.” PM Modi avoided directly responding to Arif Alvi, who sought to turn the NAM video conference's topic - which was on the pandemic - into yet another forum to continue Islamabad’s campaign against New Delhi’s August 5, 2019 move to abrogate Article 370, strip Jammu and Kashmir off of its special status and reorganize it into two Union Territories. PM Modi addressed the NAM leaders well after Alvi delivered his speech and referred to cross-border terrorism coming out of the neighbouring country. His comment came after eight security personnel, including a colonel and a major of Indian Army, were killed in two back-to-back encounters between security forces and terrorists at Handwara in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, Sunday and also on Monday. At least three terrorists were killed in the encounter and they all had sneaked into India from territories under illegal occupation of Pakistan. The video-conference was the first NAM event that PM Modi participated after taking over as the Prime Minister in May 2014. “Today, humanity faces its most serious crisis in many decades. At this time, the Non-Aligned Movement can help promote global solidarity. (The) NAM has often been the world’s moral voice. To retain this role, (the) NAM must remain inclusive,” said Prime Minister Modi.  “India accounts for one-sixth of humanity. We are a developing country and a free society. During this crisis, we have shown how democracy, discipline and decisiveness can come together to create a genuine people’s movement,” the Prime Minister added. “NAM should call upon the international community and the WHO (World Health Organization) to focus on building health-capacity in developing countries. We should ensure equitable, affordable and timely access to health products and technologies for all.” He said that the COVID-19 had shown the limitations of the existing international system. “In the post-Covid-19 world, we need a new template of globalization, based on fairness, equality, and humanity,” said the Prime Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-tacitly-slams-pakistan-at-nam-call-as-president-arif-alvi-raises-kashmir-issue-833602.html
04-05-2020||National||India records highest single day rise in coronavirus cases on Monday||The number of COVID-19 cases continued to witness a sharp spike for the third consecutive day with 2,573 fresh infections being reported on Monday even as the Centre claimed that the growth curve of the disease was “relatively flat as of now”. India witnessed the highest single-day increase in number of cases on Monday. The total confirmed cases in India shot up to 42,836 and 83 patients succumbed to the disease since Sunday taking the death toll to 1,389. Addressing the daily briefing, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, Lav Agarwal, said the spread of infectious diseases was like a geometric progression, and the country''s rate of doubling has increased to 12 days. On the brighter side, a record number of 1,130 patients recovered from the illness in a single day taking the total number of those recovered to 11,762, a recovery rate of 27.45 per cent. Since Saturday, COVID-19 cases have increased in excess of 2400 every day. On Saturday the total confirmed cases rose by 2,411 taking the total to 37,776. On Sunday the cases spiked by 2,487 taking the total to 40,263. At 2,573, Monday registered the highest ever increase in COVID-19 cases taking the total confirmed cases to 42,836.    Asked about reports stating India reaching the peak of the outbreak by May end or early June, Agarwal said the growth curve was relatively flat at present. “The curve is relatively flat as of now, if we work collectively, peaks may not come, but if we fail then, we may see spikes in cases”, he said. He also said there were no issues related to testing of cases so far and 57,474 tests were done in the past 24 hours. As on Monday, India tested more than 11 lakh samples in its efforts to check the spread of the disease. Agarwal said as the lockdown was being eased in a staggered manner, it was imperative to continue rigorous containment measures, effective clinical management, infection prevention and control. “Doubling time of COVID-19 cases has improved from 3.4, before lockdown, to 12 days today, lockdown and containment efforts are yielding results, our challenge now is how to further improve these results, to further increase doubling time,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-highest-single-day-rise-in-coronavirus-cases-on-monday-833605.html
04-05-2020||National||Maharashtra: 42 more test coronavirus positive in Mumbai's Dharavi; no new death cases||Forty-two more persons tested positive for coronavirus in the slum-dominated Dharavi area of the city, taking the tally to 632 on Monday, said a senior BMC official. No fresh death from COVID-19 has been reported from Dharavi in the last 48 hours, he said. The civic officer said the new cases were found in Pivala Bangala, Dharavi Cross road, Shiv Shakti Nagar, Muslim Nagar, Azad Nagar, Kalyanwadi, Jalil Compound, Matunga Labour camp and some other localities of Dharavi. Considered the biggest slum settlement in Asia, Dharavi has so far reported the death of 20 COVID-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-42-more-test-coronavirus-positive-in-mumbais-dharavi-no-new-death-cases-833611.html
04-05-2020||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi's call to pick up migrants' travel bill kicks off row||A quick-footed Congress on Monday seized the issue of stranded migrant workers being made to pay for their travel back home with party chief Sonia Gandhi directing state units to foot the bill for the journey. An early Monday morning statement by Gandhi caught the BJP unawares and the ruling party was seen scrambling for answers by trying to rubbish her claims and accusing her of promoting indiscriminate movement of people that could lead to faster spread of infection “like we saw in Italy”, an apparent reference to the Congress President’s Italian origin. Amid reports of stranded migrant workers being made to pay for their travel on board ‘Shramik Special’ trains, Gandhi slammed the Modi government of spending Rs 100 crore on just one public programme in Gujarat, an apparent reference to ‘Namaste Trump’ event, accepting Rs 151 crore from Railways for PM-CARES fund and ferrying Indian stranded in foreign countries free of cost. “...why can’t these essential members of our nation’s fabric be given a fraction of the same courtesy, especially free rail travel, at this hour of acute distress,” the Congress president and directed party’s state units to pick up the tab for the rail travel of “every needy worker and migrant labourer”.  Soon after Gandhi’s statement, Congress leaders K C Venugopal and Randeep Singh Surjewala addressed a press conference flashing the May 2 Railway Ministry order asking the state government to collect the ticket fare from the passengers and hand it over to the Railways. A large section of the migrant workers hail from states such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh. The spring the Congress’ step, which was not visible earlier, appeared keeping an eye on the elections in Bihar scheduled later this year. Congress has been out of power in the state for decades and is keen on making its presence felt in the politically crucial state. The Congress President described migrant workers and labourers as “as ambassadors of the nation’s growth” and said that the bid to help them reach homes was the party’s “humble contribution in service of our compatriots and to stand shoulder to shoulder in solidarity with them.”  A government spokesman said that the Centre had granted permission to run special trains at the request of the state government. “We are dividing the cost in 85-15% (Railway-States) as per the norms. We never asked states to charge money from the stranded labourers,” Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal told reporters at the daily Covid-19 briefing. BJP leader B L Santosh claimed that the governments of Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Kerala had made the migrant labourers pay Rs 1,000 for the journey. “Congress, which runs the first, partner in second, promoter of third wakes up early in the morning & issues a statement telling Party will pay for it,” Santosh said. “Railways already subsidises 57% of passenger fare. 1/3rd passengers & empty train on return journey adds another 28%. This 85% is borne by railways. It’s asking another 15% from states of origin not migrant labourers,” said Santosh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhis-call-to-pick-up-migrants-travel-bill-kicks-off-row-833267.html
04-05-2020||National Politics||Does Sonia Gandhi want faster coronavirus spread like in Italy? asks BJP||Rebutting the Congress' criticism, the BJP said on Monday that the railways has subsidised 85 per cent of ticket fare for special trains being run for migrant workers and the state governments have to pay the remaining 15 per cent. The ruling party also accused the Congress of promoting indiscriminate movement of people which, it said, would lead to "faster spread" of coronavirus infection "just like we saw in Italy", and asked if this is what Sonia Gandhi wants. The counter-charge from BJP leaders, including its spokesperson Sambit Patra and information technology department in-charge Amit Malviya, came after Congress president Sonia Gandhi hit out at the central government for making migrants pay for their train fare and asked her party's state units to pick the tab. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also took a swipe at the railways, saying, on one hand, it is seeking ticket fare from people stranded in various states while on the other it is donating Rs 151 crore to the PM-CARES Fund. Responding to him, Patra said, "Rahul Gandhi ji, I have attached guidelines of MHA which clearly state that 'No tickets to be sold at any station'. Railways has subsidised 85% & state govt to pay 15%. The state govt can pay for the tickets (Madhya Pradesh's BJP govt is paying). Ask Cong state govts to follow suit," Patra tweeted. The BJP leader further clarified that for each 'Shramik Express', special trains being run for migrants to take them back to their native places during the lockdown, about 1,200 tickets to the destination are handed by the railways to the state government concerned. State governments are supposed to clear the ticket price and hand over the tickets to workers, he said.  He said the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh is doing so and asked Rahul Gandhi to tell the Congress-ruled states to follow suit. Hitting out at Sonia Gandhi, Malviya tweeted, "Congress is obviously upset at how well India has handled Covid. They would have ideally wanted a lot more people to suffer and die. Promoting indiscriminate movement of people would lead to faster spread of infection, just like we saw in Italy. Is this what Sonia Gandhi wants?" BJP MP Subramanian Swamy claimed that migrant workers returning home will not have to pay money as the rail travel will be free from now onwards. "Talked to Piyush Goyal office. Govt will pay 85% and State Govt 15%. Migrant labour will go free. Ministry will clarify with an official statement," he tweeted. Talked Piyush Goel office. Govt will pay 85% and State Govt 15% . Migrant labour will go free. Ministry will clarify with an official statement||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/does-sonia-gandhi-want-faster-coronavirus-spread-like-in-italy-asks-bjp-833437.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi Metro observes 26th Foundation Day||The Delhi Metro observed its 26th Foundation Day on Sunday, but could not celebrate the occasion formally due to the ongoing lockdown in view of the coronavirus pandemic, it said in a statement. The metro services were suspended on March 22. In a message, the DMRC's Managing Director Mangu Singh said, "On this special day, we should all be extremely proud of what we have been able to achieve as an organisation." "Today, the Delhi Metro stands as one of the largest Metro systems in the world with a massive network of 360 kilometres, 264 stations and 14 depots. More than 60 lakh journeys with a punctuality of over 99 per cent were being performed on the Delhi Metro everyday prior to the suspension of services in March," he said. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said over 3,500 trips have been made by the metro trains since the beginning of the lockdown till May 2 to keep the Metro system in readiness to resume operation. About 3,500 workers employed in various Delhi Metro sites are being taken care of since the beginning of the lockdown, the statement said, adding all basic amenities, including medical care, being provided to them. Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) system of over 2,000 train coaches was thoroughly checked, including first ever drive to clean HVAC systems of around 1200 coaches with special chemicals by effectively utilising the lockdown, it said. This thorough cleaning exercise would result in better air-conditioned environment in summers, the statement said. The DMRC thanked Delhiites and said it will overcome the present crisis and again emerge as the lifeline of the national capital region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-observes-26th-foundation-day-833235.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||In Agra, coronavirus resurgence carries warning signs||On Feb. 25, a day after U.S. President Donald Trump and his wife Melania posed for pictures outside the Taj Mahal on an official visit to India, Sumit Kapoor returned to his nearby home from a trip to Italy. Kapoor, a partner in a shoe manufacturing firm, tested positive a week later for the new coronavirus, becoming the first confirmed case in the northern Indian city of Agra and the origin of the country's first big cluster of the virus. The city of 1.6 million people, famous for its 17th-century marble-domed Taj Mahal, moved fast. It set up containment zones, screened hundreds of thousands of residents and conducted widespread contact tracing. By early April, the city thought it had the virus beat, containing cases to under 50, while new infections exploded in other Indian cities. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government lauded the "Agra Model" as a template for the country's battle against COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus. Now, as the city and its hospitals battle a second wave of infections, Agra is a model of a different kind, illustrating how the coronavirus can roar back even after a swift lockdown and elaborate containment measures. "If it hadn't spread in the hospitals, we would have been able to contain it," said Agra's top local official, District Magistrate Prabhu N. Singh. As India grapples with around 42,000 coronavirus infections, second only to China in Asia, Agra's tangle with the virus offers lessons for big cities in India and elsewhere. It all began with a shoemaker who visited a trade fair in Italy. After flying home via Austria, Kapoor, 44, who lives about 10 kilometres away from the Taj Mahal, first learned he might be infected on March 1, when his brother-in-law who travelled with him came down with a fever and tested positive in New Delhi. A state official called Kapoor the next day and told him to get tested at the Agra District Hospital. He was positive - and so were his father, mother, son, wife and brother. All six were moved to a hospital in New Delhi, about 200 kilometres to the north. "My brother and I had a sore throat and the other four didn't have any symptoms," Kapoor told Reuters. Later, Kapoor's accountant in Agra and his wife also tested positive for COVID-19, while other unrelated cases started showing up around the city. CONTAINMENT ZONES AND LOUDSPEAKERS Singh, the district magistrate, and his team attempted to establish containment zones as the virus spread across the city, but they ran into a problem: how to quickly screen thousands of households. Dr. Brajendra Singh Chandel, a surveillance medical officer with the World Health Organization in Agra, said he pulled out vaccination "microplans" that had been developed for polio control by the WHO, using them alongside Google Maps to plot target areas. The detailed household-level plans, which helped India eradicate polio in 2014, have clearly demarcated starting, middle and end points for surveying an area, Chandel explained, allowing teams to work their way through any neighbourhood efficiently. "Once we zeroed down on the area, we used the polio microplans to execute," he said.  Local authorities identified an epicentre for each cluster of infections and drew three-kilometre-wide containment zones around them. They surveyed residents in those areas, looking for those who had contact with people who tested positive for the coronavirus or who were showing symptoms. Nearly 3,000 workers screened some 165,000 households, according to a government presentation. Meanwhile, epidemiologists from the federal government's India Epidemic Intelligence Service arrived in Agra to help with containment, contact tracing and analysing data, said Dr Anshul Pareek, who leads the city's coronavirus rapid response team. As the number of cases grew, authorities sealed off infection hotspots – typically groups of houses or parts of a street - and cordoned off adjoining neighbourhoods holding as many as 10,000 people. In a control room used to manage traffic, officials monitored camera feeds from across the city to ensure the lockdown was enforced. Thousands of police were deployed to hotspots and checkpoints. Loudspeakers blared messages telling residents to stay indoors. That differed from other Indian cities, many of which failed to isolate patients or track down their contacts, allowing the infection to spread, according to health authorities. Weak lockdowns allowed potential carriers to slip through containment cordons, they added. More than 1,300 people have died from the virus in India. REVIVAL OF CASES Agra was celebrated for appearing to have contained the virus. On April 11, Lav Agarwal, a senior official in India's federal health ministry, held up Agra as an example of how India was working "to defeat the pandemic." But a resurgence was already in the works. In late March, a gathering of the Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi had become a source for hundreds of new infections nationwide. Federal authorities sent officials in Agra a list of attendees to track down, Singh said. Agarwal did not respond to requests for comment by Reuters. District police chief Babloo Kumar said he used police investigation tactics and cell phone data to identify Tablighi Jamaat members and their contacts. Eventually, 104 people from this group tested positive in Agra. The effort was helped by the nationwide lockdown on March 25 that stopped all public transport, shut businesses and kept residents at home. "Without a lockdown, we could not have done anything," Singh said. By early April, a patient linked to the Tablighi group showed up at an Agra hospital and later tested positive for COVID-19, officials said. The disease spread rapidly among patients and staff who went on to infect their families and relatives. New cases also popped up in Agra's other healthcare facilities. Worst hit was Paras Hospital, the source for at least 92 coronavirus cases, Singh said. One staff member infected 14 others in a two-room home, he said. In another case, a patient from the hospital infected 32 others in a nearby town, he added. The hospital was sealed off on April 6. Late last month, a chart tracking contacts of positive patients linked to the facility still stood next to Singh's desk. Agra now has around 600 coronavirus cases and 14 deaths, according to local authorities. As of the end of April, there were 39 infection hotspots and tests had been conducted on 6,848 samples, with some people tested multiple times. Singh says he's confident the city will defeat the virus, thanks in part to its aggressive contact-tracing system. "The good part is that for all the cases, we know the source," he said. Still, eradicating COVID-19 in Agra's crowded neighbourhoods will remain difficult, particularly without testing large groups of people, said Dr. Rajib Dasgupta, an epidemiologist who teaches at New Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University. "Even within a containment zone, for some conceivable time, it's not going to go away very rapidly," said Dasgupta.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-agra-coronavirus-resurgence-carries-warning-signs-833274.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court dismisses Karnataka judge's plea against elevation of junior as HC judge||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea by a principal district and sessions judge for quashing the Presidential order of April 30 appointing a "junior" as an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court. Just minutes before swearing-in of five judges at the High Court in Bengaluru, a bench of Justices Deepak Gupta and Aniruddha Bose took up the matter through the virtual court system. The court, however, declined to consider the petition by Master RKGMM Mahaswamiji, saying it can't entertain a plea filed at the last moment.  The bench also told his counsel Sanjay M Nuli that the court normally would not interfere with the Presidential orders on judges' appointment. On April 30, the Law Ministry issued the notification, appointing judicial officers Shivashankar Amarannavar, Smt M Ganeshaiah Uma, Vedavyasachar Srishananda, Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, and Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai as additional judges for a period of two years. The swearing-in ceremony of all the five judges was scheduled at Bengaluru at 10.30 am on Monday. In his writ petition filed on Saturday, Master RKGMM Mahaswamiji contended that the order passed to elevate Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai from district judiciary as additional judge of the HC for a period of two years, was "arbitrary, unconstitutional, unlawful and in total disregard of existing binding executive instructions". His petition, filed by advocate Sanjay M Nuli, claimed that his name was ignored and not taken into consideration for promotion or elevation, along with his batch mates. He also submitted that his service record from the date of his appointment on February 25, 2008 to December, 2018 was clear from any adverse remarks. Except Desai, four other officers who were elevated, are either batch mates or senior to the petitioner, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-dismisses-karnataka-judges-plea-against-elevation-of-junior-as-hc-judge-833291.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Four more die of coronavirus in Rajasthan; state toll at 75||Rajasthan recorded four more coronavirus deaths on Monday, while 123 fresh cases of the virus were reported, an official said. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said four people died of the virus in Jaipur. The death toll due to the virus in the state has climbed to 75. Jaipur alone has reported 44 deaths. As many as 123 new cases, including 73 in Jodhpur, 19 in Chittorgarh, 12 in Jaipur, 11 in Pali, three in Kota, two in Rajsamand and one each in Alwar, Bikaner and Udaipur have been reported, the Health Department official said. The state now has 3,009 confirmed cases of COVID-19, out of which 923 have been discharged from hospitals. There are 1,578 active cases, Singh said. Jaipur has reported the highest number of cases with 1,005 infections, followed by 705 in Jodhpur.  The state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-more-die-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-state-toll-at-75-833292.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: State-run liquor shops in Delhi to operate from 9 am to 6.30 pm||The Delhi government has issued an order allowing state-run liquor shops to operate from 9 am to 6.30 pm in the city, and directed deployment of marshals at these outlets to maintain social distancing. According to a government official, about 150 liquor shops have been allowed to open in accordance with the latest lockdown relaxations given by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). There are around 850 liquor shops in the city including those run by government agencies and private individuals. In an order on Sunday night, the excise department also directed officials to identify liquor shops, which are being run by private individuals (L-7 licensee) and fulfil conditions laid down by the MHA. The officials have been asked them to submit a report within three days.  The government has so far allowed only those liquor shops (L-7 and L-8) to operate which are being run by four state-run agencies responsible for liquor sale in the national capital. "All liquor shops in malls and markets will remain closed. The government-run shops allowed will operate from 9 am to 6.30 pm.  "The four agencies will deploy marshals to ensure that not more than 5 people are present at one time at the shop," the official said. The department has asked agencies to coordinate with the local administration and police to maintain law and order.  According to the order, bonded warehouses have been allowed to resume operation from 7 am to 6.30 pm. The Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation, the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, the Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited and the Delhi Consumer''s Cooperative Wholesale Store have been given the permission to open liquor shops in public places, except malls and market complexes. The agencies will have to give an undertaking stating that liquor shops being allowed to open will fulfil all MHA guidelines, according to the excise department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-state-run-liquor-shops-in-delhi-to-operate-from-9-am-to-630-pm-833307.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Army, paramilitary staff to be quarantined on return to Chhattisgarh||The Chhattisgarh health department has asked personnel of the paramilitary forces and Army to remain quarantined for 14 days after their return to the state on completion of trainingor duties in other parts of the country. State health secretary Niharika Barik Singh wrote letters on Sunday to senior officials of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Border Security Force (BSF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the Indian Army and Service Selection Board (SSB), to ensure compliance of the quarantine protocols. In the letter, Singh said it has come to the notice of the health department that security personnel of the units concerned are out of the state for various reasons like training, leave, duty, and others. It has been directed that whenever the personnel return to the state, the departments concerned must ensure they compulsorily follow 14-day quarantine, the official said. On their arrival from other states, information should be given to collectors and chief medical and health officers of the respective districts and their health test must be conducted. The armed units and paramilitary forces should make arrangements of separate rooms with attached toilet facilities for the stay of the personnel during the 14-day quarantine and their health check-up should be done daily, the letter said.  In case of detection of any symptoms related to COVID-19, it should be brought to the notice of the health department immediately, Singh said in the letter. In case of non-availability of their respective unit doctors, they can take services of the state health department staff for daily screening, the official added. A large number of paramilitary forces are deployed in Chhattisgarh, particularly in Bastar region, for carrying out anti-Naxal operations. The headquarters of the Armys Chhattisgarh and Odisha Sub Area (COSA) is located in Raipur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-army-paramilitary-staff-to-be-quarantined-on-return-to-chhattisgarh-833310.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Jammu and Kashmir government declares entire Kashmir valley, 2 district of Jammu in red zone||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has declared the entire Kashmir valley and three district of Jammu region as "red zone" based on overall assessment of the coronavirus situation and expected movement of stranded persons to the union territory.  The classification of districts was given in an order issued by Chief Secretary BVR Subrahmanyam on Sunday night. The Union Health Ministry had classified four districts of Jammu and Kashmir - Srinagar, Bandipora, Anantnag and Shopian -- in red zone. The Centre has allowed the administration of States and Union Territories (UTs) to classify additional districts as red or orange zones. However, States and UTs are not allowed to lower the zone classification of a district. As per the order issued by the Jammu and Kashmir administration, entire Kashmir valley, which comprises ten districts has been declared as red zone. In Jammu region, three districts of Jammu, Samba and Kathua  are in red zone, it said. While four districts of Jammu region - Udhampur, Reasi, Ramban and Rajouri - are in orange zone, Doda, Kishtwar and Poonch are in green zone. The other guidelines issued by the chief secretary were more or less based on the MHA order issued on May 1 for the third phase of lockdown from May 4 to May 17. As per the guidelines, the government has allowed movement of individuals in vehicles only for permitted activities, with a maximum of two passengers, besides the driver in four-wheelers, and with no pillion rider in case of two-wheelers.  “Intra-district movement of individuals is also allowed in orange zone in individual vehicles with similar restriction of passengers in four and two-wheelers, on the basis of passes issued by the district authority. Taxi and cab aggregators are permitted to ply with one driver and two passengers only while e-commerce activities (home delivery etc) are permitted for essential services and goods," the order said, "Private offices can operate with up to 33 percent strength as per requirement with remaining persons working from home,” the order said. In green zone districts, all activities which are permitted in orange zone, will be allowed, it said. Other activities permitted in green zones included opening of all shops except those prohibited across the Union Territory. The activities which will remain prohibited in the entire UT include all domestic and international air travel of passengers, except for medical services, air ambulance, security purposes or for purposes permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs.  All schools, colleges, universities, educational and training coaching institutions etc. will also remain closed across the UT till March 17 but online and distance learning will be permitted. All passenger movement by trains, except for security purposes or for purposes permitted by the MHA will remain prohibited, the order said. As per the government order, all cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming polls, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, liquor shops, restaurants, auditoriums, assembly hails and similar places will remain shut. The movement of individuals for all non-essential activities has been prohibited between 7 pm and 7 am. The order said district magistrates will issue specific prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC. However, persons above 65 years of age and those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years will stay at home except for meeting essential requirements or for health purposes. Hospitality services other than those used for housing health, police, Government officials, healthcare workers, stranded persons and quarantine facilities will remain closed. “All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other gatherings will remain prohibited in the entire UT. All religious places and place of worship will be closed for public. Religious congregations are strictly prohibited,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-jammu-and-kashmir-government-declares-entire-kashmir-valley-2-district-of-jammu-in-red-zone-833320.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Supreme Court refuses to consider plea on burial of COVID-19 victims||A bench of Justices R F Nariman and Indira Banerjee said the High Court, which was already hearing the matter, should consider the issue. The court asked the petitioner Pradeep Gandhy to press for orders before the High Court.  The petitioner challenged the validity of the Bombay High Court's interim order of April 27, refusing to stay burial of such deceased at Ward Konkani Muslim Cemetery no. 80, Khoja Sunnat Jamat Kabrastan Bandra West and KhojaIsna Ashari Jammat Kabrastan Bandra West. The petitioner was apprehensive of a "potential catastrophe" that may befall upon the residents living in the densely-populated surrounding area over there. "In the absence of any interim protection, the petitioners’ writ petition would be infructuous as the burial process will continue and irreversible damage would be caused to the neighbouring area if the COVID-19 virus spreads due to the infected buried bodies," his plea claimed. He also submitted that there is no study or research to say with certainty that the infection would not spread from the buried infected bodies through the soil and underground water to the neighbouring areas.  "Even though there may be no scientific basis to the contrary, it is precautionary in nature and imperative to be “safe rather than sorry” in extraordinary times such as the present situation where there is no cure to the disease," he contended. The petitioner claimed the state government had originally issued a circular on March 30, directing that all COVID-19 infected deceased should be cremated and not buried, to avoid the risk of spreading of infection. However, due to undisclosed reasons, it modified this circular, and issued a fresh on April 9, 2020, permitting burial to take place in 20 notified cemeteries.  He submitted that the present unprecedented health situation ought to take precedence over the religious rights of the deceased’s family members seeking to bury the deceased at the subject cemeteries.  In the context of shifting of graves of Muslims vis a vis their right to religion under Article 25 and 26 of the Constitution, this court has consistently reiterated the fact that such right must be subject to public order and health of the larger community, the petitioner said. He also pointed out that across the world, a different government has advised on cremating the body of deceased who have died due to COVID-19 infection. Notably, Muslim scholars' group Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind has filed a plea to oppose the petition, saying the apprehension that burial of such persons would risk the spread of infection in the vicinity was "unfounded".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-supreme-court-refuses-to-consider-plea-on-burial-of-covid-19-victims-833324.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Two floors of BSF headquarters sealed after a staff member test positive||Two floors of the Border Security Force headquarters in Delhi have been sealed after a staff member was tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Monday. The eight-storeyed BSF head office is located in the CGOs complex on Lodhi road that also houses the CRPF headquarters which was placed under similar sealing on Sunday after two staffers tested positive. Two floors of the BSF headquarters have been sealed after a staff member tested positive. All drills for sanitisation are being undertaken, they said. Contact tracing is also underway and only a bare minimum staff is working, the officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-two-floors-of-bsf-headquarters-sealed-after-a-staff-member-test-positive-833330.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Check for symptoms among prisoners, MHA tells states||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to state Chief Secretaries and Directors General of prisons, saying people in prisons and other places of detention, living in a closed and crowded environment, are likely to be more vulnerable to the pandemic.  "Moreover, experience shows that prisons, jails and similar settings where people gather in close proximity may act as a source of infection and spread of infectious diseases within and beyond prisons. Any control strategy for COVID-19 in the community which does not encompass the prison context will not be sustainable,” Bhalla said. Around two dozen prisoners and at least two jail staff were detected with COVID-19 in the past two weeks in Indore Central Jail, including 19 who tested positive for the virus infection on April 28. Bhalla said information should be collected from arrested and convicted people on any history of fever, cough or shortness of breath as well as recent travel history to affected areas and possible contact with confirmed cases in the past 14 days. He said the earlier direction to "limit and restrict" visits to prisons should be strictly implemented and they could explore the possibilities of allowing meetings via video link between prisoners and their families. Custodial and detention staff should work together with healthcare teams in prisons and other places of detention to enable identification of suspected cases among prisoners. Isolation of such people and a subsequent clinical assessment is also necessary, he said.  "Prevention of import of COVID-19 into prisons and other places of detention is an essential element in avoiding or minimising the occurrence of infection and serious outbreaks in these settings and beyond," he said. Thermal screening should be conducted at the point of entry into jail. Instructions have also been given to prisons to stop group activities of inmates barring essential ones after ensuring social distancing. While jail staff who have any symptoms should not be allowed entry into jails, the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued along with the letter said that those detainees in jails with foreign travel history should be lodged in a separate building.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-check-for-symptoms-among-prisoners-mha-tells-states-833331.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh MLA held for violating coronavirus lockdown curbs, let off on bail||Uttar Pradesh MLA Amanmani Tripathi and 12 of his associates were arrested in Rishikesh for allegedly violating lockdown restrictions and let off subsequently on bail, officials said on Monday. The action was taken late on Sunday night when the MLA and his friends were returning after being stopped by authorities in Chamoli district from proceeding to Badrinath. A convoy of three cars carrying the MLA and his associates was first intercepted by policemen at a barrier in Gauchar on the way to Badrinath, but the Nautanwa MLA  produced a letter of permission purportedly issued by authorities in Dehradun and moved on. However, they were stopped again at a barrier in Karnaprayag by police and administrative officials, who told them that the portals of Badrinath were scheduled to open on May 15 and there was no point in letting them go further, SDM, Karnaprayag, Vaibhav Gupta said. The MLA got angry and argued with officials but they did not relent and forced the convoy to return, the officials said. They were intercepted again at Vyasi police outpost in Rishikesh as there were more than three persons in each car and all without masks in violation of lockdown curbs, Muni ki Reti police station in-charge RK Saklani said. A case was registered against them under different sections of the IPC, Epidemic Act and the Disaster Management Act and they were arrested, he said. However, they were let off subsequently on personal bail bonds and allowed to leave for Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-mla-held-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-curbs-let-off-on-bail-833333.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: BSF headquarters in Delhi sealed after personnel tests positive for COVID-19||A BSF spokesperson said a Head Constable tested positive for the virus infection on Monday night following which the first two floors of the building in CGO Complex in south Delhi's Lodhi Colony was sealed for sanitisation. With this, the number of COVID-19 cases in BSF has risen to 43, including 36 in the national capital. The Head Constable, who works in an office in the second floor of the headquarters, last attended the office on Friday. Identification of secondary and tertiary contacts as per protocol is being carried out. All protocols are being followed, officials said.  "All persons came in his contact have been identified and quarantined. They will also be tested for COVID-19. Offices on first and second floors of headquarters have been closed as a precaution," the spokesperson said. Prior to the detection of the case, he said, the BSF headquarters was closed as a special precautionary measure by 4 pm. All attending staff vacated offices and the entire office complex was sanitised with prescribed solutions of disinfectants. "On Saturday and Sunday, the headquarter was closed. No staff other than the security personnel and the control room members in limited numbers worked," he said. The entire block housing the BSF headquarters was sanitised again on Monday. On Sunday, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) headquarters was sealed after two staffers were tested positive for COVID-19. It will re-open on Tuesday morning.  CRPF has around 150 COVID-19 positive personnel while another paramilitary force Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has around a dozen such cases. A 55-year-old CRPF personnel had succumbed to COVID-19 last week in Delhi. At least three police personnel of different state police forces have also died due to COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-bsf-headquarters-in-delhi-sealed-after-personnel-tests-positive-for-covid-19-833342.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Electricians, plumbers, house helps take tentative steps back to work||Electricians, plumbers, part-time house helps and other workers took tentative steps back to work on Monday as large parts of India, including the national capital, entered the third phase of the lockdown with curbs eased in some places. As spring slipped into summer and the lockdown, which began on March 25, continued, people waited eagerly for electricians to service air-conditioners, plumbers to repair washing machines and broken taps, domestics to get back for the deep cleaning that never did get done and a host of other urgent jobs. On the other end of the spectrum were the band of workers, trained in myriad necessary jobs that keep the household machine going smoothly, who found themselves without jobs and money. Many of them, like Manoj Koli, an electrician for over 20 years, said they were reduced to scrambling for food and the lifting of some lockdown restrictions will hopefully mean a semblance of normalcy.  “I haven’t earned a single rupee since March 21. It will be difficult to get back to work until electrical shops selling spare parts like wires and sockets also open. It is still too early to tell,” Manoj told PTI. “With some electrical shops now open, that problem should hopefully be resolved. But I should get some work before all of that,” the electrician, who lives in south Delhi’s Dakshninpuri locality with his parents, wife and children, added. The lockdown, to curtail the spread of coronavirus, has been extended for two weeks till at least May 17. Several restrictions have been lifted and several remain. Declaring that the time had come to reopen Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday evening, "Self-employed people like technicians, plumbers, electricians, mechanics, sanitation workers, domestic helps, and people involved with laundry and ironing are allowed to work."  Navigating the coronavirus crisis, which has pushed Indians into the four walls of their homes, has been traumatic for everybody, but most of all perhaps for those like Manoj who depend on their everyday work to make a living. He said the pandemic could not have come at a worse time. Every April, he would be flooded with calls for AC servicing and repairs from his clients and could manage to make as much as Rs 40,000 a month.  This year, the calls didn’t come and neither did the money. There are lakhs of people like Manoj.  According to Rajesh Kumar of the Indian Federation of Trade Unions (IFTU), the Delhi government does not have any official records of the numbers of unorganised skilled labour, including plumbers,  electricians and carpenters. But it could be as high as six-seven lakh. “The government should have created a record of these people before announcing a lockdown. It is understandable that the lockdown has been extended, but the government should have also been prepared with solutions for the problems of all kinds of people in the state,” the IFTU general secretary said. Subhash Mohanty, a plumber, said he is grateful he could procure the Delhi government’s rations soon after the lockdown was announced.  “There has been no work for the last one month. I got some calls for work in the last few days, but I had to turn them down because there is a coronavirus case in my area, and I cannot step out of here,” Mohanty, who stays in Tughlakabad Extension with his wife and two children, said. Bikram Kumar, who works as a carpenter in south Delhi localities, said surviving the lockdown is getting more difficult each day and he can’t wait to get back to work. On a good month, he would make between Rs 10-20,000 a month, a part of which he would send to his home in Uttar Pradesh’s Azamgarh district where his wife and four children live. Since the lockdown, he has barely managed to make enough to feed himself and said he has been surviving on biscuits and water. “Had there been public transport, I would have gone back home. At least, we have produce from farms. Now crops are also getting  spoilt because nobody is there to harvest them,” Bikram, who lives with his nephew in Lal Kuan area near Okhla industrial estate, said.  The last few weeks have been an emotional and financial drain for those like Kobita who came back to work on Monday to clean and cook in homes. “During the lockdown period, I tried to go to some of my employers’ houses to collect my salary but was stopped by police. Today, many junctions, opened up, and it was a relief. I was getting worried that many of my employers won’t call me back at all,” said Kobita, who works in Chittaranjan Park in south Delhi. With no public transport, she now has to walk about 30 minutes from her home but is not complaining. "At least I have work," she said. If Kobita, Manoj, Subhash and Bikram are desperate to get back to work, homemakers like Lata Srinivasan are equally anxious for them to attend to long pending jobs. Almost every house is in need of an electrician who can service their ACs, but most are wary about inviting any outsider into their homes for fear of contracting the disease that has infected over 42,000 people in India and killed at least 1,373. The total number of cases in Delhi has crossed 4,500 with 64 fatalities. Srinivasan (68),  is stuck with two unserviced ACs and a broken refrigerator in this heat and could not do anything about it because her society was not letting in any service personnel in. Her 10 year-old fridge finally gave up three days into the lockdown, and since then she has been figuring out ways to prevent her perishable food from going bad. “I was buying vegetables once in two days, and keeping them in the open under the fan,” Srinivasan, who lives in an apartment complex in IP Extension in east Delhi, said. Her society allowed electricians and plumbers to work from Monday but with strict instructions. “We need to buy masks, gloves, and sanitisers for the technicians. They need to fill up a form giving their personal details at the society office, where their tools will be sanitised, and then the employers need to escort them to and from their houses so they don’t go anywhere else,” she said.  With the lockdown being relaxed somewhat, she is hoping day-to-day life will become smoother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-electricians-plumbers-house-helps-take-tentative-steps-back-to-work-833348.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi: 13 Sashastra Seema Bal personnel test positive for coronavirus||As many as 13 personnel of border guarding force Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) have tested positive for coronavirus till now, officials said on Monday. They said while nine infected officials belong to the 25th battalion of the force based in Ghitorni area of the national capital, the rest are from other locations. All the personnel have been put in hospital isolation facilities, they said. The about 80,000 personnel strong SSB is primarily tasked to guard the 1,751 km long India-Nepal and 699 km of the India-Bhutan borders apart from rendering a variety of roles in the internal security domain of the country.  It is one of the paramilitary force or Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) under the Union home ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-13-sashastra-seema-bal-personnel-test-positive-for-coronavirus-833372.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Desperate to go home, 100 migrant labourers in Jammu start journey on foot to Uttar Pradesh||Over 100 migrant labourers hailing from Uttar Pradesh started walking to their native villages from here on Monday, prompting the local administration to intervene which sent them back to their rented accommodations amid the third phase of the nationwide lockdown. The labourers, moving in three separate groups, were stopped by police at Trikuta Nagar locality after covering a distance of a few kilometers from their places of stay. They were asked to return after assuring them that necessary arrangements would be made for their comfortable stay and early departure, officials said. “The migrant labourers on their own decided to return to their home on foot which is an impossible task. We asked them to stay at their places and assured adequate ration to them till arrangements are put in place for their evacuation to their home states,” Additional Deputy Commissioner, Jammu, Tahir Firdous Dutta said. Dutta, who visited the scene and interacted with the labourers, said there are around 75,000 migrant labourers in Jammu and the government is making every effort to ensure free delivery of ration to them. Seman Durbal, a resident of Gorakhpur, said desperation led them to take the extreme step as there seems to be no end to the ongoing lockdown. “We are staying idle at our shared rented rooms of 12X12 for the last 40 days and are facing a lot of problems like arranging daily meals. Our survival is at stake,” he said. Durbal said the government earlier provided them 10 kgs rice and wheat, but nothing was provided after that. “We cannot survive like this and decided to walk the distance to our homes…,” he said.  Ramesh, another labourer belonging to Sant Kabir Nagar in UP, said they are running short of gas cylinders, food items and have exhausted their money. “Rs 2,000 was transferred to my account by the central government and a ration kit was also provided. Do you think this is enough for 50 days? The lockdown is being extended and who knows when things will resume to normal,” he lamented. Another labourer, however, claimed no relief from the government came his way. “I was earning Rs 300 to Rs 350 daily and carrying on with life, but over the past one-and-a-half month, I have got no work. I request the government to make necessary arrangements for our early departure to our native places,” he said. Officials added that the group of migrant labourers was mostly putting up in the area adjacent to the Science College in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/desperate-to-go-home-100-migrant-labourers-in-jammu-start-journey-on-foot-to-uttar-pradesh-833390.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Battle-hardened Pak militants want to revive '90s like terror-networks in Kupwara woods||While focus of security agencies in recent years has remained on curbing home-grown militancy in southern Kashmir, Army is suffering more casualties in northern frontier Kupwara district where more battle-hardened Pakistani militants are ready to revive terror-network in the woods. Infested with heavily-armed foreign terrorists from 1993-2003, Kupwara was known as ‘Gateway of Militancy’ as most of the militants infiltrated through this district in 1990’s. Such was the dominance of militants in 1990’s in Kupwara that the Rajwar area in the district was called as ‘Chhota Pakistan’, while militants’ code-name for the picturesque Lolab valley was ‘University’. It took the Army and J&K Police more than ten years to decimate the terror infrastructure and wrest control of the whole Kupwara and by 2005 the district was relatively peaceful. In the last decade the focus of security forces remained more on south Kashmir’s Tral, Shopian, Kulgam and Pulwama areas as home-grown militancy became a new challenge. However, the killing of Commanding Officer of Rashtriya Rifles (RR) 21st battalion Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, Major Anuj Sood, two soldiers and a sub inspector of J&K Police in Rajwar belt of Kupwara on Saturday comes after a long period of calm, and is eerily reminiscent of the years between 1993-2005. Earlier in the first week of April, five commandos of Army’s elite Para battalion were killed while foiling an infiltration bid in the same district. In August 2000, Brigadier B S Shergill, Commander of Drugmulla-based 7 Sector and Col Rajender Chauhan Commanding Officer of the same 21-RR, which Col Shamra belonged, were killed in ambush by militants some kilometers away from Saturday’s gunfight site. From early 90’s onwards till early 2000's, hordes of battle-hardened militants from Pakistan and Afghanistan had turned the Rajwar belt into a sort of liberated zone. They had set up bases, including concrete bunkers at some places. Sporting combat jackets and with light machine guns and rocket launchers on their shoulders, they reportedly would stop buses and even check photo-identity cards of passengers on the Handwara-Zachaldara-Wudar road. “Pakistan spy agency ISI and its army want to revive that deadly phase of militancy in Kupwara so that it could act as a nerve center of terrorism in Kashmir. With this intention, in recent weeks, Pakistan army increased shelling and firing along the LoC to push in militants into the Valley from four launch pads across the Line of Control (LoC) in Kupwara,” sources told DH. They said the newly infiltrated militants were not only more trained and more motivated but can carry sophisticated weapons to inflict more damage on security forces.  However, a senior army officer said it’s a small group of militants which is under their scanner. “Setbacks do come alongside gallantry. We’ll wipe them out soon and nobody would be allowed to terrorise people again like the 1990's,” he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/battle-hardened-pak-militants-want-to-revive-90s-like-terror-networks-in-kupwara-woods-833422.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Yogi Adityanath reviews preparations for stranded labourers returning to UP||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday issued directives to attach IAS and senior PCS officials with district magistrates to assist the administration in the working of quarantine centres, shelter homes and community kitchens for the stranded labourers coming to the state. The chief minster issued the orders on Monday while chairing a meeting of senior state government officials at the Lok Bhavan here, an official statement said. He said the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Provincial Civil Services (PCS) officials will be attached with the district magistrates of 75 districts in the state. Adityanath also said industrial activities should be started in the state while adhering to the safety parameters mentioned in the advisory issued by the Centre. “The community kitchens have been geo-tagged. The quarantine centers will also be geo-tagged,” he said, adding those staying in COVID-19 hotspot areas should not go to their offices. People must wear masks or face covers if they have to venture out of their houses, he said. "Social distancing must be adhered to during vaccination of children. The para-medical staff involved in this work should use masks, gloves and sanitisers. Ventilators in hospitals must be in functional mode," he said. The chief minister also ordered that communication be done with village pradhan and corporators, and that the monitoring committees inform the government if any outsider sneaks into the rural areas. He added that steps should also be taken to identify additional sources of revenue for the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-yogi-adityanath-reviews-preparations-for-stranded-labourers-returning-to-up-833436.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Col Ashutosh Sharma's mortal remains arrive in Jaipur||The mortal remains of Army officer Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, who was martyred in Kashmir in an encounter with terrorists, arrived here by a special aircraft on Monday. His funeral will take place on Tuesday, a defence spokesperson said. The mortal remains were taken to the military hospital, Jaipur in a decorated army truck. "The wreath laying ceremony and paying of last respects will be held at 61 Cavalry location, Jaipur Military Station on Tuesday morning," the spokesperson said. Colonel Sharma, who was among the five security personnel killed during an encounter with terrorists in north Kashmir on Sunday, is the second Commanding Officer of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles who lost his life while combating terrorism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/col-ashutosh-sharmas-mortal-remains-arrive-in-jaipur-833464.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Behave yourself: Kejriwal warns Delhiites as lockdown norms thrown to wind at wine shops||Behave responsibly or else will seal your locality -- Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday issued a strong warning to people after huge crowds violated social distancing norms in front of liquor shops that were opened after a gap of 39 days during COVID-19 lockdown. All the liquor shops in the capital, barring those in containment zones, were opened after the Centre relaxed lockdown norms but many of them were closed by police mid-way after people gathered infront of such facilities failed to maintain social distancing. In some places, police resorted to use of force to disperse the crowd. Kejriwal did not specifically identify liquor outlets but said it was unfortunate that chaos was witnessed near "some shops" with crowds gathering near it by throwing in air caution. "If we come to know that people are not following social distancing norms, we will be forced to seal the area. Then there will be no option before us but to withdraw the relaxations, which were provided to slowly open up the city. Behave responsibly. If shopkeepers fail to maintain it, we will seal the shop. If social distancing norms are not followed in a locality, we will seal that area," Kejriwal warned.  He said his government will be forced to do this and whatever restrictions are put in place are done to ensure that the citizens are not harmed. "Nobody wants to be in a lockdown forever...Please follow social distancing, wear masks and sanitise your hands frequently for your own safety," he said. Kejriwal said he was hopeful of defeating COVID-19 pandemic and referred to the way Delhi fought against Dengue. He said in 2015, there were 16,000 cases of dengue in which around 60 people lost life but last year the cases were around 2,500 and there were no deaths. "The question before us is how to defeat COVID-19. Government alone cannot do that. Support of people is essential for it. How long can we be in a lockdown? The lockdown can be lifted fully only when we defeat COVID-19. For that, one should ensure that that we follow norms," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/behave-yourself-kejriwal-warns-delhiites-as-lockdown-norms-thrown-to-wind-at-wine-shops-833475.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Liquor shops opened without forethought, COVID-19 cases will spike by this: Delhi Congress||The Congress slammed the AAP government's decision to open liquor shops during the lockdown, as people thronged the outlets in high spirits throwing to the wind all caution against the spread of the coronavirus infection. Many government-run liquor shops which opened after over 40 days in the national capital, had to be shut as people who gathered outside the outlets didn't follow social distancing norms, forcing the police to use mild force to disperse the unruly crowd.  According to an official, about 150 government-run liquor shops have been allowed to operate from 9 am to 6.30 pm in accordance with the latest lockdown relaxations given by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Many people were not aware that only government shops were allowed to open. Hitting out at the AAP government, Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar alleged that the liquor shops were opened without any forethought. The move will lead to the city witnessing a "sharp spike" in coronavirus cases in the coming weeks, he said. Even as Delhi has been witnessing an upward trend in the coronavirus graph, the government allowed opening of liquor shops with an eye on revenue generation, without bothering about the health of the people, he said. "Maintaining social distance and gathering of not more than five people outside a liquor shop at any given time was violated with impunity after the shops  opened today. People jostled outside liquor shops to buy booze, which forced the police to intervene and down the shutters at many places," Kumar said.  The government should have done proper planning before allowing the liquor shops to open, as otherwise, the move will lead to a "sharp spike" in COVID-19 cases in the city, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/liquor-shops-opened-without-forethought-covid-19-cases-will-spike-by-this-delhi-congress-833515.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||With 25 new COVID-19 cases, J&K tally rises to 721||Jammu and Kashmir saw a rise of 25 COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total in the Union Territory (UT) to 721. While the total number of cases in Kashmir division detected so far is 659, Jammu has reported 62 cases. Three districts in Kashmir now have 100 plus COVID-19 cases which includes Bandipora, Anantnag and Srinagar.  The J&K administration said that several activities shall continue to remain prohibited across the Union Territory, irrespective of the categorisation of the districts, till further orders. According to the daily Media Bulletin on novel coronavirus, out of 726 positive cases, 415 are Active Positive, 303 have recovered and eight have died. Moreover, 16 more COVID-19 patients have recovered and been discharged from various hospitals from Kashmir Division. The Bulletin said that out of 28,199 test results available, 27,473 samples have tested as negative till May 4. Furthermore, till date 77,656 travelers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been enlisted for surveillance which included 11,850 persons in home quarantine including facilities operated by government, 182 in Hospital Quarantine, 415 in hospital isolation and 7,232 under home surveillance. Besides, 57,969 persons have completed their surveillance period.  In the last one week, nearly 200 new cases of COVID-19 have come to fore. However, although the number of positive cases has been consistently high over the past week, the positive percentage has decreased in comparison to the week before.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-25-new-covid-19-cases-jk-tally-rises-to-721-833519.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||12 people, including 5 healthcare workers, CISF man test COVID-19 positive in UP's Gautam Buddh Nagar||Twelve people, including five healthcare workers and a CISF personnel, tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Monday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district to 179, according to officials. Also, a 20-year-old woman was discharged from hospital after her successful treatment of COVID-19, taking the number of those cured in the district to 102, the officials said. "Total 82 reports have been received in the last 24 hours. Twelve of them were positive and the rest were negative for COVID-19. The cumulative positive cases of coronavirus in Gautam Buddh Nagar are now 179," District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. The new patients included a 27-year-old Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) constable who is part of the force's 11th reserve battalion in Surajpur, Greater Noida, officials said. Five healthcare workers, including two men and three women, also tested positive for the novel coronavirus, the officials said. One of them works at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, while the other four serve at the Child PGI in Sector 30 of Noida, they said. Among other patients were a 19-year-old man from Nithari in Sector 31, a 44-year-old man from Salarpur village, a 24-year-old man from Sector 22 and a 42-year-old man from Sector 45 – all in Noida, and a 22-year-old man from sector Pi 1, a 51-year-old man from Sector Pi 3 – both in Greater Noida, according to the officials. A 20-year-old woman who was admitted at GIMS was discharged on Monday, the officer said. "So far, 102 of the 179 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 77 active cases in the district," he said. The recovery rate of patients is 56.98 per cent, according to the official statistics. According to the Health Department, 3,722 samples were taken for COVID-19 test, while 254 people were in institutional quarantine till Monday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-people-including-5-healthcare-workers-cisf-man-test-covid-19-positive-in-ups-gautam-buddh-nagar-833531.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Effect: Delhi imposes 70% special corona fee on liquor  ||Liquor will cost more in the national capital from Tuesday with the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government deciding to impose a 70% 'Special Corona Fee' on the maximum retail price of all categories of alcohol. The government's move came amid huge revenue loss following the halting of all economic activities since March 25 when the COVID-19 lockdown was imposed. The order was issued on Monday, the day the liquor shops were opened in the capital after remaining closed during 39 days of the lockdown since March 25.  According to the Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules 2020, the government has imposed a fee of "70% of the maximum retail price on all categories of liquor sold through retail licencees for consumption 'off' the premises". Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday had said that economic activities needed to be opened up in the capital as it has caused severe economic crisis in the capital. He said the government used to garner a revenue of Rs 3,500 crore usually in the month of April but last month it could raise only Rs 300 crore. He had said that it would not be sufficient even for paying salaries. As the capital opened liquor shops, huge crowds had gathered in front of many wine shops leading to the violation of social distancing norms. This has led to the police closing down a number of liquor shops before the scheduled closing time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-effect-delhi-imposes-70-special-corona-fee-on-liquor-833612.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi sees 349 new COVID-19 cases, tally inches closer to 5000-mark||Delhi inched closer to 5,000-mark in COVID-19 cases with the capital on Monday reporting 349 cases. With this, the capital now has 4,898, out of which 1,383 (28.23%) were reported this month alone. The death toll remained at 64 as no fresh deaths were reported while 69 patients were discharged during the day taking the total number of recoveries to 1,431.  An analysis of the statistics showed that those above 60 years accounted for 16.05%  (786 of 4,898) of the cases but 51.56% (33 of 64) of the total deaths. Those in 50-59 years age group had 15.74% (771) cases while the deaths were 31.25% (20). Those below 50 years made the bulk of the cases -- 68.21% or 3,341 -- but when it comes to death, they had the least proportion (17.19% or 11). According to the medical bulletin 55 of the 64 people who died or 85.94% had comorbidity.  Delhi had crossed 1000-mark on April 11 when it registered 1,093 cases. It had taken eight days from April 19 (2,003 cases) to cross the 3,000 mark. It took just five days from April 27 (3,108 cases) to add another 1,000 cases to cross the 4,000 mark. Between April 19 and 25, an analysis of the figures provided in medical bulletins showed that there were 752 cases during the week. Between April 26 and May 2, there were 1,314 cases reported. On April 26, Delhi had reported 111 cases while it rose to 190 and 206 in the next two days. On April 29, the number of cases came down to 125 and the next day, it further decreased to 76, before recording a jump on May 1 and May 2. On May 3, Delhi had recorded 427 cases, the record for a single day in the capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sees-349-new-covid-19-cases-tally-inches-closer-to-5000-mark-833615.html
04-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt rushed into opening liquor shops despite city being in ‘red zone’: Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||Many government-run liquor shops opened after over 40 days in the national capital on Monday had to be shut as people who gathered outside the outlets did not follow social distancing norms, forcing the police to use mild force to disperse the unruly crowd. In most areas including Burari, Mayur Vihar, Gandhi Vihar, Rohini and Janakpuri, a large number of people had lined up outside outlets. "It would not be right and wise to continue with a decision, taken knowingly or unknowingly, as its adverse effects have already become apparent. The Delhi government should review its decision," Vardhan said. Expressing concern over the relaxation of lockdown norms in the national capital, the health minister said till the time Delhi is in the red zone, minimum relaxations should be allowed and more stringent action needs to be implemented to curb the transmission of COVID-19. He said the lockdown has helped in curbing the spread of novel coronavirus infection to a large extent and the doubling time of cases in the country now stands at over 12 days. "Our graph is steady and our doubling time of COVID-19 cases is over 12 per cent which before the lockdown was around 3 days. Also, India’s mortality rate compared to other nations is less. The recovery rate of patients in the country has also seen a progressive rise,” he said. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,389 and the number of cases climbed to 42,836 in the country on Monday, registering an increase of 83 deaths and a record jump of 2,573 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry. According to the health ministry data, the number of cases in Delhi rose to 4,549 on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-rushed-into-opening-liquor-shops-despite-city-being-in-red-zone-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-833616.html
04-05-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus: ‘Helping farmers directly market produce now a key area for Karnataka govt’||Government will GIS-map all farming activities, with forward and backward linkages, to monitor farming from input to harvesting and marketing status to help farmers overcome vulnerabilities exposed by the COVID-19 lockdown, Karnataka’s Agriculture and Horticulture Secretary Rajender Kataria tells DH’s Anita Pailoor. The COVID-19 crisis clearly indicated that the post-harvest infrastructure in the state doesn’t match its production. What is the way forward? Karnataka is a surplus state. The state has adequate post-harvest infrastructure, such as warehouses, cold storages and processing facilities. It requires more facilities as both area and crop production under horticulture is growing year on year. We need to promote the usage of warehouses and cold-storage facilities, including facilities in food parks. The available storage facilities are not utilised at the optimum level and we still have huge space available in godowns and cold storage.  In the past, the horticulture department played a limited role in post-harvest and marketing of produce, especially disposal of fruits and vegetables, as it had a definite market inside and outside the state. This crisis posed a big challenge. There was a big dip in demand, and the department came out with various ideas to ensure that excess fruits and vegetables are routed in the right direction for sale. In the lockdown period, over 1,500 tonnes of fruits and vegetables have been exported from Bengaluru to some 20 countries.      The government has provided support to processing units for grapes, cashew and gherkin. Processing units for tomato, mango and guava exist in Kolar and Bengaluru.  The state is promoting more such facilities through public-private partnership and in the private sector. The COVID-19 crisis has changed the roles and responsibilities of the horticulture and agriculture departments substantially and soon, marketing and post-harvesting activities will be among its major areas of operations.  Are there any plans to encourage direct marketing through policy guidelines? We never considered marketing as our domain. This situation posed a challenge as there was a glut in the market and all marketing channels were closed. This also gave us an opportunity to facilitate direct marketing which helps both growers and consumers.  Farmer producer organisations (FPO) and cooperative societies have been exempted from APMC regulations to promote direct marketing. Around 100 FPOs promoted by the Horticulture and Agriculture departments supported the farmers in output business marketing. The state government is further working on the formation of FPOs at the hobli level to do the same. The department also helped in direct marketing of farm produce to apartments in Bengaluru and other cities in the state through NGOs and residents’ welfare associations. Is the time ripe to expand the Hopcoms network across the state? Responding to the situation, Hopcoms is working at more than double its capacity. The transactions have increased to 120 tonnes per day from its normal 40-50 tonnes per day. The number of outlets and mobile vans have also increased during this period. While we have reached all district centres, we are planning to expand to taluka level places based on the demand. This time, we didn’t restrict the purchase from member farmers of Hopcoms and catered to all growers. This signals another area of expansion.  There has been criticism about the reach of government programmes such as the ‘Agri War Room’ and farmers’ helpline. The ‘Agri War Room’ and farmers’ helpline handled by the Agriculture and Horticulture departments attend to 500-700 calls every day. The various issues related to availability and distribution of seeds, fertilisers and machinery have been resolved. The marketing of farm produce (fruits and vegetables) was another major concern. The department tried to resolve such issues by providing marketing linkages. The district and taluk units of the departments have supported farming operations by issuing green passes to dealers and vendors of agri-inputs as well as for outputs.   Has there been any assessment of the loss to farmers due to the lockdown yet? Horticulture seasonal crops were grown over 106,000 hectares this time. We are in the process of making an assessment. The focus is now on the harvesting of Rabi crops, providing seeds and fertiliser for sowing of early kharif crops and marketing and linkages of farm produce. How prepared are we for the next cropping season? Kharif, which is the major crop, is crucial for the state’s food security. There is adequate availability of seeds, fertilisers as well as sowing machinery and equipment. All 742 Raitha Samparka Kendras and all offices of agriculture, horticulture and allied departments are functioning now. We have also taken steps to ensure that farmers don’t suffer due to scarce financial resources. The PM-KISAN benefits from the state government and the central government have been transferred. Under this scheme, an amount of more than Rs 1,050 crore have already been transferred and around Rs 600 crore more in transfers is under process.  COVID-19 lockdown showed how vulnerable the farming sector is to any form of disruption. What are the immediate steps required to strengthen agrarian communities? The farming sector is more vulnerable due to its perishable nature of its produce and the volumes involved. We are planning implementation of various steps to support farmers. One such measure is GIS mapping of all farming activities with forward and backward linkages so that real time monitoring of input stocks, sowing, harvesting and marketing status can help authorities take timely decisions and actions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-helping-farmers-directly-market-produce-now-a-key-area-for-karnataka-govt-833591.html
04-05-2020||Right in the Middle||Haven at home||One of the good things about spending more time at home is, you make some interesting discoveries within your own abode.  Not exactly ‘eureka’ moments but well, almost! On a recent sunny Sunday morning, with three newspapers to read, I was looking for a quiet corner. With music wafting from one room, loud laughter from another, the pressure cooker hissing from the kitchen, I eyed our balcony.  What better place than to comfortably ensconce yourself amidst some plants.  And so, I carried our old, leaning chair onto the balcony and a footstool to boot. With little to no traffic, thanks to the lockdown, there was silence. It was cool with a light breeze blowing, a cloudless, blue sky above.  In between reading, I feasted my eyes on over a dozen potted plants that, my significant other, with her green thumb had nurtured over the years-- cacti, cheese plant, lemongrass, curry leaves, tapioca, tomato, basil, gherkin,  spinach and some ornamental plants with impressive names that I fail to remember! Looking ahead from my vantage point, there was beauty all around.  Right in front of our apartment is a huge copper pod tree with its flamboyant yellow flowers in bloom, providing a beautiful vista. Often my attention is captured by bees, flying from flower to flower, collecting nectar. If I crane my neck a bit, I can see the massive rain tree with its pinkish feathery flowers creating an impressive, natural canopy. And so, I find myself spending a lot of time sitting and reading in our balcony in our own little oasis of green in an otherwise concrete jungle.  As a bonus, I colourful butterflies flutter around plants and pigeons suddenly land near my feet.  The only music I hear is the tittering of birds – koels, mynahs, kites, crows from some branch of the grand trees on the street. I’m chuffed that some birds still exist in our ‘garden city’ and continue to sing, although, sadly, I’ve yet to spot a sparrow. One evening, a rare feathered beauty landed on a plant, entertained me with some unusual music briefly and flew away before I could click a picture with my phone. The fresh air and the atmosphere are simply invigorating. Confined at home, we are all a bit angst-ridden, waiting for normalcy to return.  But then, when will we learn to appreciate the beauty of nature in our fast-paced lives? There’s a lot to discover within the confines of one’s home. Just as I found an atmospheric corner right under my nose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/haven-at-home-833592.html
04-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: Spirited booze lovers throng stores as liquor sales resume in Karnataka||Booze lovers ushered in the resumption of liquor sales in a spirited fashion in Karnataka on Monday thronging stores hours before shutters went up at several places and made no secret of their celebratory mood. At some places, they flocked liquor shops even before day-break and performed "special prayers" with flowers, coconuts, incense sticks, camphor and crackers in front of the stores. Liquor outlets had been shut in the State from March 25following the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Excise revenue loss during the period was about Rs 2,500crore, according to government sources. About 4,500 standalone liquor outlets (CL-2 and CL- 11licence holders), which comprise wine stores and those owned by state-run Mysore Sales International Limited, outside containment zones were allowed to be opened from Monday from 9 am to 7 pm with some restrictions. These include customers compulsorily wearing of facemasks and maintaining social distancing with not more than five people inside liquor shops. Many customers were indeed well-prepared. At many places, they came with umbrella, raincoat, newspapers and books and queued up as early as 3 am.     At a liquor shop in Salegame Road in Hassan, the tipplerslit the traditional lamp and incense sticks performed 'aarati'with camphor and decorated the store with the garland of flowers. With folded hands, they all performed 'special prayers'. In Mandya, the tipplers queued up before Martaanda liquor shop before dawn. An hour before the sales were to resume, a few people burst crackers in celebration. Some tipplers in Belagavi were more "enterprising." They went to a liquor store on Sunday night itself, performed special prayers and placed their "representatives" in the form of slippers, bags and stones in the "social distancing boxes" they themselves had drawn so that they don't have to stand in a queue in the morning. An elderly woman Dakamma was the centre of attraction in Shivamogga. The bent body did not bend the determination of this spirited lady, claimed to be 96-year-old, who was heard saying "liquor is good for health." At the taluk headquarters town of Brahmavara in the coastal Udupi district, the queue of the booze lovers was reported to be almost half-a-kilometre. Long queues were seen at liquor stores at Mariyappana Palyaand K R Puram, among others, in Bengaluru.  The store managers too were no less cautious while dealing with customers in the COVID era. They let the customers enter after spraying sanitisers in their hands, and allowed only those who had worn masks and maintained social distancing. To maintain law and order, authorities had deployed policemen in good numbers at these stores and they were seen on duty ensuring that customers maintained social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-spirited-booze-lovers-throng-stores-as-liquor-sales-resume-in-karnataka-833301.html
04-05-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Father-son duo prepare wine at home in Tamil Nadu, arrested||Three men including a father-son duo were arrested here when they were allegedly found preparing grape wine and another gruel-based intoxicant at their home here, police said on Monday. Following a tip-off and surveillance, when a team of police personnel checked a house at Kodungaiyur in north Chennai, it was found that wine was being prepared there by a 56-year old man, his 26-year old son and another youth. Following searches, about 30 litres of grape-based wine and five litres of another intoxicant -popularly known as 'sunda kanji' in Chennai, which is a gruel made from ingredients like rice and left to naturally ferment were seized from the premises. After an enquiry, all the three men were arrested, police said. Since March 24 evening, state-run TASMAC liquor outlets are shut in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-father-son-duo-prepare-wine-at-home-in-tamil-nadu-arrested-833308.html
04-05-2020||South||67 new coronavirus cases reported in Andhra Pradesh; number rises to 1,650 in state||The Collector, however, tested negative for the virus, the sources said. Kurnool is the hotbed of coronavirus in AP with the highest number of 491 cases and 10 deaths so far. Also, 86 patients had recovered. The Andhra Pradesh government set yet another record by conducting as many as 10,292 coronavirus tests in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m on Monday even as the COVID-19 cases reached 1,650. For the third consecutive day, no coronavirus deaths were reported in the state while 36 patients were discharged from hospitals, according to the latest bulletin.  The toll in the state stood at 33 and the number of discharged at 524, leaving 1,093 active coronavirus cases. The other hotspots, Guntur and Krishna districts, also reported 19 and 12 fresh cases, taking their aggregate to 338 and 278 respectively. Visakhapatnam reported six fresh cases and Kadapa four while Chittoor added one to its count. In all, 1,25,229 tests were conducted in the state till date of which 1,23,579 turned negative for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/67-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-number-rises-to-1650-in-state-833350.html
04-05-2020||South||Kerala opens border at six places to enable Keralites return from other states||The government through an order issued earlier had designated six entry points for receiving the stranded persons from other States to enter Kerala. The stranded Keralites can enter the state through border check-posts at Inchivila in Thiruvananthapuram, Aryankavu in Kollam, Kumily in Idukki, Walayar in Palakkad, Muthanga in Wayanad and Manjeshwaram in Kasaragod.  NORKA (Non Resident Keralites Affairs) department had on Sunday said that at least 1.5 lakh Keralites from other states had registered to return after the Centre opens inter- state borders. As per the state government order, it has directed the district administration to ensure a facility at each designated entry points to accommodate at least 500 persons at a time and enough parking space for the vehicles near the borders. "We have already set up 60 counters to receive the Keralites coming from the other side of the border. We will set up more if required. As of now, school teachers are helping at us the help-desks and police, health and revenue officials are also here," Kasaragod district collector D Sajith Babu told mediapersons. He said the district administration would ensure that everyone maintains social distancing and discouraged those who reach the border without registering with Norka.  He said those who have registered with the Norka will have a vehicle pass and the persons will be medically examined at the border. "There is a team of doctors here. If a group of people are coming to the state, one persons need to approach the counter to give details of the persons in the vehicle while the rest of them remain in the vehicle. The doctors will examine everyone for any symptoms. If anyone has any symptoms, they will be isolated and the district administration will take necessary steps," Babu said. The district administration has also readied enough number of ambulances to take any symptomatic persons to hospitals. The government order, undersigned by state Principal Secretary Bishwanath Sinha, the state co-ordinator for inter- state transit, has also mentioned those who will get priority to cross the border. Those from neighbouring states seeking medical aid in Kerala, pregnant women with family, family members including children separated due to lockdown, students, senior citizens with family members and persons who lost job are given priority over others to enter Kerala, the order read. NORKA had said yesterday that at least 1.5 lakh Keralites from other states have registered in its website to return to the state once the centre opens the inter-state borders. Out of the 1.5 lakh Keralites from other states, over 50,000 are from Karnataka and 45,491 from Tamil Nadu. At least 20,869 from Maharashtra have registered with Norka to return to the state. The state government had earlier said that those who returned from other states will be medically examined at the borders and those who are symptomatic will be isolated and quarantined. The government has also said that those who don't have any symptoms will also have to undergo the mandatory quarantine period of 28 days once they enter the border. In a relief to Kerala, no new cases were reported from the state on Sunday while one person was cured. Till now 499 persons were affected in the state while three deaths were also reported. Kerala has currently 95 people s under treatment for the deadly coronavirus and cured 401 people of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-opens-border-at-six-places-to-enable-keralites-return-from-other-states-833361.html
04-05-2020||South||'Mild’ coronavirus patients to move to treatment centers as Chennai hospitals run short of beds||With all four designated COVID-19 government hospitals in Chennai filling up fast due to increasing number of positive cases, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) will shift mild and asymptomatic patients sans co-morbid conditions to “treatment centres” that are being set up by converting convention halls and college hostels. This is to ensure COVID-19 patients, who are symptomatic, critical and possess other health complications, have enough beds to get treated at these hospitals that are equipped to deal with any kind of exigencies. Also, the move would help ease crowding at government hospitals. More than 70 per cent of beds in four COVID-19 hospitals – Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), Kilpauk Medical College Hospital (KMCH), Stanley Medical College Hospital (SMCH) and Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital (GOMCH) – are already full and the remaining are also filing fast.   While the GOMCH has 500 beds, the remaining three medical college hospitals have 400 beds each, making it a total of 1,700. The city has been witnessing a massive spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases in the past one week – as of Monday morning, the city had a total of 1,458 patients of whom 1,210 are active coronavirus cases. “These are not just quarantine or isolation centres. These are treatment centres. Patients who are asymptomatic and less prone to complications will be moved to the treatment centres that will have all basic facilities required for them. Besides doctors, paramedics will also be available at these centres,” Dr M Jagadeesan, Chennai City Health Officer, told DH. While a 600-bedded treatment facility at the Chennai Trade Centre and two other centres at educational institutions are ready to receive patients, Jagadeesan said more such centres are being set up across the city. P Kumaravel Pandian, Deputy Commissioner (Works), GCC, told DH that 3,000 beds are ready at present and the civic body was “working silently” in converting more buildings into “treatment centres.” All the four government hospitals in the city have been asked to prepare a list of patients who can be moved to “treatment and quarantine” centres that have been set up by converting hostels and convention halls. Dr R Jayanti, Dean of RGGGH said patients who are asymptomatic and whose X-ray is “normal” will be shifted from hospitals to such centres. “We have already identified asymptomatic patients who are under the age of 50 without any co-morbid conditions and who can be shifted to these treatment centres. This is being done to ensure symptomatic patients who need more medical care can be admitted to the hospital,” she told DH. She expressed the hope that such patients will be moved to “treatment centres” in the next few days. KMCH dean Dr P Vasanthamani also spoke on similar lines, saying the hospital will move young asymptomatic patients at separate facilities earmarked by the GCC. “There will be a shortage of beds if the situation continues to be like this. The GCC has identified 3 institutions where we can shift asymptomatic and stable patients. We will shift them to these centres where they will be taken care by doctors, paramedics and will be given the same treatment like in hospitals,” Dr Vasanthamani told DH. Kumaravel Pandian said the GCC was in the process of converting hostels in institutions and convention halls into treatment and quarantine centres. “We are well prepared to handle any kind of situation. We have 3,000 beds ready for now and more are being readied. There is no need to panic,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mild-coronavirus-patients-to-move-to-treatment-centers-as-chennai-hospitals-run-short-of-beds-833402.html
04-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu hits highest single-day rise with 527 COVID-19 cases||In the biggest single-day surge in the state so far, Tamil Nadu on Monday reported 527 new COVID-19 cases, a large number of them linked to Koyambedu market here, taking the tally to 3,550 while the toll rose to 31 with the death of one person, the government said. Thirty people were discharged from various hospitals, as the number of those recovered and sent home mounted to 1,409, a bulletin on COVID-19 said. In continuing trend of heavy numbers in the past few days amid stepped up testing, the state reported 527 new cases.  "A large number of today's cases are linked to the Koyambedu market," the bulletin said. Authorities in Cuddalore, over 200 km from here, told PTI that 100 plus samples -taken from those associated with the market - tested positive in their district. The state's largest vegetable market has emerged as a hotspot for the virus in recent days, prompting authorities to scaledown its operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-hits-highest-single-day-rise-with-527-covid-19-cases-833448.html
04-05-2020||South||Kerala to woo investors highlighting state as safe destination||Having gained international attention for containing COVID-19, Kerala is trying to reap the benefit by highlighting the state as a safe destination for investors and announcing schemes to woo investments. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday announced a slew of attractions like granting all mandatory permissions to investors in a week's time, ranking based on quantum of investments and job potential and setting up of infrastructure like multi-modal logistic hubs.   Vijayan said that Kerala has emerged as a safe place in the world in view of the COVID-19 scenario and a safe destination for investments also. The state already started receiving enquiries in this regard. Availability of human resources has been a major strength of Kerala. The return of many from Gulf countries owing to job loss due to COVID-19 would further enhance the human resources availability of Kerala. All these were favourable factors for state's development as the state was coming out of COVID-19, he said. The Chief Minister said that mandatory permissions and licences to investors coming up now would be given in a week's time, on the condition that all formalities should be completed in one year time. Multi-modal logistic hubs would be set up connecting road, rail, air and water transportation in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Kozhikode and Kannur for promoting international trade. Gold, silver and bronze ranking would be given to investments based on quantum of investments and employment generation and based on that sops would be given. A mega food park in Palakkad and coconut park in North Kerala were among the infrastructure to be developed. An advisory board of exports would be set up for these purpose, said Vijayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-woo-investors-highlighting-state-as-safe-destination-833457.html
04-05-2020||South||Liquor shops to open in Tamil Nadu from May 7||TASMAC shops that sell liquor in Tamil Nadu located outside the “containment zone” will start functioning from Thursday with reduced working hours. The state gave an interesting explanation for its decision to reopen liquor shops – it almost laid the blame on neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka that made these shops functional from Monday.  “States like Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh have opened liquor shops which are making people from here cross the border and go to these states to buy liquor. Restricting the movement of people across the border is becoming difficult and hence, the government has decided to open liquor shops from May 7,” a statement from the state government said. The statement said shops outside the containment zone will be open between 10 am and 5 pm, while people should avoid crowding outside these shops. It also asked the TASMAC shops to deploy people to regulate the crowd and ensure that not more than five people are outside the shop at any given time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/liquor-shops-to-open-in-tamil-nadu-from-may-7-833533.html
04-05-2020||South||Kerala seeks special trains as Malayalis start coming in||Kerala has urged centre to operate special trains to facilitate return of Malayalis stranded in various parts of the country, the maximum being in Karnataka. With the allowing of entry of Keralites from other states, 515 entered so far while 1.66 lakh already registered from various states. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that only one-fifth of those registered to return to Kerala have own means of transportation and hence the state urged the centre to operate special trains from various places. The trains that carry migrant workers from Kerala to other states were returning empty. Hence those trains could be also utilised for return of Malayalis from different states to Kerala.  The entry points at the border, including Talapady between Kasargod and Mangaluru, was witnessing a heavy flow of Keralites right from morning. All entering Kerala would have to remain in quarantine for 14 days, while those with symptoms would be shifted to COVID care facilities on government. Meanwhile, 13,818 migrant workers from Kerala already returned from Kerala. Though five trains were scheduled to leave for Bihar, the trains were cancelled as NOC from Bihar was pending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-seeks-special-trains-as-malayalis-start-coming-in-833573.html
04-05-2020||South||As Koyambedu becomes new coronavirus hotspot, Chennai closes the wholesale market||Tamil Nadu on Monday reported a massive spike in COVID-19 numbers with 527 people testing positive in a single day, courtesy the Koyambedu market cluster that has emerged as the newest hotspot for coronavirus infections. As the cluster grew affecting people across the state, the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) announced closure of the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC), which spread across 295 acres, from Tuesday and shifted it to the suburbs as a temporary measure. Over 350 people, including workers and vendors of the wholesale vegetable and fruit market, have tested positive so far with Cuddalore and Villupuram, two backward districts in north Tamil Nadu that send thousands of workers to Chennai, contributing 129 and 76 patients to the cluster, respectively. This includes an IPS officer - a Deputy Commissioner in Chennai -- who had been visiting the market complex for official purposes.    People from across the state work at the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) which is spread across 295 acres in Chennai. Most of these people had reached their home districts, after the Koyambedu cluster emerged, by hopping on to trucks and vans that carry vegetables. Monday’s figure of 527 came from across the state with Chennai at the top with 266 cases, Cuddalore (122), Villupuram (49), Perambalur (25), and Tiruvannamalai (11) among others. The Health Department said, “a large number of Monday’s cases are linked to Koyambedu Market”, without revealing further details. Chennai stood at the top with a total of 1,724 cases even as the state tested 12,863 samples on Monday alone, one of the highest in the country, with the total number of samples tested so far standing at 1,62,970. The active cases stood at 2,107 with one death – a 65-year-old man -- taking the death toll to 31. With the Koyambedu market cluster growing every passing day, district administrations in Tamil Nadu were on Monday asked to trace more than 7,500 people, including workers and vendors of the wholesale vegetable and fruit market.   Separately, the district administrations are also trying to contact vegetable and fruit dealers who had visited the wholesale market in the past few days to buy supplies. “This (Koyambedu cluster) is definitely a cause of concern for us. We have successfully traced all contacts of one cluster (Tablighi Jamaat) last month. We are doing the same on a larger scale this time. District administrations have a list and they are also taking the help of locals in tracing these people,” Health Secretary Dr. Beela Rajesh told DH. Besides roping in locals, vendors, and also leaders of traders’ associations in the area, the district administrations have made public appeals to the people who either worked or visited the market complex to report themselves and get tested. Some district Collectors said they will quarantine these people at institutions to ensure they do not spread the virus in case they are carrying it. Kanchipuram collector P Ponniah said 647 people related to the Koyambedu cluster have so far been identified from his district bordering Chennai out of which 29 have tested positive for COVID-19. “Swab samples from 520 people have so far been collected and the remaining will also be tested. They will be shifted to hospitals immediately if they test positive. These people are under strict home quarantine,” he told DH. Ponniah said the areas close to Chennai Kundrathur and Mangadu are worst-affected and massive containment plans are being implemented to prevent further spread of the disease. Cuddalore, which has maximum numbers in the cluster, has identified 699 people and quarantined them at various institutions in the district. “Since these people belong to low-income groups, we did not send them home. They are being quarantined at various facilities and are undergoing the test. We do not allow them to go home even if they test negative. They will be under quarantine for 14 days,” district collector V Anbuselvan told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-koyambedu-becomes-new-coronavirus-hotspot-chennai-closes-the-wholesale-market-833582.html
04-05-2020||State||Nissar Ahmed: The poet who catalysed a genre of music||K S Nissar Ahmed, who died on Sunday at 84, is recognised as the ‘Nityotsava’ poet, and for good reason. Although he wrote modernist poetry and literary criticism and translated Shakespeare, he is popular for the song ‘Nityotsava’, which perhaps is to Karnataka what Vande mataram is to India. Neither song became an official anthem, but they are anthems in their own right, sung widely and with much fervour. ‘Nityotsava’ is a tribute to Karnataka, and opens with an image of the splendour of Jog falls. It goes on to celebrate the evergreen forests of the Western Ghats, the history of the Kannada land, and ‘manadudaara mahime,’ the ‘glory of a generous spirit.’ Nissar Ahmed was born in Devanahalli, and grew up in Dodda Mavalli in Bengaluru. The colony had about 500 Muslim families. His father, a government employee, admitted him to a Kannada school, thinking it might help him secure a government job. Other children in the neighbourhood went to Urdu schools. Poetry became a favourite subject. Nissar Ahmed was moved to tears when he heard his teacher Kamalamma sing ‘Dharani mandala,’ the folk ballad about Punyakoti, the honest cow. He was later inspired by writers G P Rajaratnam and M V Seetharamaiah who taught him in high school. In an interview with Basu Megalakeri, Nissar Ahmed had said he wrote poetry in diverse styles because ‘some like romance, some like reason’. He credited All India Radio with making him popular. The radio station used to commission him to write poems in the 1960s. Around the time the hostilities with China broke out, he was writing war poems for the radio station. P Lankesh and Sumatheendra Nadig, two poet-friends, used to ridicule him as a ‘mass poet,’ but Nissar Ahmed attributed that to ‘jealousy’. Drinking tea and lighting up cigarettes was his style as he locked himself up to write poetry. His exasperated mother would come by and say, ‘Bomman ka bachcha, kya likha re?’ Nissar Ahmed studied geology, and was a government geologist for a time. He then taught the subject at Sahyadri College in Shivamogga. In Bengaluru, he lived in Jayanagar, and then in Padmanabhanagar. He remained largely apolitical, but wasn’t averse to writing political satire. His poem ‘Kurigalu saar kurigalu’ describes people as sheep and politicians as those ‘who push us into the sun and stand in the shade’ before they butcher us for biryani. That poem, set to tune brilliantly and turned into a song by Mysore Ananthaswamy, is among half a dozen others featured in the cassette ‘Nityotsava’. Each one became a concert standard in sugama sangeeta, a genre that began to thrive in the 1980s with the runaway success of his album. If people still sing his Haridasa-style ‘Benne kadda namma Krishna’ and his ghazal-style ‘Mattade besara,’ they are harking back to his ‘Nityotsava’ days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nissar-ahmed-the-poet-who-catalysed-a-genre-of-music-833217.html
04-05-2020||State||Karnataka’s COVID-19 colours raise questions on classification||Karnataka has just three red zones in Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural and Mysuru even though there are districts in the state with a high number of cases and doubling rates higher than all the three. On Sunday, the government notified the new red zones following central guidelines besides downgrading many to “orange” and “green”, even though several of these districts have more than 10-15 active COVID cases. On May 1, when the Ministry of Home Affairs issued an order regarding the extension of lockdown and classifying the districts into three zones (red, green and orange), the state had 14 “red zone” districts.   Speaking to DH, Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar said that the decision was made following new guidelines by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.  “The Government of India has issued these. We have taken all factors into consideration. The number of actual cases, the rate of doubling, extent of testing, preparedness. It was not done on someone’s likes or dislikes. It is based on indicators,” the chief secretary said. However, according to data from the state’s Department of Health and Family Welfare, the number of cases and doubling rate for many of the districts are higher than Bengaluru Urban, which has been classified as a “red zone”, as is Bengaluru Rural, even though this district has only one active case.  Health Commissioner Pankaj Pandey said the classification of zones is made by the Centre. “Once a week, there is a list which changes the classification of the zonal list. It is based on data which is not really dynamic,” the Commissioner said. When asked if the changing of the classification for several hotspot districts would imperil lives, considering that the statewide lockdown will alter somewhat on Monday, the Commissioner said that his department is focused on the containment areas within the districts, no matter what zone it may belong to.  “We have taken all the stringent precautions. If there needs to be more stringent regulation, it is within our authority to introduce them. Right now, we are waiting and monitoring the situation,” he said.  According to the new zonal list, even Davangere which has had a spate of new cases, has been classified as a green zone. Munish Moudgil, Director of the State COVID War Room, said these points had been reported to the Centre. War Room data contradicts War Room map According to the May 3 COVID War Room daily report, the doubling rate of COVID cases in several orange districts was faster than Bengaluru Urban. Davangere’s doubling rate is the fastest in the state, at just two days. Tumakuru follows next with four days while Mandya’s doubling rate is 10 days. In contrast, Bengaluru Urban’s doubling rate is 16 days, while Bengaluru Rural’s is 23 days. The doubling rate of Mysuru, another red zone district, is 22 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-s-covid-19-colours-raise-questions-on-classification-833219.html
04-05-2020||State||Davangere reports 21 COVID-19 cases in a day||Davangere district registered 21 COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, with the huge surge in cases opening a new virus front for the state which is set to enter Lockdown 3.0 today. Deputy Commissioner Mahanthesh Bilagi told reporters that two COVID-19 positive individuals, a staff nurse of a health centre at Basha Nagar and an aged man at Jalinagar, were the source of the new infections. A total of 330 throat swab samples of their primary and secondary contacts had been sent for testing from Friday to Sunday, of which 37 sample reports were available. Among them, infection was confirmed in 21 people, Bilagi added.  He said the list of 21 infected persons was yet to be prepared. “We have just received the primary information and are yet to assign the patient numbers to them,” he said. The district, said the DC, was a green zone. “Later, infection was found in the staff nurse and an aged man. Further, the infection was confirmed among seven people who were in contact with them,” Bilagi said, adding the aged man later died. “Hence, the number of virus-infected people has increased to 28 in the district,” he said. With the new cases, severe curbs are likely to be implemented in Davangere on the lines of a containment zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere-reports-21-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-833222.html
04-05-2020||State||Liquor lovers flock to outlets leading to chaos in Tumakuru||With the opening of liquor shops and easing of lockdown norms, chaos reigned in the district on Monday. Thousands of people thronged shops all over the district to buy liquor which had been banned for over 40 days. They waited in long queues resulting in commotion at many places and mild lathi charges by the police.  Because Excise officials checked the stocks available against the backdrop of complaints that alcohol had been illegally sold during the lockdown, buyers had to wait in queues for long till the inspections were completed. This irked them no end. As many as 34 shops were checked in Kunigal. As all the shops could not be checked, only the MSIL and few other outlets were allowed to open and sell liquor. This irritated the urban customers even more. The shops in the hoblis did better business than the ones in the town.  Inspections Against the backdrop of complaints of illegal selling of liquor during the lockdown, Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar ordered the checking of stocks in shops before they open for sales on Monday. Joint inspections by tahsildars, police and Excise officials were carried out in many towns. Liquor outlets with CL-2 and CL-11C were permitted to open for business on Monday.  Gubbi People queued up in front of liquor outlets in Gubbi from early in the morning. But as the taluk administration did not allow sales to happen, they went back disappointed. Many called up their relatives and friends in towns and asked them to buy liquor for them. People left their footwear in queues and took shelter under trees to wait for their turn. Police had to use their lathis a couple of times to control the crowd. Pavagada Meanwhile, certain leaders have urged the administration to ban liquor sales till the end of the lockdown in Pavagada. Citing that Covid-19 cases being reported in neighbouring Hindupur, Rolla, Kalyanadurga and Penagonda in Andhra Pradesh, they have stated that people from there are coming to Husainpura, Lingadahalli, Tirumani, YN Hoskote and Doddatamari in Pavagada to buy liquor and this may result in the spread of Coronavirus. When alcohol shops opened in Pavagada, people from AP did arrive early in the morning to the above-mentioned places to buy liquor. They even waited until the stocks were being inspected and bought alcohol for Rs 20 to Rs 30 higher than the usual rate.   Opening of liquor shops in Pavagada has made people anxious because 78 people in neighbouring Ananthpur district in AP have tested positive for Covid-19 and the area has been declared a red zone. Madhugiri  In Madhugiri too, people have vociferously voiced opposition to the opening of liquor shops. People flocked to alcohol outlets to buy booze and stood in long queues till the stocks were checked and shops opened at 12 noon. They reserved their place in the queue with clothes, footwear, and cardboard boxes and took shelter under trees waiting for their turn. Police had to chase away many who came without masks with lathis.  In Kodigenahalli too, people voiced concern when liquor shops opened because Hindupur (AP) which is just 2-3 km away, has reported over 50 people Covid-19 positive. However, hundreds of liquor lovers queue up in front of the MSIL outlet on Monday morning to buy stocks.     Other taluks In Tiptur, liquor sales began as late as 4 pm because Excise officials and police were checking stocks. In Chikkanayakanahalli a couple of bars were not allowed to sell liquor because their stocks were seized by the Excise officials for irregularities in stock-keeping during the lockdown. Customers went home empty-handed. In Turuvekere, customers barged into liquor outlets bang in front of the police, throwing all caution to the winds and breaking social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/liquor-lovers-flock-to-outlets-leading-to-chaos-in-tumakuru-833478.html
04-05-2020||State||Lockdown norms relaxed; but not in Sira||Though the lockdown norms in the orange and green zones in the state have been relaxed to some extent, they continue to in force in Sira. Two Coronavirus positive cases were reported in Sira and one person has died of the pandemic. Though the other (his son) has recovered fully, Begum Mohalla, the locality where they lived has been sealed down up to a 100-metre radius. It has been declared a quarantine zone. This is the reason for continuing the lockdown with all its trappings.  Tumakuru district has been declared an orange zone whereas there is a seal down in Sira. There is some confusion among shop keepers whether they can open shops because there is no clear directive from Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar to that effect. They are wondering if shops outside of the quarantined zone can open. However, some shops did open on Monday though the lockdown was in force. Officials who came to the spot made these shop keepers to close down their businesses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lockdown-norms-relaxed-but-not-in-sira-833525.html
04-05-2020||State||More localities to be sealed down in Tumakuru city?||After the sealing down of Poorhouse Colony and KHB Colony in Tumakuru, there is a possibility of more localities being sealed down. It is conjectured that Maralur Dinne, GCR Colony, Chikkapete and Santepete, where police have taken strict measures to contain the spread of Covid-19, may also be sealed down as a precaution. These areas are currently in the buffer zone.  Police have already prevented entry and exit into Maralur Dinne by erecting barricades though no Coronavirus positive cases have been reported in that area. Of the seven Covid-19 positive cases in the district, five are from Tumakuru city. According to the daily bulletin being published by the Health Department, the number of symptomatic cases being tested is increasing every day. As many as 455 test reports are awaited and a total of 2,806 throat swab and sputum samples have been tested so far. Of these, 2,320 samples have tested negative for the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/more-localities-to-be-sealed-down-in-tumakuru-city-833527.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Karnataka extends free bus service for migrant workers till May 7||While the government on Sunday had announced free bus service till May 5, Tuesday, it is now extended till May 7, Thursday. The chief minister, in a release, also noted that train services for migrant labourers from other states were also operational.  In a release, Yediyurappa said that the services were extended for the convenience of migrant workers and others. "Today (Monday), already around 1,500 passengers have started. As many as 550 buses from Bengaluru and 400 buses in other cities of the state have been provided for this purpose," he said. On Sunday, around 30,000 people have travelled on 951 KSRTC buses as part of the free bus service for labourers. It can be recalled that the opposition had raised a hue and cry over exorbitant fares when the service was launched on Saturday. Owing to widespread criticism over ticket prices, the government reduced it by half before announcing free bus service on Sunday. The opposition had also targeted the government over lack of adequate facilities for travellers at the bus stand. Train services Dismissing allegations of lack of train arrangements, Yediyurappa noted that four trains - two to Patna in Bihar, one each to Ranchi in Jharkhand and Bhubaneshwar in Odisha - had departed from the state ferrying 4,800 passengers.  Two trains are scheduled to set off to Jaipur in Rajasthan and Patna in Bihar on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-30-karnataka-extends-free-bus-service-for-migrant-workers-till-may-7-833313.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka puts inter-state migrant labour movement on hold||The movement of migrant labourers from Karnataka to other states has stopped temporarily, as few North Indian states are yet to give consent. Revenue Minister R Ashok said that the state government will convince labourers to stay back and ensure free food supply at their camps. "Even if we allow them to travel, they will be quarantined for 14 days as soon as they reach their native states. The labourers don't know about this and some states have not yet given permission for their return," Revenue Minister R Ashok said.  According to sources in CMO, the decision to convince the workers to stay back came after several major projects - both government and private - were affected by the mass migration of labourers to their native districts and states. Ashok, along with S Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education minister and head of the group of ministers focusing on migrant workers, also visited labourers who had gathered demanding that they be allowed to return.  Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa will chair a meeting tomorrow and instruct builders under CREDAI to pay pending wages of labourers, provide food supply and ensure their safety, Ashok said, adding that all construction work by BBMP will also be taken up to help the labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-puts-inter-state-migrant-labour-movement-on-hold-833544.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||JD(S), BJP MLAs engage in war of words over Hema water||The politics surrounding Hemavathi river water sharing has come to the fore again with BJP and JD(S) legislators engaging in a war of words over it. Hemavathi water from the Gorur Dam had to be released to Tumakuru district from May 1. But that move has been stonewalled by the JD(S) MLA.   This fight has now found itself in Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's backyard. He is expected to call a meeting with officials and people's representatives next week. Hemavathi Dam achcut covers Hassan, Mandya, Tumakuru, and Mysuru districts. JD(S) has demanded that water should be released to all these districts. Law, Hassan and Tumakuru districts-in-charge Minister J C Madhuswamy had orally instructed officials to release 1.8 tmcft of water to Tumakuru's lakes. This was opposed by Karle villagers who staged a protest. The release of water was then halted. JD(S) State President and Sakleshpur MLA H K Kumaraswamy has also threatened to intensify protests if the water is released to Tumakuru. As always, Hemavathi water has become an excuse for politicians to engage in mutual mud-slinging. All parties are waiting with bated breath for the meeting with the CM. Against the backdrop of JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda's defeat in the Parliamentary elections in Tumakuru, JD(S) now has very little political muscle and leverage to bargain.  The principal complaint is that Minister Madhuswamy has issued oral instructions to release water to Tumakuru without convening a meeting of the Consultative Committee on Irrigation (ICC).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jds-bjp-mlas-engage-in-war-of-words-over-hema-water-833551.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Three child marriages prevented in Ballari district||Three child marriages were prevented by the department of women and child development at Hulikunte and Suravvanahalli villages in the taluk on Monday. The weddings were scheduled at 5 am. On a tip-off, the department officials, Kudligi police and local gram panchayat development officer rushed to the villages and obtained birth certificates of the three girls. Verification of the certificates indicates that all the three were minors. The officials explained about the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and punishment under it. They obtained affidavits from the parents that they would not conduct marriages of their daughters till they attained the age of 18 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/three-child-marriages-prevented-in-ballari-district-833555.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||With migration on, govt gives fillip to rural jobs scheme||Anticipating a surge in the demand for rural jobs with migrants returning to the state, the government has fixed a target of generating 13 crore persondays of job under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) this financial year.  In order to help the scheme find more takers during the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has come out with a mobile app called "Kayaka Mitra" with which those seeking NREGS jobs can apply. The Android app, which hit the Google Play store on April 30, has seen over 5,000 downloads so far.  The MGNREGS is considered a key intervention to prevent migration. So, the government is looking to provide employment under this to all those who return to their native villages.  "In 2019-20, our target was to generate 12 crore persondays of work. We managed to achieve 11.25 crore. The shortfall of 75 lakh was due to the flooding during September-October 2019 and the Covid-19 pandemic during the last two weeks of March," Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Principal Secretary L K Atheeq said.  While the government expected the demand for rural jobs under the MGNREGS to surge, given the Covid-19 pandemic, the 13-crore target can be revised later, if need be. "We can always go back to the Centre asking for more," Atheeq said. Owing to the Covid-19 crisis, the wages under the MNREGA per worker have been increased to Rs 275 per day. According to data, the pandemic had an adverse impact on MGNREGS in April. Only 32% of the targetted 75.40 lakh persondays of work was generated, with coronavirus-hit Kalaburagi last on the table - 22,000 persondays against the desired 3.77 lakh.  Authorities hope the Kayaka Mitra app will boost rural job applications. "It’s a simple app that allows workers to submit applications remotely. The applications get pushed to the gram panchayat concerned. The panchayat development officers will download the applications and take up works to give the applicants employment," Atheeq explained. He clarified that the app was not a replacement of the paper-based application process. "Labour organisations, wherever they are active, will hopefully help labourers file them,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-migration-on-govt-gives-fillip-to-rural-jobs-scheme-833556.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka mulls 'Health Register' for every citizen||Picking up lessons from the Covid-19 crisis, the Karnataka government has decided to maintain the 'Health Register' of every citizen in the state. According to Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar, the project will help the government keep track of health issues of every citizen of the state. A pilot project will soon be launched in Chikkaballapur according to the minister who is currently under home quarantine. Interacting with the Chikkaballapur district officials through a video conference, Dr Sudhakar said, “The Covid-19 has taught us enough lessons and all of us have experienced them. Aimed at providing proper health care to all we have decided to collect details about the health of the family members in every house of the state. A team will be formed at every Primary Health Centre (PHC) limits comprising Health, Revenue, Education, local bodies and Asha workers that will visit every house to collect details.” The minister revealed that already directions have been given to prepare a draft of what data needs to be collected from every household. “Once the draft is ready, we will consult with experts and give it a final touch. Many of the advanced countries have adopted this strategy to provide best of the health care to the people. Besides, it will also help implement various projects of our department,” the minister elaborated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mulls-health-register-for-every-citizen-833557.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Free bus service for stranded labourers till May 7||Buckling under pressure from the Opposition over transport arrangements for migrant labourers returning to their native districts, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa extended free bus service for stranded labourers by two more days. While the government on Sunday had announced free bus service till May 5 (Tuesday), it is now extended till May 7 (Thursday). The CM, in a release, also noted that train services for migrant labourers from other states were also operational. In a release, Yediyurappa said that the services were extended for the convenience of migrant workers and others. "Today (Monday), already around 1,500 passengers have started. As many as 550 buses from Bengaluru and 400 buses in other cities of the state have been provided for this purpose," he said.  On Sunday, around 30,000 people have travelled by 951 KSRTC buses as part of the free bus service for labourers. The Opposition had raised a hue and cry over exorbitant fares when the service was launched on Saturday. Owing to widespread criticism over ticket prices, the government reduced it by half before announcing free bus service on Sunday. The opposition had also targeted the government over lack of adequate facilities for travellers at the bus stand. Train services Dismissing allegations of lack of train arrangements, Yediyurappa noted that four trains - two to Patna in Bihar, one each to Ranchi in Jharkhand and Bhubaneshwar in Odisha - had departed from the state ferrying 4,800 passengers. Two trains are scheduled to leave for Jaipur in Rajasthan and Patna in Bihar on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/free-bus-service-for-stranded-labourers-till-may-7-833559.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSTDC storeroom in-charge admits to liquor theft, suspended||The storehouse in-charge of Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation’s (KSTDC) Mayura Pine Top (MPT) at Nandi Hills has been suspended in connection with the theft of 21 tins (each 300 ML) of liquor during the lockdown period. The action has been initiated after Jayabheema, the official, confessed to the theft.  “Jayabheema admitted that he had stolen the tins and had sold them illegally. He has paid for the liquor stolen,” KSTDC Managing Director   Kumar Pushkar told DH. A case had been registered against him with Nandi Giridhama police station. CCTV footage had been obtained and a departmental enquiry was on, he said. Liquor and cold beverage bottles in the storehouse were intact when the stocks were verified on March 21 in the presence of Manjegowda, the manager and the auditor. The theft came to light when he verified the stocks in presence of staff members on April 24. Manjegowda, in the letter to the MD on April 28, had stated that the monkeys destroyed the tins. He had also stated that Jayabheema was in possession of keys of the storeroom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kstdc-storeroom-in-charge-admits-to-liquor-theft-suspended-833560.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rs 10K incentive for performing last rites of Covid-19 victims||With not many coming forward to bury or cremate the patients, who have died of Covid-19, fearing the infection, the Bagalkot district hospital has come up with a plan to address the problem. The hospital administration has announced Rs 10,000 incentive for those who come forward to perform the last rites of the Covid-19 victims. This apart, they will get Rs 5,000 towards funeral expenses. The district hospital, the designated Covid-19 hospital, had tough time in performing the funeral rites of a 75-year-old man who died of Covid-19 on March 31. After the family members of the deceased man refused to claim body, the district hospital staff, joined by the reluctant CMC staff, managed to perform the last rites of the elderly man past midnight at a burial ground in the town. The district hospital endured a similar problem when a 66-year-old man from Ilkal with Covid-19 symptoms died, last week. Though the throat swab sample of the man returned negative, days later. These two incidents have prompted the management of the district hospital to announce incentives plus funeral expenses to perform the last rites of the Covid-19 victims. "After enduring difficulties in performing the last rites of two victims, we announced incentives to address the problem. Incentives will be released from the Arogya Raksha Samiti grants of the hospital," District Surgeon Dr Prakash Biradar told DH. Burial or cremation of the Covid-19 victims should be performed as per the guidelines laid down by competent authority. Those who come forward to perform the last rites of the victims should bring their own hearse van to transport the body. The district hospital will provide them with PPE kits, gloves, masks and other safety gear for free, the district surgeon said. A private ambulance owner from the town has enrolled his name for performing last rites of the Covid-19 victims, after the district hospital announced incentive for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rs-10k-incentive-for-performing-last-rites-of-covid-19-victims-833561.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Top court dismisses judge's plea against junior's elevation to HC||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea, filed by a principal district and sessions judge, for quashing the presidential order of April 30, appointing a "junior" as an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court. Just minutes before swearing-in of five judges at the high court in Bengaluru, a bench of Justices Deepak Gupta and Aniruddha Bose took up the matter through the virtual court system. The court, however, declined to consider the petition, filed by Master RKGMM Mahaswamiji, saying it can't entertain a plea filed at the last moment. The bench also told his counsel Sanjay M Nuli that the court normally would not interfere with the presidential orders on judges' appointment. On April 30, the Law Ministry issued the notification, appointing judicial officers Shivashankar Amarannavar, Smt M Ganeshaiah Uma, Vedavyasachar Srishananda, Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, and Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai as additional judges for two years. In his writ petition filed on Saturday, Mahaswamiji contended the order passed to elevate Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai from district judiciary as an additional judge of the high court was "arbitrary, unconstitutional, unlawful and in total disregard of existing binding executive instructions". His petition, filed by advocate Sanjay M Nuli, claimed his name was ignored and not taken into consideration for promotion or elevation, along with his batch mates. He also submitted that his service record from the date of his appointment on February 25, 2008, to December 2018 was clear from any adverse remarks. Except for Desai, four other officers who were elevated, are either batch mates or senior to the petitioner, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/top-court-dismisses-judges-plea-against-juniors-elevation-to-hc-833562.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Prolonged pandemic may derail big-ticket plans for Dasara||Authorities in the state expressed concern that the COVID-19 pandemic may affect the plans for celebrating Dasara this year. The 10-day festivities in Mysuru are usually held in September-October. The state government has decided to wait till the end of May to take a decision on the celebrations, highly placed sources from the Department of Tourism told DH. International tourists are the main source of income during the celebration and this year, it would be difficult to attract them, with the pandemic spreading its tentacles across the world, the sources said. “Not just international tourists, we need to set some standard operation procedure in place, when it comes to social distancing for even domestic visitors,” they said. This year, the department had planned to start preparations in first week of June. “Every year, we used to start preparation for Dasara celebrations in September, but this year, we wanted to start as early as June, mainly to attract International tourists. But this is going to be difficult, considering the current scenario and we have to wait till the end of this month to know the status of the disease,” said officials. “Not just foreign tourists, we have to think about domestic visitors too. Maintaining social distance itself is a big challenge during the festival as lakhs of tourists come to see Dasara every year,” they said. Tourist activities peak in Mysuru during Dasara and it is going to be real hard this year. The Jamboo Savari, the grand finale of the ‘naada habba’ or the state festival, draws the highest number of visitors, followed by Yuva Dasara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/prolonged-pandemic-may-derail-big-ticket-plans-for-dasara-833570.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Some good news: Karnataka sees more recoveries than active ones||For the first time since the outbreak of Covid-19, the number of recovery cases has crossed the number of active cases in Karnataka. While the number of discharges post-recovery stands at 321 (as on May 4), active cases are 302. On Monday, the state witnessed 37 new cases as its Covid-19 tally went up to 651. The day also saw two deaths - one each in Kalaburagi and Davanagere -as the death toll in the state rose to 27. A 56-year-old man from Kalaburagi (Patient-587) died at the district hospital on Saturday (state govt announced the death on Monday). He had been admitted with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and his x-ray showed bilateral patchy Pneumonitis. Davangere recorded its second Covid-19 death with a 48-year-old woman (P-651) losing her battle against the virus. She was suffering from SARI, hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism.  The cotton hub of Karnataka also reported 22 new cases on Sunday (confirmed Monday). All 22 cases are contacts of Patients 533 (a staff nurse with CHC) and 556. The staff nurse (P-533) has turned out to be a super-spreader. She has a staggering 127 secondary contacts and 25 primary contacts. So far, 19 of her contacts have contracted virus. As many as 1,147 samples have been tested in Davangere alone. Minister Suresh Kumar said, “21 cases (in Davangere) are traced to two people P-556 and P-533. Patient 556 infected two people and has 12 primary, and 34 secondary contacts. 847 samples have come back negative, 31 are positive, and 269 results are awaited. A total of 125 are in quarantine.” The days also witnessed seven people from Bidar test positive for Covid-19 on Monday. All seven are contacts of Patient 590. Kalaburagi and K R Pet in Mandya reported two cases each while Haveri, Chikkaballapur and Vijayapura recorded one case each. Cop tests +ve In a first, Bengaluru reported a police officer testing positive for the virus. Contact tracing is underway. He is a 40-year-old, identified as P-650.  “In some good news, Mysuru has a cumulative of 90 positive cases. Of which, 79 have been discharged till now. No death has been reported in the district, so far,” the minister informed.  The state government has issued an order to cover all anganwadi workers, police, home guards, civil defence personnel, municipal workers, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, under which the family members of aforementioned workers will get Rs 20 lakh relief if they die in line of Covid-19 duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/some-good-news-karnataka-sees-more-recoveries-than-active-ones-833574.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Faulty ventilators, delays hurting state’s Covid-19 effort||Karnataka has managed to procure just 30 ventilators till date.  And as if that wasn’t enough a Delhi-based company delivered 15 refurbished ventilators - one of which had a run-time of more than five years. The government was forced to return these faulty ventilators noting that they were unfit to treat Covid-19 patients. Authorities say that no payment was made for the company after the ventilators were found to be used and tampered with. According to the letter by N Manjushree, Commissioner, Food Safety and Standard Authority and Additional Director, Karnataka State Drug Logistics and Warehousing Society, to RK Medical Solution Company, the ventilators did not possess any standard certificates, or proof of model number and manufacturing details. “Ventilators found used and tampered, with broken/old stands,” the letter read, noting that one of the ventilators “has the machine running hours of 46,583 hours,” - equivalent to five years and four months. Moreover, the ventilators did not have many essential modes required for treatment of Covid-19 patients. This came at a time when the government is looking to ramp up its healthcare facilities with additional ventilators required for severe Covid-19 cases. While the government is expecting the delivery of 125 ventilators from the Mysuru-based Skanray Technologies Pvt Ltd, the Centre-run HLL Lifecare Ltd has to deliver 1,380 ventilators. When contacted, Manjushree told DH that order from the Delhi-based firm was cancelled and sent back. “No money will be paid (for the ventilators) until they are installed at a health facility,” she said. This is the only batch of ventilators received by the state that did not clear pre-dispatch inspection, she added. RK Medical Solution Company was not available for comment, despite multiple attempts to contact the firm. The government has maintained not all Covid-19 patients require ventilators. However, it wants to be ready with enough ventilators to deal with any eventuality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/faulty-ventilators-delays-hurting-state-s-covid-19-effort-833577.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Start preparations for SSLC exam, officials told||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has instructed all district-level officials to start preparations to conduct SSLC examinations which were postponed due to the lockdown. The minister held a video conference with the deputy directors of the Department of Public Instruction on Monday. Kumar asked the officials to ensure all necessary safety measures at examination centres, keeping the post lockdown situation and the Covid-19 pandemic in mind. “As per the opinions gathered, students wanted the examinations to be held and we need to be prepared for the same,” said the minister. Kumar directed the officials to keep sanitisers, masks and thermal readers ready at the examination centres. Temperature check for students would be mandatory during the examination. “Each student should be checked thoroughly before entering the exam hall and in case of fever, such students should be allowed to sit separately to write the exams,” said the minister. The examination centres located in containment zones will be shifted to safe zones. During the video conference, the minister directed the officials to take the necessary measures with this regard. The number of students in one hall will be reduced from the 24, to maintain social distancing. The minister asked the commissioner to submit a proposal on conducting exam for students in their hometowns, if they have reached there, due to the lockdown. The minister said that the time-table will be announced only after officials ensure that all safety measures are in place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/start-preparations-for-sslc-exam-officials-told-833579.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Haveri dist reports its first Covid-19 case||The district reported its first Covid-19 case on Monday. A 32-year-old man from Savanur (Patient 639) has tested positive for the virus.  Deputy Commissioner Krishna Bajpai told reporters, "Patient-639, along with his brother and nephew, had arrived in Shiggaon from Mumbai in a lorry on April 28. The following day, all three left to Savanur in an autorickshaw. After their neighbours complained to health authorities, their throat swab samples were sent to lab for examination on April 29. Reports of two others are awaited." As many as 21 primary contacts of the trio have been placed under isolation at the district hospital while 14 of their secondary contacts are traced and put in home quarantine, the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/haveri-dist-reports-its-first-covid-19-case-833585.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to convince migrants to stay back in state||The movement of migrant labourers from Karnataka has stopped temporarily, as some North Indian states are yet to give their consent. Following a late evening meeting with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and senior officials, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that the state government will convince labourers to stay back and ensure free food supply at their camps. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, who has been tasked to look into migrants' issues, was also present. "Even if we allow them to travel, they will be quarantined for 14 days as soon as they reach their native states. The labourers don't know about this and some states have not yet given permission for their return," Ashoka said. "But those who have already booked their train tickets will leave." According to sources in CMO, the decision to convince the workers to stay back came after several major projects - both government and private - were affected by the mass migration of labourers to their native districts and states. After the meeting, Ashoka and Kumar visited labourers who are demanding to be sent back to their home states. Yediyurappa will chair a meeting on Tuesday and instruct builders under CREDAI to pay pending wages of labourers, provide food supply and ensure their safety, Ashoka said, adding that all construction and civic works of the BBMP will also be taken up to help the labourers remain employed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-convince-migrants-to-stay-back-in-state-833586.html
04-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: Two Mumbai returnees test positive in Mandya||The Covid-19 cases linked to Mumbai continue to swell in Mandya district. A pregnant woman among two from K R Pet, with travel history to Mumbai, tested positive for novel coronavirus on Monday. Patients 637 and 638, aged 20 and 19 respectively, had only returned to Jaginakere in KR Pet taluk last week. While Patient 637 is a seven month pregnant, P-638 is an engineering student. Patient 637, a resident of Santacruz in Mumbai, had left for her native along with her husband on April 23. They crossed over to Karnataka without any difficulty as the woman had Thayi card issued to pregnant women by Maharashtra government. The 19 year-old girl (P-638) had travelled along with the couple. Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh said, the women tested positive for the Covid-19 during a screening of the migrants. With this, the number of positive cases has gone up to 28 in Mandya district. With seven patients being discharged post recovery, the district has 21 active cases as on May 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-two-mumbai-returnees-test-positive-in-mandya-833593.html
04-05-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Liquor buyers use innovative methods to keep their places in long queues||Liquor buyers who had lined before the shops since dawn used innovative methods like placing their bags and caps in the boxes marked to remain in the queue. Some even offered prayers before the shops and thanked God for hearing their prayers.  As the shops opened, buyers stood in place of their bags and caps. Since the lockdown, the sale of liquor was banned. It had led to many, who succeded in hoarding stocks prior to lockdown, selling them at a higher price than actual costs. Illegal sale of liquor too had increased and many were forced to meet their needs by consuming illicit liquor despite it being a threat to health. Liquor stores in the city and outside opened as per the guidelines and timings fixed by the Excise Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/coronavirus-lockdown-30-liquor-buyers-use-innovative-methods-to-keep-their-places-in-long-queues-833377.html
04-05-2020||West||Rs 10,000 fine for wedding with more than 50 guests during coronavirus lockdown in Rajasthan||Any person found violating social distancing norms at public places will have to pay a fine of Rs 100 in Rajasthan. According to a notification under the new Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance-2020, under which the state government on Sunday notified COVID-19 as an epidemic disease for entire Rajasthan, any person not maintaining social distancing of minimum six feet from each other in public place will have to pay a fine of Rs 100.  A penalty of Rs 10,000 will be imposed for organising marriage related functions and having more than 50 members, and a fine of Rs 5,000 will be imposed for organising marriage-related function or gathering without prior information in writing to the sub divisional magistrate or not maintaining social distancing during the function. Penalty for selling paan, gutka and tobacco product will be Rs 1,000. A fine of Rs 500 will be imposed for selling any item by a shopkeeper to a person not wearing mask or face cover. Anyone found consuming liquor in public will also have to pay a fine of Rs 500.  Penalty amount for spitting in public and for not wearing mask of face cover (nose and mouth covered properly) in public or at workplace is Rs 200, according to the notification. The country is under a lockdown to combat the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rs-10000-fine-for-wedding-with-more-than-50-guests-during-coronavirus-lockdown-in-rajasthan-833234.html
04-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Five Maharashtra districts not to allow liquor sale||A day after the Maharashtra government said shops selling non-essential commodities, including liquor, will be allowed to open from Monday in the COVID-19 non-containment zones, five districts in the state have decided not to permit liquor sale. Administrations of Solapur, Aurangabad, Jalna, Buldhana and Amravati districts have issued instructions that liquor shops will not be allowed to open. "The decision is taken in adherence to the Disaster Management Act, and to prevent any further spread of the coronavirus infection," a collector from one of these districts told PTI on Monday. The Buldhana and Amravati administrations have also decided to continue with the prohibition on liquor sale till May 17 and only allow the sale of essential commodities, sources said. Besides, several liquor manufacturing and bottling units located in Aurangabad can resume production, but the district administration has prohibited its sale. The Nagpur civic body has also decided not to allow liquor sale in the city municipal limits, a senior district official said. It is the civic body's decision and there are "no such instructions from the Nagpur district collector, which would mean liquor sale is prohibited in the city limits but allowed in rural areas," he said. Liquor is a major source of revenue for Maharashtra, which earned about Rs 45,000 crore in the form of taxes on it in 2019-20, an official from state excise department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-five-maharashtra-districts-not-to-allow-liquor-sale-833288.html
04-05-2020||West||Over 2,000 migrants return to UP from Maharashtra in two special trains||Two special trains carrying over 2,000 migrant workers stranded in Maharashtra reached here on Monday, officials said. "The first train 01901 from Bhiwandi carrying 1,145 passengers reached Gorakhpur railway station at 1.20 am. The other train 00975 from Vasai Road railway station with 982 passengers arrived at the station at around 5.30 am," Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sadar (Gorakhpur), Gaurav Singh Sogarwal said. He said the most of the passengers were from Khajni, Bansgaon and Gola tehsil of Gorakhpur district. After their arrival at the station, the migrant workers were sent to their respective places in buses arranged by the Uttar Pradesh government after a proper medical check-up. The railways is running Shramik Special trains to move migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded in various parts of the country since March 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-2000-migrants-return-to-up-from-maharashtra-in-two-special-trains-833318.html
04-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: 25 lakh COVID-19 protective gears needed every day, say experts||Plastic items like PPE suits, masks, gloves, sanitiser, hand wash, water bottles, shoes and head cover are proving to be the only protective shield for the frontline workers.However, this means there is more use of plastic and the need for an effective way of disposal. Leading medical professionals and scientists have come forward to educate Indian citizens about the essential plastic items to prevent the further spread of COVID-19 virus while ensuring their safe disposal and recycling/treatment afterwards.  Dr KK Aggarwal, former president, Indian Medical Association and president, Confederation of Medical Associations of Asia and Oceania said that to protect the medical workers from COVID-19 infection, we need protective gear which is made from an impermeable and non-porous material such as plastics. "Hence, the currently used masks, gloves, protective shields for eyes, face, head and shoe cover and apron are made from plastics. Impermeable material stops viruses containing droplets from touching the skin and the viruses stay on the outer surface of the protective gear. It is also essential that healthcare workers change their personal protective equipment every eight hours and regularly decontaminate the hospital surfaces," he said. According to him, 40 lakh health workers are fighting against COVID-19 in India. We need 20-25 lakh protective equipment every day to protect the health workers from the infection, he added. Prof Ashok K Agarwal, president, Indian Association for Hospital Waste Management and former dean, IIHMR, New Delhi said improper handling and disposal of medical waste can put healthcare workers at a higher risk of infection. All biomedical waste needs to be disposed of in colour-coded categories - yellow, red, white, and blue – as per the guidelines stipulated in the Biomedical Waste Management Rules 2016 and by the Centre of Pollution Control Board. "These guidelines must be followed studiously to contain the COVID-19 infection. The government should ensure the availability of plastic garbage/disposal bags in hospitals, quarantined, and general households, so the waste can be collected and treated (medical waste) or recycled (general waste), he said.  Dr Vijay Habbu, Adjunct Professor, Institute of Chemical Technology said, “The protective equipment such as masks, gloves, PPEs and plastic bags/bottles used in delivering the essentials such as grains, oil, water, etc. must not be carelessly thrown away. They must be properly disposed of so that they can be treated/recycled. The earth is healing itself; it is an ideal time to cut down on non-eco friendly human practices such as littering and utilise this time to strengthen the plastic waste management ecosystem in our country." ''Scientifically, all types of plastic products/equipment are recyclable, every Indian citizen must know this fact. The responsibility to ensure proper disposal of waste and source segregation is on every Indian citizen. It will help in preventing the highly hazardous practice of waste dumping in landfills/waste bodies and keep our earth clean and green,'' he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-25-lakh-covid-19-protective-gears-needed-every-day-say-experts-833332.html
04-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Coronavirus cases in Thane district reach 1183, Palghar 177||While the number of cases in Thane and Navi Mumbai municipal corporation limits has crossed 300 each, Kalyan Dombivali area, the district's third major civic body, is close to 200 coronavirus positive cases, health officials said on Monday. As on late Sunday night, the total number of cases in Thane district is 1183. The number of cases in KDMC is 195, while it is 389 in Thane city, 314 in Navi Mumbai and 171 in Mira Bhayander. In Navi Mumbai, over 4,000 people have been tested for the virus in the APMC market in Vashi, the premier supplier of grains, vegetables, fruits and spices to Mumbai Metropolitan Region. In neighbouring Palghar district, the total number of COVID-19 cases stands at 177, which includes 10 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-coronavirus-cases-in-thane-district-reach-1183-palghar-177-833360.html
04-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Will oppose liquor sale in Aurangabad, says AIMIM MP||Aurangabad Lok Sabha MP and AIMIM Maharashtra unit chief Imtiaz Jaleel on Monday said the decision to open liquor shops amid easing of restrictions in the coronavirus-induced lockdown was not correct and warned that vends that open here will be "forcefully shut down" by his party. Jaleel claimed liquor consumption led to domestic violence in lower income households and women bore the brunt of assaults by their inebriated husbands. "The All India Majalis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) Member of Parliament from Aurangabad Imtiaz Jaleel has opposed the decision of government to open liquor shops here. He has warned if the decision is implemented in Aurangabad, they will forcefully shut the shops down and will make women come out on streets," the party said in a statement. "The problem is more in lower class women where their husbands beat them after coming home drunk. There is no need to hurry and sell liquor in this difficult time. Why such privilege is being given to liquor shops here," the statement quoted Jaleel as saying. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner of Police Meena Makwana said Aurangabad is in the red zone due to a high number of COVID-19 cases and therefore liquor shops will not open in the city. Earlier in the day, authorities in five districts, comprising Aurangabad, Solapur, Jalna, Buldhana and Amravati, decided not permit liquor sale during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-will-oppose-liquor-sale-in-aurangabad-says-aimim-mp-833365.html
04-05-2020||West||Free Medical Certificate for migrants in Mumbai||Students and migrant labourers in Mumbai, who want to go to their home states, have started receiving medical certificates for free by the 'One Rupee" clinic at Kurla East. The service will continue till Wednesday May.  "Doctors have charged Rs 100 to Rs 5,000 to provide medical certificates after screening.  This has happened right under the nose of government," veteran RTI activist Anil Galgali said.  After coming across with this malpractices, Galgali spoke to Dr Rahul Ghule, the promoter of the One Rupee Clinic and advised him to issue certificate free of cost.  The clinic, which has already done thermal testing for free to lakhs of people in Mumbai, readily accepted it and started screening the persons and issuing them certificate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/free-medical-certificate-for-migrants-in-mumbai-833393.html
04-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Over 2,000 foreign nationals still in Goa, says FRRO SP||There are over 2,000 foreign nationals in Goa even after 6,000 were evacuated in the midst of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, a Foreigner Regional Registration official said on Monday. FRRO Superintendent of Police Bosco George said there were 8,0000 foreign nationals in Goa when lockdown began in the last week of March. "Those on tourist visas are not registered with the FRRO. However, those who were are here on business visas are registered. While 6,000 left for their native countries with the help of the Ministry of Home Affairs, over 2,0000 foreign nationals are still in Goa, a sizable number being that of Russians," George informed. He said several foreigners were living in unauthorized guest houses when lockdown was announced and it was tough to trace many of them initially. He said many foreigners who arrived in the state were holidaying in Gokarn beach in neighbouring Karnataka when the lockdown was announced. The SP said several foreign nationals, especially from European countries, are reluctant to go back and have applied for visa extension here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-over-2000-foreign-nationals-still-in-goa-says-frro-sp-833401.html
04-05-2020||West||Lockdown 3.0: Bombay High Court to continue working limited hours||The Bombay High Court on Monday said it would continue working limited hours and with restricted benches to hear only extremely urgent matters via video conference until further orders following extension of the lockdown due to the novel coronavirus outbreak. Bombay HC Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and other judges of the Administrative Committee on Monday held a meeting and issued a circular stating that HC and its benches at Nagpur, Aurangabad and Goa and all district and magistrate courts across the state shall function as they are doing presently and would take up hearing on only extremely urgent matters. The circular noted it was necessary to scrupulously follow guidelines issued by both Centre and state government on precautions to be taken by staff while working. As per the circular, identity proofs of advocates and litigants shall be asked for at the entry points of all court complexes, a register will be maintained at these entry points and names of all entrants would be recorded. It said no person shall be permitted to enter the court premises without wearing a mask, and any person showing signs or symptoms of COVID-19 shall not be allowed to enter or remain in the court rooms. To meet exigencies, an isolation room shall be earmarked for such persons. "At the entry points of the court complex, liquid soap and water basin will be provided for hand wash and entrance of each court room, as far as possible, make provision of hand sanitizers," the circular said. It is also advisable for all lawyers and litigants to download the Aarogya Setu mobile application, the circular said. The circular further said necessary social distancing shall be maintained inside court premises, including court rooms and lifts and other departments. "As far as possible, members of the staff, lawyers and litigants, who are young and not differently-abled, should be encouraged to use stairs instead of lifts for their own safety," it said. "Judges and members of staff, in the unlikely event of having any symptoms of COVID-19, are requested to immediately report the same to the medical centre," the circular said. Since the outbreak began, the HC and all other courts are working on skeletal staff, hearing only extremely urgent matters through video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-30-bombay-high-court-to-continue-working-limited-hours-833411.html
04-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: 35,000 migrant workers sent to hometowns so far, says Maharashtra official||Nearly 35,000 migrant labourers in Maharashtra have been sent back to their native places so far since the Centre allowed them to return home by train in the wake of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, a senior state government official said on Monday. The workers were sent after a medical checkup and all other precautionary measures were being followed to contain the spread of coronavirus, the official told reporters here. "So far, we have sent 35,000 migrant labourers back to their native states. We are sending more people after checking. Every labourer has to undergo a primary medical checkup before being eligible to travel," he said. The Maharashtra government is in touch with other states before planning to send back the migrant labourers to their native places, he said. "We are taking all precautions before allowing the migrant labourers to board trains. It is difficult for us to detect those who are infected by coronavirus but are asymptomatic. We can't do anything more than their primary health checkup," the official said. Asked about private vehicles being allowed to transport migrant labourers to their respective states, he said, Except Rajasthan, no other state has shown willingness to allow migrant labourers to travel by bus and private vehicles."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-35000-migrant-workers-sent-to-hometowns-so-far-says-maharashtra-official-833417.html
04-05-2020||West||Gujarat COVID-19 cases up by 376 to 5804; 29 deaths in single day||Gujarat on Monday reported 376 new COVID-19 cases and 29 deaths, which is the highest single-day toll so far, a Health department official said. With this, the total number of the cases in the state rose to 5,804and the death toll to 319, the official said. The official said that 26 of the 29 deaths were reported from Ahmedabad alone. Vadodara reported two deaths and Surat one. A total of 153 patients were discharged on Monday, taking the number of the recovered to 1,195 so far. Of the new cases, Ahmedabad reported 259, Vadodara 35, Bhavnagar 21 and Surat 20, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-cases-up-by-376-to-5804-29-deaths-in-single-day-833511.html
04-05-2020||West||Ahmedabad reports 26 COVID-19 deaths in a day, tally at 4,076||A record 26 deaths due to COVID-19 were reported in a single day on Monday from Ahmedabad in Gujarat, taking the total number of the fatalities in the district to 234, a Health department official said. Ahmedabad district has reported 259 new cases, taking the total number of the patients to 4,076, according to the official. A total of 87 patients have recovered in the district, taking their total number to 620. Ahmedabad had reported 23 deaths on Sunday and 20 on Saturday. "14 of the 26 deceased had no comorbidities. The youngest victim, a 26-year-old woman, suffered from TB," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabad-reports-26-covid-19-deaths-in-a-day-tally-at-4076-833522.html
04-05-2020||West||Maharashtra has room to borrow additional Rs 42,235 cr to fight COVID-19: Report||Maharahstra, which has the most number of COVID-19 infections, has a room to borrow an additional Rs 42,235 crore to fight the pandemic, a report said on Monday. The western state has budgeted for a sizeable revenue deficit along with others such as Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Kerala and Tamil Nadu in its budget announced before the lockdown, but has its fiscal deficit within the 3 per cent of GSDP, which will allow for the additional borrowings, domestic rating agency Care Ratings said. Maharashtra has over 12,974 confirmed cases in the national tally of 43,000 cases as of Monday and also the highest number of those dead. Its key economic centres, including capital Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur are classified as "red zones" having many containment zones, which limit economic activity. Among the states that have budgeted for a revenue deficit, Maharashtra has the highest headroom for additional borrowing, the report by the agency said. "Maharashtra can increase borrowing by Rs 42,235 crore, Tamil Nadu by Rs 3,347 crore, Haryana by Rs 2,537 crore, Punjab by Rs 516 crore and Rajasthan by Rs 113 crore," it said. The agency, however, warned that because of loss of revenues due to the ongoing lockdowns, states are under "considerable financial stress" and have been forced to delay expenditures including salaries, like in the case of Maharashtra. The state has, however, not resorted to increasing taxes on fuels to shore up its revenues like Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Haryana have done in the recent days, it said. As a result of the stress, many states have resorted to additional borrowing already often at costs higher than the average ones, the report said, pointing out that borrowings in April stood at Rs 59,255 crore, which is double the size of money raised in April 2019.  Maharashtra, with Rs 7,000 crore of borrowings accepted in April at a weighted average yield of 7.76 per cent, is second behind Rs 8,000 crore done by Tamil Nadu, the report said. It acknowledged that the COVID-19 relief measures entail higher expenditure to be incurred by the state governments even as they are faced with a significant loss of income/revenues from the halting of economic activity. Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Mizoram, Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand and union territory of Jammu & Kashmir, which have budgeted for a revenue surplus and a fiscal deficit lesser than the 3 per cent of GSDP cap under the fiscal responsibility and budget management rules, are in the best position because they have the fiscal space to borrow more, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-has-room-to-borrow-additional-rs-42235-cr-to-fight-covid-19-report-833537.html
04-05-2020||West||Over 21,000 migrants travelled outside Gujarat in 3 days: Official||) A total of 21,500 migrant workers and their family members stranded in Gujarat for over 40 days due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown were sent back to their native states, including UP and Bihar, through 18 trains in the last three days, a senior official said on Monday. The 18 trains, each carrying about 1200 migrants, left for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand from different stations in Gujarat on Saturday, Sunday and Monday, said Ashwani Kumar, secretary in the office of Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. Of the total 18 trains, seven trains made their journey to Odisha, six to Uttar Pradesh, four to Bihar and one to Jharkhand, he said. "These 18 trains carrying 21,500 migrants left for other states during the last three days from Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Nadiad and Palanpur stations," Kumar said in a video message. He said respective district collectors in Gujarat are coordinating with Railways authorities and bringing migrants to railway stations in buses from different places. "In addition, hundreds of migrants from adjoining states have also left Gujarat in private buses and other vehicles after getting permission from authorities," Kumar informed. After addressing the issue of inter-state travel of migrants, the state government is now focussing on allowing intra-state travel of thousands of migrants from Saurashtra region working in Surat in diamond polishing units.  "Diamond workers in Surat mainly hail from Amreli, Bhavnagar and Botad districts of Saurashtra region. Since they too want to go back to their native places, Surat district collector is coordinating with his counterparts in these districts to work out a plan. A formal announcement will be made soon by the government," said Kumar.   He said those people who will be allowed to travel to their native places will be barred from coming back to Surat for one month. "We need to make sure that coronavirus does not spread in those districts. Thus, we will not allow anyone having symptoms to travel. Upon reaching there, each (worker and others) will be required to undergo home quarantine for 14 days. They will not be allowed to come back for at least one month," Kumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-21000-migrants-travelled-outside-gujarat-in-3-days-official-833550.html
04-05-2020||West||Palghar Lynching: Maharashtra govt moves Supreme Court alleging browbeating by Arnab Goswami||The Maharashtra government has approached the Supreme Court to take a "serious cognisance" of endeavour made by Republic TV's Editor in Chief Arnab Goswami to interfere with the investigation and browbeat police officers.  Goswami had faced over 100 FIRs across the country after he on April 21 questioned Congress president Sonia Gandhi's silence in lynching of two Hindu seers and their driver in Palghar on April 16. In an application, the state government asked the court to "insulate the investigating agency from any pressure, threat or coercion" from Goswami and to enable it to carry out its lawful obligation in a fair and transparent manner. It claimed the tweets and debate by his TV showed that he was not cooperating with the investigation and on the contrary interfering with it. "By making personal allegations against the Mumbai Police commissioner, the petitioner is trying to intimidate the policy by implying that he will spare nobody and will launch an investigation against the police officers," it alleged. The state government asked the court to restrain Goswami from "abusing" interim protection of three weeks granted to him on April 24. The top court had then stayed probe into all FIR except one lodged in Nagpur. It also directed transfer of that FIR to Mumbai, where Arnab himself filed a complaint after attack on him and his wife. In its application, the state government pointed out several tweets put out by the Republic TV to create an impression that the police were biased against him. There was an attempt to show the Mumbai police commissioner in a very bad light. "It is necessary that this court may issue appropriate directions so that a balance is maintained between rights of the petitioner as a citizens and a senior journalist vis-a-vis the investigating agency to conduct investigation into the crime," it said. The state government further claimed that Goswami had attempted to create a false impression in general public that Mumbai police commissioner was hindering the investigation in "unfortunate and ghastly" Palghar incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-lynching-maharashtra-govt-moves-supreme-court-alleging-browbeating-by-arnab-goswami-833553.html
