05-05-2020||First Edit||Modi govt must introspect||The observation of a US bipartisan federal agency that the state of religious freedom in India is a “matter of particular concern’’ is not surprising as the country has seen its steady deterioration in the last few years. The United States Commission on International Religious Freedoms has made strong criticism of India and passed adverse comments about the country in its annual report. It has placed India in the category of countries where religious freedom is under severe stress. It has also recommended to the US government and its agencies to take action, like targeted sanctions, against India and Indian officials. Such actions are unlikely because they are taken on political and strategic considerations. But the recommendation shows how seriously the commission views the matter.  The commission has sought to support its conclusions with policies pursued and decisions taken by the Modi government and cases and instances of harassment and attacks on minorities in the country in the last few years. It had placed India in a watchlist in 2018 but has noted that since then there has been a steady downturn and deterioration in the treatment of minorities, especially Muslims. It has cited the National Register of Citizens (NRC) process in Assam, which UN rapporteurs also found discriminatory, the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), and even some words of Home Minister Amit Shah to show the bias in government policy against Muslims. It has noted that the government has allowed violence against minorities to continue with impunity and has tolerated hate speech and incitement to violence. The partisan conduct of the law enforcement agencies in situations like the communal riots in Delhi in February this year is also known.  The government has dismissed the report as biased and tendentious and misrepresentation which “has reached new levels’’. It has said that it is the organisation which prepared the report that should be viewed with particular concern. But the report has not said anything which has not been said by those within the country who are worried about the many and continuing attacks on and harassment and persecution of minorities. Intolerance has grown and secularism is being challenged, though it is a constitutional ideal. The government, instead of attacking its critics and deriding them, should do some introspection and find out why it is drawing so much negative attention worldwide. Denials will not carry conviction when there is clear and widespread evidence of repression of minorities and actions and policies intended to hurt them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/modi-govt-must-introspect-833668.html
05-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: 2 more containment zones denotified in Dakshina Kannada||All the primary and secondary contacts of the patients have completed home quarantine period, said DC Sindhu B Rupesh.   The district administration hitherto had already denotified three other such containment zones based on a report of DHO,  after no new case was reported in the area in the last 28 days.  At present, the district has six containment zones-- Shakthinagara, Boloor, First Neuro Hospital in Mangaluru city, Uppinangady in Puttur, Kasaba and Narikombu in Bantwal taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-2-more-containment-zones-denotified-in-dakshina-kannada-833672.html
05-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's Vijayapura registers third COVID-19 death||The woman was suffering from Asthma. She contracted the infection from P228.  Deputy Commissioner Y S Patil said a total of nine people including a son of the deceased have been kept under quarantine. The district administration will perform her last rites as per COVID-19 protocol, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-vijayapura-registers-third-covid-19-death-833725.html
05-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||18 contacts of coronavirus positive Bengaluru cop quarantined in Chamarajanagar||Chamarajanagar district, which maintained its 'green tag' right from the  beginning, is in trouble, after a police constable from Bengaluru tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. 18 persons of a village in Hanur taluk, who are said to be the primary contacts of the constable, have been quarantined. Chamarajanagar district, had returned to normalcy and had begun economic activities a few days ago. The number of persons under quarantine was nil, when the lockdown was lifted. It is said that the constable had come to his native village on Monday morning. As soon as the tests confirmed that he was positive for coronavirus, the authorities instructed him to return to Bengaluru. After he returned, his family members, who were in contact with hi,, were shifted to quarantine facility in Chamarajanagar, according to the residents of the village. However, District Health Officer Dr M C Ravi said that he has not received any official information in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/18-contacts-of-coronavirus-positive-bengaluru-cop-quarantined-in-chamarajanagar-833855.html
05-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Firm prepares nutrition food to check Covid-19||A Mysuru-based company, in association with CSIR-Central Food Technologies Research Institute (CFTRI), is providing a sea-weed based nutrition food supplement to patients and healthcare professionals in hospitals and also to migrants returning to their native places, in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Balakrishna B Bhat, owner of Aquaseal Technologie, said that his company has been culturing Spirulina, a cyanobacteria, an unicellular microbe, often referred to as blue-green algae, since 20 years. “Our company is in touch with CFTRI since the beginning and we were culturing Spirulina on CFTRI technology. We were also manufacturing chikki, a popular confectionery, on CFTRI technology. Once the pandemic spread, CFTRI asked us to add Spirulina to the chikki. We have supplied 1.75 tonnes of spirulina chikki to CFTRI in three consignments,” he said. Bhat said, “Spirulina is used in many health products and they used to supply its powder to many companies. The chikki bars are a new invention of the CFTRI, at a time of crisis. They are protein-rich with vitamin and minerals. The chikki bar not only provides nutrition, but also immunity.” A S K V S Sharma, coordinator, Information and Publicity, CSIR-CFTRI said, “CFTRI has supplied a total of 16 tonne of high protein biscuits and rusks; seven tonne of cardamom flavoured water; five tonne of enriched fruit bars, and 1.5 tonnes of Spirulina chikki to around 60,000 people across Delhi, Bengaluru and Mysuru.” “CFTRI has supplied 10 tonnes of high protein biscuits and rusks to Delhi migrants and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) patients; three tonne of high protein biscuits and rusks to migrant relief work in Bengaluru through the Income Tax (I-T) department. Five tonnes of vitamin and mineral enriched fruit bars, five tonnes of cardamom flavoured water, and 1.5 tonne of Spirulina chikki was distributed in Bengaluru. In Mysuru, three tonne of biscuits, two tonne of water and half a tonne of Spirulina chikki were distributed,” he said. “A total of 15,000 Spirulina chikki, a snack that provides micronutrients from Spirulina as well as the tasty, nourishing groundnut proteins, have been supplied. It provides bioavailable micronutrients such as Vitamin A, Beta Carotene and easily digestible algal proteins,” said CFTRI Director K S M S Raghava Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/firm-prepares-nutrition-food-to-check-covid-19-833982.html
05-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Protest against quarantine in residential school||As the district administration is making arrangements at Kittur Rani Chennamma hostel at Kadabahalli and Morarji Desai Residential School at Somanahalli to quarantine migrants from Maharashtra, the locals staged a flash protest here on Tuesday. As Minister K C Narayana Gowda and the officials visited the spot to inspect the arrangements, farmers and leaders of various parties staged a protest in front of the residential school. They laid a siege to the minister's car and demanded that the migrants should not be quarantined in their taluk for any reason. This resulted in a heated exchange of words between the minister and others. However, the police intervened and brought the situation under control. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the premises, Narayana Gowda said the district administration is making arrangements in all taluks to prepare for any consequences in future. "It is wrong for the migrants to enter the district secretly. I request the people to voluntarily come forward to undergo the tests and get quarantined. If you visit the villages secretly, you are risking the lives of your families," he said. Reacting to the statements about Mumbai migrants, Gowda said, "This is not the time to do politics. I did not ask the migrants to return. The people of other taluks would not be quarantined here." Speaking to reporters MLA Suresh Gowda said, "We are watching the BJP government's actions, but remained silent, not to embarrass it. It is a sensitive area as there are markets, schools and colleges around the residential school. Let them quarantine the people in their respective taluk. How can they quarantine more than 2,000 people from Maharashtra in Nagamangala taluk? It is not right for the minister to term farmers as goondas."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/protest-against-quarantine-in-residential-school-833983.html
05-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||B'luru cop tests positive, panic grips Chamarajanagar||Chamarajanagar district, which maintained ‘green zone tag’, right from the beginning, is in trouble, after a police constable from Bengaluru (Patient 650), who tested positive for Covid-19, visited the district. The constable had accompanied his wife and daughter to his in-laws’ house at Belathuru village, Hanur taluk on Monday. Chamarajanagar district had returned to normalcy, by beginning economic activities a couple of days ago. The number of persons under quarantine was nil, when the lockdown was lifted. Now, panic has returned, with some people being sent for quarantine. Addressing media persons, here, on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi said that the district administration swung into action, as soon as it learnt about the constable’s visit to Hanur, and shifted 14 people, primary contacts of the constable and four secondary contacts to the quarantine facility in Chamarajanagar. “The other seven secondary contacts have been traced and all arrangements are done to shift them to the quarantine facility. The police personnel, who interacted with the constable at the checkpost too will be sent to quarantine,” he added. The constable had come to the village on Monday morning, with his wife and daughter. As soon as the tests confirmed that he was positive for coronavirus, the authorities instructed him to return to Bengaluru immediately. The DC explained the constable visited Belathuru village, after his throat swab was sent for test, for suspected Covid-19.  He came from Bengaluru, without getting any permission from the higher officials. There is no information that he possessed travel pass. It is an offence to travel, when his samples had been sent for test. A letter has been written to the authorities to take action against him, the DC said. Precautionary measures have been taken at Belathuru and Uddanuru villages and the people have been instructed to stay indoors. The Fire and Emergency personnel sprayed disinfectants at both the villages, the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bluru-cop-tests-positive-panic-grips-chamarajanagar-833984.html
05-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Business back to normal in Hassan||As soon as the 43-day lockdown was lifted, business picked up in Hassan city, with people thronging jewellery and textile showrooms and other shops, in large numbers. But, people, forgot to maintain social distancing at showrooms. The district administration, which had decided to keep the shops open for three days in a week, has now allowed to open from 7 am to 7 pm, on all days. The vendors have started selling fruits, flowers, vegetables by the roadsides. Tailor shops, optical showrooms, copier shops too started business. Heavy rush was seen at gold and silver jewellery shops on BM Road, Kasturba Road, Gandhi Bazaar and other places. Hotels and restaurants have continued with parcel service. Parking facility is made and only those wearing masks are supplied food packets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/business-back-to-normal-in-hassan-833989.html
05-05-2020||National||Pakistan summons senior Indian diplomat over Gilgit-Baltistan issue on the holding of general elections||Pakistan on Monday summoned a senior Indian diplomat to convey its rejection of what it called India's "baseless and fallacious contention" regarding a verdict by Pakistan's Supreme Court on the holding of general elections in Gilgit-Baltistan. The move came hours after India said it has conveyed its strong protest to Pakistan over Islamabad's efforts to bring "material change" to territories under its "illegal and forcible" occupation after the country's top court allowed holding of elections in Gilgit-Baltistan. In a recent ruling, the Pakistan Supreme Court allowed the government to amend a 2018 administrative order to conduct general elections in the region. The Gilgit-Baltistan Order of 2018 provided for administrative changes, including authorising the Prime Minister of Pakistan to legislate on an array of subjects. The Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi said on Monday that a demarche was issued to a senior Pakistani diplomat lodging a strong protest over the court ruling and clearly conveying that the entire union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of India. The MEA said the government of Pakistan or its judiciary has no locus standi on territories "illegally and forcibly" occupied by it. In Islamabad, the Foreign Office said in a statement that a senior Indian diplomat was summoned to convey Pakistan's rejection of India’s “baseless and fallacious” contention against the apex court verdict on Gilgit-Baltistan. It said Pakistan clearly conveyed that the Indian statement over Jammu and Kashmir as an 'integral part’ of India" had no legal basis whatsoever". "The entire state of Jammu and Kashmir is a 'disputed' territory and is recognised as such by the international community,” the FO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-summons-senior-indian-diplomat-over-gilgit-baltistan-issue-on-the-holding-of-general-elections-833623.html
05-05-2020||National||97 new coronavirus cases reported in Uttar Pradesh; total mounts to 2,742||The number of coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh has increased to 2,742, with 97 people testing positive for the infection, officials said on Monday.  There are 1,939 active cases in the state, Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said. Uttar Pradesh has reported a total of 2,742 COVID-19 cases till now, he said, adding that of them 758 have recovered while 43 have died. Coronavirus cases have so far been reported in 64 of the 75 districts in the state. The highest 14 deaths have been reported from Agra, followed by seven in Moradabad, six in Meerut, four in Kanpur, two in Firozabad and one each in Varanasi, Aligarh, Mathura, Shrawasti, Ghaziabad, Amroha, Bareilly, Basti, Bulandshahar and Lucknow. He said 3,328 samples were sent for testing on Sunday and 4,021 samples in all were tested along with the previous ones. He said 2,024 people have been kept in isolation, while 11,049 people are in quarantine. Prasad also said tests were being conducted in 20 laboratories in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/97-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-uttar-pradesh-total-mounts-to-2742-833625.html
05-05-2020||National||CPI(M) chief Sitaram Yechury writes to opposition leaders to form joint economic roadmap for post-coronavirus India||The CPI(M) has written to Opposition leaders to join the party in forming a comprehensive economic roadmap for a post-COVID-19 India. In the letter, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury has said the Left party has prepared an economic roadmap to tackle the issues emerging out of the pandemic and urged the other parties to give their views on it. "I am forwarding this roadmap, which has been formally sent to the President and the Prime Minister, for your consideration and any proposals that you may have. I request you to also share any ideas that you may have for any sort of a joint move on these proposals. The CPI(M) is ready to host a video consultation on our server, if you agree. The details, date and time can be fixed subsequently," the letter stated. The document has been sent to Congress President Sonia Gandhi, SP leader Akhilesh Yadav, DMK's M K Stalin and T R Balu, RJD's Tejashwi Yadav, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and CPI general secretary D Raja among others. The CPI(M) has suggested that as an immediate measure, the central government must make available to every non income tax paying household Rs 7,500 per month for a period of three months, and to every individual 10 kg of free foodgrains per month for a period of six months. It has urged the centre to pay its GST dues to the states and also to double the states' borrowing limits as immediate measures.   It has also suggested mid-term and long-term methods which include facilitating return of migarants, recoveries of MSMEs and hike in public investments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-chief-sitaram-yechury-writes-to-opposition-leaders-to-form-joint-economic-roadmap-for-post-coronavirus-india-833626.html
05-05-2020||National||Chhattisgarh tally soars with return of migrants||Chhattisgarh’s virus tally rose to 57 with the detection of 17 fresh cases on Sunday, all of them migrant workers who have returned to the state. About 200 people have been quarantined after they came in contact with infected labourers who came back from five states. Earlier, 14 workers had tested positive in Durg and Kavardha districts. Three more migrants tested positive in Surajpur, taking the total to 17 on Sunday.  Durg superintendent of police Ajay Yadav said the eight labourers in the district had returned from Nagpur, Mumbai, Gondia, Ahmedabad and from cities in West Bengal and Odisha. The state health department has asked collectors of all 28 districts to conduct tests on every migrant entering their jurisdiction. Meanwhile, the government has stepped up efforts to bring back around 6,000 workers stranded in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday said the government will bear the expenses for the repatriation of workers. State transport commissioner Kamal Preet Singh has written to the Indian Railways, demanding special trains for workers from the state. Government sources said 6,074 migrant labourers in other states have contacted for their safe return to Chhattisgarh. Of these, 5,130 are from Rajasthan, 500 from Gujarat and 445 from Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-tally-soars-with-return-of-migrants-833629.html
05-05-2020||National||Jairam Ramesh moves SC for implementation of Food Security Act  ||Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Monday moved the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Centre and state government to ensure the universal coverage of Food Security for all during the COVID-19 pandemic saying that reports suggest that large sections of poor and vulnerable are not getting food during the lockdown. The former union minister in his public interest litigation (PIL) contended that there has been acute food shortage resulting out of the nation-wide lockdown and ther is need for the implementation of the National Food Security Act (NFSA), 2013 and other measures.  In the matter which is listed for hearing on Tuesday, the politician sought directions from the court that the requirement of ration cards for supply of rations in the Public Distribution System (PDA) be relaxed till the COVID-19 in order to help mitigate the food shortage and prevent deaths. This Petition, Ramesh said, is being moved in light of the numerous deaths caused due to starvation, many of them being daily wage workers and people from the marginalized communities. The senior Congress leader said since the commencement of the lockdown, there have been various households, particularly those from marginalized backgrounds, who are not covered under the NFSA and are in dire need of rations.  "In the facts and circumstances as stated above, it is most respectfully prayed that this Court may be graciously pleased to issue a writ in the nature of mandamus, or any other writ, order or direction to the Respondents to ensure that the National Food Security Act, 2013 is being implemented rigorously by all States," the petition said. The Congress leader also sought a direction for the competent authorities to do away with the mandatory requirement of release of grains against production of ration cards for the period of the lockdown. Ramesh has also sought directions from the court clarifying that households would be exempt from Aadhar based biometric authentication for obtaining foodgrains under Public Distribution system. He aso demanded that the court issues direction to the respondents in order to stop police action on vendors, citizens selling buying essential food items. He said in his petition that the world is reeling under an unprecedented pandemic emerging out of the coronavirus strain COVID-19 and in order to combat the spread of this pandemic, a lockdown has been imposed by the Union and State Governments. An alternate remedy, therefore, in these dire circumstances, would take a long time, at the end of which further acute food shortage and wide-scale starvation-related deaths are apprehended, he noted. He argued that the NFSA was enacted with the vision to ensuring access to adequate quantity of quality food at affordable prices to people, to enable them to live a life with dignity. "By not ensuring access to food, the State is violating the fundamental right of food guaranteed to citizens, therefore necessitating recourse to the present Petition. Hence, this Petition," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jairam-ramesh-moves-sc-for-implementation-of-food-security-act-833656.html
05-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Rahul Gandhi to discuss economy with Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's dialogue with Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee on dealing with the economic fallout of the COVID-19 crisis will be aired on Tuesday as part of his series of deliberations with experts on economy and health. The Congress party has tweeted a 1.44-minute clip from the conversation which will be aired in full at 9 am Tuesday. The first such dialogue was held last week when Gandhi discussed the coronavirus pandemic and its economic implications with former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan. During that dialogue, Rajan had said India should be "cleverer" in lifting the lockdown and should open up its economy in a "measured way" soon to save jobs. He had also said that Rs 65,000 crore should be spent to support the poor hit hard by the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-rahul-gandhi-to-discuss-economy-with-nobel-laureate-abhijit-banerjee-833658.html
05-05-2020||National||Patkar demands aid from PM-CARES Fund for stranded labourers||Activist Medha Patkar on Monday held a protest in Barwani district of Madhya Pradesh demanding immediate resolution of the problems faced by labourers stranded due to the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown. Patkar alleged that the restrictions were imposed without any planning and that there was no coordination between states and the Centre. "The labourers left their homes without taking their salaries. They should be given foodgrains for their survival, if not free then at a nominal cost. "They are walking helplessly on national highways. They are not accommodated on trucks carrying produce of their labour. The arrangements made for the students should have been done for the labourers also, but this country lacks such simple understanding," she said. Patkar demanded that aid be provided for the labourers from the PM Cares Fund. She appealed to social organisations to take up this matter by staging non-violent protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/patkar-demands-aid-from-pm-cares-fund-for-stranded-labourers-833659.html
05-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 5, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-5-2020-edition-833664.html
05-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 5||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly).  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 49,374 as of May 5. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 1,685 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 13,161 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-5-833665.html
05-05-2020||National||Bois locker room case: Here's all you need to know||With pandemic being the talk of the town for months now, a series of disturbing tweets and Instagram posts, which came into light on Monday night, has shaken netizens. The Delhi police busted a group on the social networking app being used to share objectionable posts about minor girls. The Delhi Commission for Women said it has issued notice to Instagram and Delhi Police in the matter of the online group named 'Bois Locker Room' which was being used by some persons to share objectionable pictures of minor girls and discuss illegal acts including rape. Here's all you need to know about the turn of events: An all-boys group chat was created on Instagram with around 100 members. They were all teenage boys from South Delhi. The group was made to send objectionable pictures of minor girls, morphing them, using abusive language and talking to them about 'gang-raping girls'. The incident came into light on May 2 when an Instagram user spoke about how she was sent screenshots of the group chat by someone who was added to the group.  Within a few hours, a massive outrage broke out on social media with other users revealing screenshots of the conversation of the boys. One of the screenshots also revealed that the boys had made statements like "I will rape her easily", and many threatened to leak nude photos of girls who had busted them. So far names of four private schools from South Delhi and one from Noida have been linked to the group, Indian Express reported. After the FIR was filed, the Delhi Commission for Women took suo-motu cognisance of reports regarding the group. Swati Maliwai, the Chairperson of the Delhi Commissioner Women (DCW), posted saying the DCS has issued notice to Instagram and Delhi police about this matter.     Sexist jokes, slut-shaming has escalated from normalising rape culture to outright sexual assault in the world. Women's safety has garnered debates for decades now, and one such incident has again reminded women that they are not safe at their homes even during a lockdown.  With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bois-locker-room-case-heres-all-you-need-to-know-833683.html
05-05-2020||National||Put cash in people's hands to revive economy: Abhijit Banerjee||Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee on Tuesday pitched for writing off a lot of debt payments to prevent businesses going bankrupt and putting cash in the hands of the bottom 60 per cent of the population to kickstart the economy as India emerges from the lock down to combat COVID-19.  In a conversation with Rahul Gandhi, Banerjee was appreciative of the steps taken by the Modi government for putting a moratorium on debt payments and suggested that the government go beyond and waive debts altogether at least for the current quarter to provide succour to the micro, small and medium enterprises. “We need a stimulus package. That’s what the US is doing, Japan is doing, Europe is doing. We really haven’t decided on a large enough stimulus package. We are still talking about 1% of GDP,” Banerjee said, pointing out that the US has spent 10 per cent of GDP on fiscal stimulus.  He also suggested that the government needed to go beyond the UPA-era initiatives of MGNREGA and National Food Security Act to reach out to the people who have been left uncovered by these programmes. Banerjee appeared to disagree with Rahul’s push for a package to the MSME sector and instead made a strong pitch for putting cash in the hands of the people to spur demand to re-start the economic cycle. “It is not clear that targeting the MSME sector is the right channel. It is more reviving demand. Giving money in the hands of everybody, so that they can buy in stores or they buy consumer goods. So MSME produces a bunch of stuff that people will want….I think spending is the easiest way to revive the economy,” Banerjee said. Banerjee, an Indian-American economist, won the 2019 Nobel Prize in Economics, along with Esther Duflo of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Michael Kremer of Harvard University “for their experimental approach to alleviating global poverty”. “I think we have to be willing to take some amount of mistargeting, malfeasance. Some money will be stolen. But if we sit on our hands, and say that we don’t want to do anything that could go possibly wrong, then we’ll make sure it goes wrong,” the Nobel laureate said. He said the US too, the Republican administration run by a bunch of financiers, have realised that the need of the hour was to pump money into people's hands. “I think we should take a cue from that… they have decided that just for economic survival we need to pump money into people’s hands,” Banerjee pointed out. This was Rahul's second interaction with global and Indian thought leaders in an attempt to shore up his image that had taken a beating after the successive electoral losses to Narendra Modi. Last week, Rahul kicked off the series of interactions with former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/put-cash-in-peoples-hands-to-revive-economy-abhijit-banerjee-833702.html
05-05-2020||National||One more COVID-19 case reported in Odisha, total rises to 170||A person from Odisha's Ganjam district tested positive for novel coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 170, an official said. The fresh case has taken the Ganjam's count to three, he said. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 109, while 60 people have recovered from COVID-19. One person from Bhubaneswar has died of the disease on April 6. A total of 3,535 samples were tested in Odisha on Monday, which is the "state's highest in a day", the official said. The health department has tested 44,663 samples so far, he said. The highest number of cases were reported in Jajpur district (52), followed by 47 in Khurda district's Bhubaneswar, 21 each in Balasore and Bhadrak, 11 in Sundergarh and three in Ganjam. Two cases each have been reported in Jharsuguda, Kendrapara, Bolangir, Keonjhar and Kalahandi and one each in Cuttack, Puri, Dhenkanal, Deogarh and Koraput districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-more-covid-19-case-reported-in-odisha-total-rises-to-170-833703.html
05-05-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 1,568 in India; cases climb to 46,433||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,568 and the number of cases climbed to 46,433 in the country on Tuesday, the Union Health Ministry said.  The number of active cases stood at 32,138, while 12,726 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said.  The total number of cases also includes 111 foreign nationals. A total 179 deaths have been reported since Monday evening, of which 98 were from West Bengal, 35 from Maharashtra, 29 from Gujarat, six from Rajasthan, five from Uttar Pradesh, two from Punjab and one each from Chandigarh, Haryana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Of the 1,568 fatalities recorded so far, Maharashtra tops the tally with 583 deaths, followed by Gujarat at 319, Madhya Pradesh at 165, West Bengal at 133, Rajasthan at 77, Delhi at 64, Uttar Pradesh at 50 and Andhra Pradesh at 36. The death toll reached 31 in Tamil Nadu and 29 in Telangana, while Karnataka has reported 27 fatalities due to the respiratory disease. Punjab has registered 23 deaths, Jammu and Kashmir eight, Haryana six and Kerala and Bihar have reported four deaths each. Jharkhand has recorded three COVID-19 fatalities so far. Meghalaya, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Assam and Uttarakhand have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data. More than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to co-morbidity, the ministry said on its website. According to the health ministry data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra (14,541), followed by Gujarat (5,804), Delhi (4,898), Tamil Nadu (3,550), Rajasthan (3,061), Madhya Pradesh (2,942) and Uttar Pradesh (2,766). The number of confirmed cases has gone up to 1,650 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,259 in West Bengal. It has risen to 1,233 in Punjab, 1,085 in Telengana, 726 in Jammu and Kashmir, 651 in Karnataka, 528 in Bihar and 517 in Haryana. Kerala has reported 500 coronavirus cases so far, while Odisha has 169. A total of 115 people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand and 102 in Chandigarh. Uttarakhand has reported 60 cases so far, Chhattisgarh 58, Assam 43 and Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh have registered 41 cases each so far.  Thirty-three COVID-19 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Tripura has registered 29 cases, Meghalaya has reported 12, Puducherry eight and Goa has recorded seven cases so far. Manipur has two cases. Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-1568-in-india-cases-climb-to-46433-833704.html
05-05-2020||National||Special train with 1,200 migrant workers departs to Bihar from Telangana||A special train carrying about 1,200 migrant workers left for Khagaria in Bihar from Ghatkesar near here on Tuesday. "The Shramik Special Train left for Khagaria in Bihar this morning. All the passengers were screened before they were allowed to board," a senior south central railway official said. This is the second train arranged for the workers in Telangana. Similarly, another train from Rayannapadu near Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh left for Chandrapur in Maharashtra, the SCR official added. The Rachakonda Police in a statement said the train left for Khagaria at 3.05 AM from Ghatkesar station. Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat, Medchal collector Venkateshwarlu and other senior officials including from SCR supervised the departure. As many as 40 trains would be operated per day for one week beginning Tuesday to ferry stranded migrant labourers to their destinations from Telangana, an official release said on Monday night. The trains would start from various stations in the city, Warangal, Khammam and Ramagundam among other places.  They are destined to various places in Odisha, Bihar Jharkhand and West Bengal. On May 1, the first train carrying 1,225 migrant workers was run from the Lingampalli railway station here to Hatia in Jharkhand, after the Railway Ministry acceded to the request of the state government for facilitating their return. It was the first special train to be run by the railways to ferry the stranded migrants since its services were suspended due to the coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-train-with-1200-migrant-workers-departs-to-bihar-from-telangana-833708.html
05-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Telangana to run 40 trains a day for one week to send migrant workers home||In a major relief for migrant workers stranded in different parts of Telangana, the state government has said 40 special trains would be deployed per day for one week beginning Tuesday to ferry them to their native places in states, including Bihar and West Bengal. These trains will start from various stations in the city, Warangal, Khammam and Ramagundam among other places, a release from Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's office said late on Monday night, announcing the massive evacuation exercise amid the coronavirus lockdown. The destinations of these trains will be various places in Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal, it said, three days after the first such special train carrying 1,200 workers was operated from Telangana to Hatia in Jharkhand after the Railways acceded to the request of the state government. The Railways has announced operation of "Shramik Special" trains to ferry the migrant workers. Rao held a review meeting with senior officials on the hardships being faced by the labourers, stranded in different parts of the state. "The CM had taken a decision to run special trains for the migrant workers to reach their destination. The CM spoke to SC Railway General manager Sri Gajanan Mallya and requested him to arrange for 40 special trains from Tuesday," the release said. State Nodal officer Sandeep Kumar Sultania and Additional DG of police Jitender have been appointed as special officers to oversee the return of the stranded workers, the release said. Many workers have already registered their names to go to their native places by the special trains. The Chief Minister appealed them not to be distressed as his government was making necessary arrangements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-telangana-to-run-40-trains-a-day-for-one-week-to-send-migrant-workers-home-833712.html
05-05-2020||National||Part of Shastri Bhavan floor sealed after law ministry official tests COVID-19 positive||The Shastri Bhavan, which houses a number of central ministries located near Parliament House, was partially sealed on Tuesday after an official in the Ministry of Law and Justice tested positive for COVID-19. The offices of Ministry of Law and Justice as well as Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in the fourth floor of the building will remain closed till Wednesday for sanitisation. Officials said the contact tracing process has been initiated to identify those who were in touch with the official who tested positive with the virus infection.  Senior officers of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has been asked to work from the media wing operating in the same complex. Earlier, the NITI Aayog and Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan, where the Ministry of Civil Aviation functions, were also sealed after staff there tested positive for the virus infection. The headquarters of CRPF and BSF were also sealed in the past couple of days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/part-of-shastri-bhavan-floor-sealed-after-law-ministry-official-tests-covid-19-positive-833713.html
05-05-2020||National||Ashok Leyland develops low-cost ventilator||Ashok Leyland, one of India’s leading commercial vehicle manufacturers, says it has developed a low-cost ventilator with all essential features to aide First Mile ventilation as part of its efforts to help contain COVID-19 in the country. The development of ventilator, which was done by a team of 50 Ashok Leyland engineers, is now complete, while testing, certification and clinical trials will conclude in the next few weeks, with the mass manufacture of this system starting this month. “In the mid-range and high-end ICU ventilator segments, Ashok Leyland is working with two Chennai based ventilator manufacturers viz. Kriti Kare India Pvt Ltd, a manufacturer of the ACUvent ventilators since 2014 and Phoenix Medical Systems Pvt Ltd, a 30-year-old firm who are market leaders,” the company said in a statement. It also added that the company is offering help with component sourcing, supply chain, logistics, manpower for production planning and in line-quality which will help both the ventilator manufacturers to overcome the challenge of large-scale production in a short duration of time. “Our sourcing and engineering teams have been working 24x7 on these three projects. We are humbled that our efforts in developing these ventilators and support to ventilator makers will help the government to prepare themselves for the future needs of people needing ventilator care,” Vipin Sondhi, Managing Director, and CEO, Ashok Leyland, said. Ashok Leyland was approached by the Government of India and the Government of Tamil Nadu to work with and support ventilator makers and help them improve supply chain and output capacity. In response, the Company took a holistic approach to address the entire gamut of requirements in COVID-19 patient breathing assistance, rather than working with just one party and one product, the statement said. After discussing with various clinical experts and intensivists, the company identified the gap that there was no ready solution available for relevant and robust first-mile ventilation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashok-leyland-develops-low-cost-ventilator-833729.html
05-05-2020||National||14,800 Indians from 13 nations likely to return as India embarks on 'massive' coronavirus repatriation||These special flights would be operated by Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express to repatriate Indians from 12 countries -- the UAE, the UK, the US, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines, Bangladesh, Bahrain, Kuwait and Oman, said the officials. Therefore, the Ministry of Home Affairs announced on Monday it will facilitate the return of asymptomatic Indian nationals stranded abroad from May 7 onwards, in a phased manner, through aircraft and naval ships on a payment basis. Between May 7 and 13, India is likely to conduct 10 flights to the UAE, seven flights each to the US and the UK, five to Saudi Arabia, five to Singapore and two flights to Qatar, the officials told PTI. It is also likely to conduct seven flights each to Malaysia and Bangladesh, five each to Kuwait and Philippines, two each to Oman and Bahrain, the officials noted.  Out of the 64 repatriation flights, 15 would be from Kerala, 11 each would be from Delhi and Tamil Nadu, seven each would be from Maharashtra and Telangana, and remaining flights would be from five other states, the officials said. "Approximately 14,800 Indian nationals are likely to return to the country through these 64 flights during the seven-day period. The government will run more repatriation flights after May 13," one of the officials said. India banned all incoming international flights in late March as it imposed one of the world's strictest virus lockdowns, leaving vast numbers of workers and students stranded.  A defence spokesman told AFP on Tuesday that two ships were steaming towards the Maldives and another to the United Arab Emirates -- home to a 3.3-million-strong Indian community, who make up around 30 percent of the Gulf state's population.   The UAE has been the most vocal among Gulf countries in demanding governments take workers back, with almost 23,000 having left as of April 20. But New Delhi had until now refused to cooperate, balking at the logistical and safety nightmare of repatriating and quarantining millions of returning citizens. India had earlier evacuated some 2,500 Indians from China, Japan, Iran and Italy before banning international and domestic travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14800-indians-from-13-nations-likely-to-return-as-india-embarks-on-massive-coronavirus-repatriation-833734.html
05-05-2020||National||Col Sharma killed in Kashmir anti-terror operation cremated in Jaipur||Col Ashutosh Sharma, who was killed during an anti-terror operation in north Kashmir, was cremated with full military honours in Jaipur on Tuesday morning. His wife Pallavi Sharma and brother lit the funeral pyre at a cremation ground in the presence of other family members and Army officers. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and South Western Army chief Lt Gen Alok Kler paid tributes to Col Sharma at Jaipur Military Station's 61, Cavalry Ground. They consoled Col Sharma's family members as Pallavi put up a brave face and greeting them with folded hands. Soldier Welfare Minister Pratap Singh, MP Rajyavardhan Rathore, Jaipur Collector Jogaram and other senior officials of the Army laid wreaths and paid their tributes.  A unit of the South Western Command gave a guard of honour to Col Sharma and three volley gun shots were fired. Colonel Sharma was among the five security personnel killed in the encounter on Sunday. He is the second Commanding Officer of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles who lost his life in combating terrorism. PTI SDA ABH ABH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/col-sharma-killed-in-kashmir-anti-terror-operation-cremated-in-jaipur-833735.html
05-05-2020||National||Lockdown: Chhattisgarh launches portal for home delivery of liquor||The Chhattisgarh government has launched a web portal for home delivery of liquor in green zones of the state to avoid crowding at wine shops during the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, an official said on Tuesday. The portal has been named after the state-run CSMCL (Chhattisgarh State Marketing Corporation Limited), which controls the sale of liquor in the state, a public relations department official here said. The liquor shops, which were closed since March 23, opened from Monday across the state, except in the COVID-19 containment zones and shopping malls, following the Centres decision to ease some curbs during the lockdown. But, a large number of people queued up outside liquor outlets in the state capital Raipur and other districts, defying the physical distancing norms. "The state government has given permission for the online sale of liquor so that crowding at wine shops can be discouraged," the official said. People can book orders directly through the CSMCL website or its mobile app available on the Play Store. However, the home delivery facility will not be available in Raipur and Korba districts which are not classified as green zones, the official said.  The Centre has classified districts as red, orange and green zones based on the COVID-19 risk profiling. People will have to register their mobile number, Aadhaar number and address for placing the order online which will be confirmed through an OTP (one-time password). A customer can order up to 5,000 ml of liquor at a time for home delivery, the official said, adding that the delivery charge is Rs 120. The main opposition BJP termed the state governments decision of home delivery of liquor as "shameful" and demanded that it be withdrawn. The Congress, which came to power, after promising to ban liquor is now delivering liquor at home. It is a very shameful decision, Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Dharamlal Kaushik said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-chhattisgarh-launches-portal-for-home-delivery-of-liquor-833736.html
05-05-2020||National||Commerce ministry recommends continuation of anti-dumping duty on Chinese chemical||The commerce ministry has recommended for continuation of anti-dumping duty on a Chinese chemical used in food and pharma industry with a view to guard domestic players from cheap imports. In a notification, the ministry's investigation arm Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) has said there is "positive" evidence of likelihood of dumping of Sodium Citrate and injury to the domestic industry if the existing anti-dumping duty would be removed. "The designated authority considers it appropriate to recommend continuation of definitive anti-dumping duty" on the chemical, it has said. The directorate has recommended two duties USD 96.05 per tonne and USD 152.78 per tonne. The finance ministry takes the final decision to impose this duty. In its probe, the directorate has concluded there is continued dumping of the product from China and "the imports are likely to enter the Indian market at dumped prices in the event of expiry of duty". The revenue department had imposed duty in May 2015 for five years. It ends on May 19 this year.  "Before the expiry of the said duty, Posy Pharmachem Pvt Ltd, constituting the domestic industry has filed a duly substantiated application before the authority...for initiation of sunset review investigation concerning imports of Sodium Citrate originating in or exported from China, alleging likelihood of continuation or recurrence of dumping and consequent injury to the domestic industry in case of cessation of existing anti-dumping duties," it added. In international trade parlance, dumping happens when a country or a firm exports an item at a price lower than the price of that product in its domestic market. Dumping impacts the price of that product in the importing country, hitting margins and profits of manufacturing firms. According to global trade norms, a country is allowed to impose tariffs on such dumped products to provide a level-playing field to domestic manufacturers. The duty is imposed only after a thorough investigation by a quasi-judicial body, such as DGTR, in India.     In its probe, the directorate has to conclude whether the imported products are impacting domestic industries. The imposition of anti-dumping duty is permissible under the World Trade Organization (WTO) regime. India and China are members of this Geneva-based organisation, which deals with global trade norms. China is a key trading partner of India.   The duty is aimed at ensuring fair trading practices and creating a level-playing field for domestic producers vis-a-vis foreign producers and exporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/commerce-ministry-recommends-continuation-of-anti-dumping-duty-on-chinese-chemical-833742.html
05-05-2020||National||Three J-K photojournalists win 2020 Pulitzer Prize in feature photography||Congratulatory messages have been pouring in for three photojournalists from Jammu and Kashmir who have won the 2020 Pulitzer Prize in feature photography for their work during the shutdown in the region following abrogation of Article 370 in August last year. Mukhtar Khan, Yasin Dar and Channi Anand -- three photojournalists working with the Associated Press (AP)  -- were among those who were awarded the Pulitzer last night.  "It's been a difficult year for journalists in Kashmir & that's saying something considering the last 30 years haven't exactly been easy. Congratulations to @daryasin, @muukhtark_khan & @channiap on this prestigious award. More power to your cameras," National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said in a tweet.  Iltija Mufti, daughter of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti,  while congratulating the photojournalists, said the scribes from the union territory were winning accolades abroad but are punished back home. "Congratulations @daryasin @muukhtark_khan for your exemplary photography capturing the humanitarian crisis in Kashmir post illegal abrogation of Article 370. Bizarre that our journalists win accolades abroad but are punished under draconian laws on home turf," she tweeted from her mother's Twitter account. The journalist fraternity has also hailed the first Pulitzer winners from Jammu and Kashmir.  "A proud moment for all in our tribe across Jammu and Kashmir and beyond," veteran journalist Yusuf Jameel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-j-k-photojournalists-win-2020-pulitzer-prize-in-feature-photography-833743.html
05-05-2020||National||SC dismisses plea by ex UP DGP to quash FIRs lodged for violating lockdown||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-by-ex-up-dgp-to-quash-firs-lodged-for-violating-lockdown-833748.html
05-05-2020||National||Coronavirus pandemic moves protests indoor or virtually||From at-home hunger strikes to sloganeering from terraces, trending hashtags to video campaigns and online petitions -- protests in the country have adjusted to the lockdown by moving either indoors or to the virtual world. Several protests and mass movements across Delhi and the country were at their peak when the coronavirus threat slowly crept in, throwing normal life out of gear and pushing everyone indoors to ensure social distancing. However, voices still need to be raised against issues and injustice, say several protesters who have attempted to make their voice heard despite the lockdown imposed to combat COVID-19. Innovative protest methods are being used not just by citizens and activists, but also by politicians, who are experimenting with unique ways to target opponents, including observing fasts and hoisting the tricolour on rooftops. In April, scores of students stuck in different hostels and paying guest accommodations in Rajasthan's coaching hub Kota protested from their respective terraces, demanding that they be sent home. "We formed circles on terraces of our hostels or PGs and wearing masks we staged protests there ensuring social distancing. We held posters and shot videos of us raising slogans about our demands of being evacuated from here. And I must say the collective effort worked and the government did pay attention to our issue gradually," Rishika Jain, an engineering aspirant who was stuck in Kota, told PTI. Over 1,200 workers from Jammu and Kashmir who had completed their 14-day quarantine period at different camps in Punjab's Pathankot district also went on a hunger strike for three days, seeking to be sent to their home towns in the Union Territory. JNU students, who are at the forefront of various protest movements, are continuing their momentum by taking their agitations and campaigns online. "Though the water canons must be resting in police stations but the need to object and fight for our rights cannot rest or be put on hold because of the lockdown. And its a lockdown only for citizens, police have been active in cracking down on activists, slapping sedition charges and other draconian acts," a JNU student said. The JNU Students Union chief, Aishe Ghosh, said, "During this very lockdown, they confiscated the mobile phone of our colleague Kawalpreet Kaur, they arrested Jamia students. Rather than intensifying efforts to mitigate the humanitarian crisis that has emerged during the lockdown, the government is busy cracking down on activists." "We have launched an online campaign, where we are holding posters and the pictures are being uploaded on social media to trend a particular campaign and let our voices be heard," she added. The Left backed All India Students Association (AISA) has launched various campaigns, including 'Attack Corona not Activists', 'Stop Student Witchhunt', 'Drop UAPA' and a movement demanding the release of Safoora Zargar, a pregnant activist arrested in connection with the communal violence that flared up in Delhi in February over the country's contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Politicians are also not behind in adopting unique methods to protest. Telugu Desam Party MLA Gadde Rammohan and his wife and party leader Gadde Anuradha went on a 12-hour hunger strike, demanding that the government pay Rs 5,000 each to the families that have lost their livelihoods due to the lockdown. On May 1, Punjab Congress leaders hoisted the tricolour on rooftops of their homes to protest the Centre's alleged discrimination against the state in extending fiscal support to fight the COVID-19 crisis. The BJP's Punjab unit countered the Congress's spectacle, with its leaders and workers observing a fast over the alleged non-distribution of foodgrains to the poor and the needy by the state government during the lockdown. Several online petitions have been started by active citizens during the period, including against fee hike by schools, non-payment of salaries by employers and discrimination by landlords against tenants involved in essential services, among others. The country has been under lockdown since March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus. While the lockdown has been extended now till May 17, several restrictions have been lifted in areas under orange and green zones from Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-pandemic-moves-protests-indoor-or-virtually-833749.html
05-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: HRD Ministry announces dates for JEE-Advanced, JEE-Mains, and NEET exams||The JEE Mains examinations would be conducted from July 18-23, while the NEET UG 2020 examinations would be held on July 26, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said here on Tuesday. The minister said the JEE Advanced exam will be conducted in the month of August and the date of the exam will be announced in the due course of time. The minister was addressing the students’ query through a webinar on Twitter and Facebook.  He also informed the students that other examinations will be conducted anytime after June 15. The dates of other exams including UGC NET exam will also be announced shortly, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-hrd-ministry-announces-dates-for-jee-advanced-jee-mains-and-neet-exams-833751.html
05-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Supreme Court dismisses plea by ex-UP DGP to quash FIRs on lockdown violations||A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai asked Singh's counsel senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayana as to why Section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant) of the IPC should not be invoked. "If this should not be invoked, then how can the lockdown be imposed?You want there should be no FIR. We are wondering why such kinds of petitions are coming to this court," the bench said. The counsel contended that more than 75,000 FIRs have been registered.He claimed the petitioner has experience on field.  "We can't have a rule of law which is selective. You can have one rule of law for those who have to travel by chartered flights and another for the migrants and the poor workers who faced the FIR even for withdrawing money from ATMs," the counsel said. The bench, however, remained unimpressed and dismissed the plea. In his plea, chairman of a think tank 'Centre for Accountability and Systemic Change' (CASC), Singh submitted that registering of FIRs incessantly under Section 188 (disobeying order by public servant) of the IPC was "antithesis to Rule ofLaw, and violated Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution".  He cited Section 195 of the Criminal Procedure Code saying that it mandated that only a Magistrate can take cognisance of an offence under Section 188 IPC, and that too on a complaint submitted by a public servant. Singh asked the court to issue directions under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to the various state governments to refrain from filing complaints or registering FIRs under Section 188 or other petty offences. "Coronavirus has caused a global pandemic, in which every person is suffering. The situation needs to be handled humanely, and it will be best to avoid adding aspects of criminality, wherever possible," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-supreme-court-dismisses-plea-by-ex-up-dgp-to-quash-firs-on-lockdown-violations-833759.html
05-05-2020||National||Kerala expats in Gulf must be brought back; blue collar workers should not be charged: Tharoor||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Tuesday said all registered expatriates from Kerala in the Gulf region who want to return should be brought back and poor blue-collar workers must not be charged by the government for the journey. The Thiruvananthapuram MP's remarks come a day after the Home Ministry said plans to bring back Indians stranded abroad due the coronavirus pandemic have been chalked out by the government and the process will begin from May 7 in a phased manner. The Home Ministry also said it will be a paid service. Tharoor, who held an interactive session with some NRIs in the Gulf on Monday, said one major wish is that Kerala must bring back all registered 'Pravasis' as soon as possible so that before the rains start in early June and viruses spread, Kerala can be back to normal.  "Otherwise we will face a health and economic disaster," he said in a tweet. He urged Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to speak with the central government and get Air India, local airlines and naval ships to offer many services daily to finish repatriation in the next 20 days.  "They should not charge poor blue-collar workers, many of whom have not been paid for a month, for this either," Tharoor said. "It was bad enough that poor migrant workers within India were charged to return home when they didn't even have money to eat. Doing the same to poor pravasis whose remittances kept our economy afloat in hard times would add insult to injury. Yet that's what the government intends to do," he said.  Tharoor also said it was wrong to restrict repatriation only to “essential” or emergency cases.  "Let everyone who needs to come back for whatever reason do so. Returning home is a human right for any Indian citizen. Other democracies have accepted this principle in evacuating their nationals," the former minister of state for external affairs said. If in initial flights, priorities have to be observed, pravasi representatives have asked for people with mental and physical disabilities to be included in high priority lists, Tharoor said. Also, insisting on COVID-free certification is neither practical nor necessary since arrivals must be isolated anyway, he said. "For the indigent, if the state government can pay 50 per cent of the fare, there are Non Resident Keralite volunteer organizations like OICC/INCAS & KMCC who can cover the remaining 50 per cent. If Centre refuses to waive charges, state government should use this method of covering 50 per cent of the ticket fare + seek donations," he tweeted.     Tharoor, in his tweets, also raised the issue of pregnant women with tickets to travel home in March for delivery in May/June are disallowed on commercial flights with late-stage pregnancy.  NRIs have appealed to the central government to arrange a special "medical flight" for pregnant women who cannot afford to deliver abroad, he said. The Home Ministry has said only people showing no symptoms of COVID-19 will be allowed to travel. After arrival in India, their medical examination will be conducted and they will be subsequently put under quarantine for 14 days, either in a hospital or in an institutional facility, also on payment basis, it has said in a statement. According to an estimate, the number of Indian nationals stranded abroad could be in lakhs. Their travel would be arranged by the government by aircraft and naval ships.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-expats-in-gulf-must-be-brought-back-blue-collar-workers-should-not-be-charged-tharoor-833760.html
05-05-2020||National||Bus carrying migrant workers hits truck in Odisha, 1 dead||One person died and five others were injured when a bus ferrying Odia migrant workers from Telangana rammed into a truck in Odisha's Khurda district on Tuesday, police said. The accident took place when the driver of the bus carrying around 40 people to Banki in Cuttack district apparently lost control and hit the truck on NH-16 near Kuhudi under the jurisdiction of Tangi police station, a senior officer said. Driver of the bus died in the accident while five migrant workers suffered minor injuries and were taken to a nearby hospital, Khurda Superintendent of Police A P Swain said. The injured persons have been discharged from the hospital after being provided medical aid, he said. Most of the passengers of the bus hail from Banki and some others are from Nimapara and Jagatsinghpur, the police officer said, adding that the arrangements have been made for them to travel to their respective destinations.  This is the fourth road accident involving buses carrying Odia migrants stranded in different parts of the country due to the nationwide lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bus-carrying-migrant-workers-hits-truck-in-odisha-1-dead-833767.html
05-05-2020||National||Kishore Kumar's letter to Satyajit Ray latest find in filmmaker's closet||A letter written to Satyajit Ray by Kishore Kumar way back in 1963 is the latest find in the treasure trove of keepsake recently unboxed at the auteur's Bishop Lefroy Roadhouse here by his son, Sandip Ray, a well- known filmmaker himself. The letter, made available to the media, was written by the legendary singer, explaining to Ray why he won't be able to come down to Kolkata from Mumbai at that point in time for recording a song for the iconic film 'Charulata' -- which was based on Rabindranath Tagore's novella 'Nastanirh' (The Broken Nest). Addressing Ray as 'Manik mama', Kumar had said, "I would deem it a great pleasure to sing in your film under your direction. You have asked me to come down in Calcutta, but I am afraid I shall not be able to make myself free in the near future, because I shall be shooting almost every day of this month (November 1963). "Moreover my mother is very sick since she returned from Hardwar, about a week back. At present, it will not be wise on my part to leave her alone according to doctor's advice." Inviting Ray and his wife over to Mumbai, Kumar had further said in the letter -- shared with media persons by son Amit Kumar -- he would make all arrangements to ensure that the song is recorded there without any hassle. "It would be very convenient for me if you would kindly take the trouble of coming down to Bombay with Monkumashi (Ray's wife Bijoya Ray) and stay at my place and record the song any time during 26th to 30th of this month. I believe you won't have any difficulty. "If you approve of the proposal I shall make all arrangements for recording at a very reasonable rate (re: musicians and recording) and by any chance, if you cannot approve of the proposal I shall really feel sorry, but in any case, I shall adjust myself whatever might be the situation," the king of melody had said in the letter dated November 4, 1963. Amit Kumar, his son and a playback singer, during a virtual press meet on Monday, said Ray had probably agreed to fly down to Mumbai in December that year and the song was eventually recorded. He also said that the two families were distantly related. "I rang up my cousin Sandip Ray, who was looking for ways to beat lockdown blues. He was searching the boxes lying at his father's room when he came across this unique memorabilia among other things," Amit Kumar said, adding that he was glad that he could share it with common people. The song 'Ami chini go chini', a rabindrasangeet, features veteran actors Soumitra Chatterjee and Madhabi Mukhopadhyay the two leads of 'Charulata'. Sandip Ray said the lockdown discoveries from the master filmmaker's closet are of great archival value. Among other things, he has unearthed unseen negatives from the sets of the auteur's films, and letters from stalwarts such as Akira Kurosawa and Richard Attenborough. "We are hopeful there will be many more surprises," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kishore-kumars-letter-to-satyajit-ray-latest-find-in-filmmakers-closet-833768.html
05-05-2020||National||Body of unidentified woman found in car in south Delhi's Lodhi colony||The body of an unidentified woman was found in a car in south Delhi's Lodhi Colony area on Tuesday, police said. "The body of a woman (around 32 years) was found in a car with a visible injury on her head. However, the nature of injury will be confirmed only after the postmortem," said Atul Kumar Thakur, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South). The body has been sent to AIIMS for postmortem, he said. A case of murder has been registered at Lodhi Colony police station and further investigation is underway, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/body-of-unidentified-woman-found-in-car-in-south-delhis-lodhi-colony-833770.html
05-05-2020||National||Maharashtra: COVID-19 cases rise in rural areas of Thane||Rural areas of Maharashtra's Thane district have witnessed a spike in coronavirus cases, with 16 persons testing positive from the region in the last two days, a health official said on Tuesday. Earlier, the rural parts of the district would record only one or two cases a day, but 16 persons tested positive for the infection in the last two days, taking the tally to 47 in the region, district health officer Dr Manish Renge said. The rise can be attributed to policemen and civic officials who work in Mumbai and return to their villages over the weekend, he said. At least eight policemen had tested positive in Badlapur alone, he said, adding that high-risk contacts of such patients were under surveillance. Meanwhile, 18 persons, including three policemen, tested positive for COVID-19 in Kalyan Dombivli municipal limits on Monday, KDMC's public relations officer Madhuri Phopale said. At least three patients, including an 18-month-old baby girl, were discharged following recovery, she added.  According to reports, Thane district, comprising Navi Mumbai, Kalyan, Thane rural and city, has 1,278 coronavirus cases, of which 33 patients have died. While the count of coronavirus cases in Palghar district has reached 179 and the toll stands at 10. As per data, Thane city has recorded 412 cases, followed by Navi Mumbai with 348, Kalyan with 213, Mira Bhayander at 181 and Thane Rural at 47.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-covid-19-cases-rise-in-rural-areas-of-thane-833773.html
05-05-2020||National||Major Anuj Sood killed in Handwara encounter cremated||Major Anuj Sood, who was killed in an anti-terror operation in north Kashmir, was cremated will full military honours here on Tuesday. He was among the five security forces personnel who died on Saturday night in an encounter while fighting militants in Handwara area of frontier district Kupwara in Jammu and Kashmir, an operation in which the Army also lost a colonel. Touching scenes were witnessed moments before his last rites when the body was taken from his Panchkula residence to the cremation ground in Mani Majra here. His wife Akriti threw her arms around the coffin to bid adieu just before the body was put on a bedecked army vehicle. Major Sood's sister Harshita, who is also an Army officer, was seen consoling her sister-in-law at the Panchkula residence and later at the cremation ground. The Army officer's mortal remains had arrived here from Srinagar on Monday afternoon. Slogans like "Vande Mataram", "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" and "Major Anuj Amar Rahe" were raised as Major Sood's body, wrapped in tricolour, was taken to the cremation ground. Before the cremation, floral wreaths were laid by many serving and retired Army officers among others. Anti-Terrorist Front of India President, Viresh Shandilya, while laying floral wreaths raised "Pakistan Murdabad" and "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" slogans. Later, when the cremation took place, only the family members were allowed inside the cremation ground to ensure social distancing norms were followed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Besides Army officer's family members including his wife, his father and sister, senior Army officers were also present during the cremation. A guard of honour was given to Major Sood by the Army and three-volley gunshots were fired. The Army officer's funeral pyre was lit by his father.      Major Sood's father, Brigadier Chandrakant Sood (retd), had earlier told the media that the news of the death left him shocked, but at the same time, he was proud of the supreme sacrifice the officer had made for his motherland. "He was a true son of the nation," he had said at his Panchkula home. The 30-year-old Army officer who was from the Brigade of the Guards regiment, part of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles and an alumnus of Punjab Public School, Nabha, had joined the National Defence Academy in 2008. He had one dream, which was to join the Army, according to his family. His family said he was scheduled to return home after a gap of six months and having finished his two-year stint in Jammu and Kashmir, he was to join the 12 Guards unit in Gurdaspur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/major-anuj-sood-killed-in-handwara-encounter-cremated-833776.html
05-05-2020||National||Will intensify anti-militancy ops further: J&K police chief||Asserting that anti-militancy operations will be intensified further across Kashmir in the coming days, Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh Tuesday said at times security forces bear losses in the form of killing of its men. Talking to reporters in Srinagar on the sidelines of wreath-laying ceremony of three CRPF men killed in a brief shoot out in Handwara area of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Monday, he said, “After covering their area, the CRPF men were standing in an orchard and they saw some civilians coming and asked them to stop.” “There were two militants behind civilians who fired at the CRPF men, who retaliated fully. In between, a mentally unsound boy got stuck and he also died,” Singh said. Asked whether militants have intensified their attacks on security forces, the police chief said security arrangements will be further strengthened and anti-militancy operations further intensified across Kashmir.” “You must have seen that security arrangements were already strengthened and anti-militancy operations were going on and these will be further intensified,” he asserted. On the recent Handwara encounter in which five security personnel, including a colonel, were killed, Singh said, “The militants were chased for three days after which they were zeroed in at a house. Security forces have to bear losses in the form of killing of its men, at times.” He said that wherever security forces get information about militants, operations are launched and militants are being chased. “We will continue to chase the militants involved in the attacks on forces,” the police chief said. Replying to a query whether the police was facing multiple challenges in times of COVID-19 pandemic, he said, “Police personnel in thousands are everywhere on roads, quarantine centres, with screening teams, contact tracing, at red zones, orange zones and at the same time maintaining law and order and also fighting militants very effectively. Our men are fulfilling all responsibilities in a professional manner.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-intensify-anti-militancy-ops-further-jk-police-chief-833785.html
05-05-2020||National||No community transmission of COVID-19, behavioural changes may be new 'healthy' normal: Harsh Vardhan||India has so far been able to stave off community transmission of COVID-19, says Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, expressing the hope that “behavioural changes" brought about by the infection could become the “new normal” for a healthy society after the pandemic abates. Underlining the importance of the lockdown, which has been extended till May 17, the minister said health should be on the radar just as much as the economy. “The government has to do a balancing act,” he said. On Tuesday, the number of COVID-19 cases shot up to 46,433 from the 42,836 the day before, a sharp rise of 3,597 cases, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll has risen to 1,568 from 1,389.   "Once the havoc caused by the virus subsides and the crisis blows over, people may remember it as a blessing in disguise," Vardhan said. He added that India has so far been able to keep itself from “slipping into the stage of community transmission of the novel coronavirus”. "By now we know that fighting coronavirus is no rocket science. If behavioural changes such as hand, environmental and respiratory hygiene, which are being practiced more rigorously during this period, get imbibed in society it will become the new normal," Vardhan said. Such practices will bring down the instances of communicable diseases and society will evolve for the better, he stressed.  Other than small pox and polio, no other viral infection has been completely eradicated from this country. Other diseases keep recurring, the minister said, indicating that COVID-19 might be here for the long haul. “But every cloud has a silver lining,” he said. The situation posed by the COVID-19 pandemic can be seen as an opportunity to shore up  health infrastructure and indigenous production of medical equipment and protective gear under the 'Make in India' initiative, the minister explained. "We have ramped up the production of COVID-19 protective gears like PPE (personal protection equipment) and N-95 masks. Testing facilities have been scaled up significantly,” he said. Efforts are also on to ramp up the production of APIs (active pharmaceutical ingredients), the raw material for pharmaceuticals, Vardhan added.  "Thus, this pandemic can be seen as an opportunity to boost the indigenous production of such items, thereby reducing India's dependency on foreign countries for them which are in high demand globally due to the pandemic," he said. The minister also discussed the chaos outside liquor vends across the country on Monday as several states relaxed the lockdown in accordance with guidelines from the Union Home Ministry and people in several places jostled and shoved to stock up on their alcohol without any thought to social distancing norms. "We have to weigh every decision objectively and predict their consequences before implementing them to ensure there is no spike in cases."    He said the doubling rate of cases in the country has been showing regular improvement and stands at over 12 days now as against three days before March 25, when the nationwide lockdown began. The recovery rate has also progressively  improved, he said. Around 27.40 per cent patients have recovered so far in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-community-transmission-of-covid-19-behavioural-changes-may-be-new-healthy-normal-harsh-vardhan-833789.html
05-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: World's largest evacuation begins as India brings back citizens||By Anurag Kotoky and Sudhi Ranjan Sen India will deploy commercial jets, military transport planes and naval warships to bring back hundreds of thousands of citizens stranded across the world, in what’s set to be the biggest-ever peacetime repatriation exercise in history. The plan to evacuate citizens follows India’s move to partially ease movement restrictions in many parts of the world’s second-most populous nation after 40 days of strict stay-at-home orders. Millions of Indians were stuck around the world, from the Gulf to Europe and the U.S., after Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed the lockdown on March 25 to check the spread of the virus. The outbreak has already infected more than 46,000 in India and killed almost 1,600. At least four Indian Navy Ships, including two large tank landing vessels, sailed on Tuesday, three to the Gulf region and another one to the Maldives, which will bring back stranded Indians. The Indian Air Force has prepared about 30 aircraft, including Boeing Co.’s C-17 Globemaster and Lockheed Martin Corp.’s C-130J Super Hercules, for the mission. Air India Ltd., which has a fleet including Boeing 777 and 787 Dreamliner aircraft, will also operate special, non-scheduled commercial flights from London Heathrow starting May 7. People wanting to come back must pay for their journey, the Indian government said in a statement Monday. All passengers will be screened, only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed on board, and they will be quarantined for 14 days before having to go through a virus test, the government said.  In the U.A.E. alone, almost 200,000 Indians have applied to come back, according to a statement tweeted by the Consulate General of India in Dubai. Priority will be given to pregnant women, the elderly, people with medical emergencies and ones with bereavement or serious illness in their immediate family, apart from stranded tourists, according to a notice posted on the website of the Indian High Commission in London. The U.S. has repatriated about 78,000 of its citizens as of May 4, while European nations have evacuated more than 65,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-worlds-largest-evacuation-begins-as-india-brings-back-citizens-833791.html
05-05-2020||National||Fear of COVID-19, hefty corona fee on liquor fail to deter tipplers||Undeterred by the threat of coronavirus infection or the 'special corona fee' of 70 per cent levied on alcohol, hundreds of tipplers queued up outside liquor vends in the national capital for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, keeping the police on their toes. Long queues were formed outside the vends in Krishna Nagar and Vishwas Nagar, and a large number of policemen stood outside to manage the crowd and ensure social distancing. At some places, like the Gole Market in central Delhi, although the liquor shops were shut, baton-wielding paramilitary personnel were also deployed to keep the crowd at bay. About 150 government-run liquor shops have been allowed to open from 9 am to 6.30 pm as per the latest lockdown relaxations allowed by the Ministry of Home Affairs. On Monday, many liquor shops downed their shutters after crowds turned unruly, showing little care about social distancing. Late in the night, the Delhi government levied a 70 per cent 'special corona fee' on the sale of liquor. The new rate is applicable from Tuesday. The special branch of the Delhi police has also prepared a report suggesting extending the timings of the liquor sale in Delhi after chaos outside shops on Monday. To ensure that he gets his stock of liquor, Bharat Kumar, a resident of Burari, stood outside the liquor shop since 8 am -- the shop opens at 9. But there were many even ahead of him. "I was in queue for liquor since 8 am. Despite this, it took me one and half hour to buy three liquor bottles," he said.  Asked about the government's decision to impose a hefty 'corona fee' to discourage tipplers, he said, "It will not affect us. People will get liquor from Gurgaon, Noida and Ghaziabad." But there were many who still could not manage to buy liquor for the second day. "I searched for some shops in Krishna Nagar but there were long queues of around 400-500 people. Here, the shop has not been opened and policemen are sending us back. It's not fair, the government has raised the price so much and still there are problems if one tries to buy it," said Raj Kumar, 38, who had come to a liquor shop in Shakarpur in east Delhi. Ramesh, who declined to share his second name, said he was trying his luck after failing to buy liquor bottles from nearby shops because of the huge crowd. "Yesterday, I waited for two hours in a queue outside a shop but the police closed it after the crowd became unruly," Ramesh said. Rajbir Singh, in his late 40s, tried his luck at a liquor vend behind Regal Cinema in central Delhi, but failed. "I only have one peg every fortnight. But I have not had even that for long," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fear-of-covid-19-hefty-corona-fee-on-liquor-fail-to-deter-tipplers-833792.html
05-05-2020||National||Centre to bring back stranded Indians from Nepal and other countries, SC told||The Union government is going to bring back all Indians, stranded in various countries, including in Nepal, through special chartered flights, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Tuesday. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, and B R Gavai disposed of a PIL by Ganga Giri Goswami for the evacuation of stranded Indians in Nepal after recording Solicitor General Tushar Mehta's statement that May 7 onwards Indians from various countries would be brought back. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves submitted that as many as 1,000 Nepali workers had to go back to Nepal. A large number have been sent back. There were however still big numbers left in Champawat Loharghat and other places. He said the government must know that in these places workers were still stranded. It may look into this. Gonsalves also said about 1,000 Indians were stranded in Nepal in precarious situations.   On this, Mehta said there are a few Indians stranded in Nepal. I have got the instructions from the Ministry of External Affairs that Indians stranded in other countries would be brought back, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-bring-back-stranded-indians-from-nepal-and-other-countries-sc-told-833796.html
05-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Supreme Court refuses to pass any order on travel of migrant workers||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to pass any order to the Centre on a plea for allowing travel of migrant workers to their native place, saying that all necessary steps were being taken by the Union and state governments. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai found the government has already issued an order on March 29 for the travel of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists and students who had been stranded at different places and could not move from one place to another. The court also noted the order of May 1, issued by the Ministry of Railways on running “Shramik Special” trains to move migrant workers, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places due to lockdown.  It disposed of a PIL filed jointly by Jagdeep Chhokar, former director in charge of IIM-Ahmedabad and advocate Gaurav Jain.  Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the petitioners, however, contended that there were still some problems.  "So, you must have the last word," the bench asked him. To this, Bhushan said there are some problems as the workers were being charged Rs 700- 800 for travel. On this, the bench pointed out there were reports that 85 % cost was being borne by the Centre. Bhushan then said even 15% was too much for the workers. He also contended that April 29 notification stated that the travel was not meant for all migrant workers. "The order says clearly that this is only for those people who have come recently and are stranded. This is creating a problem," he said, adding there should not be any restrictions on their travel. He also said migrants were being told to go to hospital to get certificates that they do not suffer from Covid-19. The situation is becoming more extreme, he said.  Appearing for the Centre, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the government was taking stock of the situation on daily basis.  Even when the petition was filed the scheme to let them go back was being finalised, he pointed out. Mehta also said the ground situations were being monitored. "For example, when a migrant labour goes back he or she will have to placed under quarantine. The government has been proactive. We are concerned with the migrant worker. We have to ensure social distancing norms were followed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-supreme-court-refuses-to-pass-any-order-on-travel-of-migrant-workers-833799.html
05-05-2020||National||EPFO releases total Rs 764 cr to pensioners for April||Retirement fund body EPFO on Tuesday said it has disbursed a total of Rs 764 crore to 65 lakh pensioners for April under its pension scheme. All 135 field offices of the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) processed pension payment for April 2020 in advance to avoid inconvenience to pensioners on account of nationwide COVID-19 lockdown, according to a labour ministry statement. EPFO officers and staff battled all odds to send Rs 764 crore to all nodal branches of pension disbursing banks throughout India, it further said. All Bank branches have been directed to ensure credit of pension in the accounts of pensioners on schedule, the EPFO, which has 65 lakh pensioners under its pension scheme, said. Timely credit of pension in this hour of need has been accorded top most priority by the EPFO to bring succour to the pensioners during this pandemic crisis, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/epfo-releases-total-rs-764-cr-to-pensioners-for-april-833802.html
05-05-2020||National||CBI alerts states' police about fake COVID-19 kits in international market||The Central Bureau of Investigation has alerted state police organisations of the country about fake COVID-19 testing kits circulating in the international market after an intimation from the Interpol in this regard, sources said. They said the Interpol has alerted its 194 member countries about these fake testing kits sneaking in the international market, they said. The CBI, which is the National Central Bureau for India tasked with coordination with the International Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol), immediately swung into action and alerted all Interpol Liaison Officers (ILOs) to alert their respective police organisations about such unscrupulous supplies, they said. The ILOs are officers deputed in every state police organisation for liaison with the CBI over matters related to the Interpol. "No Indian company or supplier is mentioned in the Interpol communication," the sources said. They refused to give any further details as such information may alert the operatives who may be under the scanner of a police organisation in the country. India is heavily dependent on imported COVID-19 testing kits. The country has reported 46,433 COVID-19 cases so far with 1,568 persons succumbing to the disease which spreads through droplets expelled from the nose or mouth of an infected person when he coughs, sneezes, or speaks. People can catch COVID-19 if they breathe in these droplets, according to the World Health Organisation. The Interpol has noticed a large number of international crimes after the coronavirus pandemic gripped the globe, including online sale of fake medicines and medical supplies, ransomware operations targeting hospitals, financial frauds related to medical supplies, among others. The Lyon-based international police cooperation organisation has issued a number of global alerts about the modus operandi of criminals trying to mint quick money in the wake of COVID-19 global crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-alerts-states-police-about-fake-covid-19-kits-in-international-market-833808.html
05-05-2020||National||24 people in Army's RR hospital test positive for coronavirus||Twenty-four people including serving and retired armed forces personnel have tested positive for coronavirus in the Army's Research and Referral hospital in the national capital, officials said on Tuesday. All of them have been shifted to the Army's Base hospital in Delhi Cantonment, they said. The 24 people included serving and retired military personnel as well as their dependents, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/24-people-in-armys-rr-hospital-test-positive-for-coronavirus-833811.html
05-05-2020||National||SC asks Jairam Ramesh to approach government for universal food coverage||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to consider a PIL by Congress MP Jairam Ramesh for granting universal food coverage to all during the COVID-19 pandemic, asking him to make a representation to the Union Government. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai said there was a problem as people are approaching the court under Article 32 (writ jurisdiction) of the Constitution without making a representation to the government. "Such petitions should be preceded by some initiative," the bench said. Senior advocate Salman Khurshid, appearing for Ramesh, said the matter was related to food security. The petition was by the one who was instrumental in the legislation, National Food Security Act, 2013, he said. The people did have ration cards of the local area where they worked but it is not accepted in areas where they have returned, he said. Khurshid said the ration card should not be necessary in such cases. The Finance Minister has made a formal announcement of doubling rations, but it can't come to any benefit of the people who don't have cards, he said. He added that the Supreme Court's judgment in Swaraj Abhiyan case should be implemented. The government has decided to launch one nation one ration card scheme but that will take time. We need to have a policy to deal with COVID-19 situation, he submitted. The bench, however, said somebody who was not in his local place may have difficulty but those who have returned will be taken care of by the state governments. The bench also pointed out that in such a large problem, some aberrations will arise and efforts were being made. "We can ask the Solicitor General to look into it. Hopefully, after third phase of lockdown, things should start looking up," the bench said. The Court asked the petitioner to withdraw the petition and make a detailed representation to the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-jairam-ramesh-to-approach-government-for-universal-food-coverage-833812.html
05-05-2020||National||SC rejects plea for students fund in coronavirus||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to consider a plea to direct the government to create a students' welfare fund and ensure rent waiver for them. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai told petitioner Anmol Singh that these are difficult times and such generalised petitions cannot be filed.  The petitioner, for his part, said students have filed this petition. There were thousand of students staying in Delhi.    "Make a representation to the govt if you are aggrieved. You seek to represent thousands of students. We don't know in what manner," the bench said.  "How can such petitions exist? How can you pray for a direction to provide a student's fund? Tomorrow you will ask for some other fund," the bench said, rejecting the plea. The bench also pointed out there was a helpline set up by the Centre to look into grievances. The petitioner, however, claimed he had not received any reply on the helpline number.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-plea-for-students-fund-in-coronavirus-833813.html
05-05-2020||National||Pakistan summons senior Indian diplomat over 'ceasefire violations'||Pakistan on Tuesday summoned a senior diplomat from the High Commission of India and registered its protest over the alleged ceasefire violations by Indian security forces along the Line of Control. The Foreign Office (FO) said that six civilians sustained serious injuries in the firing in Bagsar sector on Monday. It alleged that the Indian security forces “along the Line of Control (LoC) and the Working Boundary (WB) have continuously been targeting civilian areas with artillery fire, heavy-caliber mortars and automatic weapons”. The further alleged that "India has committed 957 ceasefire violations" so far this year. The Indian side was asked to respect the 2003 Ceasefire Understanding; investigate this and other such incidents of ceasefire violations and maintain peace along the LoC and the WB, the FO said. It also urged India to allow the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) to play its mandated role as per the United Nations Security Council resolutions. India maintains that the UNMOGIP has outlived its utility and is irrelevant after the Simla Agreement and the consequent establishment of the LoC||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-summons-senior-indian-diplomat-over-ceasefire-violations-833814.html
05-05-2020||National||COVID-19 cases in BSF increase to 67; max in Delhi, Tripura||Thirteen fresh COVID-positive cases have been reported from a force camp in Tripura. These include 10 personnel and three family members (wife and two children) of an infected trooper, a Border Security Force (BSF) spokesperson said. The number of cases from the border state of Tripura stands at 24 now, he said. Forty-one cases have been reported from units based in the national capital and one from Kolkata (driver of a vehicle that was escorting the inter-ministerial central team of the Union government touring West Bengal).  Among the Delhi cases, 32 are from two units that were deployed in the Jamia and Chandni Mahal areas under the directions of the Delhi Police for law and order upkeep duties, he said. Eight cases are from a base hospital in R K Puram and one personnel posted at the forces' headquarters at Lodhi Road has contracted the virus, the spokesperson said. Two floors of the BSF head office were sealed on Monday following this incident.  The official was attached to the office of an Additional Director General (ADG). "A BSF personnel on leave has also been detected COVID-19 positive," the spokesperson added.     The 2.5-lakh-strong force is primarily tasked with guarding Indian borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh, apart from rendering a variety of duties in the country's internal security domain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-in-bsf-increase-to-67-max-in-delhi-tripura-833819.html
05-05-2020||National||Centre, states taking steps for relief to migrant workers, can't keep plea pending: SC||The Supreme Court Tuesday said the Centre and states are taking appropriate steps to provide relief to migrant workers and disposed of a plea seeking directions to the Railways as also states to provide free of cost travel to homebound migrants. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai, which took up the matter through video conferencing, said that it does not see any reason to keep the PIL pending and disposed it off. The top court was hearing a PIL filed by Jagdeep S Chhokar, former director in-charge of IIM, Ahmedabad, and lawyer Gaurav Jain, who have sought direction to authorities to allow migrant workers across the country to return home on free travel after the coronavirus test. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the petitioners, said all migrant workers are not being allowed to go to their villages and many of them have to walk on foot to return home. The bench said the relief claimed by the petitioner has already been granted by the government and it cannot consider the prayer besides what has been made in the petition. Bhushan said the central government has to provide the migrant workers the ways and means for the movement but a circular has been issued saying that the state where the workers are and their native state, have to agree for their travel. It is only after both the states agree that migrant workers are sent to their native places, he said, adding that most of them are also being asked to produce medical certificates from hospitals and are facing problems in doing so. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said the government is following the rules and the protocol and providing all possible help to the migrant workers. The bench said that trains and buses are being provided for their travel and some reports say that 85 per cent cost of their travel is borne by the Centre. Bhushan said the Railways is saying that states must collect fare from the people and while the reports of 85 per cent subsidy by the Centre may be true, paying even 15 per cent is also too expensive for the migrant workers who have lost their financial means. Mehta said that initially the grievance of the petitioners was that migrant workers were not allowed to go home, now they are allowed as the government is reviewing the situation on a daily basis. He said the ground situation is being monitored on a daily basis and when a migrant worker goes back to his native place he or she has to be placed under quarantine for which a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) has been finalised. He said the Centre is taking proactive steps as far as migrant workers are concerned and urged the court should leave it to the government for micro-managing these things. Chhokar and Jain filed a supplementary affidavit on Monday stating that the migrant workers who have been stranded for no fault of their own, with zero earnings and no financial support are being charged very high train fares for their journey to native places and railways and the States should not charge them. “That migrant are being required to pay around Rs. 800 as train fares and the same is highly unjustified… It is submitted that migrants have been stranded for no fault of their own, with zero earnings and not financial support. Therefore, it must be made clear that the Railways and the states would not be charging the migrant workers for the train and bus travel being arranged for them,” the supplementary affidavit had said. It said that on May 3, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in a letter to Chief Secretaries and Administrators, clarified about the movement of distressed stranded persons, in which the ministry has given a very narrow definition of stranded migrants by including only those who had moved from their native places just before the lockdown period but could not return to their native places on account of restrictions placed on movement of persons and vehicles as part of lockdown measures. On April 27, the apex court had said, “This institution is not hostage of government,” after advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for petitioners alleged that the government's view is being blindly considered by the courts without verifying it, while fundamental rights of people especially migrant workers are not being enforced. Chhokar and Jain in their plea had said that in wake of the extension of the nationwide lockdown, the migrant workers who are among the worst affected category of people must be allowed to go back to their homes after being tested for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-states-taking-steps-for-relief-to-migrant-workers-cant-keep-plea-pending-sc-833824.html
05-05-2020||National||IIT-Kanpur signs pact with two firms for production of cheap ventilators||The IIT-Kanpur has tied up with two firms for the production of affordable ventilators for use during the coronavirus pandemic, an official said on Tuesday. The premiere institute signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) in this regard with public sector undertaking Bharat Dynamics Ltd (BDL) and Nocca Robotics Private Ltd (NRPL). Institute Director Abhay Karandikar said in response to the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Nocca Robotics developed a high-end affordable ventilator for critical coronavirus patients under the supervision of an IIT-K team led by Prof Amitabha Bandyopadhyay. “Now, with the BDL supporting us, we will be able to scale up the production and make this critical device widely available as a Make in India product," he said. Apart from providing support to critical patients, the ventilator's design has unique features to safeguard the frontline healthcare workers from exposure to the virus, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-kanpur-signs-pact-with-two-firms-for-production-of-cheap-ventilators-833826.html
05-05-2020||National||India's COVID-19 curve remains flat but rise in cases at steady rate a cause for concern: AIIMS director||The COVID-19 curve has remained relatively flat so far but the continued rise of cases at a steady rate is a cause for concern, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said on Tuesday.   Different modelling experts have predicted that a peak in number of cases of novel coronavirus infection may occur in the next four to six weeks, that is by the end of May or middle of June, Guleria said stressing on the need to be extra vigilant and to make efforts to reduce the number of cases in the hotspots. He also said, "The country may see a rise in COVID-19 cases during the winter again but that time will only tell." These remarks come amid several state governments giving relaxations and opening up liquor shops in accordance to the guidelines issued by the Home Ministry. "The curve has remained relatively flat so far because of the implementation of the lockdown and other containment measures and this has given us time to prepare our health infrastructure and ramp up testing facilities in the country. "However, the number of cases continue to rise at a steady rate and this is a cause of concern. Every citizen should understand his responsibility and sincerely follow the principles of lockdown and social distancing, especially if they are in hotspots or containment areas," Guleria, a pulmonologist, said. He stressed on focusing on areas having a high case load of COVID-19 so that there is no further transmission of virus there. Simultaneously, he emphasised on stepping up surveillance in green zones which have reported no cases so far so that they continue to remain infection-free.  On Tuesday morning, the death toll due to coronavirus rose to 1,568 and the number of cases rose to 42,836 in the last 24 hours, according to Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-curve-remains-flat-but-rise-in-cases-at-steady-rate-a-cause-for-concern-aiims-director-833829.html
05-05-2020||National||45 ITBP personnel contracted COVID-19 so far||Forty-five personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) deployed in the National capital have tested positive for COVID-19 so far, while 167 are in quarantine, a spokesperson said on Tuesday. Of this, 43 belong to a unit based in Tigri in the capital and were deployed for internal security duties. Two of them have been admitted to Safdarjung Hospital while the rest are undergoing treatment in CAPF Referral Hospital in Greater Noida. Seventy-six personnel from this unit have been quarantined at the ITBP Chhawla facility. Two other personnel, who tested positive for the virus infection, were deployed with the Delhi Police for law and order duties and have been admitted in AIIMS, Jhajjar. Ninety-one personnel from this company have also been quarantined at the Chhawla facility. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has around 150 personnel and Border Security Force (BSF) has 67 who have contracted COVID-19. The Sashastra Seema Bal also has 12 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/45-itbp-personnel-contracted-covid-19-so-far-833830.html
05-05-2020||National||Cherry blossoms in Kashmir, but growers worried due to lockdown||After a good harvest in recent years, cherry growers in Kashmir are staring at losses due to nationwide lockdown to prevent COVID-19 pandemic and unseasonal changes in the weather this season. Cherry, the year’s first fruit crop in Kashmir, is almost ready for harvesting but will face as many hardships as last year’s apple. The cherry production continues from May 10 till June end and is the first cash crop for the growers in the Valley. The production had reached 11,289 and 11,789 metric tonnes in 2017 and 2018, respectively, before coming down slightly to 11,000 metric tonnes last year due to hailstorms in some cherry growing areas. “This time there are no boxes to pack and dispatch the fruit, due to no production and transport taking place amid the lockdown. Secondly, cherry is a soft fruit with a shelf-life of just a few days. Under such an intensive lockdown, we don’t see any hope of selling our produce,” Mohammad Abdullah, a cherry grower from Lar in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district, told DH. The demand for cherries comes mostly from outside J&K, with almost 90% of the exports headed to different parts of the country, especially metropolitan cities. “Stopping a cherry-laden vehicle for even a few hours in the high-temperature season would result in the spoiling of the fruit,” he said and feared due to lack of fruit processing units in Kashmir, there is apprehension that the crop may get spoiled this season. His views were echoed by a cherry trader from north Kashmir’s Tangmarg area, who said that last year he had bought 15,000 boxes to pack cherry, but this time he has failed to find boxes due to the lockdown. “In cherry season five to six trucks would be dispatched daily to different markets across the country, especially Mumbai, where the cherry is in good demand. Even some first-grade cherry was airlifted for five-star hotels across the country. But this time there is no hope,” he rued. With over 2700 hectares of land under cherry cultivation in Jammu and Kashmir, the Union territory accounts for a significant part of the country’s cherry production. Besides Tangmarg and Lar, cherry is also grown in some parts of Srinagar, Baramulla and Shopian districts in south Kashmir. Horticulture expert Professor Haroon Malik said though there is sufficient machinery in Kashmir to process the cherry crop, the prices that fresh cherry fetches in the market are much higher than what fruit processing units buy it for.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cherry-blossoms-in-kashmir-but-growers-worried-due-to-lockdown-833831.html
05-05-2020||National||Army officers killed fighting terror in Kashmir's Handwara cremated in hometowns||Family members fought back tears and the Army offered gun salutes as two officers who led from the front in an anti-terror operation in Kashmir were cremated Tuesday in their hometowns. The body of Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, the commanding officer of 21 Rifles who was killed Saturday night, was consigned to the flames in Jaipur. Major Anuj Sood was cremated will full military honours in Chandigarh. His family home is in adjacent Panchkula. The two were among the five security personnel, including a Jammu and Kashmir policeman, killed in a firefight with terrorists in Handwara in north Kashmir on Saturday night. Col Sharma is the second commanding officer of 21 RR to have been killed fighting terrorists. At the Purani Chungi cremation ground on Jaipur’s Ajmer Road, his wife Pallavi Sharma kept a brave face as his brother Piush Sharma lit the funeral pyre. She held tightly to the folded tricolour, removed from Col Sharma’s coffin and handed over to her for a while, as the ceremony progressed. As the body was placed on the pyre she fanned it gently with her ‘dupatta”. The pyre was lit as soldiers fired three volleys in a gun salute. Earlier, at the 61 Cavalry grounds, where wreaths were laid on Col Sharma’s coffin, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and South Western Army commander Lt Gen Alok Kler paid their respects. Pallavi Sharma and the couple’s daughter Tamanna also stood in salute. "The entire nation will remember the sacrifice of Colonel Ashutosh Sharma. The country is proud of him," Gehlot told reporters at the wreath-laying ceremony. When he met Col Sharma's mother, the chief minister bowed to touch her feet. Similar scenes were witnessed at the Mani Majra cremation ground in Chandigarh, where Major Anuj Sood’s body was brought from the family home in Panchkula. His wife Akriti Sood threw her arms around the coffin in farewell as the body was put on a bedecked Army vehicle. The major’s sister Harshita, who is also an Army officer, consoled her sister-in-law Slogans like “Vande Mataram”, “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” and “Major Anuj Amar Rahe”, were raised as the body, wrapped in the tricolour, was taken to the cremation ground. Before the cremation, serving and retired Army officers laid wreaths. As he placed a wreath, Anti Terrorist Front of India president Viresh Shandilya raised “Pakistan Murdabad” and “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” slogans. Apart from Army personnel, only the family members were allowed inside the cremation ground to ensure social distancing norms in force because of the coronavirus pandemic. A guard of honour was given to Major Sood by the Army and soldiers fired three volleys in gun salute. Major Sood’s father Brigadier Chandrakant Sood (retd) lit the pyre. He had told the media the day before that he was proud of his son’s sacrifice. “He was a true son of the nation," he said at his Panchkula home. The 30-year-old officer was from the Brigade of the Guards regiment, currently part of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles. He joined the National Defence Academy in 2008. He had one dream, which was to join the Army, according to his family. His family said he was scheduled to return home after a gap of six months. Having finished his two-year stint in Jammu and Kashmir, he was to join the 12 Guards unit in Gurdaspur||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-officers-killed-fighting-terror-in-kashmirs-handwara-cremated-in-hometowns-833833.html
05-05-2020||National||SC refuses to consider PIL against salary cut, lack of facilities for police in COVID-19 fight||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to consider a PIL by former Maharashtra police, ACP Bhanupratap Barge against salary cut, and lack of Personal Protection Equipments for police personnel who were on the frontline in the fight against Coronavirus. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai said these were all policy matters. The court can't issue a direction to the government, it is for the government to consider the issue. "Everybody is going through a difficult time. These are policy matters. There can't be a super-government," the bench told senior advocate Devadatt Kamat, appearing for Barge. The counsel said the police were on the front line but yet their salaries were being deducted. There is no uniform policy to guide on this, some states were doing it while some were not, he said.  The bench, however, said these were not the matters to be considered under the jurisdiction of a writ petition. Kamat also referred to the deployment of police officers above the age of 55 years. Recently, two-three police officers had succumbed to the COVID-19.  "Again, are these matters of Article 32? People are creating work when there is no work. We are sorry to see such petitions," the bench said. The bench said will not entertain this petition but would allow the petitioner to give a representation to the appropriate authorities. The petition filed through advocates Rajesh Inamdar and Amit Pai alleged lack of protective gear, masks, gloves and sanitisers for the police personnel. The petitioner was also aggrieved with the decisions of the Haryana and Telangana governments to cut the salaries of the employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-consider-pil-against-salary-cut-lack-of-facilities-for-police-in-covid-19-fight-833838.html
05-05-2020||National||Shramik Special trains: 67 run so far, 21 more to go on Tuesday||The Indian Railways on Tuesday said that it has so far run 67 Shramik Special trains carrying around 67,000 stranded migrants since May 1. Till May 4, the railways had run 55 trains, the national transporter said. "There are 21 trains scheduled for Tuesday mainly from Bengaluru, Surat, Sabarmati, Jalandhar, Kota, Ernakulam. On an average, these trains are carrying 1,000 passengers each," the railways said. These 24 coach trains, which have a capacity of 72 seats, is now reduced to 54 due to social distancing norms with the middle seat not being allotted to any passenger. While the railways has officially not stated how much it has spent so far on these services, which the government says has been shared on a 85:15 ratio with the states, officials indicated that for the first 34 trains, the national transporter spent Rs 24 crore, while the states spent Rs 3.5 crore. Sources said that the railways is spending around Rs 80 lakh per service for the Shramik Special trains. Earlier, the railways drew a lot of flak from the opposition parties for making these services chargeable. In its guidelines, the railways has said the trains will ply only if they have 90 per cent occupancy and the "states should collect the ticket fare".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shramik-special-trains-67-run-so-far-21-more-to-go-on-tuesday-833841.html
05-05-2020||National||64 repatriation flights to be operated by Air India from May 7-13, private airlines may join later: Puri||Air India will operate 64 flights from May 7 to May 13 to bring back around 15,000 Indian nationals stranded abroad amid the COVID-19 lockdown, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. The minister, while addressing a virtual press conference, said private Indian airlines may join the repatriation effort after May 13. Those availing the repatriation flights will be charged, Puri said. A passenger on a London-Delhi flight will be charged Rs 50,000 and on a Dhaka-Delhi flight Rs 12,000, the aviation minister said. On arrival from abroad, all passengers will be screened and put under quarantine for a period of 14 days as a COVID-19 precautionary measure, Puri said. These 64 flights would be conducted by Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express to repatriate Indians from 12 countries such as the UAE, the UK, the US, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines, Bangladesh, Bahrain, Kuwait and Oman. India will conduct 10 flights to the UAE, seven flights each to the US and the UK, five flights to Saudi Arabia, five flights to Singapore and two flights to Qatar to repatriate Indian nationals between May 7 and May 13, the minister said. During this time period, India will also conduct seven flights each to Malaysia and Bangladesh, five flights each to Kuwait and Philippines, two flights each to Oman and Bahrain, Puri said. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. All commercial passenger flights have been suspended for this period. The first and second phase of lockdown in India was from March 25 to April 14 and April 15 to May 3, respectively. The third phase began from May 4 and would end on May 17. Whenever the government resumes commercial passenger flights, it would be done in a graded manner, Puri said. The novel coronavirus has infected more than 46,400 people and killed around 1,560 people in India till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/64-repatriation-flights-to-be-operated-by-air-india-from-may-7-13-private-airlines-may-join-later-puri-833842.html
05-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: 20 migrants escape from Bihar quarantine centre||At least 20 migrant workers, who had returned from Haryana and Punjab last week and were kept at a quarantine centre in Bihar’s Katihar district, escaped from the government-run isolation ward. The incident took place at a time when the Bihar government has been making tall claims of providing food, shelter and cash dole to lakhs of migrants. Sources in Katihar told Deccan Herald that those who escaped from the quarantine centre had earlier complained about lack of food and other facilities. “Around 100 migrants who returned from Delhi, Punjab and Haryana were kept at the Katihar quarantine centre. Many of them asked for food. When denied proper food and other facilities, they broke the lock of the entrance gate and fled with their luggage,” the source said. The incident took place just when Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, through a video message, said all those migrant workers, who have returned to Bihar, would be provided Rs 500 after they complete their quarantine period. “Besides, their train fare would also be reimbursed. All such person will, therefore, be entitled to a minimum amount of Rs 1,000,” said Nitish. However, soon thereafter, the Katihar incident took place which led to the sub-divisional officer (SDO) Neeraj Kumar rush to the place of occurrence. “We are probing the matter,” said the SDO.   Meanwhile, the number of coronavirus positive cases in Bihar increased to 529 with a 3-year-old child in Siwan found to be infected with COVID-19. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday took stock of the situation at an all-party meeting here. The meeting was conducted through video-conference. In the meantime, students and migrant workers continue to reach Bihar through special trains from different states. These passengers, after screening at the railway stations, were sent to their respective districts in Government buses with an advisory of 14-day home quarantine. “Around 15,000 passengers have so far returned to Bihar in 12 special trains in the last three days,” a senior official of the East Central Railway (ECR) said here on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-20-migrants-escape-from-bihar-quarantine-centre-833850.html
05-05-2020||National||Bois Locker Room case: Instagram says objectionable content removed||Instagram on Tuesday said it has removed the objectionable content featuring minor girls on its platform, amid the outrage over the content. In a statement, the photo-sharing platform also asserted that it takes such issues very seriously and accords top priority to ensure that its users can express themselves in a "safe and respectful way". On Monday, the Delhi Commission For Women (DCW) issued notices to the police and Instagram over a group on the social networking application being used to share "objectionable posts about minor girls". "We absolutely do not allow behaviour that promotes sexual violence or exploits anyone, especially women and young people, and have actioned content violating our Community Standards as we were made aware of it," A Facebook spokesperson said. The company said the objectionable content that violated its community standards was removed as it was made aware of it, before they received the DCW notice. The spokesperson emphasised that the company has policies that disallow the sharing of non-consensual intimate imagery, as well as threats to share such imagery. "...we take this issue very seriously. Ensuring our community can express themselves in a safe and respectful way is our top priority," the spokesperson said. A group that called itself 'Bois Locker Room' operated on Instagram and was being used by several hundred members to share objectionable content about minor girls and discussed illegal acts including rape. Information about the group came to light after a girl shared screenshots of its activities, following which the group started being called out on social media. The Delhi Police has initiated a probe into the matter and its Cyber Cell unit has written to Instagram to share details of the group's members and admin and is awaiting their response in this regard. The DCW had taken suo-motu cognisance of reports regarding the group, the panel had said in its notice to Instagram. If an image or video violates Instagram's Community Standards, it is removed, and in most cases it also disables account for sharing intimate content without permission. Further, there is an ạppeal process if someone believes the removal was a mistake. Users can also report on Facebook, Instagram or Messenger, if someone has shared intimate images without their consent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bois-locker-room-case-instagram-says-objectionable-content-removed-833852.html
05-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: CISF donates over Rs 16.23 crore to PM CARES Fund||The Central Industrial Security Force has donated over Rs 16.23 crore, equivalent to the one-day salary of its staff members, to the PM CARES Fund to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, a force spokesperson said on Tuesday. The donation was made on Monday after CISF Director General Rajesh Ranjan handed over a cheque of Rs 16,23,82,357 to Union Home Minister Amit Shah. "The amount is equivalent to the one-day salary of the over 1.62 lakh personnel of the force," CISF spokesperson Assistant Inspector General Hemendra Singh said. This is a voluntary contribution and commitment of the force towards the nation and the amount has been deposited in the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund), he said. The CISF is the national civil aviation security force and is also tasked to guard vital infrastructure in the aerospace and nuclear power domain apart from securing some units in the private domain. It functions under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-cisf-donates-over-rs-1623-crore-to-pm-cares-fund-833857.html
05-05-2020||National||Virtual presentation on Rakhigarhi||Most Indians have read about Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro, the later has been made more popular by the Bollywood film which features Hrithik Roshan in leading role. These are the two major cities from the ancient Indus Valley Civilisation. It is rather unfortunate that not many are aware of the vast expanse of the spread of the Indus Valley Civilisation, which included many more sites which are now in India; Rakhigarhi is one of them. Around 150 kms north-west of Delhi, Rakhigarhi is located in Hisar district of Haryana. The Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai,  that is closed for public because of COVID-19 lockdown,  is holding a virtual lecture-cum-presentation by Prof Vasant Shinde, former Vice Chancellor,  Deccan College,  Pune. Prof Shinde has lead the excavation team at Rakhigarhi, which has been in the news for quite some time particularly for their findings on the “Out of India”, migration theory which in a way also has suggested that there is a flaw in the Aryan or Steppe migration theory, which has been the established norm until now.  It is in this sense that the lecture on the excavation and findings from the Rakhigarhi site by the team leader Prof Vasant Shinde, has evinced a lot of interest and buzz. Nehru Science Centre, which has a huge following from school students, feels that this lecture will give students a new insight and perspectives to the Harappan civilisation that the students learn in their classes. Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro were just two cities of the Indus Civilisation. The civilisation has revealed that there are several other major excavation sites, which belonged to this civilisation, that are as fascinating as the Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro, are now in India.  These include among other sites, Dholavira, Lothal and many more including Rakhigarhi, which was excavated by Prof Shinde and his team, the scientific paper on the DNA analysis of the Harappan skeleton from Rakhigarhi claims that there was no Aryan invasion and no Aryan migration and that all the developments right from the hunting-gathering stage to modern times in South Asia were done by indigenous people. This has created a lot of discussion and interest in this new finding. The lecture on 9 May by Prof Shinde will address some of these issues. "During the lockdown period, the centre has been vibrantly active on the digital platform organising programmes which range from live sky observation, to webinar lecture, panel discussions, fancy dress contest to quizzes, to quest and various other programmes," said Shivaprasad Khened,  Director Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virtual-presentation-on-rakhigarhi-833860.html
05-05-2020||National||Tami Nadu parties oppose govt decision to re-open liquor shops||Tamil Nadu government’s decision to re-open TASMAC shops that sell liquor has come under all-round criticism with almost all major political parties, including the ruling AIADMK’s allies, condemning the move and terming it as an “insult” to doctors and allied staff who have been working to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the state. Principal Opposition DMK, Congress, Left parties, AMMK and AIADMK allies like the PMK and BJP have asked the state government to review the decision to ensure that progress made in the past few weeks in containing the spread of the virus is not reversed by the move, which they termed as a “recipe for disaster.” The government on Monday announced that TASMAC shops outside of containment zones would resume functioning from May 7 with reduced timings. The shops remain closed since March 24, when the Tamil Nadu government imposed Section 144 as part of its efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. On Tuesday, it reversed the decision partly by announcing that shops in Chennai Police limits will not be opened on May 7. Interestingly, the Tiruppur Exporters’ Association (TEA) also appealed the government not to open TASMAC shops as it would lead to many of their labourers getting back to drinking habit immediately after the factories resume operations on Wednesday. “We cannot ensure that labourers come to work without consuming alcohol at a time the spread of the virus has not been contained. This will put the manufacturers under more pressure when all of us need to be vigilant,” the TEA said in a letter to Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami.   Opposition parties said the opening of TASMAC shops would lead to crowding outside these outlets which could further spread COVID-19. Also, activists felt the move would result in alcoholics spending all the money they have in buying liquor putting their families in peril. The sharpest criticism came from BJP and PMK, both allies of the AIADMK. While PMK founder S Ramadoss, whose party has been at the forefront of demanding prohibition in the state, called the move as “unfortunate”, BJP state president L Murugan viewed the decision as one that “would insult doctors and other frontline workers” who have been working continuously for the past two months by risking their lives. “People have been living without liquor for the past 40 days and the government should have utilised this opportunity to make the state liquor-free. Instead of doing that, it is unfortunate that the government is reopening liquor shops even while the lockdown is underway,” Ramadoss said in a statement. DMK President M K Stalin took a dig at the government saying the people who were expecting some important announcement on COVID-19 prevention, received the news of the opening of TASMAC. “Encouraging people to assemble at one place would only result in an increase in the spread of coronavirus. No government, which is concerned about the lives of its citizens, would announce such a move,” he said. Though the AIADMK government led by J Jayalalithaa had promised to implement staggered prohibition in the state, nothing much has moved in the direction in the past few years. TASMAC shops, run by the state government, sell liquor for nearly Rs 90 crore a day generating a revenue of over Rs 30,000 crore to the state exchequer annually.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tami-nadu-parties-oppose-govt-decision-to-re-open-liquor-shops-833861.html
05-05-2020||National||Shopkeeper arrested for selling fake forms to migrant workers for facilitating travel during lockdown||A 38-year-old shopkeeper was arrested for allegedly duping migrant labourers by selling them a fake form after claiming that it would facilitate their travel to their natives states during the lockdown, police said on Tuesday.  The accused, identified as Rajeev, is a resident of Punjabi Colony in Narela. He was selling the fake forms at Rs 20 each and misleading the migrants, they said. According to the police, after the extension of the lockdown, reports were received that migrant labourer were feeling uneasy and were keen to return home. The train facility for shifting them to their states is under process. The colonies with migrant population have been identified. The people residing there are being contacted and the updated status of government orders are being conveyed to them by continuous announcements in respective areas, they said. The police, however, said they received inputs about some miscreants who were spreading rumours among the migrant workers about their transportation to their home states. To identify them, patrolling was intensified in the area of Punjabi Colony, Narela , they added.  "During patrolling, when our staff reached near Shani Mandir, Punjabi Colony, they noticed a gathering of more than 30 people at a photostat shop and no social distancing norms were being followed," said Gaurav Sharma, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North). On enquiry, the shopkeeper was found selling a fake form by telling migrant labourers that it would help them return to their states. He was misleading the poor people by telling them to deposit the duly filled in form in the police station, he said, adding there is no such government order to this effect.  "The accused is a driver by profession. He drives a van for a private school but as schools are closed during the lockdown, he was sitting at the photocopy shop run by his family," the DCP said.  Twenty-five copies of the fake forms were recovered from his shop and the accused disclosed that he had sold 20 copies so far at Rs 20 each, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shopkeeper-arrested-for-selling-fake-forms-to-migrant-workers-for-facilitating-travel-during-lockdown-833865.html
05-05-2020||National||Stranded Indians landing in country will have to register for COVID-19 'Aarogya Setu' app: MHA||Stranded Indians who will be brought back by special flights from abroad will have to download 'Aarogya Setu' mobile app and detailed procedures for this entire evacuation operation will be issued, a Home Ministry official said on Tuesday. Punya Salila Srivastava, a joint secretary in the Union Home Ministry, also said the Indian Railways has run 62 special trains for stranded domestic workers till now that carried an estimated 70,000 people. Thirteen more such trains are expected to run on Tuesday, she told reporters during a daily briefing on the lockdown measures. Talking about the evacuation plan for Indians stranded abroad, Srivastava said embassies in various countries are preparing the list. This (evacuation by air or naval vessels) facility will be on payment basis, she said. Non-scheduled commercial flights are being arranged and this operation will begin from May 7 in a phased manner. "Passengers will be screened before boarding a flight and only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed. Every passenger will have to follow the guidelines issued by the health and civil aviation ministries," she said. "Travellers will have to register for 'Aarogya Setu' app upon reaching their destination. They will be tested medically and concerned state governments will keep them in hospitals or in institutional quarantine on payment basis," she said. State governments are being advised to prepare for testing and quarantine of such passengers and their transportation. The Ministry of External Affairs and Civil Aviation Ministry will issue details in this context, the officer said. Srivastava also reiterated the national directives that are required to be followed during the ongoing lockdown period. In public places it is mandatory to wear face masks, keep 'do gaz ki doori' (a distance of two feet), spitting will be a punishable offence, consumption of liquor, 'paan', tobbaco is prohibited, social distancing is essential at shops and not more than five people should assemble at any such facility, she said. During a wedding function, not more than 50 people are allowed and not more than 20 people can participate in a funeral. Social distancing should be ensured during these events too, she said.  At workplaces, arrangements for thermal scanning, hand wash, sanitisers and masks should be made.   At offices and in office transport, social distancing should be ensured and there should be adequate difference of time in work shifts. Lunch breaks should be allowed at different times so that social distancing is ensured, Srivastava said. She added that it will be the responsibility of organisation chiefs to get their employees registered on 'Aarogya Setu' app, developed by the government to check coronavirus cases. Workplaces should be sanitised at regular intervals. Details of nearest COVID-19 treatment hospital should be kept at the workplace along with a place identified for quarantine. Also, large meetings should be avoided and cleanliness and hygiene training should be imparted. "We hope that by following all these measures we will be able to break the COVID-19 chain," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stranded-indians-landing-in-country-will-have-to-register-for-covid-19-aarogya-setu-app-mha-833866.html
05-05-2020||National||Need to bridge digital divide as tech has played key role during COVID-19 crisis: WTO report||There is a "glaring" need to bridge the digital divide, both within and across countries, as the digital economy has played a key role during the current COVID-19 crisis, according to a report by the World Trade Organization (WTO). The report has argued that the experiences and lessons emerging from the COVID-19 crisis could be a further incentive for global cooperation in the area of e-commerce, which could help to facilitate cross-border movement of goods and services, narrow the digital divide, and level the playing field for small businesses. It said certain traditional obstacles have been accentuated and have continued to hamper greater participation in e-commerce activities by small producers, sellers and consumers in developing countries, particularly in least-developed countries (LDCs). "The pandemic has highlighted the glaring need to bridge the digital divide, both within and across countries, given the central role the digital economy has played during the crisis," it said. It also said that e-commerce for goods and services trade has been adversely impacted by the factors that have caused disruption in supply and demand overall and such disruptions have resulted in delivery delays or outright cancellation of orders. Several other e-commerce-related challenges have arisen or been further amplified during this pandemic such as increasing prices to unreasonably high levels, product safety concerns, deceptive practices, and cybersecurity concerns, the report said. It, however, said the enforcement of social distancing, lockdowns and other measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic has led consumers to ramp up online shopping, social media use, internet telephony and teleconferencing, and streaming of videos and films. "This has resulted in spikes in business-to-consumers (B2C) sales and an increase in business-to-business (B2B) e-commerce. The increase in B2C sales is particularly evident in online sales of medical supplies, household essentials and food products," it added. It said that demand has also increased for internet and mobile data services.  It added that the pandemic has made it clear that e-commerce can be an important tool or solution for consumers. "The global nature of COVID-19 and its impact on e-commerce may encourage strengthened international cooperation and the further development of policies for online purchases and supply...E-commerce can also support small businesses and, by making economies more competitive, be an economic driver for both domestic growth and international trade,"it added. The WTO work programme defines electronic commerce as the production, distribution, marketing, sale or delivery of goods and services by electronic means. With a fast growing e-commerce sector both in India and globally, the rich nations want specific guidelines on the sector at the WTO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-bridge-digital-divide-as-tech-has-played-key-role-during-covid-19-crisis-wto-report-833868.html
05-05-2020||National||India has over 500 million active internet users, 14% of 5-11 yrs: IAMAI||An estimated 71 million children aged between 5-11 years in India access the Internet on devices of their family members, constituting about 14 per cent of the country's active Internet user base of over 500 million, according to the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI). According to IAMAI's 'Digital in India' report, India had 504 million active Internet users, who logged onto the web at least once in the last one month, at the end of November 2019. "Of the overall Internet population, 433 million are of the age of 12 years and above, and 71 million are in the age bracket of 5-11 years who access the Internet on the devices of family members," it added. The data has been curated by Nielsen, based on IRS data. The report noted that nearly 70 per cent of the active Internet population in India are daily users with nine out of 10 Internet users in urban India accessing Internet at least once a week. In rural India, the number of accessing Internet daily had grown by 30 million from March 2019, it added. Interestingly, close to one-third of users access Internet for 'More than one hour' on Sundays/holidays versus a normal working day. The time spent on the Internet continues to be higher in urban India compared to rural parts of the country. According to the report, 26 million new female Internet users were added in November 2019. This is an increase of 21 per cent, higher than the 9 per cent rise seen in number of new users (male). "While the proportion of male Internet users in rural India is more than double than female Internet users, usage of Internet among females is growing at a fast clip," it said. Mobile phones continued to remain the device of choice for accessing Internet in both urban and rural parts of the country. Given the affordability of mobile devices along with the availability of cheaper data plans, accessing the Internet through a mobile device has clearly become the first choice, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-over-500-million-active-internet-users-14-of-5-11-yrs-iamai-833872.html
05-05-2020||National||BJP targets Rahul Gandhi for congratulating Pulitzer-winning photojournalists from J&K||The BJP on Tuesday attacked the Congress after Rahul Gandhi congratulated three photojournalists from Jammu and Kashmir for winning the Pulitzer Prize and asked if the opposition party considers the Valley as an integral part of India or not.  BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra attacked the Congress over its leader's congratulatory tweet to the photojournalists, alleging that Gandhi had wished those who considered Kashmir a "contested territory". "Will Sonia Gandhi answer? Whether she and the Congress party concur with Rahul Gandhi on the issue of Kashmir not being an integral part of India! Rahul today congratulated those who got an award for considering Kashmir as a 'Contested Territory'!" Patra said, posting the message with the hashtag "anti-national Rahul Gandhi". The Congress leader in his tweet had said, "Congratulations to Indian photojournalists Dar Yasin, Mukhtar Khan and Channi Anand for winning a Pulitzer Prize for their powerful images of life in Jammu & Kashmir. You make us all proud." The BJP leader also posted some photographs, which he said were taken by one of the winning photographers, to ask Gandhi if agreed with their content.  Three photojournalists from Jammu and Kashmir have been awarded the 2020 Pulitzer Prize for their "striking images of life" in the Valley.  Channi Anand, Mukhtar Khan and Dar Yasin of the Associated Press won in the feature photography category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-targets-rahul-gandhi-for-congratulating-pulitzer-winning-photojournalists-from-jk-833879.html
05-05-2020||National||CBI arrests BCCL official for taking bribe to allow employee to rejoin duty after lockdown||The CBI on Tuesday arrested a Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) official for allegedly taking bribe from an employee for allowing him to rejoin duty after the lockdown announced by the Centre to contain COVID-19 spread in the country, officials said Tuesday. In the first trap case of the agency after countrywide lockdown was announced on March 24, Kishori Prasad Rout, an official of BCCL who dealt with attendance of workers, was taken into custody by a CBI team for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 3,000 from an employee for letting him join duty post-lockdown. The CBI undertook exhaustive precautions, including wearing protective gear, and followed all protocols announced by Home Ministry to protect the complainant and its officials while carrying out the operation to nab the accused whose safety was also ensured, they said.  The CBI action came after registering an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act against Rout posted at Sendra Bansjora Colliery, Sijua Area, BCCL, Dhanbad on a complaint by the employee.  "The CBI laid a trap and caught the accused red handed on May 05 while demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 3,000 from the complainant. Incriminating documents pertaining to motive of bribe have been recovered during searches at the premises of accused," agency spokesperson RK Gaur said. He said all due care and precautions arising out of COVID–19 situation were taken by the agency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-arrests-bccl-official-for-taking-bribe-to-allow-employee-to-rejoin-duty-after-lockdown-833887.html
05-05-2020||National||Arnab Goswami moves SC, seeks quashing of fresh FIR lodged against him in Mumbai||Republic TV's Editor-in-Chief News Channel Arnab Goswami has moved the Supreme Court for quashing a fresh FIR registered against him at Mumbai on May 2 in relation to a show telecast on April 14-15. The FIR containing "baseless and unsubstantiated allegations" lodged following a programme on "fake migrant crisis in Maharashtra in relation to gathering in Bandra" was violative of the right to free speech, he claimed. In a writ petition, he maintained that the FIR was "false, frivolous, untenable, and malicious" and did not disclose commission of any offence. He said it has been registered in mala-fide manner with the objective of coercing and harassing him. He said the FIR was a part of a well-coordinated and orchestrated, widespread and malicious  campaign against him by the Mumbai Police, the Congress party and Maharashtra government, which was evident from the fact that it has been filed in Mumbai where Congress party was in power with allies. In a fresh plea, Goswami sought a direction from the court that no coercive steps should be taken against him in connection with the FIR lodged with Pydhonie Police Station. On April 24, the top court granted protection to Goswami against any coercive action, including arrest, for three weeks in over 100 FIRs lodged against him in several states. These cases pertained to promoting enmity among groups for his remark against Congress President Sonia Gandhi during a TV debate on April 21 on lynching of two Hindu priests and their driver in Palghar on April 16. The court had then directed that the probe in all the FIRs except the one filed in Nagpur's Sadar police station would remain stayed. The Nagpur case would be transferred to Mumbai, where it should be investigated along with a case related to attack on Goswami and his wife, it had ordered. In an application, the Maharashtra government claimed the tweets and debate by Goswami showed that he was not cooperating with the investigation and on the contrary interfering with it.  The state government asked the court to take a "serious cognisance" of Goswami's endeavour and "insulate the investigating agency from any pressure, threat or coercion" from him to enable it to carry out its lawful obligation in a fair and transparent manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arnab-goswami-moves-sc-seeks-quashing-of-fresh-fir-lodged-against-him-in-mumbai-833890.html
05-05-2020||National||190 Pakistanis stranded in India for over two months due to coronavirus lockdown return via Wagah border||Over 190 Pakistanis who were stranded in India for over two months due the coronavirus-induced lockdown on Tuesday returned to Pakistan through the Wagah Border. The Border Security Force (BSF) handed over 193 people, including women and children, to the Pakistan Rangers at the Wagah Border. These Pakistanis had been stranded in different parts of India for about two months because of the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, a Pakistani Rangers official said. Most of them had gone to India to visit their relatives, seek medical treatment or to attend religious ceremonies. On their return to Pakistan, they were screened and transferred to quarantine centres in Lahore where they will stay for 72 hours. “If their coronavirus test comes in negative they will be allowed to go home after 72 hours otherwise they will be quarantined for 14 days,” he said. Those who returned were reportedly also quarantined in various cities in India. Before their entry into Pakistan, they were screened at Attari, the Indian side of the border. They were handed over to the Pakistani authorities after none of them was symptomatic. The relatives of those repatriated from India were not allowed to enter the Wagah Border to meet them. Around 49 of them arrived here from Nagpur, 33 from Madhya Pradesh, 12 from Ahmedabad, nine each from Mumbai, Delhi, Raipur and Jaipur, six each from Bijnor and Anand, five each from Lucknow and Bhopal, four from Gurugram, three each from Agra, Raebareli, Rampur, Kaushambi, Kohlapur, Kota and Ferozepur, two from Kolkata, and one each from Burhanpur, Jodhpur and Ludhiana.  The first batch of 41 Pakistanis who were stranded in India since the start of the lockdown arrived here via the Wagah Border in mid of April. The Indian government, on the request of the Pakistan High Commission, extended visas of all Pakistanis who were told to apply for extension online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/190-pakistanis-stranded-in-india-for-over-two-months-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-return-via-wagah-border-833893.html
05-05-2020||National||Indigenous online meet platform is now free for all in India||With lockdown driving people to video-conference to stay connected to work and kin, tech giant Data Ingenious Global Limited has made its VideoMeet application free for all users. The new ‘Made in India’ offer is expected to compete with players like Zoom, Google meet which have gained popularity in recent times amid the COVID-19 crisis.   Announcing the launch, Dr. Ajay Data,  founder and CEO of Data Ingenious Global Limited said, “Our primary concern was to provide a secure solution for the virtual meetings. Avoiding hacking was taken care of by making all meetings encrypted. We wish to support our fellow Indian citizens and companies during this Lockdown period and not burden them by charging fees as of now. We shall do that once we see ease out and people are coming back to their normal lives, we shall review and will charge." VideoMeet allows users ‘easy and secure access’ and have end-to-end encryption. Anyone can join the VideoMeet call simply by clicking on a link: there’s no need to guide anyone through an installation process. It may be used for teleconferencing, telecommuting, distance education, and social relations. The entire VideoMeet solution can also be installed on-premises of corporate if so desired. The VideoMeet Participants' names and profile pictures will be visible on calls, but their email addresses will not be shared. “During this lockdown period, for a person who manages a team, VideoMeet will be an amazing tool to talk and remain in touch with the team without physically travelling and meeting with the members,” Dr. Data concluded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indigenous-online-meet-platform-is-now-free-for-all-in-india-833894.html
05-05-2020||National||No stay on Kerala salary deferment ordinance||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday refused to stay an ordinance promulgated by the Kerala government for deferring six days salary of state government employees for five months. Considering a batch of petitions, Justice Bechu Kurian Thomas maintained that the ordinance itself said that the deferred salary would be paid back and hence it did not take away any rights of employees. Plea to exclude health workers from the salary deferment was also rejected by the court. The case was posted to June for further hearing. The Kerala Government promulgated the Kerala Disaster and Public Health Emergency (Special Provisions) Ordinance ordinance as the HC stayed an earlier order for deferring salary. It provides for deferring up to 25 percent salary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-stay-on-kerala-salary-deferment-ordinance-833896.html
05-05-2020||National||Two vegetable agents test COVID-19 positive in UP's Shamli district; market sealed||Two vegetable market agents tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli district, which was declared an orange zone after all 18 active cases recovered till last week, officials said. Reports of 102 samples were received from Meerut on Monday night and out of these two were found COVID-19 positive, Shamli District Magistrate Jasjit Kaur told reporters. Following the two fresh cases, the Shamli vegetable wholesale market (mandi) was sealed. The two patients have been admitted to the COVID-19 hospital in Jhinjhana, officials said. It has been decided that the market will be closed for one week, the mandi’s president Rajendra Singhal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-vegetable-agents-test-covid-19-positive-in-ups-shamli-district-market-sealed-833899.html
05-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Wipro IT facility turns into hospital||IT company Wipro Ltd will convert one of its IT campuses in Pune into a 450-bed intermediary care Covid-19 hospital. The process would be over in a month's time and the IT campus-turned-hospital would be handed over to the state,  officials of Maharashtra government and Wipro Ltd said. The transformation is expected to be over by May 30 and the temporary hospital will revert to its original status as an IT facility after a year's time. The MoU was signed on Tuesday. The 450-bed hospital will be equipped to treat moderate cases and will include 12 beds to stabilise critical cases before shifting them to a tertiary care facility. The independent, isolated Covid-19 dedicated complex also includes 24 well-appointed rooms to accommodate doctors and medical staff. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray lauded the initiative and said: "The humanitarian gesture by Wipro Ltd will further strengthen the medical infrastructure and benefit the medical fraternity who are at the forefront in the war against the pandemic." “We are completely committed to supporting the country’s response to the pandemic and believe we must all work together to deal with this crisis and minimize its human impact,” said Wipro Ltd. Chairman Rishad Premji. The MoU was signed in the presence of Pune Collector Naval Kishore Ram, CEO of Pune Zilla Parishad Ayush Prasad on behalf of the state government and Wipro Ltd. Senior Vice-President and Global Head-Operations Hari Prasad Hegde.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wipro-it-facility-turns-into-hospital-833904.html
05-05-2020||National||Those part of 'Bois Locker Room' group shouldn't be spared: DCW||Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal on Tuesday said those who were part of an Instagram group where objectionable things were being discussed about minor girls should not be spared. The commission had issued notices to police and the photo and video sharing social media app over the online group ''Bois Locker Room'' being used by some persons to share objectionable pictures of minor girls and discuss illegal acts, including rape. After the DCW issued the notices, a case was registered and a minor was apprehended, she said, adding that police are investigating about the other members of the group. "These were the same people who were making plans to gang rape girls and were making objectionable comments about them. "Such persons, irrespective of where they are and whether the lockdown is in place or not, should not be spared," the DCW chief said. She also appealed to people that they should exit such groups if they are a part of them and report about them to the panel. Maliwal also appreciated those girls who had reported about the group on social media and called them ''brave''. "If they are facing any issues, they can approach the DCW and we will help them. I appeal to society to support such girls," she added. A minor has been apprehended by police in connection with the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/those-part-of-bois-locker-room-group-shouldnt-be-spared-dcw-833907.html
05-05-2020||National||SC expresses displeasure over not filling of vacancies in Tribunals||The Supreme Court on Tuesday expressed its displeasure over non-filling up vacancies in tribunals, saying lack of timely action by the government affected their functioning. "You keep creating a forum to take away work from the judiciary but you do not man them and then these tribunals come to a standstill," a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, and B R Gavai told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The bench directed that the term Justice Vinay Kumar Jain, as a judicial member in the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) be extended for a further period of three months from May 29, 2020, for the time being. During the hearing, the court pointed out earlier it was trying to push for more judges' appointments in High Courts. "There were problems like Collegium and the government were not on the same page, so a large number of recommendations do not go through. But what about the appointments that have been cleared. This cannot be allowed to continue," the bench said. Senior advocate Parag Tripathi submitted that the appointments of the members in tribunals scheduled to retire should continue till new appointments were made. He was arguing for an application pointing out that there were three vacancies in judicial members and four in non-judicial members in the NCDRC. The bench said we will ask the Solicitor General to take instructions. "It is a perennial problem. Tribunal functioning has come to a standstill," the bench said. Mehta said the interim order should continue. The larger problem is in all of these forums even administrative members or expert members or judicial members are not available, the bench said. Mehta said he agreed it was a problem to be attended to. The court put the matter for consideration after six weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-expresses-displeasure-over-not-filling-of-vacancies-in-tribunals-833910.html
05-05-2020||National||Govt suspends all visas, bars OCI card holders' travel||The government Tuesday suspended all existing visas, barring a few exceptions, granted to foreign nationals till international air travel to and from India remains shut due to the coronavirus pandemic, an order said. In a separate order, the Union Home Ministry said it has extended on 'gratis' basis the visas of foreigners stranded in India due the lockdown. The extension will be for a period of 30 days beyond opening of international travel. The Home Ministry also said it has kept in abeyance multiple-entry life-long visas given to Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) card holders till international travel remains suspended. However, the OCI card holders who are already in India can stay in the country for "any length of time", it said. All existing visas granted to foreigners -- except those belonging to diplomatic, official, UN international organisations, employment and project categories -- shall remain suspended till prohibition on international air travel of passengers from and to India is lifted by the government, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-suspends-all-visas-bars-oci-card-holders-travel-833911.html
05-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Three BSF camps in Tripura sealed as 40 tests positive||Three BSF camps in Tripura's Dhalai district were sealed and declared 'containment zones' after 40 personnel including two children tested COVID-19 positive since Saturday. On Tuesday, 13 more BSF personnel including a mess worker at 138 batallion posted in Ambassa sub-division tested positive.  The state health department sealed the BSF camp at Jawaharnagar, Karina border outpost and BSF base at Gandacherra, where the cases were detected and declared areas within 3-km radius into containment zones. "Those who tested positive have been admitted in hospitals and kept in isolation while entry of outsiders into the camps have been prohibited. Also 241 BSF personnel and 90 medical staffs, who came into their contact have been identified and put into quarantine to contain the spread of the virus," officials said. Tripura had declared the state as "corona free" about a week ago after two COVID-19 positive persons recovered and were discharged.  But two BSF personnel tested COVID-19 positive on Saturday and 12 more tested positive on Sunday. Shocked over this, the health department swung into action quickly and tested 179 samples out of which 11 BSF men and two children tested positive on Monday taking the toll to 27. The toll reached 40 after 13 more tested positive on Tuesday. All of them are asymptomic and the health department is trying to identify the source of infection. The BSF guards the 856-km border Tripura shares with Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-three-bsf-camps-in-tripura-sealed-as-40-tests-positive-833912.html
05-05-2020||National||SC notice to SFIO on bail plea by ex-CFO of Bhushan Steel||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Union government's Serious Fraud Investigation Office on a bail plea moved by Nittin Johari, former Chief Finance Officer of Bhushan Steel. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai sought a response from the SFIO, corporate fraud investigation agency, on a special leave petition filed by him. The court put the matter for consideration after two weeks. The petitioner, led by senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Sidharth Luthra, challenged the validity of the Delhi High Court's order of January 27, 2020, refusing him bail. The counsel said all other accused in the matter were already on bail. Johari was arrested on May 2, 2019 for alleged fraudulent activities, including the filing of false documents in banks.  According to the SFIO, Johari was managing the affairs of Bhushan Steel and was looking after raising funds from banks and financial institutions. He was alleged to be one of the signatories of the financial statements of the company till the fiscal year 2016-17. The SFIO contended that the offence allegedly committed by Johari adversely impacted the economy of the country. It found that there were several alleged fraudulent practices at the company, including manipulations in the accounts and financial statements during the term of Johari. These included maintaining inflated inventories for availing enhanced working capital, it had said. The SFIO claimed Johari was a member of the committee of the board of directors on borrowing, investment and loans along with former promoters Brij Bhushan Singal and Neeraj Singal. He was a whole-time director of the company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-sfio-on-bail-plea-by-ex-cfo-of-bhushan-steel-833919.html
05-05-2020||National||15 new coronavirus cases in Jammu and Kashmir, total rises to 741||The number of COVID-19 positive patients continues to rise in Jammu and Kashmir as 15 more people tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the tally up to 741 in the Union Territory (UT). Officials said nine new cases were confirmed at Viral Diagnostic Lab at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital, while five others tested positive at Chest Disease Hospital lab in Srinagar and one at Government Medical College (GMC) Jammu. They said that among the 14 new cases in Kashmir, six are from Shopian, four from Srinagar, two from Bandipora and one each from Baramulla and Anantnag districts. The new positive cases include a Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) corporator and two minors aged six and seven years.   Pertinently three days ago, brother of the corporator was found positive for novel cornavirus after which he along with other SMC officials were quarantined. Four districts in J&K have already crossed the 100 mark of COVID-19 patients which include Srinagar, Bandipora, Anantnag and Baramulla. District Shopian with 89 cases is nearing 100 mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-new-coronavirus-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-total-rises-to-741-833932.html
05-05-2020||National||Delhi violence: HC asks trial court to hear Pathan's bail plea, if filed, within 2 days||The Delhi High Court Tuesday asked a trial court to ensure that if the accused who allegedly pointed a gun at a police head constable during the recent communal violence in northeast Delhi files a bail plea, it is heard within two days. The accused had filed the bail plea in the high court on the ground that jails were overcrowded and he was apprehensive of catching coronavirus. Following the high court's direction, the counsel for the accused, Shahrukh Pathan, withdrew the bail application and sought liberty to approach the sessions court with the bail plea. Justice Anu Malhotra, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, said the application is dismissed as withdrawn and granted liberty to the accused to approach the sessions court. While answering the court's query, advocates Asghar Khan and Abdul Tahir Khan, representing Pathan, said that a bail application was earlier filed before the sessions court but it was not taken up for hearing on the ground that there is no urgency in the matter. To this, the high court said, “It is considered appropriate in the circumstances to direct the District and Sessions Judge, North-East to ensure that the application, if any, filed by the applicant seeking grant of bail in...is taken up for hearing within a period of two days of it being filed.” Pathan's counsel had sought bail for the accused contending that there was a delay of two days in lodging of the FIR. The counsel said due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it is not safe to remain in jail as it is not possible to maintain social distancing due to overcrowding and sought that he be released on bail. The accused sought bail saying he has been languishing in jail for over two months now.  Pathan, 23, whose picture showing him pointing a gun at unarmed Delhi Police head constable Deepak Dahia during the communal riots went viral on social media, was arrested on March 3 from Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district. He is lodged in a jail here. The police has registered a case against him under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act.  The police said it recovered the pistol, which Pathan allegedly pointed at the police official during the communal violence, from his house.  After opening fire, he kept the pistol at home and fled from the city in a car, the police said. In the viral video, Pathan, a resident of northeast Delhi's Ghonda, could be seen pointing his pistol at the policeman on the Jaffrabad-Maujpur road on February 24. The police said that after seeing himself on news channels following the incident, Pathan changed his clothes and fled to Punjab. He then moved to Bareilly in UP before hiding at a friend's house in Shamli in the state.  In February, clashes broke out in northeast Delhi between the groups supporting and opposing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-violence-hc-asks-trial-court-to-hear-pathans-bail-plea-if-filed-within-2-days-833933.html
05-05-2020||National||31 people test positive for COVID-19 in Haryana, cases rise to 548||The number of novel coronavirus cases rose to 548 in Haryana on Tuesday, with 31 people testing positive for the disease in the state, officials said. Of the 31 new cases, 11 were reported from Gurgaon district, one of the worst-affected by the pandemic in Haryana. Besides Gurgaon, eight cases were reported from Jhajjar, five from Sonipat, three from Karnal, two from Yamunanagar and one each from Faridabad and Panipat, according to the state health department's daily bulletin. During the past three days, Haryana has reported 172 fresh cases, including 75 of these on Monday. The total COVID-19 active cases are 286 while those discharged are 256. The state has reported six COVID-19-related deaths. As Haryana continues to scale up its testing, until Tuesday the number of samples sent were 40,928 out of which 36,806 have tested negative while report of 3,574 samples are still awaited. Test per million being conducted is 1,614 in the state. With several cases being reported during the past few days, particularly in the districts falling in national capital region, including Jhajjar and Gurgaon, Haryana's recovery rate, which had been one of the best in the country, dropped from 72 per cent last week, to 46.72 cent on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the worst-affected districts of the state that have the highest number of positive cases are Gurgaon (84), Sonipat (78), Faridabad (76), Jhajjar (64), Nuh (59), Ambala (37) and Palwal (36). Sonipat and Jhajjar have the highest number of active case 72 and 64 respectively. Among the total coronavirus cases are 24 foreign nationals who tested positive. Fourteen of them were Italian tourists of whom 13 were discharged while one elderly woman in the group passed away last month even though she had recovered from the coronavirus infection. The other 10 foreign nationals found positive are from Sri Lanka, Nepal, Thailand, South Africa and Indonesia while 64 are from other states, as per the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/31-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-haryana-cases-rise-to-548-833935.html
05-05-2020||National||Govt issues SOP for return of Indians stranded abroad||Migrant workers who lost jobs, people with short term visas, pregnant women, elderly and those who are required to return due to death in family will get priority when India begins to bring back stranded people abroad from Thursday. All those who are allowed to return will have to pay for their air or ship tickets as well as for the mandatory 14-day stay in an institutional quarantine centre. Students and people with medical complications will also get priority in returning to India. As the country prepares to start the exercise from May 7, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Tuesday issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for those stranded abroad as well as for people who want to fly out of India for "urgent purposes" in planes that the country will be operating for bringing back Indians. India will be operating 64 flights to around a dozen countries, including UAE, the US and UK, between May 7 and May 13 and a traveller will have to shell out Rs 12,000 to Rs one lakh for ticket depending on the destination. According to the protocol, only those who have registered with the Indian Missions in the country where they are stranded will get the opportunity to fly out in special planes or sail through naval ships arranged by the government. The cost of travel will be borne by people. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) will prepare database of all those who have registered, including details such as "name, age, gender, mobile number, place of residence, place of final destination and information on RT-PCR test (for COVID-19) taken and its result". This will be shared with states in advance. The MEA will give at least two days notice to those people about the schedule of travel on their online digital platform. Only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed to board the plane or ship after conducting a thermal screening. All passengers will also have to download Aarogya Setu app on their mobile devices.   The travellers will have to give an undertaking that they will undergo mandatory institutional quarantine for 14 days at their own cost as well as they will be travelling on their own risk. Those who are found symptomatic upon landing will be immediately shifted to hospitals while others will be moved to quarantine centres, which should "possibly" set up in the headquarters of the district to which the arriving passenger belongs. After the completion of 14 days, tests will be conducted and they would be allowed to leave the centre if the results are negative. They will have to undergo home quarantine for another 14 days. People stranded in India, who wants to return to their countries, will have to apply to Ministry of Civil Aviation or any agency designated by it. "Only those persons shall be allowed to travel to the destination countries, who are citizens of that country; who hold visa for at least one year duration of that country; and green card or Overseas Citizens of India card holder. In cases of medical emergency or death in the family, Indian nationals holding six month visa can also be allowed," the MHA said. The Ministry of Civil Aviation will first ensure that the destination country allows entry of such persons before tickets are confirmed. Conditions imposed by the destination country will have to be fulfilled by the traveller. The travel from India will be on the non-scheduled commercial flights that are being arranged for bringing back stranded Indians from abroad. These travellers will also undergo screening before they are allowed to board the flight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-issues-sop-for-return-of-indians-stranded-abroad-833941.html
05-05-2020||National||Bois locker room: Private schools stress on need of gender sensitisation classes, active role of parents||Gender sensitisation classes, psychological counselling for students as well as active role of parents can play an important role in avoiding situations like the 'bois locker room' controversy, according to schools. Massive outrage erupted online after it emerged that an Instagram group named 'bois locker room' was being used by some persons to share objectionable pictures of minor girls and discuss illegal acts including rape. People posted purported screenshots of crude conversations among members of the group – believed to be students of some top schools in Delhi and some allegedly as young as 13 years-old. It is alleged that they shared photos of teenage girls and made explicit comments about their looks. A juvenile was apprehended and quizzed by the police on Tuesday, a day after the Delhi Commission For Women issued notices to the force and Instagram. "The facts of the current news are very disturbing. An incident like this definitely brings forth the need of our society to sensitize children towards the opposite gender and ensure that they harbour respect for their peers irrespective of racial, cultural or physiological differences. "School education has a very strong role to play in this as this is one place where ideas and notions can be observed and directed carefully in the right direction," said Priyanka Barara, Principal, Delhi International School, Rohini. Detailing the measures taken at her school to sensitise students, Barara said, through discussions and counselling sessions teachers highlight any gender stereotypical language used by students in the classroom and use it to invite broader dissertation. "Besides teaching these days being student centric gives a lot opportunity to students to express themselves and this itself is a great tool to break gender biases as role-plays, enactments and presentations have become our regular tools to bring forth and encourage ideas," she said. According to Ryan International School group, gender sensitization should begin as early as possible. "For pre-primary kids, we do it through a series of games and stories which encourages gender neutral language as well. We try and make kids understand gender sensitization through equal emotions and by giving unbiased opinions and comments. "We have a set of accredited counsellors who conduct these sessions with children periodically. Separate sessions are scheduled for children on aspects like good touch or bad touch to train students on gender sensitive etiquette," a school spokesperson said. "The responsibility to be cautious with our judgement and opinion with respect to another person extends to everybody and not just a particular community, and schools are practising various norms to emphasise the same," he added. A principal of a prominent school in Delhi, who did not wish to be identified, said, "Schools have a crucial role to play but the role of parents cannot be denied. Open smartphone access without monitoring of their cyber activities, discussions at home also play an important role." With many schools holding online classes for students during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, it has also increased the risk posed to children due to unfettered access to internet. Another school has also told parents that unethical activities by students will attract action. "Lawfully correct action will be taken against children if they do anything unethical during classes or otherwise. Kindly inform your ward," it said in a message. The National Council of Education Research and Training (NCERT) had in 2018 sent detailed guidelines to schools defining the role of teachers as well as parents in promoting safe, legal, and ethical use of internet by students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bois-locker-room-private-schools-stress-on-need-of-gender-sensitisation-classes-active-role-of-parents-833947.html
05-05-2020||National||India sees another new record in rise of coronavirus cases, deaths||India on Tuesday witnessed the highest ever increase in COVID-19 cases and deaths in a single day as infections shot up by 3,875 to 46,711 and the death toll rose by 194 to 1,583. The Centre attributed the sharp spike to delayed reporting of cases and deaths by certain states and made a fresh appeal for timely reporting of cases and effective clinical management of patients infected by the disease. “We followed up with certain states as we were not receiving reports of cases and deaths on time from them. Now, the cases have been reported and there is a sudden spike in deaths reported in the last 24 hours,” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Heath Ministry, told reporters here. The Centre and West Bengal government were in a tense stand-off over the management of COVID-19 outbreak in the state and relentless efforts by the Inter-Ministerial Central Team led by Apurva Chandra appear to have paid off. Last week, the Centre had identified 20 worst-hit districts and despatched teams of public health experts to coordinate with health authorities there in effective management of the outbreak. “The teams are already coordinating with the districts assigned to them,” Agarwal said.   At 583, Maharashtra has reported the highest number of deaths due to COVID-19, followed by Gujarat (319), Madhya Pradesh (176), West Bengal (133), Rajasthan (77) and Delhi (64). In terms of total confirmed cases, Maharashtra has reported 14,541 infections since the COVID-19 outbreak was reported in India on January 30, followed by Gujarat (5,804), Delhi (4,898), Tamil Nadu (3,550), Rajasthan (3,061) and Madhya Pradesh (3,049). Agarwal said India has reported the outbreak in small clusters, while some limited areas have large outbreak situations. “We are very comfortable in the management of the outbreak. However, since we are dealing with an infectious disease, any laxity at the field level will have its consequences,” he said. On the brighter side, the number of patients recovering from the disease has also been increasing steadily as 13,160 persons have been recovered and discharged from hospitals since the outbreak was first reported on January 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-another-new-record-in-rise-of-coronavirus-cases-deaths-833948.html
05-05-2020||National||Indians stranded abroad scramble to return home as govt set to launch 'Vande Bharat Mission'||Deeshma Shebin is in the advanced stage of her pregnancy and wants to take the first special flight Air India will operate from Dubai to Kozhikode on Thursday. Raj Popat is keen to know how much he would have to pay to come back home onboard one of the special flights the national carriers will operate between the United Kingdom and India from beginning this week. Aerospace Engineer, Ankit Pandey, too is keen to board one of the first special flights from Singapore to return to India, where his ailing mother is on life support.  The returnees will have to pay not only for traveling onboard the special Air India flights, but also for mandatory stay at quarantine facilities for at least 14 days after return to India. The fares will vary – from about Rs 12,000 for each passenger returning from Dhaka to around Rs 100,000 for each coming home from Chicago or any other cities in the United States. The fare from the West Asian nations to India will vary between Rs 14,000 and Rs 19,000.  Each returnee from the United Kingdom will have to shell out approximately Rs 50,000, said Puri. “Dear Sir, Kindly consider me for the flight to Kochi. (I have) already registered (with the database of the Consulate General of India in Dubai), Im (I am) in (the) 34th week of pregnancy and can travel on or before 10th May only....pls (please),” Deeshma Shebin tweeted, replying to a post by the Consulate General of India in Dubai announcing the launch of the repatriation exercise.   “Please consider us. (I) have already registered. My mother is in life support,” Ankit Pandey requested the High Commission of India in Singapore.  A large number of nearly 1.4 crore Indians currently in foreign countries are keen to return. Nearly 3 lakh people have registered with the diplomatic and consular missions of India only in the West Asian countries, expressing desire to return home. New Delhi, however, assigned its embassies and high commissions in the foreign capitals to prioritize the ones, who need to return urgently for compelling reasons, like deportation from the foreign countries, job loss, expiry of short-term visas (as in the case of tourists), old age, medical emergency, pregnancy and death in family.  The students will also be considered as “priority cases” for repatriation, if the foreign institutions they are studying in and hostels they are staying in have been closed down in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.   “Definitely need more info on the process for payment,” tweeted Raj Popat, who is now in Manchester in the United Kingdom and wants to return to Ahmedabad in Gujarat. “Also, where would be self-quarantine done in Ahmedabad? And how much it would cost?” he asked the High Commission of India in London on the micro-blogging platform. Sources in New Delhi said on Tuesday that the Centre had worked with the Air India and the State Governments to fix reasonable rates both for airfare and for the mandatory stay of the returnees in quarantine facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-stranded-abroad-scramble-to-return-home-as-govt-set-to-launch-vande-bharat-mission-833954.html
05-05-2020||National||Tweet against Rahul Gandhi: Rajasthan HC stays FIR against BJP president J P Nadda||The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday stayed an FIR lodged against national BJP president J P Nadda in connection with a tweet by the party’s IT department incharge Amit Malviya against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. The complaint was lodged by a Hanumangarh Congress worker, Manoj Kumar Saini, terming the tweet disparaging. In his tweet Malviya had said, “Sonia Gandhi claims Bhilwara tested 22 lakh people due to Rahul's warning! Wherever there is Rahul, can exaggeration and maths blunder be behind?” Nadda had moved the High Court, seeking the quashing of the FIR and stating that he had no role in the Malviya's tweet. Accepting the argument, Justice P S Bhati observed, "The court prima facie finds that the tweet had been made by Amit Malviya and the petitioner (Nadda) had no role in tweeting the information in question.” The court directed the Hanumangarh police that the effect and operation of the FIR along with entire proceedings pursuant thereto shall remain stayed. The court also issued a notice to the Congress worker and the state government, to whom Nadda made a party in the case, seeking a reply in six weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tweet-against-rahul-gandhi-rajasthan-hc-stays-fir-against-bjp-president-j-p-nadda-833959.html
05-05-2020||National||Koyambedu links make Wayanad again in the grip of COVID-19||Three fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Tuesday, all in Wayanad district, while no one are reported recovered in the state during the day. Kerala was having no fresh COVID cases over the last two days. Wayanad district in North Kerala that shares borders with Karnataka and Tamilnadu was free from fresh COVID-19 cases for more than a month. But now the district has four coronavurus cases, all linked with the Koyambedu market in Tamilnadu. A 52-year old truck driver who stayed in the Koyambedu market for four days from April 21 and later traveled to Wayanad was tested positive on May 2. His wife, mother, and the truck's cleaner's son contracted the infection and were tested positive on Tuesday. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that it was an instance of carelessness leading to COVID-19 infections. At present Kerala had 37 COVID-19 active cases of the 502 infected so far. While 462 got recovered, three died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/koyambedu-links-make-wayanad-again-in-the-grip-of-covid-19-833964.html
05-05-2020||National||Over 52,000 COVID-related public grievances redressed by Centre, states: Govt||The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances' (DARPG) COVID-19 public grievances monitor had seen a disposal of 52,327 cases between March 30 and May 4, 2020, of which central ministries and departments redressed 41,626 cases, it said.   The average grievance redressal time for the central government's COVID-19 public grievance cases stands at 1.45 days per grievance, the department said. "DARPG has manually analysed 20,000 cases and feedback calls were made to ensure citizen satisfaction. Six rounds of interactive video conferences were held with grievance officers of central and state governments. The DARPG had channelised 10,701 COVID-19 public grievances cases to the state governments, which have been successfully redressed," the statement issued by the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions said. Singh said the redressal of COVID-19-related public grievances was pursued with passion not only in the technically advanced large states of Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat, Haryana and Kerala which managed dedicated web portals but also in the north eastern states and union territories of Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Andaman & Nicobar Islands despite constraints in connectivity. "The timely redressal of public grievances had ensured that public confidence in government was maintained," he said. Singh mentioned that during the national lockdown several district collectors had taken commendable initiatives, notable amongst them collector of Reasi who deferred the Vaishno Devi yatra to ensure social distancing, the statement quoted him as saying. "Similar initiatives were witnessed in aspirational districts where collectors strived to ensure food supplies and monitor village-level lockdown issues with alacrity. Amongst the major state-level success stories was the inter-state movement of students and handling of migrant labour issues in which the district collectors and states played a significant part," it said. Further, states had also successfully addressed issues of hospital infrastructure and quarantine, school and higher education issues, wage and employment issues and other supply related issues, the statement said.   Singh, Minister of State for Personnel, said that public grievances are central to the focus of the Modi government and claimed that the redressal of public grievances has risen from 2 lakh cases to nearly 20 lakh cases in the period 2014-20. The DARPG has been forthcoming in responding to public grievances by ensuring 90 per cent of disposal rates, it said. "Further validation of quality of redressal was done through phone calls made for feedback. These initiatives had reinforced the belief that the citizen is the centrality of the government's odyssey," the statement said. The review meeting was attended by Kshtrapati Shivaji - Secretary DARPG, V Srinivas - Additional Secretary DARPG and Jaya Dubey - Joint Secretary DARPG among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-52000-covid-related-public-grievances-redressed-by-centre-states-govt-833965.html
05-05-2020||National||AIIMS planning to start OPD and non-emergency services soon; tells committee to prepare blueprint||An AIIMS sub-committee has been asked to prepare a blueprint for smooth restoration of OPD and non-emergency operation services, with the administration planning to resume them in the next ten days, official sources said. Also, non-COVID services, other than emergency, for a limited time is likely to be predominantly referral only where the hospital will cater to only those patients who will be referred from peripheral hospitals, they said. "This can curb the crowd inside the hospital premises to an extent but needs to come out with a well-thought plan considering the pros and cons," a source said.  Doctors at AIIMS are currently providing tele-consultancy to all patients undergoing treatment at the hospital in an effort to reduce the need for them to visit the facility during the lockdown. In a meeting held Tuesday morning to discuss strategies on restarting the OPD services, the chief of centres and heads of departments at AIIMS were asked to give an estimate of how many cases they can handle in a day if it has to be restarted. The OT teams were also asked to finalise and draw a blueprint on how the non-emergency surgeries will be conducted keeping in view some operation theatres are reserved for suspected COVID-19 patients in the main OT area of the main hospital. Its been over a month that the AIIMS has shut down its OPD services and curtailed all elective surgeries as part of its effort towards redirecting its resources to control the COVID-19 outbreak. The premier hospital has also constituted a committee to devise strategy for restoring healthcare services in a phased manner. "In due course, lockdown is likely to be rolled back and hospital services are needed to be restored in a phased manner with measures in place to avoid cross-infection and COVID-19 transmission," an memorandum issued to all chief of centres and heads of departments on April 25 said. For the first time in its history, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here shut down OPD services, including speciality and all new and follow-up registration from March 24. The AIIMS had also issued a circular postponing all non-essential elective procedures and surgeries and directed for only emergency life-saving surgeries with effect from March 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-planning-to-start-opd-and-non-emergency-services-soon-tells-committee-to-prepare-blueprint-833966.html
05-05-2020||National||Domestic manufacturers reached production capacity of 2.5 lakh PPEs, 2 lakh N-95 masks, GoM informed||The domestic manufacturers have reached the production capacity of nearly 2.5 lakh PPEs and about 2 lakh N-95 masks per day which is sufficient to meet the requirement of the country in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic in near future, the Group of Ministers (GoM) was informed on Tuesday. The GoM, which held its 14th meeting under the chairmanship of Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, highlighted the need for ensuring stringent measures for quality control of personal protection equipment (PPEs), masks, ventilators among others. Random batch sampling for ensuring compliance and adherence to the quality standards laid down was also stressed upon by the GoM, a statement by the health ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-manufacturers-reached-production-capacity-of-25-lakh-ppes-2-lakh-n-95-masks-gom-informed-833967.html
05-05-2020||National||Cooperative banks come under SARFAESI Act: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ruled that the cooperative banks would come under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, which prescribed a faster procedure for recovery of dues. A five-judge Constitution bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra said that the recovery was an essential part of banking, so the procedure prescribed under the SARFAESI Act would be applicable to the cooperative banks, established under a state law or multi-state level cooperative societies. "The Parliament has legislative competence to provide additional procedures for recovery with respect to cooperative banks," the bench said. The court said the cooperative banks, involved in the activities related to banking, were covered within the meaning of 'Banking Company' under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The cooperative banks, thus, cannot carry on any activity without compliance of the provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and any other legislation applicable to such banks. Earlier, the procedure for recovery of dues was differently provided for general banks and the cooperative banks through the Civil Court or Tribunal.   In the SARFAESI Act, a procedure has been prescribed without the intervention of the court or tribunal to keep pace with the time. In this way, the malady of the inordinate delay was sought to be redressed.  Apart from that, it is permissible for the Parliament to enact the law to provide recovery procedures for bank dues that have been done by providing speedy recovery of secured interest without intervention of the court or tribunal, the court noted. "We are of the opinion that recovery of dues would be an essential function of any banking institution and the Parliament can enact a law as the activity of banking done by cooperative banks is within the purview of Entry 45 of List I," the bench said.  The court rejected the contention recovery procedure could not be prescribed by Parliament on the ground that it was within the domain of the State legislature.    The five-judge bench, also comprising Justices Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose, answered the reference made on February 26, 2016 by a three-judge bench due to previous conflicting decisions on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cooperative-banks-come-under-sarfaesi-act-supreme-court-833969.html
05-05-2020||National||PM Modi discusses COVID-19 crisis with Portuguese PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with his Portugese counterpart Antonio Costa on Tuesday during which both the leaders offered all possible help to each other in dealing with the coronavirus crisis. The two leaders agreed to collaborate on research and innovation aimed at fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. The leaders noted that proactive national measures were helpful in containing the spread of the disease, an official statement said. Modi thanked Costa for extending validity of visas of Indian travellers to Portugal who could not return because of the lockdown. Prime Minister Costa expressed his appreciation for the facilitation provided by Indian authorities to Portuguese citizens in India. In the course of their conversation, Modi commended Costa for his effective handling of the health crisis. It is widely believed that Portugal performed well in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. The two leaders agreed to remain in touch and consult each other on the evolving dimensions of the crisis as well as the post COVID-19 situation. Modi also recalled the state visit of Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa to India in February, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-discusses-covid-19-crisis-with-portuguese-pm-833970.html
05-05-2020||National||Third COVID-19 death in Himachal Pradesh||A 21-year-old man, who tested positive for the novel coronavirus, died in Shimla on Tuesday, the third fatality in Himachal Pradesh. The youth, who was stranded in Delhi during lockdown, had returned to his house in Sarkaghat area of Mandi district in April, Chief Medical Officer Jeevanand Chauhan told PTI. "As per his preliminary report, he was suffering from novel coronavirus. Confirmatory report of his second test is being awaited," Chauhan added. The officer said the man had only one kidney since birth and was getting treatment from a Delhi hospital. He was shifted to the IGMC hospital on Monday when his health deteriorated and he died on Tuesday, Chauhan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-covid-19-death-in-himachal-pradesh-833977.html
05-05-2020||National||Bihar received most workers through Shramik trains, WB the least: Data||Bihar has received the maximum number of migrant labourers through special trains so far and West Bengal the least, data accessed by the PTI shows, with officials indicating that the latter was "stalling" the movement of its workers stranded in other states. TMC MP and leader of the party in Rajya Sabha, Derek O'Brien said the West Bengal government was doing "all it takes" and accused the Centre of playing politics. The data shows that most migrant labourers have moved from Gujarat to their home states in about 35 Shramik Special trains so far, followed by Kerala from where 13 such trains have left. Each train has a maximum capacity of about 1,200 passengers. So far, the Railways has run 67 such trains carrying 67,000 migrant labourers to their home states. Among the receiving states, Bihar has accepted 13 trains, with 11 more currently on the journey and six in the pipeline, the data shows. Neighbouring Uttar Pradesh has received 10 such trains and five more trains are on their way and 12 are in the pipeline, the data shows. The West Bengal government has, however, given clearance to only two trains -- one each from Rajasthan and Kerala -- and they are on their journeys to the state, the data shows. A senior official said, "While other states which have their migrant workers in other parts of the country are accepting their labourers, West Bengal is stalling. Two trains from Thane to Shalimar and another from Bangalore to Howrah which were supposed to run today did not get clearance from the state despite both the originating state governments trying to push for it. "Rajasthan has also been slow in accepting migrants with just three trains ferrying its workers back to the state, which are currently on their way," the official said. TMC MP and leader of the party in Rajya Sabha, Derek O'Brien accused the Centre of playing politics. "The states, including Bengal, are going all out -- fighting corona. Unfortunately, the Central government is going all out -- fighting and badmouthing non-BJP states using its different ministries. "States are the implementing authorities. We are all doing all it takes. This is not the time for politics. Or we too can ask: why was a 21-day lockdown announced with four hours notice?" he asked. According to figures from 2011 census, West Bengal ranks fourth among states from where people migrate for work and employment. Between 2001 and 2011, nearly 5.8 lakh people migrated from the state looking for work, which is fewer only than Uttar Pradesh (37.3 lakh), Bihar (22.6 lakh) and Rajasthan (6.6 lakh). The railway data shows that Jharkhand accepted four trains, while five trains are on their way to the state. Two more Shramik Special trains are in the pipeline. Odisha received seven trains and five are on their way to the state with one more in the pipeline, the data shows.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-received-most-workers-through-shramik-trains-wb-the-least-data-833979.html
05-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Govt extends validity of motor vehicle documents||The Centre on Tuesday announced that all motor vehicle documents including driving licences and fitness certificates, whose validity expired between February 1 and June 30  will be treated as valid till June 30. "Since it is not possible to renew documents during #lockdown, various documents related to MV Act 1988 and CMV rules 1989 whose validity expires between 1st Feb 2020 - 30th June 2020 will be treated as valid till 30th June," Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari tweeted.  The government also said that ‘non-use clause facility’ provided by VAHAN platform online, can now be accessed for the suspension of tax liability in order to give relief to commercial vehicles like taxi, buses and more which are non-operational at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-govt-extends-validity-of-motor-vehicle-documents-833985.html
05-05-2020||National||Govt launches GARUD portal to fast-track exemptions for coronavirus-related drone operations||The Civil Aviation Ministry on Tuesday launched an online portal called GARUD to fast-track the conditional exemptions given to remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) or drones operated by government entities for coronavirus-related work like aerial surveillance, aerial photography and public announcements. GARUD is an acronym for 'Government Authorisation for Relief Using Drones'. The conditional exemption and the resultant fast track approval process through GARUD shall be limited to RPAs deployed by government entities for aerial surveillance, aerial photography and public announcements related to COVID-19, the ministry said in a press statement. For other RPA activities, even if related to COVID-19 operations, permission shall be sought separately from the Civil Aviation Ministry and the aviation regulator DGCA as per the normal procedure, the release said. The conditional exemption shall be limited to battery-operated rotary-wing RPA only, the ministry said. "Use of any other type of RPA, including but not limited to fixed-wing RPA and autonomous RPA etc. is strictly prohibited," the ministry noted. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the coronavirus pandemic. All commercial passenger flight operations have been suspended for this time period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-launches-garud-portal-to-fast-track-exemptions-for-coronavirus-related-drone-operations-833987.html
05-05-2020||National||Delhi breaches 5000-mark in coronavirus cases, no deaths for second consecutive day||Delhi on Tuesday crossed 5,000-mark in COVID-19 cases with the capital reporting 206 new cases. With this, the capital now has 5,104 cases, out of which 1,589 (31.13%) were reported this month alone. The death toll remained at 64 as no fresh deaths were reported for the second consecute day, while 37 patients were discharged during the day taking the total number of recoveries to 1,468. An analysis of the statistics showed that those above 60 years accounted for 16.05 per cent (808 of 5,104) of the cases and 51.56 per cent (33 of 64)) of the total deaths. Those in 50-59 years age group had 15.74 per cent (800) cases while the death percentage is 31.25% (20). Those below 50 years made the bulk of the cases -- 68.21 per cent or 3,3961 -- but when it comes to death, they have the least proportion (17.19 per cent or 11). According to the medical bulletin, 55 of the 64 people who died or 85.94 per cent had comorbidity.   Delhi had crossed 1000-mark on April 11 when it registered 1,093 cases. It had taken eight days from April 19 (2,003 cases) to cross the 3,000 mark. It took just five days from April 27 (3,108 cases) to add another 1,000 cases to cross the 4,000 mark, while it toook just three days to break the 5,000-mark. Between April 19 and 25, an analysis of the figures provided in medical bulletins showed that there were 752 cases during the week. Between April 26 and May 2, there were 1314 cases reported. On April 26, Delhi had reported 111 cases while it rose to 190 and 206 in the next two days. On April 29, the number of cases came down to 125 and the next day, it further decreased to 76, before recording a jump on May 1 and May 2. On May 3, Delhi had recorded 427 cases, the record for a single day in the capital while on May 4, there were 349 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-breaches-5000-mark-in-coronavirus-cases-no-deaths-for-second-consecutive-day-833991.html
05-05-2020||National||Rabi crops: Govt procures pulses, oilseeds worth Rs 2,682 cr from farmers||The government on Tuesday said it has so far purchased around 2.61 lakh tonnes of pulses and 3.17 lakh tonnes of oilseeds from farmers worth Rs 2,682 crore during the ongoing marketing season of rabi (winter) crops under the Price Support Scheme (PSS). The PSS is operationalised on state governments' request when prices fall below the minimum support price (MSP). The procurement is undertaken by nodal agencies like Nafed at minimum support price (MSP). Only fair average quality commodity is purchased.  However, in view of COVID-19 pandemic, the daily procurement limit has been increased from 25 quintals to 40 quintals per day under PSS for rabi crops. In a statement, the Union Agriculture Ministry said oilseeds and pulses have been purchased at MSP value of Rs 2,682 crores, benefitting 3,25,565 farmers. Of the total procurement so far, about 14,859 tonnes of pulses and 6,706 tonnes of oilseeds were purchased on May 1-2 in six states namely Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, it said. As per the second estimate of the ministry, pulses and oilseeds output during the 2019 rabi season have been pegged at 15.11 million tonnes and 10.75 million tonnes, respectively. According to the ministry, the state-run agencies have procured 181.36 lakh tonnes of wheat, the main rabi crop, so far. Amid the COVID-19 crisis, farmers are undertaking sowing of kharif (summer) crops where rabi crops have been harvested. Paddy, the main kharif crop, has been sown in 34.80 lakh hectares so far, higher than 25.26 lakh hectares in the year-ago period, it said. For pulses also, area sown has increased to 8.77 lakh hectares from 5.44 lakh hectares, while that for coarse cereals rose to 9.12 lakh hectares from 5.49 lakh hectares in the said period.  Area under oilseeds has increased to 8.87 lakh hectares so far in the ongoing kharif season from 7 lakh hectares a year ago. Sowing of kharif crops normally picks up with the onset of southwest monsoon from June. The India Meteorological Department has forecast a normal monsoon this year, which will help 52 per cent of the rainfed area in the country. The Ministry also said that the government is taking several measures to facilitate farmers and farming activities at field level during the lockdown period in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Scheme, the government has disbursed Rs 18,134 crore during the lockdown period, benefitting 9.06 crore farmers, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rabi-crops-govt-procures-pulses-oilseeds-worth-rs-2682-cr-from-farmers-833994.html
05-05-2020||National||Gujarat COVID-19 tally tops 6,000; record 49 deaths reported in a day||The number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat crossed the 6,000-mark on Tuesday after 441 new cases were reported, while the death of 49 more patients, the highest in a day so far and 39 of them in Ahmedabad, took the toll to 368, a health department official said. With the addition of new cases, the tally in Gujarat stood at 6,245, the official said. The state reported the highest single-day positive cases and also death of COVID-19 patients so far. Of these, Ahmedabad accounted for 349 new cases and 39 deaths. Vadodara reported 20 new cases and Surat 17. Banaskantha and Mehsana reported ten new cases, Botad eight, Kheda, Panchmahal, Sabarkantha and Mahisagar four each, Bhavnagar, gandhinagar, Patan, Aravalli and Junagadh two each, and Rajkot one, the official said. Among districts in Gujarat that reported deaths of COVID-19 patients Tuesday other than Ahmedabad are Aravalli (1), Gandhinagar (1), Kheda (1), Sabarkantha (1), Surat (2), Vadodara (3), an Mahisagar (1). Of the patients who died on Tuesday, 34 were classified to be co-morbid and high-risk patients, she said. As many as 186 patients were discharged Tuesday, taking the number of recovered COVID-19 patients in the state to 1,381. Of these, 84 patients were discharged in Ahmedabad, 76 in Surat, and 11 in Vadodara, the official said. Patients were also discharged from seven other districts. Junagadh district become 32nd district of the state to have coronavirus cases. Two positive cases were reported from the district Tuesday. Now only Amreli district in the state does not have any coronavirus cases, while all 32 other districts have virus cases. Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi told reporters that recovery rate in the state has improved to 22.11 per cent from 9.48 per cent ten days ago. The state's active cases stood at 4,496, with 29 patients on ventilator and 4,467 in stable condition, Ravi said. As many as 89,632 samples have been tested so far in the state, 4,984 samples of them in the last 24 hours, Ravi said. Among districts, Ahmedabad accounts for the highest number of cases at 4,425, followed by Surat at 723 and Vadodara at 405. Among other districts with high number of cases are Gandhinagar (79), Rajkot (62), Bhavnagar (76), Anand (75), Panchmahal (49), Banaskantha (49), Mehsana (42), among others. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 6,245, new cases: 441, deaths: 368, discharged: 1,381, active cases: 4,496; people tested so far: 89,632.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-covid-19-tally-tops-6000-record-49-deaths-reported-in-a-day-833995.html
05-05-2020||National||Detention of Mehbooba Mufti, two Jammu and Kashmir leaders' extended by three months||The detention of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti under the stringent Public Safety Act was extended by three months, hours before it was due to expire. In a similar move, the detention of former minister and senior National Conference leader Ali Mohammed Sagar, and senior PDP leader and uncle of Mufti, Sartaj Madani, was also extended by another three months, officials said. In a brief order by the Home Department of the Jammu and Kashmir administration, the extension of PSA was made under the public order provisions of the act. While Mufti is at present lodged at her official residence 'Fair View', which has been converted into a subsidiary jail, Sagar and Madani are in a government accommodation at Gupkar road. Mufti was initially detained on August 5 last year when the Centre abrogated special status of the erstwhile state and bifurcated it into two union territories -- Ladakh, and Jammu and Kashmir. Later, her six-month preventive custody was extended by invoking PSA on February 5 this year along with her political rival and former chief minister Omar Abdullah. Having spent over eight months in detention at two government facilities that were designated as sub-jails, Mufti was shifted to her home on April 7, a move seen as a partial relief to her. Earlier, Mufti was lodged a government guesthouse in Chashma Shahi and a bunglow on Maulana Azad Road near Lal Chowk. Mufti heads the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which was in power in Jammu and Kashmir in alliance with the BJP till June 2018. Several political leaders inlcuding Omar, Mufti and former chief minister Farooq Abdullah were detained by the authorities on August 5. The PSA of senior Abdullah and his son was revoked earlier in March this year. Mufti's daughter, Iltija, has moved a habeas corpus petition before the Supreme Court in February challenging her mother's detention. A three-judge bench had issued a notice to the Jammu and Kashmir administration seeking its response on the plea and posted the matter for March 18. However, the petition was not taken up for hearing due to coronavirus outbreak. Habeas corpus is a writ seeking production of a person supposed to be in illegal detention before a court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/detention-of-mehbooba-mufti-two-jammu-and-kashmir-leaders-extended-by-three-months-833998.html
05-05-2020||National||Govt mustn’t deny poor food grains even if they don’t have ration card: Jairam Ramesh||Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Tuesday urged the government not to deny the poor and vulnerable food grains even if they do not have a ration card. In a letter to Food and Public Distribution Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Ramesh said a discriminatory approach in implementing the Food Security Act should not be adopted. He urged the minister not to deny food grains against non-production of ration cards to anyone during the period of the lockdown. Besides, he also called upon Paswan to exempt the requirement of Aadhaar-based Biometric Authentication for the release of food grains during the period of the lockdown. Ramesh’s plea to the minister comes after the Supreme Court did not entertain his plea seeking directions to the Centre and states to ensure universal coverage of food security during the COVID-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai, which took up the matter through video conferencing, allowed the petition to be withdrawn and asked him to make a detailed representation to the Centre. Ramesh said as the nation grapples with these challenging times, the government must ensure that “we do not lose sight of issues that demand immediate attention and intervention”. He raised the issues of food security and food distribution amongst the poor and disadvantaged, which he said, must be addressed with the utmost priority by the central government. "Over the last several weeks of the nation-wide lockdown and subsequent extensions of the same, numerous reports are coming in from across the country regarding inadequate food stocks and wide variances in distribution of the same amongst beneficiaries," Ramesh said. The Congress leader also sought that data on the number of active public distribution system (PDS) outlets, and the supply of grain in these PDS outlets in the months of January 2020 (base month) and April 2020 (lockdown month) be taken in order to identify gaps and address them. "This was not an adversarial petition but instead an attempt to help the government identify an area where more data can assist in better policy formulation. I hope you consider this representation in the same spirit," he said in his letter to Paswan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-mustn-t-deny-poor-food-grains-even-if-they-don-t-have-ration-card-jairam-ramesh-834003.html
05-05-2020||National||Congress slams 'excessive' airfare on evacuation flights||Congress on Tuesday slammed the Modi government for 'imposing excessive cost' on evacuating Indian national stranded in foreign countries. “It is cruel that the central government has taken advantage of the plight of expatriates by increasing the airfares up to three times. This is inhuman,” AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal said. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said Air India would operate 64 special flights between May 7 and May 13 from 12 countries to ferry Indian nationals stranded there back home. However, single journey airfares on these flights would range from Rs 12,000 (ex-Dhaka) to Rs one lakh (ex-US), which will be followed by a 14-day paid quarantine in a government or institutional facility. Venugopal urged the Centre to take urgent steps to provide free air travel to the most vulnerable, the unemployed, the sick and the pregnant, and others on normal fare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-slams-excessive-airfare-on-evacuation-flights-834006.html
05-05-2020||National||Rajasthan reports 12 more COVID-19 fatalities; death toll climbs to 89||Rajasthan recorded 12 more COVID-19 fatalities on Tuesday, the highest in a single day, taking the death toll to 89 in the state, an official said. The state also reported 97 fresh novel coronavirus cases. The total cases of the disease now stands at 3,158, he said. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said six deaths took place in Jaipur while three each in Jodhpur and Kota. The death toll due to COVID-19 in the state has climbed to 89, he said, adding that Jaipur alone has reported 50 fatalities. Of the fresh 97 coronavirus cases, 41 were from Jodhpur, 25 from Jaipur, nine each from Kota and Chittorgarh, five from Ajmer, two from Bhilwara and Tonk and one from Alwar, Jhalawar, Rajsamand and Bharatpur, the health department official said. The state has 3,158 confirmed COVID-19 cases, of which 1,120 have been discharged from hospitals, he said, adding that 1,544 are active cases. Jaipur has reported the highest number of cases at 1,047, followed by Jodhpur at 762. The total COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan include two Italian citizens and 61 people brought back from Iran and quarantined at the Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to trace the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-reports-12-more-covid-19-fatalities-death-toll-climbs-to-89-834007.html
05-05-2020||National||PM Modi reviews status of India's efforts in coronavirus vaccine development||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday reviewed the current status of India's efforts in coronavirus vaccine development, drug discovery, diagnosis and testing. He chaired a meeting of a task force on coronavirus vaccine development. The review by the prime minister took note of the extraordinary coming together of academia, industry and government, combined with speedy but efficient regulatory process, an official statement said. Modi felt that such coordination and speed should be embedded into a standard operating procedure. "He emphasised that what is possible in a crisis should be a part of our routine way of scientific functioning," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reviews-status-of-indias-efforts-in-coronavirus-vaccine-development-834008.html
05-05-2020||National||Vardhan seeks active community participation to prevent vector-borne diseases||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday sought active community participation for the prevention and control of vector-borne diseases such as malaria, dengue and chikungunya in the city, which he said was "critical to stop the chain of vector transmission".  Vardhan, who chaired a high-level meeting through video conferencing to review Delhi's preparedness for the prevention and control of vector-borne diseases, urged citizens to volunteer in for checking the breeding sites themselves in their surroundings, a Health Ministry statement said. "All the citizens need to rise to the occasion and don the role of a super hero themselves and become 'Swasthya Veer' for combating the vector-borne diseases themselves while fighting against COVID-19," the statement quoted Vardhan as saying. During a presentation in the meeting, it was highlighted that dengue cases start in the month of July, spike in October and ebb down in November and December. Officials also highlighted effective strategies to combat vector-borne diseases (VBDs) and action plan requiring inter-sectoral coordination involving the state government, municipal corporations, the statement said. Vardhan urged all stakeholders to undertake awareness drives through active community participation and cooperation of all stakeholders such as resident welfare association, associations of shopkeepers/traders while considering all the precautionary measures being taken against COVID-19. "Among the specific target-oriented modified strategies that need to be put in place for combating malaria, dengue and chikungunya, our main focus should be on controlling the vector itself," he said. "Stagnant water should be checked and larva sites should be effectively neutralised. Success of the Vector Control Programme is related to community participation and ownership," Vardhan stressed. The Union health minister further said the vector-borne disease problem is perennial and this year it has come at the time when the whole country is grappling with the COVID-19 outbreak, the statement stated. There was a severe outbreak of dengue in Delhi in 2015, which affected nearly 16,000 people and killed 60. As compared to that situation, we are in a better position presently as around 50 dengue cases have been reported so far in the city, Vardhan recalled. "However, we cannot afford to be complacent in our approach in our fight against dengue," he said. "Community support is critical to stop the chain of vector transmission. There is a need to promote awareness among the community about the prevention and control of VBDs," he said. Commenting on the commendable role played by schoolchildren in the previous years in creating awareness about VBDs, he said, "Earlier, schoolchildren played a very important role in creating awareness. But in the present scenario where all educational institutions, colleges and schools are closed due to the COVID-19 outbreak, most of the schoolchildren are at home." Exhorting people to come forward, he said, "During this lockdown, everyone should chip in to keep their surroundings clean and see that stagnant water is not accumulated in the trash or in used tyres, flower pots, vases, coolers."  Vardhan suggested that malaria should be made a notifiable disease.  Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain, who also participated in the meeting, assured that the same would be done immediately. It was also suggested that all hospitals, including the private ones, should work in synergy for VBDs to ensure that government and private interventions and efforts to prevent/cure these diseases, are in tandem. Vardhan urged all the representatives from the central government hospitals not to neglect the cases of VBDs as there is no vaccine available and only through preventive measures, the fight can be fought successfully. He further said the government is duty-bound to provide all logistical and technical support to the Delhi government in terms of surveillance and diagnostic kits to strengthen their preparations.  Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal was also present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vardhan-seeks-active-community-participation-to-prevent-vector-borne-diseases-834012.html
05-05-2020||National||Goa takes leaf out of Hampi for conservation and upkeep of heritage Church complex||Goa plans to take a leaf out of Hampi when it comes to conservation and upkeep of the coastal state's 17th century UNESCO-endorsed Old Goa Church complex, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday. Sawant's assurance followed a meeting of officials from the Archaeological Survey of Indian, state government agencies and representatives of the Goa's Roman Catholic Church at the State Secretariat, in order to streamline the processes for the maintenance of the Old Goa Church Complex, one of the most popular tourism sites in the state, as well as the most significant site of worship for Goa's Catholic community. "In future, a co-ordination committee under ASI officials, on the lines of Hampi will be formed to decide on the maintenance of the Church complex. We will obtain the rules and regulations which are in place for maintenance of the Hampi (complex) too," Sawant said. Hampi is a popular destination of touristic and historic significance on account of its temples, which date back to between the 14th and the 16th century during the reign of the Vijaynagara empire in Karnataka's Bellary district. The site is visited by hundreds of thousands of tourists every year, just like the Old Goa Church complex, which is also a popular tourist site. Over the last few weeks, the Rector of the Basilica of Bom Jesus Fr. Patricio Fernandes has been lobbying with the state government officials to hasten the pre-monsoon repair work, which if not completed in time before the rains, could cause damage to the heritage buildings located in Goa's former capital. Sawant said, that Goa Chief Secretary Parimal Rai had been tasked with formulating a draft of rules and regulations based on the Hampi model to streamline maintenance works at the Old Goa site. "The Chief Secretry has been asked to study and prepare a basic draft. If we need to preserve world heritage monuments in Goa, we need to have a coordination committee to ensure that these works are completed fast," Sawant said. The Basilica of Bom Jesus, which is the key heritage building in the UNESCO-endorsed site, also holds the relics of Spanish Saint Francis Xavier, who died in the mid-1500s.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-takes-leaf-out-of-hampi-for-conservation-and-upkeep-of-heritage-church-complex-834013.html
05-05-2020||National||650 Indians stranded abroad will arrive in Bengaluru by May 13||Nearly 650 Indian citizens currently stranded in the United Kingdom, United States and Singapore are expected to arrive in Bengaluru between May 8 and May 13 next. With the Union Government set to launch the “Vande Bharat Mission” this week to facilitate repatriation of the citizens stranded abroad, three Air India aircraft will land at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) in Bengaluru on Friday, May 12 and May 13 next, bringing back nearly 650 people from the US, UK and Singapore.  The “Vande Bharat Mission” is being launched to facilitate repatriation of the Indians, who got stranded in foreign countries due to the blanket ban imposed by the government on arrival of any international passenger aircraft to any airport in India. The ban was imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus in the country. Most of the returnees, who will arrive at the KIA in Bengaluru over the next few days, are expected to be residents of Karnataka and the other neighbouring States. They will stay in designated quarantine facilities for at least 14 days after their arrival in Bengaluru. They will be allowed to go home only if tests conducted after two weeks find them COVID-19 negative. The special Air India aircraft is scheduled to land at the KIA in Bengaluru little before midnight on Friday, bringing back Indians, who have been stranded in the United Kingdom for the past one-and-a-half months. They will board the special aircraft from the Heathrow Airport in London. Another aircraft of the national carrier is scheduled to reach Bengaluru from Singapore at around 5:45 pm on May 12.    The third lot of returnees is scheduled to arrive at the KIA at around 6-15 a.m. on May 13 onboard an Air India aircraft from San Francisco in the United States The first week of the “Vande Bharat Mission” will see 3150 people arriving in Kerala onboard 15 flights from seven countries, 3100 people landing at Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi onboard 11 flights from nine countries and 2150 people reaching Tamil Nadu onboard 11 flights from nine countries. Besides, Maharashtra, Telangana and Gujarat will receive 1900, 1750 and 1100 returnees, while Punjab and Uttar Pradesh will receive 200 people each. Nearly 600 people will return to Jammu and Kashmir. “Coordinating arrival arrangements with State Governments. Confident that our collective efforts will make this a success,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar posted on Twitter after reviewing preparation for the launch of the mission on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/650-indians-stranded-abroad-will-arrive-in-bengaluru-by-may-13-834016.html
05-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Indian study projects a peak by May second week with 60,000 active cases||India is likely to see a peak in the number of active COVID-19 cases by the second week of May and a decline in the number of such cases may happen before the lockdown 3.0 comes to an end, suggests a new Indian study. Carried out by researchers at the Indian Institute of Science, Education, and Research (IISER), Kolkata, the modeling study also forecasts a death toll of 15,000-35,000 for India though the researchers admitted that there were certain limitations to the study. The most-likely-scenario in the IISER simulation predicts about 60,000 active infections (with a possible upper limit of less than 135,000) peaking in the early second week of May. The number of likely deaths is predicted to be close to 15,000 with an upper limit of about 35,000, incorporating reasonable uncertainties in the model. As on May 1, the model’s most-likely-scenario simulation predicts numbers slightly higher than what was observed. For the last three days, the numbers are on an upward spiral with reporting of 3,900 cases on Tuesday and more than 2,500 cases a day before. "It would be wise to lay more emphasis on the model-predicted trends rather than the numbers. If the effectiveness of the current lockdown and quarantine measures continue to hold then the model predicts a decline in active infections by the third week of May," said IISER scientist Dibyendu Nandi, who led the team.  Nandi and his colleagues at the Center of Excellence in Space Sciences India at IISER have utilized their in-house modeling and data analytics capabilities to create the COVID-19 pandemic behaviour model intended for spreading awareness among the general public and guiding future policies relating to the same. The IISER study finds that the current lockdown is far from being an efficient one. Nevertheless, it needs to be continued beyond May 17 for the administration to get a grip on the pandemic scenario because without any restrictions things will go out of control. The simulations under the no-lockdown scenario show the number of infected and deceased individuals would have risen rapidly and could have been unacceptably large. Eventually, almost all the individuals susceptible to the disease (in the simulation assumed to be the entire population of India) could have become infected. Even after incorporating the "herd immunity" factor, the number of infected individuals could have been 60% of the Indian population. This would have resulted not only in the highest number of novel coronavirus 2019 deaths in the world but cripple the health care infrastructure. "Our study demonstrates the importance of active containment, perhaps in the form of intensive testing, contact tracing and isolating infected individuals even if the lockdown itself is relaxed somewhat," Nandi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-study-projects-a-peak-by-may-second-week-with-60000-active-cases-834018.html
05-05-2020||National||Mumbai bans sale of liquor as coronavirus cases rise||Considering the rising cases of coronavirus in Mumbai, the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai has decided to close the sale of liquor in the city. The administratiom has banned operations of all non-essential shops, including standalone liquor outlets.  As cases of coronavirus crossed 15000-mark in Maharashtra on Tuesday, a circular has been issued stating the new directives. "Only the groceries and medical store/chemist shops will be allowed to open," the circular stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-bans-sale-of-liquor-as-coronavirus-cases-rise-834020.html
05-05-2020||National||Two arrested for snatching mobile phone of security guard||Two men were arrested for allegedly snatching the mobile phone of a Gangaram Hospital security guard in west Delhi, police said. The accused were wearing T-shirts and carrying the bag of a popular online food home delivery service, they said. Mohan Mishra (19) and Pawan Chauhan (28), both residents of Karawal Nagar, have been arrested, officials said. On April 21, Rikesh Kumar (25), a resident of Inderpuri, called police and informed them that his phone was snatched when he was walking back to his residence around 10 pm, a senior police officer said. Kumar was speaking on his phone when the incident took place, the officer said. After the incident, Mishra and Chauhan fled towards Loha Mandi in Narayana, police said. Kumar tried to chase them, but could not succeed. He also could not read the number plate of the vehicle, they said. During investigation, police started scanning details food delivery agents of the service and based on information collected, identified and arrested the accused persons, the officer said. Interrogation revealed that as online food delivery services were exempted from lockdown orders, Mishra planned to use the delivery company’s bag to evade police checking. Mishra approached one of his acquaintances, who had earlier got himself registered with the company, but was not working for it for some time, police said. The acquaintance gave the his ID and uniform, which has been seized along with a bike and four phones, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-arrested-for-snatching-mobile-phone-of-security-guard-834022.html
05-05-2020||National||30 Indian vaccines for coronavirus under development, Scientists tell PM Modi||Thirty Indian vaccines to fight novel coronavirus are under various stages of development, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was told on Tuesday by top scientists. Modi chaired the meeting of the Task Force on Corona Vaccine Development, Drug Discovery, Diagnosis and Testing and reviewed the current status of work in this regard. An official statement said scientists are working on repurposing of existing drugs for use in treatment of COVID-19. "At least four drugs are undergoing synthesis and examination in this category", the statement said adding that development of new candidate drugs and molecules are being driven by linking high performance computational approach with laboratory verification. Scientists are also studying plant extracts and products for general anti-viral properties.  Modi appreciated experts from diverse fields of computer science, chemistry and biotechnology joinng hands in drug discovery and  suggested a hackathon be held on this subject, linking computer science to synthesis and testing in the laboratory.     The successful candidates from the hackathon could be taken up by the start-ups for further development and scaling up, the Prime Minister said. Modi noted the scaling up of testing capabilities in the country and development of RT-PCR test kits by Indian start-ups. The problem of importing reagents for testing has been addressed by consortia of Indian start-ups and industry, meeting current requirements, the statement said. The PM added that the innovative and original manner in which Indian scientists, from basic to applied sciences, have come together with industry is heartening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/30-indian-vaccines-for-coronavirus-under-development-scientists-tell-pm-modi-834028.html
05-05-2020||National||2nd installment of Rs 500 transferred to over 10 cr women PMJDY account holders: Sources||The second installment of Rs 500 for May has been transferred so far to over 10 crore women Jan Dhan bank account holders, according to sources. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had in March-end announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 500 each to women Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) account holders, for the next three months, under the PM Garib Kalyan Package. Subsequently, the Ministry of Rural Development released the first installment of Rs 500 for the month of April. The ex-gratia amount is part of the Rs 1.7 lakh crore stimulus package announced by the government in late March to tide over the economic crisis induced by COVID-19. The package also comprised free foodgrains and cooking gas to poor and cash doles to poor women and elderly in a bid to mitigate their hardships. Meanwhile, sources said that all 20.40 crore identified beneficiaries can withdraw the second installment money as per the schedule decided by the Finance Ministry. The money transfer has been staggered over a period of five days to avoid rush at the bank branches as was done in case of the first installment disbursed in April. This has been done to ensure social distancing and stop overcrowding in banks. The second installment has been transferred into nearly 50 per cent of identified accounts in the first two days of disbursement, according to sources. As per the schedule, women account holders under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) having account number with last digit as 0 and 1 have got money in their account on May 4, while accounts ending with 2 or 3 on May 5.  On May 6, beneficiaries with account numbers ending with 4 or 5 can receive their money, while accounts ending with 6 or 7 may withdraw on May 8 as May 7 is holiday on account of Budha Purnima.   The last tranche would be remitted on May 11 for account numbers ending with 8 or 9. In case of emergency, one can withdraw the money immediately. However, for orderly disbursal, one must follow the banks' payment plan, it said. Beneficiaries may withdraw on any day as per their convenience after May 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2nd-installment-of-rs-500-transferred-to-over-10-cr-women-pmjdy-account-holders-sources-834029.html
05-05-2020||National||Centre hikes excise duty on petrol by Rs 10/litre and diesel by Rs 13/litre; No impact on pump prices||The Centre late Tuesday night raised additional excise duty, road and infrastructure cess on petrol by Rs 10 and diesel by Rs 13 as part of revenue augmentation measures for post-COVID economic reconstruction. However, pump prices for the two fuels will not rise. Such an exorbitant hike in duties would mean no price cut for petrol and diesel consumers in the near future even if crude oil prices have hit rock bottom. But the Centre is expected to garner an estimated Rs 1.5 lakh crore.  Crude oil is selling at $30 per barrel in the international market but Indian consumers are still paying over Rs 70 for a litre of petrol. Minutes after the gazette notification, the government made it clear that the pump prices of fuels will not change due to the increase in duties.  The consumers were expecting a cut in prices of the transport fuel after çrude oil touched a historic low and India filled it's strategic reserves to the brim. While the special additional excise duty on petrol was hiked by Rs 2 a litre, on diesel it was increased by Rs 5 per litre. The road and infrastructure cess on both the transport fuels were raised by Rs 8 each, a government notification issued late Tuesday night said.   “Retail sale price of petrol and diesel will, however, not change on account of this increase in duties. Therefore, it will have no impact on the consumer,” the ministry said in the note. The move comes a month after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman got the Finance Bill 2020 amended to raise the limit up to which the government can raise special excise duty on petrol and diesel to Rs 18 per litre and Rs 12, respectively. Earlier on Tuesday, the Delhi government raised VAT on the two fuels, raising petrol prices to Rs 71.26 a litre and diesel to Rs 69.39 a litre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-hikes-excise-duty-on-petrol-by-rs-10/litre-and-diesel-by-rs-13/litre-no-impact-on-pump-prices-834041.html
05-05-2020||National||Indian Navy ships to bring back citizens from Maldives||Not only Air India, the Indian Navy is also set to join the mission to repatriate Indians stranded overseas due to the travel and transport restrictions imposed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition to the “Vande Bharat Mission” by Air India, the Indian Navy has launched the Operation “Samudra Setu” to repatriate citizens from foreign nations. The Indian Navy ships -Jalashwa and Magar are currently on the way to Malè to bring back Indians stranded in Maldives from Friday. The High Commission of India in Malè is preparing a list of Indians, who need to return for compelling reasons. They will be brought to Kochi in Kerala onboard the Indian Navy ships. A total of 1,000 persons are planned to be evacuated during the first trip, the Indian Navy stated.  Indians will be allowed to board the ships only after medical screening. They will be quarantined for 14 days after their arrival in Kochi.  The returnees would be provided the basic amenities and medical facilities during the sea-passage, the Indian Navy stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-ships-to-bring-back-citizens-from-maldives-834047.html
05-05-2020||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi's call of support to migrant workers creates row||A quick-footed Congress on Monday seized the issue of stranded migrant workers being made to pay for their travel back home with party chief Sonia Gandhi directing state units to foot the bill for the journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhis-call-of-support-to-migrant-workers-creates-row-833666.html
05-05-2020||National Politics||Delhi BJP slams AAP government for hike in VAT on petrol, diesel; demands its withdrawal||The Delhi BJP on Tuesday said the AAP government's decision to hike VAT on diesel and petrol will negatively impact people, especially poor and farmers, already facing problems due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari demanded Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to withdraw the VAT (value-added tax) hike, saying it will lead to rise in the prices of essential items. "It's pure injustice by the Kejriwal government. The Delhi BJP demands him to withdraw the hike because things like foodgrains, vegetables and other items of daily consumption will become costlier due to it," Tiwari said. Petrol price in the national capital was hiked by Rs 1.67 a litre on Tuesday and diesel by a steep Rs 7.10 per litre after the Delhi government raised local sales tax or VAT) on the two fuels. Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said the hike in VAT will negatively impact the people, especially poor, farmers, middle class and transporters. "The VAT on petrol and diesel in the Arvind Kejriwal regime in Delhi in the past 5-6 years has been hiked by 2.5 times and 1.5 times, respectively. No other state in the country has caused such a high increase in VAT," Bidhuri said in a statement. He said Kejriwal should withdraw the hike since it was "against the people of Delhi" who were already facing problems due to the lockdown and the COVID-19 epidemic. East Delhi BJP MP Gautam Gambhir took a dig at the AAP government, saying its economics is unmatched, referring to various schemes like free water and power supply promised by the ruling party before the assembly polls in February this year. "Before elections - we will give everything free, there is no lack of money. Two moths later - impose two times tax, there is no money even for salaries. Unmatched economics of the AAP," Gambhir tweeted Hindi. With the fresh hike in VAT, petrol in Delhi now costs Rs 71.26 a litre as against Rs 69.59 previously, oil industry sources said. Diesel price has been hiked to Rs 69.39 per litre from Rs 62.29. This follows the Delhi government's decision to raise VAT on petrol to 30 per cent from 27 per cent, previously. Incase of diesel, VAT has been almost doubled to 30 per cent from 16.75 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-bjp-slams-aap-government-for-hike-in-vat-on-petrol-diesel-demands-its-withdrawal-833806.html
05-05-2020||National Politics||BJP approaches police over messages against Fadnavis on social media, NCP asks party to recall past||BJP leaders have approached Nagpur police commissioner flagging "threatening messages" being put out on social media against former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis amidst the COVID-19 situation and registration of "false cases" against BJP workers. A complaint application was submitted to police commissioner Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay on Monday by Nagpur city BJP chief Pravin Datke and others. A similar complaint was filed by another MLC Prasad Lad with the Ratnagiri district superintendent of police on Tuesday. Datke alleged that Fadnavis, currently the Leader of the Opposition in the state Legislative Assembly, was "threatened with encounter messages whenever he comes live on social media to talk about the COVID-19 situation". "If the Leader of Opposition is being threatened in such manner how will common people stay safe in Maharashtra?" he asked. BJP leader and MLC Anil Sole, also from Nagpur and believed to be close to Fadnavis, said that leaders of the saffron party have been constantly targetted by trolls in the last few days. "Many comments are very personal in nature and are in bad taste," he said. Apart from Fadnavis, former ministers Chandrashekhar Bavankule, Sudhir Mungantiwar and Vinod Tawde were also allegedly got trolled during their social media interactions. Mungantiwar said online bullying was a deliberate attempt to target the BJP. "I have retrieved data of the people trolling me during my Facebook live as well as of other BJP leaders. I found that many online accounts have common names which means that some people are purposefully trolling us," he told PTI. Mungantiwar also said the BJP would not stop holding the state government accountable for its performance notwithstanding trolling.  "The Maharashtra government has recently taken action against a so-called BJP leader from Nashik district for allegedly making some offensive remarks. If this is the case, then we are also giving out complaints to police officials. We will see how the state government takes action against these trolls, who are indirectly helping the ruling government," said another BJP leader. The online war with political hues had turned physical when an engineer was beaten up recently allegedly by the men close to state Housing Minister and NCP leader Jitendra Awhad in Thane. Awhad had also released some of the tweets purportedly posted by the engineer against him and some NCP leaders. Maharashtra NCP unit president and Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil said police had not taken any action against trolls during 2014-19 (when the BJP was in power) despite several complaints. "We had then tried to file complaints with police officials in various parts of the state against trolls, but police didn't accept our complaints then," he said. Patil claimed that many social media handles had been supporting then CM Fadnavis and the BJP. "The BJP should first clarify whether they were paid accounts or not," Patil said. Meanwhile, Nagpur BJP chief Datke alleged that leaders of a ruling party have been criticising the state governor, which he said amounted to indiscipline. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government is headed by the Shiv Sena, with the NCP and the Congress as its constituents. State Home department had registered 341 cyber crime cases in various parts of the state, an official had said last week. As per the National Crime Records Bureau data, Maharashtra recorded 2,380 cases of cyber crime in calendar year 2016 followed by 3,604 in 2017 and 3,511 in 2018||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-approaches-police-over-messages-against-fadnavis-on-social-media-ncp-asks-party-to-recall-past-833807.html
05-05-2020||National Politics||Centre has left 'national problem' of migrant labourers to states: Veerappa Moily||Senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily on Tuesday alleged that the Centre has left the issue of migrant labourers returning to their native places in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic for the states to handle despite it being a "national problem". Majority of migrant labourers are panicky, wanting to return to their native places as there are no jobs, food or proper shelter available to them, the former Union minister said in a statement. "There are reports coming that the migrant labourers who are returning to their native states or green zones like Chhattisgarh are carrying the deadly COVID-19 virus. The government has just allowed the crisis of migrants to be tackled by the respective state governments," he said. "The issue of migrants is a national problem. Moreover, the present situation has led to a scramble to get back to their respective home states. Many of the states are not willing to provide any package to them," Moily said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi or the government are not doing anything either to contain the migration of labourers from the respective states or provide them with transport back to their native states, he alleged. "When the third phase of the lockdown is over, it is important that the central government together with the state governments contain the flood of migrant labourers to revive the economy," Moily said. If the migrant labourers return to their respective states, what will happen to the labour force needed to start the industries and revive the economy, he asked. The central government and the state governments are just driving the migrant labourers to a "panicky situation", he said. Even the basic obligation of the government under the Disaster Management Act doesn't seem to be in place, Moily claimed. "Mere words of solace by the Prime Minister cannot feed the large Indian populace. They will ultimately lose their patience to hear him anymore," he said. The prime minister is serious about the present COVID-19 crisis, but actions on the ground level are different and the number of positive cases and deaths have been increasing day by day. Expressing concern about the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), Moily said many of the employees in these MSMEs are not getting salaries right from March-April and they may have to wait for another three months to get their salaries. The government has not come out with any specific package so far to address these concerns, he said. The government is also not applying its mind to make the Public Sectors or big industries pay money they owe to the MSMEs, Moily said. He also alleged that the government has not come out with any schemes to expand healthcare infrastructure or take recourse to research to find a solution to the pandemic at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-has-left-national-problem-of-migrant-labourers-to-states-veerappa-moily-833834.html
05-05-2020||National Politics||BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje alleges receiving threat calls from Middle East for writing to Amit Shah||BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje on Tuesday alleged that she received threatening calls from the Middle East and Gulf countries for writing to Union Home Minister Amit Shah about the "ill-treatment" meted out to an Indian in Kuwait for hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In a video message, Karandlaje said she recently came to know that the Indian, a driver from Kerala, was beaten up in that country. "After I wrote to Amit Shah about it, I received hundreds of threat calls from the Middle East and Gulf countries in a vulgar language," Karandlaje alleged in the message. In her letter to Shah dated May 3, she said the driver was slapped and forced to apologise for praising Modi. Karandlaje shared the video of the purported incident on her Twitter handle. "We must mount pressure on the authorities of Kuwait to extradite him (perpetrator) and be brought to India for trial," Karandlaje stated in her letter and described the incident as "outrageous and unacceptable."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mp-shobha-karandlaje-alleges-receiving-threat-calls-from-middle-east-for-writing-to-amit-shah-833886.html
05-05-2020||National Politics||TMC blames Centre for spike in COVID-19 cases in West Bengal; BJP hits back||The Trinamool Congress on Tuesday alleged that the "callous approach" of the BJP-led central government in allowing international flights to operate till the last week of March resulted in the spike in COVID-19 cases in West Bengal. The BJP hit back accusing the TMC of "trying to pass the buck" on others for its own shortcomings. The ruling party's castigating remarks came a day after the Centre's inter-ministerial team had pointed out that the COVID-19 mortality rate in West Bengal is highest in the country at 12.8 per cent which reflects "low testing and weak surveillance" in tackling the pandemic. According to latest updates, West Bengal has reported over 1300 confirmed cases of coronavirus. There have been 68 deaths while 264 have recovered. Accusing the BJP of trying to politicise the COVID-19 crisis in Bengal, TMC secretary-general and the state's Parliamentary Affairs Minister Partha Chatterjee said the two central teams were sent by the union government "with the intention to malign the state government". "Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had asked for suspension of international and domestic flights and trains but the Centre didn't pay any attention to it at that time. This callous approach is one of the main reasons behind the spike in the number of cases in the state," Chatterjee said while addressing a virtual press conference. The TMC had been asking to suspend Parliament but the central government didn't take the threat seriously then. Despite World Health Organisation (WHO) declaring COVID-19 a pandemic on March 11, the Centre was late to react to it, he said. "The state was given faulty kits. Despite the state government seeking clarifications regarding the lockdown, the Centre is yet to give clarifications," he said. "In February, when COVID-19 had started spreading around the world, our Prime Minister spent Rs 80 crore for Donald Trump's three-hour visit to Ahmedabad, Gujarat, where there were people from around the world attending the Namaste Trump event with over 1 lakh people packed in a stadium. "Can the central government guarantee that there was no transmission of infection in that event and there weren't attendees from Bengal who possibly carried the virus back to the state," another senior TMC leader and minister Rajib Banerjee asked. Noting that the chief minister has been leading from the front and accusing the BJP of trying to politicise this by maligning Bengal, Chatterjee claimed that when WHO declared COVID-19 as a pandemic, the saffron party was busy horse-trading in Madhya Pradesh. Accusing the central team of being biased against the state government, Chatterjee said the team was sent with the intention to malign the state government and its efforts in tackling the pandemic. In a strong riposte, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said the state government and TMC is now trying to pass the buck by blaming others. "Initially, they tried to hide the figures, when the failed to do so, they started blaming the centre. The TMC has a bad habit of blaming us for every wrongdoing it committed," Ghosh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-blames-centre-for-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-west-bengal-bjp-hits-back-834011.html
05-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: While reopening economy think in terms of supply chains, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said that while tackling the coronavirus pandemic one has to think in terms of zones, but while reopening the economy think in terms of supply chains. He also used the hashtag "ReopeningIndiasEconomy" with his tweet. While tackling the virus, think in terms of zones. "While tackling the virus, think in terms of zones. While reopening the economy, think in terms of supply chains," he said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-30-while-reopening-economy-think-in-terms-of-supply-chains-says-rahul-gandhi-834054.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Delhi HC directs police to facilitate son's meeting with mother confined in house by step-children||The Delhi High Court on Monday directed the police to facilitate a man's meeting with his mother, allegedly detained in her house by her step-children. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and S Prasad, which conducted the hearing through video link, asked the man to go alone to meet his mother at her Burari residence. It ordered the area SHO to facilitate the meeting on May 6 from 11:30 am to 1 pm. The court also sought the response of the Delhi police and the woman's three step-children on the man's habeas corpus plea seeking a direction to authorities to produce his mother. A habeas corpus petition is filed for production a person who is missing or illegally detained. The man has alleged in the plea that after the death of his father in February this year, the step-children forcibly entered the house. "The petitioner (man) shall go to meet his mother at her residence alone. The SHO of the area shall ensure that neither the petitioner, nor respondents no.3 to 5 (step-children) create any nuisance or do anything provocative that may result in a law and order problem. Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra told the court that on March 10, several complaints and cross-complaints were filed by the man, the biological son of the woman from her first marriage, and her three step-children. He said the fulcrum of the dispute between the parties hinges on the residential premises in Burari's Keshav Enclave, which was owned and occupied by their parents till their father's death. The step-children were residing elsewhere but after the demise of their father, they forcibly entered the residential premises, he claimed, adding that due to an altercation between the parties, the local police had to intervene and take preventive measures. The counsel told the court various PCR calls have been received relating to their quarrels and the last one was on April 23 by the man's mother who complained that she was being forcibly confined in her house by her step-children.  It was submitted that the police had tried to stop the quarrel between the parties but the gate was not opened and after some time, they managed to open the lock and the police officials found that the step children were allegedly creating a ruckus and the parties were calmed down. The man's counsel also told the court that when his sister tried to deliver medicines to their mother, she was allowed to meet her after strong resistance and now even he was being prevented from meeting her. He said advance copies of the petition were served to his step siblings but they deliberately kept away from the proceedings. The court listed the matter for further hearing on May 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-delhi-hc-directs-police-to-facilitate-sons-meeting-with-mother-confined-in-house-by-step-children-833634.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||HC directs Delhi govt to ensure coronavirus results get declared within 48 hours||The Delhi High Court directed the AAP government here on Monday to ensure that coronavirus samples sent to the accredited labs are processed swiftly and the results declared within 24-48 hours. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad issued the direction on a plea by a lawyer, Rakesh Malhotra, seeking directions to the Centre and the Delhi government to ensure swift testing of coronavirus or COVID-19 and declaration of results within 48 hours. The bench also directed the Delhi government, represented by additional standing counsel Satyakam, that it "shall continue updating its website on a regular basis to reflect the correct number of tests that are being conducted for COVID-19 in Delhi, mention the number of cases that are positive or negative and state the number of results that are pending after the tests are conducted".  With the directions, the court disposed of Malhotra's plea in which he had contended that swift testing and declaration of results was necessary to identify the coronavirus patients in time and prevent community spreading of COVID-19. During the hearing, Satyakam told the bench that earlier there was a pendency in processing of samples and declaration of results as the samples were being sent to National Institute of Biologicals (NIB) in Noida where the testing process was slow. Subsequently, he said, it was decided to send the samples to 23 accredited labs -- 10 public sector and 12 private -- in the national capital. The labs have a collective capacity to process 3,000-3,500 tests per day and henceforth, reports of testing will be received within 1-2 days from the date the sample is received by the concerned lab, he told the court. Satyakam also placed before the bench an order issued by the Health and Family Department in which it was observed that there was considerable pendency at NIB, Noida which was "hindering effective containment of the disease".   The department's order directed its officials not to send any sample to NIB, Noida for testing and the samples shall now be sent to government and private labs to ensure the results are received within a day.   Taking note of the submissions made Satyakam, the court said: "We are satisfied that adequate remedial measures have been taken by the Delhi government to expedite receipt of reports for testing patients for COVID-19 infection."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-directs-delhi-govt-to-ensure-coronavirus-results-get-declared-within-48-hours-833638.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Ex-gratia of Rs 1 crore approved for family of IB staffer Ankit Sharma killed in northeast Delhi CAA riots||The Delhi Cabinet on Monday approved an ex-gratia of Rs one crore to the family of IB staffer Ankit Sharma who was killed during the northeast Delhi riots earlier this year. Sharma's body, bearing multiple stab injuries, was fished out from a drain in northeast Delhi's Chand bagh area. A local municipal councilor has been arrested in connection with Sharma's killing. The cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal approved the ex gratia of Rs one crore to the family of late Ankit Sharma, IB staffer, who lost his life on February 26 in northeast Delhi riots, the government said in a statement. The ex-gratia of Rs one crore was announced by Kejriwal in March. The chief minister had also promised job to a member of Sharma's family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-gratia-of-rs-1-crore-approved-for-family-of-ib-staffer-ankit-sharma-killed-in-northeast-delhi-caa-riots-833645.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Smartphone without 'Aarogya Setu' app will draw punishment for user in Gautam Buddh Nagar||Not having the 'Aarogya Setu' app on smartphones while out in a public place in Noida or Greater Noida will be considered a violation of the coronavirus-forced lockdown and attract punishment, according to new guidelines issued by the police. Action will also be taken against people going outdoors without a face mask or spitting in public places, according to the police in Gautam Buddh Nagar in western Uttar Pradesh. Aarogya Setu is a mobile application developed by the central government to connect essential health services with the people over the fight against COVID-19.  The app is aimed at augmenting the initiatives of the Centre, particularly the Department of Health, in proactively reaching out to and informing the users of the app regarding risks, best practices and relevant advisories pertaining to the containment of COVID-19. The district police had on Sunday announced extending the Criminal Procedure Code section 144, which bars assembly of four or more people, till May 17, as the central government extended the nationwide lockdown by another two weeks in a bid to check the spread of the virus. "Spitting in public places will attract punishment along with a fine. Not wearing a face mask in public places or offices will also be a punishable offence. "If smartphone users do not have the 'Aarogya Setu' app installed on their mobile phones, then that will be punishable and considered a violation of the lockdown directions," Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, Ashutosh Dwivedi said. During the lockdown period, political, social, religious, sports gatherings as well as protest marches and rallies will remain banned across Noida and Greater Noida, the official said in the order. "The central government has extended the lockdown till May 17 in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Gautam Buddh Nagar has been identified as 'red zone' and hotspots have been identified here. During this duration, all guidelines of the lockdown are to be followed," he said. "During the period, political, religious or social, cultural gatherings will not be allowed, and protest rallies etc will remain banned. All places of worship will remain closed. People will not be allowed to gather outdoors on streets or in lanes and a two-yard distance should be maintained by those out," Dwivedi said in a statement. "No organization/manager will be allowed to call a meeting of five or more than five people. Not more than 50 people will be allowed during wedding events, and not more than 20 at funerals during the lockdown period and social distancing has to be followed even during these events," the officer said. Gautam Buddh Nagar, which falls in the 'Red Zone', has 34 containment zones and has recorded 179 positive cases of coronavirus so far, with 102 of these patients being cured and discharged from hospitals, according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-smartphone-without-aarogya-setu-app-will-draw-punishment-for-user-in-gautam-buddh-nagar-833652.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot , South Western Army chief pay tributes Col Ashutosh Sharma||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Soldier Welfare Minister Pratap Singh, South Western Army chief Lt Gen Alok Kler and others paid tributes to Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, who was killed in an encounter with terrorists in Kashmir, here on Tuesday. Other officers of the Army and family members and relatives of Col Sharma were also present. A wreath-laying ceremony was held at the Jaipur Military Station's 61 Cavalry ground, where Chief Minister Gehlot and Lt Gen Kler paid their last respects to the slain officer.  They consoled his family members present there.  Col Sharma's wife, Pallavi Sharma, was seen greeting them with folded hands. Soldier Welfare Minister Singh, MP Rajyavardhan Rathore, Jaipur Collector Jogaram and other senior officials of the Army laid wreaths and paid their tributes.  Colonel Sharma, who was among the five security personnel killed during an encounter with terrorists in north Kashmir on Sunday, is the second Commanding Officer of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles who lost his life while combating terrorism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-south-western-army-chief-pay-tributes-col-ashutosh-sharma-833714.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Thousands of migrant workers stranded in western Madhya Pradesh amid coronavirus lockdown||Amid the nationwide lockdown, thousands of migrant labourers who left for their native places have got stranded in western Madhya Pradesh and are getting impatient because of loss of jobs, the misery of being displaced and uncertainty over the return to home. Among the stranded labourers, the biggest number is of those who left from neighbouring Maharashtra to go to their home states, officials said. Most of these workers had taken the National Highway No.3 connecting Mumbai to Agra, but after entering Madhya Pradesh, they were stopped from proceeding further. Majority of these stranded labourers are natives of Uttar Pradesh, a Madhya Pradesh administration official said. Some of these labourers had left for their native places by somehow managing to get into four-wheelers, while many set off for home on motorcycles and bicycles, he said. Many of them also marched on foot along with their families for hundreds of kilometres in the summer heat. After they were stopped at Bijasan Ghat in Barwani district, some of the angry migrant workers indulged in stone-pelting and staged road blockades on the National Highway No.3 in last five days, a police official said. This mountainous area located along the Maharashtra border is witnessing a huge gathering of migrant labourers every day. According to eyewitnesses, hundreds of such stranded migrants can be seen on the 170-km stretch from Bijasan Ghat to Indore. Besides, hundreds of migrant workers are also stranded in Indore, the commercial capital of Madhya Pradesh, and its adjoining areas. They want to reach their homes at the earliest, a sub-divisional magistrate said. These include a large number of labourers who worked in Indore and nearby Pithampur industrial area, where most of the factories have shut due to the coronavirus crisis. These labourers are currently lodged in shelter homes, he said. The Ratlam division of the Western Railway has said it has completed preparations to run special trains from Indore for migrant workers. But, it has not received any formal request from the Madhya Pradesh government or the home states of migrant labourers for running the trains. "If a formal request is made by the state governments concerned to the railways, we can ferry about 1,200 migrants in every special train to their home state while following the physical distancing norms in coaches," Ratlam rail division's senior public relations officer Jitendra Kumar Jayant said. He said before running the Shramik special trains, it is necessary for two states to reach an agreement, especially on preparations for the departure and arrival of migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/thousands-of-migrant-workers-stranded-in-western-madhya-pradesh-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-833716.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus cases in Indore rise to 1,654; death toll reaches 79||The number of coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh's worst-hit Indore district climbed to 1,654 after 43 more people tested positive for the disease in last 24 hours, a senior health official said on Tuesday. Besides, the death toll in the district rose to 79 as two more persons succumbed to the disease, Indore's Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia said. The two victims included a 45-year-old woman and a 64 -year-old man, who died at a private hospital here. The woman was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension, while the man had chronic kidney disease, he said. So far, 468 patients have been discharged after recovery in Indore, which is the COVID-19 red zone, the official said. The COVID-19 death rate in the district was 4.78 per cent as on Tuesday morning. This is a sharp decline from the death rate of 10.33 per cent on April 9, as per data analysis. Curfew is in force in the urban limits of Indore since March 25, after the first coronavirus patient was found in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cases-in-indore-rise-to-1654-death-toll-reaches-79-833721.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||5 more COVID-19 death in Rajasthan; toll rises to 82||Rajasthan recorded five more coronavirus deaths on Tuesday, taking the state's toll to 82, an official said. The state also reported 38 fresh coronavirus cases, he said. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said all the five deaths took place in Jaipur. The death toll due to COVID-19 in the state has climbed to 82, he said. Jaipur alone has reported 49 deaths, Singh added,   Of the fresh 38 coronavirus cases, 14 were from Jaipur, nine from Chittorgarh, eight from Kota, four from Jodhpur, two from Tonk and one from Bharatpur, the Health Department official said. The state now has 3,099 confirmed COVID-19 cases, of which 983 have been discharged from hospitals, he said, adding 1,577 are active cases. Jaipur has reported the highest number of cases at 1,036, followed by Jodhpur at 725. The COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan include two Italian citizens and 61 people brought back from Iran and quarantined at the Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to trace the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-more-covid-19-death-in-rajasthan-toll-rises-to-82-833723.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Woman attendant tests positive for COVID-19 at AIIMS Rishikesh||A woman attending to a patient at AIIMS, Rishikesh has tested positive for COVID-19, taking the number of confirmed cases in Uttarakhand to 61, officials said on Wednesday. Her swab sample was found positive for the infection late Monday night, Additional SDM Apoorva Pandey said. She was attending to a patient at the urology ward of the premier hospital, where she may have come in contact with an infected person, Pandey said. She has been admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital and people who may have come in contact with her are being traced, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-attendant-tests-positive-for-covid-19-at-aiims-rishikesh-833744.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Teenage girl raped by man in Uttar Pradesh||A teenage girl was allegedly raped by a man in the Rajapur area here, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday when the 14-year-old girl was going to the field, they said. The girl later reached home and informed her family members about it, who approached the police, they said. An FIR under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered against the accused, police said. The accused, 21, has been arrested, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teenage-girl-raped-by-man-in-uttar-pradesh-833750.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Bois Room Locker case: Police identify 10 students, questioning on||A shocking incident of school boys' conversations on an Instagram group where they shared morphed images of girls and issued threats of gang rape has come to light prompting Delhi Police's cyber wing into action. Once they were reported, the boys even started a second group and vowed to leak nude pictures of those who revealed them. The Cyber Cell has identified one of the school boys who was part of the 'Bois Locker Room', a group formed on Instagram recently. Following his questioning, police has now identified around 10 other participants in the group, which has earned the wrath of social media users. The Delhi Commission for Women also took cognizance of the matter and issued notice to Instagram seeking details of the details of those who were part of the group. "It is reported that the group is used for sharing objectionable pictures of minor girls and young women many a times with their personal information. The members of the group have been reported to have discussed techniques of raping women and gang raping minors," DCW Chairperson Swati Maliwal said in the notice issued to Instagram. Delhi Police's Cyber Cell took suo motu cognizance of the screenshots that went viral and registered a case under Information Technology Act and Indian Penal Code. A 19-year-old college student has also filed a complaint with Delhi Police after she discovered her images shared on the chatroom. One of the schools have also approached police. “As of now around 10 members of the group have been identified. The identified members, who are above 18-year-old, are being examined. The minor members are being dealt with as per the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act,” a Delhi Police spokesperson said. The devices used to engaged in the “offensive, vulgar” communication have been seized from the identified group members, the spokesperson added. The members of the group were school students from prominent schools in the national capital. It also has some college students as members in the group and some girls were also added to the group. The incident came to light after screenshots of the conversation were posted on social media, which spoke about threat of sexual assault of girls besides sharing morphed photos of young girls. The screenshots made it to social media after an Instagram user received screenshots from a girl who was added to the group. Some of the screenshots that were shared in social media showed comments like "I will rape her easily" while some others threatened to leak nude photos of girls who unravelled the group. Later, the Instagram account was deleted. Police officials said the 15-year-old boy whom they had identified as a member of the now defunct group told has identified around 20 others who were part of the group. They also said he told them that the group was deleted after the screenshots went viral and formed another 'Locker Room 2.0' in which girls were also added. Police have also identified some messages in Snapchat. Investigators had zeroed in on the 15-year-old boy after technical surveillance. In a statement, Facebook which owns Instagram said, "we absolutely do not allow behaviour that promotes sexual violence or exploits anyone, especially women and young people, and have actioned content violating our Community Standards as we were made aware of it. We have policies that disallow the sharing of non-consensual intimate imagery, as well as threats to share such imagery and we take this issue very seriously."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bois-room-locker-case-police-identify-10-students-questioning-on-833754.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Some are trying to weaken fight against coronavirus for their own political interests: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath targeted the opposition parties on Tuesday, saying some people are trying to weaken the country's fight against COVID-19 for their own political interests. "When the country is moving ahead in its fight against the coronavirus, there are many who are playing politics in this situation also," he added. "It is saddening that some people are attempting to weaken India's strong fight against the virus due to their own political interests," the chief minister said. Adityanath said a 'PM Garib Kalyan' package has been announced for the poor for the first time during the pandemic and "frustration is palpable among those people who used to usurp the money of welfare packages meant for the poor in their regimes". He said while the government was standing by all without any discrimination, some parties were doing "unnecessary politics".  "This is indecent behaviour against political decency. People know everything. They will themselves reply to the attitude of negative people. I appeal to the people of the state to support the government with patience and sensitivity," Adityanath said. He said the government was working in the interests of 23 crore people of the state and migrant labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/some-are-trying-to-weaken-fight-against-coronavirus-for-their-own-political-interests-yogi-adityanath-833765.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Handicapped boy killed in Handwara encounter buried as per COVID-19 protocol||A seventh standard student, who was killed in an encounter between militants and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel in Handwara area of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Monday evening, was laid to rest at Sherri in Baramulla, where foreign militants are buried normally. Hazim Shafi Bhat (14), a handicapped student from Qaziabad village of Kupwara, was killed on Monday when militants ambushed a CRPF patrol party near Wangam village on the Baramulla-Handwara road at about 5:30 pm on Monday. Three personnel of 92 Bn CRPF were also killed in the deadly attack. Hazim’s cousin Aadil Bhat was quoted by a local news agency as saying that they were roaming in the field and he (Hazim) was grazing sheep when suddenly they heard gunshots from the distance. “We ran. As I was running, I was reminded that Hazim was left behind. But when I went back to look for him, he wasn’t there. Later, his body was found near the shootout site, which is almost half-a-kilometre from his residence,” he said. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the slain boy, the only brother of three younger sisters, was laid to rest at Sheeri, Baramulla, graveyard with only 17 people attending his last rites, reports said. Muhammad Shafi Bhat, Numbardar of the village, and uncle of deceased said that police informed them the body will be buried at Sheeri and only a few family members will be allowed to attend the last rites. “At around 06: 30 am, we left along with a police team for the burial and at about 7:00 am Hazim’s funeral prayers were offered with attendance of 17 family members and some police officials,” he told reporters. Earlier, the police, in a statement, said that a civilian was killed during the exchange of fire at Wangam crossing in Kralgund area stating that a case has been registered and further investigation is going on about the circumstances of this crime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/handicapped-boy-killed-in-handwara-encounter-buried-as-per-covid-19-protocol-833766.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Cop, CRPF jawan, four civilians injured in grenade attack||A police officer, a CRPF jawan and four civilians were injured in a grenade attack at Pakherpora area of central Kashmir’s Budgam district on Tuesday. Reports said that militants hurled a grenade towards the joint deployment of 181-Bn. CRPF and J&K police in Pakherpora resulting in injuries to an assistant sub inspector of police (ASI) Ghulam Rasool, CRPF constable Santosh Kumar and four pedestrians. The injured were evacuated to a nearby hospital and their condition is stated to be stable. Soon after the incident, a joint team of CRPF, police and the army launched searches to nab the attackers, reports added. No militant outfit claimed responsibility for the attack till this report was filed. Militants have been targeting security forces with grenade attacks frequently. On Monday evening, a Central Industrial Security Forces (CISF) jawan was injured after militants hurled a grenade towards Power Grid Station at Wagoora, Nowgam area in central Kashmir's Srinagar district. A senior police officer said if the recent grenade attacks are an indication, it seems that militants have revived the strategy of lobbing grenades at security forces and on the roads. He said that the use of grenades also allows the attackers to go incognito in the crowd, without being detected or identified. “The grenades are lobbed mostly by upper ground workers of the militants, which makes it even more dangerous,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cop-crpf-jawan-four-civilians-injured-in-grenade-attack-833775.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Supreme Court refuses TMC MP's plea on CM's Relief Fund||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to consider a plea by TMC MP Mahua Moitra for allowing the Chief Minister's Relief Fund to receive donations from corporate social responsibility funds. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai asked her counsel senior advocate C A Sundaram to raise the issue before Parliament saying that there was a proper forum for it.  Moitra challenged the validity of a circular by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs excluding the Chief Minister's Relief Fund from the ambit of corporate social responsibility funds. Sundaram said that this matter would have ramifications. He said the petitioner is an MP from West Bengal and her state government cannot accept this fund for COVID-19 treatment. The PM-CARES Fund comes under the CSR, he said. "If you are allowing the company to contribute to the central fund and not to the state fund for the same very purpose then it attracts Article 14," the counsel submitted.  The bench, however, said it was in the legislative scheme and the petitioner has not challenged the validity of the Act. "Whether the state should get benefit out of it or not, the petitioner can debate it in Parliament. We do not find any merits ..either you withdraw it or we will dismiss it," the bench said, prompting Moitra's counsel to withdraw her petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-supreme-court-refuses-tmc-mps-plea-on-cms-relief-fund-833803.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: MP govt constitutes committee to revive industries||The Madhya Pradesh government has constituted a committee of industrialists to attract investments and revive industries from the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak in the state, an official said on Tuesday. The industrial policy and investment promotion department has constituted a committee, which will advise the state government about ways to attract investments in the aftermath of the pandemic, an official from the public relations department said. The principal secretary of the department will be convenor of the committee, while the principal secretary of micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) department will be co-convenor, he said. As many as 12 industrialists including Trident's Rajendra Gupta, HEG Ltd's Ravi Jhunjhunwala, Bridgestones's Michihiro Suzuki and Netlink's Anurag Shrivastava are in the committee, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-mp-govt-constitutes-committee-to-revive-industries-833804.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Trying to rush home, 8 migrant workers die in accident in Uttar Pradesh||In their hurry to reach home by any mode of transport, stranded migrant workers have been losing lives in road mishaps in Uttar Pradesh. Seven workers, all resident of Chatarpur district in Madhya Pradesh, were killed and two others seriously injured, when the auto in which they were travelling collided with a truck in UP's Mathura district on Tuesday. According to the police sources, the victims, who worked as labourers in a road construction project in Mathura, had been stuck following lockdown and were desperate to go home. Sources said that the victims hired an auto to reach Jajan Patti area in the district after being told by someone that they would get a bus from there to Chatarpur. The injured workers were stated to be critical, sources said.   At least a dozen migrant workers have lost their lives either in road mishaps or following exhaustion on their way home from the industrial towns. Barely a few days back three migrant workers were killed in a road accident in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh district after the tractor trolley carrying them collided with a bus. A middle aged migrant worker, who was cycling his way home in Bihar from Delhi, had also died allegedly following exhaustion in UP's Shahjahanpur district. He was found lying unconscious on the side of the highway, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/trying-to-rush-home-8-migrant-workers-die-in-accident-in-uttar-pradesh-833848.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||93 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Uttar Pradesh, total climbs to 2,859||Ninety-three fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Uttar Pradesh, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 2,859, a senior official said here on Tuesday. Briefing reporters, Principal Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said so far, 2,859 COVID-19 cases have been reported from 65 districts of the state. He said 944 COVID-19 patients have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals till now. The number of active cases in the state stands at 1,862, he said. Prasad said 20 laboratories are working and pool testing is also going in the state. "On Monday, 300 pools were tested in which there were 1,440 samples. Of the 300 pools, 34 pools were found positive," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/93-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-uttar-pradesh-total-climbs-to-2859-833851.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||33% recovery rate among coronavirus patients in Uttar Pradesh, says CM Adityanath||The recovery rate of COVID-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh is 33 per cent which is higher than the national average, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday. The chief minister was speaking at a review meeting with senior officers where he directed them to take measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus among policemen and medical teams, and increase testing facilities. On the arrangements made to provide treatment to coronavirus patients, he said, "In UP, the recovery rate of COVID-19 is 33 per cent which is six per cent more than the national recovery rate of 27 per cent." The chief minister directed that adequate arrangements be made for medical screening of people who are likely to be brought back from abroad in the coming days. "Arrangements for quarantine should be made for those coming from abroad while ensuring their medical screening," he said, adding that registration of those stranded in other states on "Jansunvai' portal is a good step. The chief minister said steps should be taken in line with the Centre's guidelines to restart industries. He also emphasised on social distancing in "mandis" to prevent the spread of the virus. Uttar Pradesh has reported 2,766 coronavirus cases and 50 deaths, according to Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/33-recovery-rate-among-coronavirus-patients-in-uttar-pradesh-says-cm-adityanath-833854.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||I&B Ministry allots free slot to Rajasthan govt for broadcasting educational content on AIR stations||The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has allotted a 55-minute slot everyday till June 30 to the Rajasthan government for broadcasting educational content on 25 All India Radio (AIR) stations in the state. School education minister Govind Singh Dotasara informed that the ministry has allotted a free slot and school students of the state will now be able to listen to the educational content through AIR. He said his department had urged the government of India to provide free slots for student classes, which has been approved. "The Rajasthan State Council of Educational Research and Training (RSCRT) will provide contents, which will run daily till June 30," Dotasara said.  The minister said Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and state BJP president Satish Poonia too had urged the Centre to provide the free slot on AIR. He said the broadcasting of classes will benefit students from class 1 to 12. RSCRT has made the list of experts who will prepare the content. AIR, in a letter to RSCRT, stated that the broadcast will be done from 25 stations, including 16 primaries and nine relay stations. AIR can upload the content provided on its digital platform after signing an MoU for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ib-ministry-allots-free-slot-to-rajasthan-govt-for-broadcasting-educational-content-on-air-stations-833871.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Sealing of Delhi-Haryana border comes in way of lawyer to reach Delhi High Court to argue bail matter||The lockdown restrictions and sealing of Delhi-Haryana border in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic came in the way of a lawyer, who could not make it to the Delhi High Court to avail the video conferencing facility to argue a bail matter. The advocate telephonically informed the high court official that he was not permitted to cross the border and also he did not have a wifi facility at home to enable him to attend the video conference hearing from there. The lawyer was to appear for the accused, who has sought a month's bail on the ground that his mother is unwell and has to undergo cataract surgery, though the date of surgery has not been fixed yet. His request for adjourning the hearing was accepted by Justice Mukta Gupta who listed the plea for hearing on May 8. The high court has made available two court rooms in its building to use them for video conferencing by the advocates or litigants whose matters have been permitted to be listed. The facility is for lawyers who are not in position to handle video conferencing from their homes or offices. Delhi's interstate borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are almost sealed since last week due to COVID-19 pandemic and entry of only those engaged in essential services, carrying valid passes, is allowed by the authorities. It is pertinent to mention that the Delhi High Court Bar Association (DHCBA) has also urged the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court to direct police to allow advocates, who reside within the NCR, to cross Delhi border during the lockdown. DHCBA, in a letter addressed to Chief Justice D N Patel, said that a large number of advocates practicing in the high court and district courts here reside in Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Faridabad and they are unable to travel to their Delhi offices where files and records are kept.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sealing-of-delhi-haryana-border-comes-in-way-of-lawyer-to-reach-delhi-high-court-to-argue-bail-matter-833881.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Spirited Innovation: People keep empty liquor bottles in queue for wine in Uttar Pradesh||When megastar Amitabh Bachchan, who played the role of an 'alcoholic' in the movie 'Sharabi', had sung 'nasha sharab mein hota to nachti botal' (if alcohol was an intoxicant, then the bottle would also dance) he must not have imagined that a couple of decades later the liquor bottles would come alive, albeit in a different way. Amid the raging debate over utter disregard for social distancing by the people while purchasing liquor, a wine shop owner in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi town came out with a unique idea to ensure social distancing.  The shop owner distributed empty beer cans kept in his godown among the customers after numbering them. These bottles were then kept in the circles formed outside the liquor shop in Ramkatora area in the town. A piece of heavy stone was kept on top of the bottle so that it did not get displaced by the winds. The buyers stood at a distance. The salesmen would call out the numbers and the person concerned would go to the counter, pay and take the delivery. Both the buyers and the cops were happy by the arrangement as there was no chaos outside the shop.  According to the sources, liquor worth Rs 300 crore was sold in the state on Monday, when the liquor shops opened for the first time after a period of 40 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/spirited-innovation-people-keep-empty-liquor-bottles-in-queue-for-wine-in-uttar-pradesh-833906.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Pending class 10 exams to be held only in North East Delhi, not nationwide: HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'||The pending class 10 board examination will only be conducted for students in North East Delhi and not the rest of the country, Union HRD Ministry Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' clarified on Tuesday. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had already notified this last month but there has been confusion among students and parents in this regard. "No examinations will be held for class 10 students nationwide except for students from North East Delhi. An adequate time of 10 days will be given to all students for preparation of exams," Nishank said in an online interaction with students. The minister also clarified to the students of North East Delhi that there is no need to reappear in these examinations if you have already appeared. "These exams will be conducted again for those few students who could not appear in these exams on the scheduled date due to the impact of law and order issues on them. The new schedule will be announced within two days," he added. Universities and schools across the country have been closed and exams postponed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. Later, a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which has now been extended till May 17. The board was not able to conduct exams for class 10 and 12 on eight examination days due to the COVID-19 outbreak.  Further, due to the law and order situation in North East Delhi, the board was not able to conduct exams on four examination days, while a very small number of students from and around this district were not able to appear in exams on six days.   "We had already announced in April that the board will only conduct pending class 10 and 12 exams in 29 crucial subjects. However, in class 10 exams only non-crucial subjects were remaining so they will not be conducted. "The crucial subjects for which exams were postponed in North East Delhi due to the law and order situation, will be conducted," a senior board official explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pending-class-10-exams-to-be-held-only-in-north-east-delhi-not-nationwide-hrd-minister-ramesh-pokhriyal-nishank-833922.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Punjab coronavirus tally rises to 1,451; 67 per cent of cases have Nanded link||Punjab witnessed another significant rise in coronavirus cases on Tuesday with 219 more people, mostly Nanded pilgrims, testing positive for the infection. Two people—a 55-year-old Hoshiarpur man and a 22-year-old woman from Amritsar—also succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll to 25 in the state. Both died on Monday. Of the state’s tally of 1,451, those who have returned from Maharashtra’s Nanded account for 67 per cent (969 cases), a health official said. Of the 219 cases reported on Tuesday, 174 were linked to the Nanded pilgrims. The maximum 48 fresh cases surfaced in Gurdaspur, followed by 47 in Tarn Taran and 34 in Fazilka, a medical bulletin said. Twenty-seven people were found infected with the virus in Faridkot; 22 in Sangrur; 15 in Muktsar; 14 in Ludhiana; six in Jalandhar; five in Kapurthala; and one in Patiala. Meanwhile, notorious Punjab gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria also tested posted for the virus in Gurdaspur’s Batala, where he was brought on a production warrant from a Patiala jail in the murder case of an Akali leader. Over 30 police personnel who interrogated him will be quarantined and tested, the authorities said. Five COVID-19 patients—four from Patiala and one from Pathankot--were discharged from hospitals after recovery. So far, 133 patients have recovered from the disease, officials said. Amritsar continued to top the coronavirus tally with 218 coronavirus cases in the state, followed by Jalandhar (134); Ludhiana (124); Mohali (95); Hoshiarpur (88); Patiala and Tarn Taran (87 each); SBS Nagar and Sangrur (85 each); Gurdaspur (84); Muktsar (64); Faridkot (45); Ferozepur (42); Fazilka (38); Bathinda (36); Moga (28); Pathankot (27); Barnala (19); Kapurthala (18); Mansa (17); Fatehgarh Sahib (16); and Rupnagar (14). Two patients are on ventilator support. A total of 30,199 samples have been taken so far in the state, of which, 23,352 tested negative for the infection. Reports of 5,396 samples are awaited. Currently, there are 1,293 active cases in the state, as per the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-coronavirus-tally-rises-to-1451-67-per-cent-of-cases-have-nanded-link-833940.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Excise department proposes home delivery of liquor in Punjab||The Excise and Taxation Department in Punjab has proposed to deliver liquor at home during ongoing coronavirus situation but a final decision on it will be taken at a state cabinet meeting, officials said here on Tuesday. The state cabinet meeting will be held here on Thursday, they said. The Excise and Taxation Department has given a proposal to the government on home delivery of liquor, they said, however, adding that a final call would be taken by the state cabinet on the matter. As per the proposal, the home delivery of liquor will be allowed between 1 pm to 6 pm in order to avoid rush at vends as witnessed on Monday across the country,  officials said. It will also enable the social distancing norm, they said. The relaxation in curfew in Punjab is given for four hours from 9 am to 1 pm across the state during which all shops are open.  The state government has incurred a loss of Rs 550 crore due to excise duty as vends have been shut for more than a month, officials said. The Excise and Taxation department plans to issue a curfew pass to an employee of the liquor vend contractor to deliver the liquor at home, officials said. The mobile numbers given by the contractor will be announced or circulated thus one can give a call at these numbers and get the delivery done,  they said. However, the final guidelines on the proposal will be issued once the state cabinet clears the proposal, they said.  The department's proposal has met with strong resistance from officials within and also the contractors as they apprehend that this will encourage bootlegging and it is also against the excise rules as liquor can be only sold from retail vends and not otherwise, sources said. The state government is likely to increase the price of liquor by imposing COVID-19 cess, sources said.  The Department of Excise and Taxation is with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh who had already requested the central government to allow the sale of liquor in the state amid the extended lockdown||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/excise-department-proposes-home-delivery-of-liquor-in-punjab-833952.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Activist Medha Patkar extends fast; seeks govt aid for migrant workers in Madhya Pradesh||Activist Medha Patkar on Tuesday extended her fast by 48 hours, while seeking immediate solution to the problems faced by migrant workers due to the COVID-19 lockdown in Madhya Pradesh. In a letter to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the activist, who has been fasting since Monday morning, also opposed the state's decision to open liquor shops at a time when economic activities had been suspended and people were rendered jobless. Patkar, who started her fast at Segwal on Agra- Mumbai National Highway in Barwani district on Monday morning, extended it for 48 hours, citing that the state government had not taken any action to help migrant labourers. The Narmada Bachao Andolan leader alleged that district officers had claimed that they did not have funds available with them. "We are concerned about funds that were collected in the name of PM-CARES and Disaster Management. Where was the financial crunch when industrialists were given exemptions worth Rs 68,000 crore?" she alleged. It was the Centre and the state government's constitutional responsibility to let workers live a dignified life and not push them to the brink of death, Patkar stated in the letter to the Chief Minister. The activist demanded that the state government should make immediate arrangements to transport migrant workers, who were trying to get back to their home states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/activist-medha-patkar-extends-fast-seeks-govt-aid-for-migrant-workers-in-madhya-pradesh-833957.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Punjab govt sanctions Rs 35 cr for train travel of migrant workers||The Punjab government Tuesday said it has sanctioned Rs 35 crore to bear the cost of rail travel of migrant labourers who want to return to their home states in Shramik Special trains. The first Shramik Special carrying 1,200 migrant workers left for Jharkhand from Punjab's Jalandhar railway station on Tuesday. "The Punjab Government has sanctioned Rs 35 crore, in the first phase, towards its share of the migrants' cost of transportation by the Indian Railways," said a government statement here. The state government expects that five to six lakh stranded migrant labourers could opt for train travel to return to their home states from Punjab, with the rest expected to go by road. Taking Rs 640 as the average ticket price, the state executive committee has approved Rs 35 crore as the initial amount needed. The funds have been sanctioned under the National Disaster Relief Act, 2005, said the statement. Twenty-five per cent of the sanctioned amount has been transferred on immediate basis to the Deputy Commissioners, who have been authorized to pay to the Railways directly and give tickets to the registered passengers. "The remaining will be transferred to the DCs, who have been asked to prepare state-wise lists of stranded migrants wanting to go back to their native places, on a daily basis," it said. As per data available, more than eight lakh migrant labourers have registered themselves on the state government's specially created portal for returning to their home states. A large number of labourers come to Punjab seasonally from UP, Bihar, Jharkhand and other eastern states for temporary employment in both industrial and agricultural sectors in Punjab. They could not leave in March, as they usually do, due to the imposition of the national lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-sanctions-rs-35-cr-for-train-travel-of-migrant-workers-833996.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||49 deaths, 441 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours force Gujarat to rejig its team||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/49-deaths-441-new-coronavirus-cases-in-24-hours-force-gujarat-to-rejig-its-team-834005.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||MP's COVID-19 tally crosses 3,000-mark; 11 more patients die||With 107 more people testing positive for coronavirus, the number of cases in Madhya Pradesh rose to 3,049 on Tuesday, while 11 more patients died - five of them in Ujjain - health officials said. As the virus claimed eleven more lives in the state since Monday night, the tally of COVID-19 victims went up to 176, they added. Five deaths were reported from Ujjain, two each from Indore and Jabalpur and one each from Satna and Bhopal. Of total deaths due to the pandemic in the state, Indore, the worst-affected district, accounts for 79. t has also 1,654 confirmed cases with 43 new COVID-19 positive persons found since Monday night. Since Monday night, 20 new patients were detected in Dhar, followed by 18 in Ujjain, eight each in Bhopal and Jabalpur, four in Raisen, two each in Khargone and Khandwa and one each in Anuppur and Tikamgarh, they said. Bhopal now has 571 cases, Ujjain 184, Jabalpur 106, Khargone 79, Dhar 75, Raisen 63, Khandwa 49 and three each in Anuppur and Tikamgarh. he number of cases in other districts is: 36 each in Hoshangabad and Mandsaur, Burhanpur 34, 26 each in Barwani and Dewas, Morena 17, Ratlam 16, Vidisha 13, Agar Malwa 12, Shajapur 7, five each in Chhindwara, Gwalior and Sagar, Sheopur 4, three each in Alirajpur, Harda and Shahdol, two each in Rewa and Shivpuri and one each in Ashok Nagar, Betul, Dindori, Panna and Satna. Overall, COVID-19 cases have been reported from 34 districts so far. Two patients hail from other states.  Apart from Indore (79) and Bhopal (16), 40 persons have died so far in Ujjain, seven each in Khargone and Dewas, six in Khandwa, three each in Hoshangabad, Raisen and Burhanpur and one each in Dhar, Shajapur, Agar Malwa, Chhindwara, Satna and Ashok Nagar.   The condition of 1,632 patients was stable while that of 241 others serious, the officials said. As many 1,000 people have recovered from the disease and discharged from hospitals, they said. The total number of active cases in MP stood at 1,873. Madhya Pradesh coronavirus figures are as follows: Total cases 3,049, active cases 1,873, new cases 107, deaths 176, discharged 1000, number of tested people 54,595.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mps-covid-19-tally-crosses-3000-mark-11-more-patients-die-834010.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Punjab police personnel with medical issues barred from COVID-19 duty||Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta on Tuesday barred all police personnel with medical issues and women cops with children under five years of age from frontline duty, in a bid to protect them from the exposure to COVID-19. The decision has been approved by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, who has asked the DGP to ensure all protective and welfare measures for the ‘corona warriors’ battling the disease from the front, an official release said here. The DGP said there had been concerns expressed on this count during several calls received on the newly launched tele-counselling facility for anxious police ‘corona warriors’ and their families. At present, there are over 48,000 police personnel engaged in curfew enforcement and relief measures across the state. The tele-counselling facility was launched on April 20 to equip police officers and their families with additional information and skills to cope with the psychological aspects of the COVID-19 duties. Several calls were received regarding issues of health and safety of women police personnel who were either lactating mothers or with children under the age of five years. Separation from young children was causing hardship, worry and anxiety, especially in cases where the husband and wife were both members of the police force, said the DGP, adding that in response to these concerns, it was decided not to deploy such women personnel on frontline duty. Similar apprehensions were forthcoming with respect to personnel suffering from various medical issues, especially respiratory distress, which could aggravate their risk factors, the top official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-police-personnel-with-medical-issues-barred-from-covid-19-duty-834024.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand Police orders probe into another lockdown violation by UP MLA||The Uttarakhand Police on Tuesday ordered an investigation into another incident of lockdown violation by UP MLA Aman Mani Tripathi who was arrested along with 12 of his associates in Rishikesh a couple of days ago. They were let off subsequently on personal bail bonds and allowed to leave for Uttar Pradesh. State DG (Law and order) Ashok Kumar said it has been brought to his notice that the MLA jumped a police barrier in Chamoli district while going towards the Badrinath temple. "I have asked the Chamoli SP to look into it. If it is found to be true, an additional case will be registered against the UP MLA," the officer said. The MLA and his friends were arrested late on Sunday night while returning from Chamoli’s Karnaprayag after being stopped by the authorities from proceeding to Badrinath. A convoy of three cars carrying the MLA and his associates was first intercepted by policemen at a barrier in Gauchar on the way to Badrinath but the Nautanwa MLA produced a letter of permission purportedly issued by authorities in Dehradun and moved on. The MLA had claimed that he was going to Badrinath to perform some rituals associated with the death of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s father, which was denied by the Uttar Pradesh government in a statement. However, they were stopped again at a barrier in Karnaprayag by police and administrative officials, who told them that the portals of Badrinath temple were scheduled to open on May 15 and there was no point in letting them go further, Karnaprayag SDM Vaibhav Gupta had said. The MLA got angry and argued with officials but they did not relent and forced the convoy to return, the officials said. They were intercepted again at the Vyasi police outpost in Rishikesh as there were more than three persons in each car and all without masks in violation of lockdown curbs, Muni ki Reti police station in-charge RK Saklani said. A case was registered against them under different sections of the IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-police-orders-probe-into-another-lockdown-violation-by-up-mla-834033.html
05-05-2020||North and Central||Woman arrested for killing daughter in UP's Banda||A woman was arrested for allegedly killing her minor daughter and burying her body in Uttar Pradesh's Banda district following an argument between the two, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on April 30 in Banda's Khurhand village. The accused, Saroj, buried the body of her daughter Shilpi at a secluded spot in Gorean area, they said. An FIR was lodged by Shilpi's cousin Bhawani Singh. He alleged that Saroj killed Shilpi with help from someone and later buried her body, Station House Officer (SHO) Gorean, Shashi Kumar Pandey said. Based on the FIR, Saroj was detained. During interrogation, she confessed to the crime, he said. The accused told police that a day before the murder, she had an argument with Shilpi as she had stayed away from home for a night. Saroj was arrested after the girl's body was recovered, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-arrested-for-killing-daughter-in-ups-banda-834038.html
05-05-2020||Opinion||Row over migrant travel fares: Sonia Gandhi hits the right political note, unnerves BJP||There was more than just recall and nostalgia when Sonia Gandhi, the Congress’s interim president, responded with clarity and sharpness to the plight of distressed migrant workers who are returning home on designated trains and buses after being asked to pay specified fares. Sonia had tried hard to leave her imprint on the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government’s programmes and policies as the chairman of the National Advisory Council (NAC). The NAC cast as an “advisory” body, was helmed by Sonia, who was also the UPA chairperson. Its clout in the coalition government was enormous although its endeavour to privilege welfare and inclusiveness over economic conservatism and social moderation was occasionally thwarted by the government. Sonia’s astute move leaves BJP scrambling for explanations As reports poured in of how the hapless and cashless migrants were allegedly forced to cough up money for the tickets on the Shramik Special trains, carrying them back home, Sonia stepped in. She asked if the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government could spend Rs 100 crore to ferry people to a Gujarat event (Donald Trump’s reception at Ahmedabad) and the railways could donate Rs 151 crore to the PM-CARES  corpus, then “why can’t these essential members of our nation’s fabric be given a fraction of the same courtesy, especially free rail travel, at this hour of acute distress?”  Ahmed Patel, Sonia’s long-time political aide, and general secretary KC Venugopal,  directed the Congress’s state units to mobilise the funds and work with the railways and the state administration to underwrite the travel costs. Earlier, D K Shivakumar, the Karnataka state Congress chief, took the lead when he donated Rs 1 crore to the state-run Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation to bail out workers, left stranded because they had no money for the fare. Karnataka wasn’t the only one to exacerbate the pain suffered by the migrant workers. A railway official in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi said on a video that the workers had to pay Rs 800 to go back to their hometown, Gorakhpur.  Those journeying from Gujarat’s Nadiad to Ballia in Uttar Pradesh were charged the full amount of Rs 645. The norms stipulated for the special trains stated in rule 11, clause (c) that “the local state government authority shall hand over the tickets to the passengers cleared by them and collect the ticket fare and hand over the total amount to railways”. The railways had unambiguously decided the “special” facility was not a freebie. However, the political salience of Sonia’s entreaty to the Congress registered fast on the government/Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that for all of yesterday, insisted that it was the host and home states at whose requests the trains were organised and they would have to incur 15 percent of the costs while the railways would pick up the rest 85 percent tab. Obviously, it was a post-facto explanation that was not borne out by real-life accounts from the travellers. But there was no denying that Sonia’s intervention—indeed the first substantive mediation from the Opposition that largely remained silent, afraid that a reaction might be construed as “anti-national” in the midst of a crisis—nudged the government to sit up. Congress ‘Old Guard’ strike back? The Congress’s traducers might be tempted to interpret Sonia’s move as an attempt by the sidelined “Old Guard” to regain its relevance. Those sniffing out conspiracies don’t have to look afar because Rahul Gandhi had flagged the migrants’ issue in an online dialogue he had with Raghuram Rajan, the former RBI Governor, last week. Rajan, who is a member of a high-level IMF external advisory group constituted to think up perspectives on key global developments and policy matters, stressed the need to put in place a safety net to mitigate the adverse impact of the inevitable job losses, especially in the unorganised sector. Rajan gave a ballpark estimate of Rs 65,000 crore funds for this purpose. Indeed, the video chat was seen as the start of the Congress’s exercise to pull itself out of a state of seeming confusion and political restrictiveness to a position of focus on the economy, with a slant towards the poor and the under-empowered.  Opportunity for Congress to rediscover its ‘aam aadmi’ roots Notwithstanding the BJP’s obsession with its core agenda, aimed constantly at enlarging a Hindu base, the government will be forced to grapple with the terrible economic fallout of the pandemic sooner than later. The Centre cannot pass the buck to the cash-strapped states. Nor can it leave it to a line-up of its chosen bureaucrats, principally from the Gujarat cadre, to straighten out the mess because India is not Gujarat. Perhaps the Congress intends to amplify the class theme, evident in Sonia’s point-counterpoint use of the money spent on the Trump jamboree versus the parsimony shown towards the poor. Of course, the political landscape transformed almost unrecognisably since the Congress was voted out of power in 2014. Under Modi, the BJP’s discourse and mobilisation tactics were tailored to bring the poor, across the caste and class divide, under the Hindutva umbrella. The direct and collateral damage wrought by COVID-19 is ironically a godsend to the Congress to rediscover its ‘aam aadmi’ roots and refashion itself as a party of the have-nots. Ironic too, Sonia must rue not forcing the Manmohan Singh dispensation to legislate the NAC’s version of a law enshrining a security net for the unorganised workers who in its estimate made up 93 percent of India’s workforce, contributed 60 percent of the GDP and have insecure jobs and low incomes. (Radhika Ramaseshan is a Delhi based political analyst and columnist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/row-over-migrant-travel-fares-sonia-gandhi-hits-the-right-political-note-unnerves-bjp-833777.html
05-05-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: India's reopening is a multi-coloured mess||The metropolises — Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Pune, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad — are all classified as red. Intercity movement of people remains suspended with no flights or regular train services. Not being able to access demand in large consumption centres will further constrain production even in places where factories can restart. With migrant workers from rural areas scrambling to get home, the supply chain in a mess, and working capital scarce, even a labor-surplus economy like India’s will struggle to fill pent-up demand. Manufacturing is already in dire straits. The plunge in April in the purchasing managers’ index to 27.4 came the same day as the tentative resumption of activity. Even that record-low figure probably sugar-coats the actual situation. As Capital Economics says, the index was lifted by suppliers taking longer to deliver, usually seen as an indication of capacity shortages and excess demand. Last month it was most likely because of supply disruptions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-lockdown-30-indias-reopening-is-a-multi-coloured-mess-833810.html
05-05-2020||Panorama||Malaria lessons valuable in coronavirus pandemic||The fight against malaria has shown us that research is a helpful ally in defeating microorganisms. The malaria parasite is remarkably resilient. Still, many countries, including India, are gaining ground. Research has helped us develop a better understanding of the parasite, and that has been critical to our unprecedented gains. Similarly, developing a better understanding of SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus that causes COVID-19, can help us keep our head above the water. Insights into the genome sequence, a genetic “fingerprint” so to speak, can give us a leg-up in developing tests, drugs, and vaccines. It can reveal how COVID-19 is spreading and its impact on different populations.  The National Institute of Virology in Pune decoded the complete genome sequence of SARS-CoV-2 in early March. But viruses evolve, so India must sequence more strains in the coming months. Researchers and scientists should be at the centre of India’s response and we must marshal all our public and private sector resources to support them.  The history of malaria control shows us that we must continuously monitor the efficacy of drugs. There have been instances when antimalarials have become less effective in treating the disease. Monitoring such resistance has helped us identify new and more effective treatments. The stakes are high and India must continuously assess new evidence as it emerges from various trials including the WHO Solidarity trial and the COVID-19 Therapeutics Accelerator. More than 90 countries, including India, are participating in the trials. Apart from the anti-malarial drugs chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine, the Solidarity trial includes Ebola and HIV treatments. India is rightly pulling out all the stops to battle COVID-19. This will inevitably put immense pressure on both financial and human resources for health. Ensuring that health services for other diseases, especially those that mostly impact the poor and vulnerable, are not disrupted should be a priority. For example, India has made huge strides against malaria in recent years. It must sustain efforts to prevent, detect and treat malaria. There was a massive increase in malaria-related illness and death in West Africa during the Ebola crisis. We must not let that happen in India.  While India’s health system is more resilient than other more resource-constrained economies, it is still at risk. Even better-resourced health systems have felt the strain of COVID-19. Let us ensure that our malaria teams can safely carry out their duties and provide them with the resources that they need to keep malaria at bay. India must also ensure that there is clear guidance and communication on the use of hydroxychloroquine. This anti-malaria drug is used to treat not just malaria but also rheumatoid arthritis and lupus. Ensuring sufficient availability will minimise disruptions to the treatment. Let us be reminded that a ‘whole of society’ effort has made success against malaria possible in India. Most recently, a group of Parliamentarians have come together to advocate for malaria elimination in India. We need a similar effort to thwart COVID-19. Parliamentarians, academics and researchers, civil society and private sector, international organizations, and other key stakeholders, must play their part. Lest we forget, the need of the hour is to-- prioritise research and timely evidence; minimise disruption of health services; and, fight together as a nation.  (Alphons is MP, Rajya Sabha; Jameel is CEO, The Wellcome Trust/DBT Alliance; Gupta is Director, Country Acceleration, Asia Pacific Leaders Malaria Alliance (APLMA); Tandon is Adviser, APLMA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/malaria-lessons-valuable-in-coronavirus-pandemic-833670.html
05-05-2020||Right in the Middle||Hit and miss                                                  ||My city always played hide and seek with drinking water supply. The local daily would carry a snippet about the supply of water on a particular day. It was a celebration in the house, we would clean and shine pots, lining the kitchen. Decades ago, there was no underground storage tank at my rented abode. My maid would fill even the last tumbler with the precious liquid as the next supply was uncertain.  Now, when civic authorities announced the 24x7 water scheme, along with likeminded people, I received the news with a pinch of salt. A few months later, a meter box was installed in the corner of our garden. Why was I surprised? It was done absolutely free of cost! The pipeline was laid after another hiatus, and well, that was it. A year or so passed by, and one fine day the doorbell rang and we were instructed to buy a branded water meter. The meter was then fixed by the new contractor and all that remained was the water to start flowing non-stop. It was no surprise that it did not and we adopted the virtue of patience. Finally, one bright morning we saw the water gushing through the new pipeline, and the meter started running wildly too. The cost of potable water shot up, but when water was aplenty who cared? Twenty four-seven seemed just a brand name as the torrential flow of water was limited to a few hours in the morning. A person working for the PWD was seen busy shuttling in and out of nearby houses carrying pipes and related paraphernalia. He saw the question mark on the husband’s face and came rushing, “Saar, now water comes in full force, so you need not bother to store beneath, and then pump it up to the overhead tank. I’ll fix a new pipeline through which the water will automatically gush up into the overhead tanks. Just see how much you’ll save on electricity bill”. Needless to say, his suggestion was taken and work started as soon as the expert found himself free. Originally planned as a half day’s work, it took the specialist the whole day. He kept blundering throughout, and we started doubting his expertise. In the evening, he gave up and said that he would finish the next day. He surprised us by honouring his word and completing the work. Our happiness was short-lived, as the biggest surprise greeted us-- the water supply was not connected to the solar heating system by the expert and we now use electricity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/hit-and-miss-833900.html
05-05-2020||Second Edit||Poet at the identity crossroads||K S Nissar Ahmed, the Kannada poet who died on Sunday, was a household name across Karnataka. His first book of poems, Manasu Gandhi Bajaaru, appeared in 1960. He was active for six decades and produced a huge body of work. Born on February 5, 1936, in Devanahalli, he studied in a Kannada school in Bengaluru. Living in Dodda Mavalli in the central part of the city, he grew up in a milieu that appreciated poetry and encouraged writing. He later studied geology, and taught the subject to undergraduate students in Shimoga and Chitradurga. Nissar Ahmed’s oeuvre includes 14 poetry collections, four translations, five books for children, and eight works of criticism and non-fiction. He was the recipient of several awards, including the Padma Shri, and an honorary doctorate. Nissar Ahmed straddled two literary movements, the romantic Navodaya and the modernist Navya, and lived in an era dominated by many literary giants, winning the appreciation of Jnanpith laureates Kuvempu and Bendre, and had to contend with a host of brilliant contemporaries. He wrote poetry in both modes, romantic and modernist, and stood out with poems that drew on his Muslim experience. With subtlety and gentle irony, he described the everyday difficulties posed by his religious identity. ‘Dancing within the circle you draw/That’s difficult,’ he said, in his famous poem Nimmodaniddoo Nimmantaagade (Being with you, yet not becoming one of you). That was just one aspect of his poetry. He was largely a poet of optimism, and celebrated the many aspects of Hindu life that he saw around him. In the poem Rangavalli Mattu Maga, he is fascinated by the rangoli patterns drawn in front of his neighbours’ houses, and as a little boy, attempts to draw one himself, only to be scolded by his mother that he was turning into a kafir. In later years, his Iyengar neighbour Vedavalli and his son want to know why Muslims don’t draw rangoli patterns, and he is lost for an answer. The question becomes a haunting metaphor. In the popular imagination, Nissar Ahmed is the poet of Nityotsava, an audio recording of his songs with music by the late Mysore Ananthaswamy. Released in 1978, it was the first bhavageete cassette in Kannada. The title song is a fervent evocation of Karnataka’s glories, an anthem comparable in beauty and appeal to Vande Mataram. Its sensational success inspired the production of hundreds of albums in a genre that came to be called sugama sangeeta. Nissar Ahmed’s unique place in Kannada literature will be remembered and discussed for a long time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/poet-at-the-identity-crossroads-833667.html
05-05-2020||South||Kerala: Former sacristan of a Christian pilgrim centre gets life-term for killing priest||A former sacristan was sentenced to life by a court here on Monday for killing a senior Catholic priest and rector of a famous Christian pilgrim centre at nearby Malayattoor two years ago. "The sacristan is sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life for the offence punishable under section 302 of IPC and has to pay a fine of Rs 1 lakh," Ernakulam Principal Sessions and District Judge Dr Kauser Edappagath said in the order. If he fails to pay the fine amount, he shall suffer simple imprisonment for one year, the court said. Fr Xavier Thelakkat was stabbed to death by Johnny, former sacristan of the parish, on March 1, 2018 when the 52 -year-old priest was climbing the Kurisumudy in Malayattoor, a holy place near here believed to have visited by St Thomas, one of the Apostles of Jesus Christ. Johnny, who was removed from the post of sacristan for dereliction of duty, had attacked the priest with a sharp-edged weapon. The priest who suffered injuries on his left thigh had died as he was taken to a private hospital in nearby Angamaly. Johnny, who went absconding soon after the incident, was nabbed by the police from a forest near the Church. Kurisumudy is a hill at Malayattoor. According to Syro-Malabar Christians, St Thomas had visited Kurisumudy after landing at Kodungalloor in AD 52.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-former-sacristan-of-a-christian-pilgrim-centre-gets-life-term-for-killing-priest-833643.html
05-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: After 25% hike, Andhra Pradesh enhances liquor prices by another 50%||The Andhra Pradesh government has enhanced prices of liquor by another 50 per cent on Tuesday, only a day after imposing a 25 per cent hike as shops were reopened in relaxation of the ongoing lockdown. Special Chief Secretary (Revenue) Rajat Bhargava said the abnormal increase in liquor rates was to 'discourage' people from consumption and safeguard health. The enhanced rates would come into force with immediate effect, he said. The state government also decided to open liquor outlets from 12 noon, instead of 11 am, till 7 pm. Sources said the fresh hike (50 per cent) in rates could fetch an additional revenue of Rs 9,000 crore per annum to the cash-starved state government.  The entire liquor business in AP is controlled by the state government through its own retail outlets, numbering 3,468. Sources said Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy directed that 15 per cent of the retail liquor shops be closed down by this month-end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-after-25-hike-andhra-pradesh-enhances-liquor-prices-by-another-50-833728.html
05-05-2020||South||Telangana's Seethakka: Naxalite turned legislator's gallant mission to serve deprived during lockdown||Lugging a sack of clothes on her head and another bag of food essentials in her hand along a forest road with a few others, the stout lady could be easily be mistaken for one of the migrant workers returning home in the wake of the lockdown. But Anasuya Dansari is a Telangana MLA who made it her mission to provide sustenance to her constituents in Mulugu, mostly STs in the forests abutting Chhattisgarh, deprived of livelihood in this COVID-19 lockdown season. In the last 40 days, the MLA has visited about 400 villages and habitations, trudging on treacherous rocky-hilly trails, handing rice, dal etc., commodities and masks to people in need. “I have travelled more now distributing relief than I had when I was asking votes during the election campaigns,” Dansari, a tribal herself, tells DH. However, her voters or the relief beneficiaries now would not recognise her by her official name. The second time MLA is Seethakka for them, a former Naxalite. Seethakka left the Maoist movement in 1997 and later became a lawyer. In 2004, she joined politics with TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu’s backing. Losing in 2004, she became an MLA in 2009. Again, losing in 2014, Seethakka is now a Congress MLA in the Telangana assembly. “I am doing this as my duty towards my people, for my own satisfaction,” Seethakka (49 years) says. “There is no support from the TRS government. I could do all this because of donations and support of like-minded individuals.” Though Seethakka initially planned to use the lockdown time to work on her PhD “Social exclusion and deprivation of migrated Gothi Koyas (a tribal group),” watching the hapless labourers on the roads made her shudder thinking about the plight of the tribals in the forests as markets where they sell their forest produce and buy food etc. items are also closed. “That is how my yagnam began the day after Ugadi and will continue till I provide relief to all my people in need, until the lockdown ends,” she said. On Sunday, Seethakka and her team trekked for over 15 Km, crossing five hills, to a village Penugolu, carrying relief and thereby “becoming the first public representative ever” to have set foot in the hamlet of 20 huts near the Chhattisgarh border. She even carried pulihora, serving the kids especially. “The habitation is not under my constituency, but I went there anyway since I was told people there are in dire situations,” she said. Seethakka’s gallant effort is receiving tremendous support on social media platforms like Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telanganas-seethakka-naxalite-turned-legislators-gallant-mission-to-serve-deprived-during-lockdown-833840.html
05-05-2020||South||Telangana promotes all students from class 1-9 to next level||The Telangana government on Tuesday issued an Order promoting all students from class 1 to 9 to the next classes without any final examination. The decision was taken following the announcement by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to promote all students up to class nine to the next higher class as the Summative Assessment (SA-2) examinations for the academic year 2019-20 could not be conducted due to lockdown to contain coronavirus spread, the GO said. "The government, after careful examination of the matter and keeping in view hardship caused due to COVID-19 pandemic, hereby decide to cancel the Summative AssessmentII Examinations for the Classes I to IX and order to promote all the students of Classes I to IX studying in Government, Aided and Private Unaided Schools during the Academic Year, 2019-20, to next higher Classes in the Academic Year, 2020-21," the Order said. The State government last month issued orders directing private unaided recognised schools in the state, affiliated to State Board, CBSE, ICSE and other International Boards not to increase any kind of fees during 2020-21 academic year and charge only tuition fees on monthly basis, till further orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-promotes-all-students-from-class-1-9-to-next-level-833859.html
05-05-2020||South||Kerala not prepared to let down guard against 'invisible enemy' coronavirus||With an enviable track record of having treated 400 COVID-19 patients and reporting only three fatalities with 34 active cases, Kerala may have done reasonably well, but the southern state is not prepared to lower its guard or bask in the glory of its achievement in the fight against the "invisible enemy".  Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has time and again reminded everyone thatKerala cannot afford to be complacent. "We cannot say we have crossed the danger mark or that the danger of community spread no longer exists. We need to be very careful", Vijayan had told reporters. The state has been receiving accolades for having seemingly "flattenend the curve" of COVID cases, with international media, including the BBC, Al Jazeera, Washington Post and the prestigious MIT Technology Review showering praise on the "Kerala model" of fighting the pandemic.  Kerala's achievement comes at at a time when neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are seeing a surge in positive cases. While accepting that the recovery rate in the state was faster when compared to other states and Kerala was fighting the pandemic in a much more scientific manner, state Home Secretary Vishwas Mehta felt the threat was far from over. "The threat is not over. For the simple reason that till we get a vaccine, this will continue all over the world. The recovery in Kerala is fast. We are hovering down. When compared to other states, the number of positive cases, deaths and those under surveillance are coming down in the state. No one is tackling the pandemic as scientifically as we are doing," Mehta told PTI.  People need to be more careful and notbe "irresponsible in dealing with the invisible enemy," he said. "The virus will affect those who are not having immunity or has bad health. People must use masks and maintain social distancing. We need to maintain our vigil and continue our fight against it," Mehta said. Asked if the state had flattened the curve, the state Nodal officer for infectious disease, including COVID-19, Dr Amar Fettle said it requires data for a longer period. "But overall, the curve has flattened. However, this is no time for relaxing. This is no time for lowering our guard. As there are news that we have 'flattened the curve', people have started coming out in the open without using masks," he said.  Kerala has made wearing masks mandatory and has imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 for repeat offenders. The lessons learnt during the outbreak of the 2018 Nipah virus, which had claimed 17 lives in Kozhikode and Malappuram, including that of a young nurse Lini Puthussuery, came in handy for the state in getting battle ready to face COVID-19. Health minister K K Shailaja had said that Kerala began its preparations when news broke of the outbreak of COVID-19 at the Chinese city of Wuhan, the epicentre of the virus, in December last year.  The state had many medical students studying in Wuhan and knew that they would be returning. India's first three cases were from Kerala and by the time they showed some symptoms, they had been already been in isolation in hospitals. A 20-year-student from Thrissur, who returned from Wuhan, did not have any symptoms when she returned. But when she developedasore throat and dry cough, she informed the health workers, who used to keep in touch with her on a daily basis and was shifted to a hospital on January 27, three days before her sample tested positive for COVID. Two others from Wuhan University, hailing from Alapuzha and Kasaragod, also subsequently tested positive for the virus. All three were cured and discharged in February.  The second wave of infections hit Kerala on March 8 when a three-member family from Ranni in Pathanamthittaarrived from Italyand tested positive, along with two of their close relatives. Subsequently, four more relatives, including Thomas (93) and Mariyamma (88),the parents of Moncy,who had returned along with his wife and son from Italy, also contracted the virus. All of them were cured and discharged.  The recovery of the elderly couple was a feather in the cap of the state, with experts describing it as the "rarest of rare" case as high mortality rate is generally seen in the older population globally due to the infection. There was a spike in infections since March 20 when 37 cases were detected, with the graph peaking on April 8 with 259 cases after which therehas been a downward trend of 114 on April 20 and 34 on May 4. Three fatalities were reported, two of people over 65- years of age and having various other health issues and a four month baby girl.  The state nodal officer, who was a vital part of state machinery in fighting the Nipah virus, said practising social distancing and use of masks is a necessity to fight the pandemic and people must ensure they wear it the moment they step out of their houses, be it inside a cab or at a shop. Asked about how the state was fighting the virus when compared to other states, Mehta said the "state is 10-15 years ahead of other states". "We have so many hospitals and doctors in Kerala. We are much much ahead of other states. We have the experience of dealing with the Nipah virus. We have the experience of handling such diseases," Mehta said. "In the health sector, we are on par with European countries,IMR (Infant Mortality Rate), MMR, death mortality. . . we are at least 20 years ahead of other states," Mehta said.  What is a cause for concern is that many people who were asymptomatic are among those who tested positive later and the health authorities are clulessfrom where they had contracted the virus. With Non-Resident Keralites (NRK)s who are expected to arrive in the state from various countries from May 7, the state is waiting with baited breath,hoping positive cases will not see a jump.  So far 4,27 lakh Keralites stranded in various countries, including over 9,000 pregnant women, have registered with the Norka (Non Resident Keralites Affairs) online portal. Nearly one lakh people from other states have also registered for their return. Those with expired visiting visas, the aged, pregnant women, children, critically ill patients, students who have completed their courses, and others are among thelarge numbers of people who are waiting to return.  "Around 27,000 institutitions, including hotels, resorts, hostels, schools, lodges stadiums and even auditoriums have been identified where we can accommodate around 10 lakh people. Space has been found. Stadiums and auditoriums will be used as a last resort," Mehta said. On Monday, for the second consecutive day, no positive cases were reported in the state and the active cases was 34.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-not-prepared-to-let-down-guard-against-invisible-enemy-coronavirus-833873.html
05-05-2020||South||Want to buy booze in Tamil Nadu? You have to stand with umbrella||Maintain social distance at TASMAC shops by holding an umbrella. Else, tipplers will not get their share of liquor when shops open on May 7. This “out-of-the-box” idea to control crowding at liquor shops and maintain social distance has been evolved by Tiruppur district administration in Tamil Nadu. The state will re-open TASMAC shops across the state, except in capital Chennai, from May 7 with reduced timings. As concerns of social distancing going for a toss once TASMAC outlets open grew, Tiruppur district administration said on Tuesday that umbrella is a pre-requisite for getting liquor at all outlets. “Liquor will be served only for people who come with their umbrellas,” the administration said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/want-to-buy-booze-in-tamil-nadu-you-have-to-stand-with-umbrella-833905.html
05-05-2020||South||Kerala cautions against bringing NRIs back without COVID-19 screening, CM writes to PM Modi||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday cautioning that bringing NRIs without COVID-19 screening posed a high risk of COVID-19 spread during transit and after reaching India. On arrival it is mandatory for all to be in government quarantine facilities for seven days.   The state also expressed concerns over the priorities being made by the centre in identifying NRIs for returning. As per the centre's prioritisation, about 80,000 Malayali NRIs would be brought to Kerala. However, as per the registrations received by Kerala government, about 1,69,136 of the 4.42 lakh Malayali NRIs who wish to return come are under priority due to reasons such as job loss, visa expiry, pregnancy and students. CM Vijayan also said that around 2,250 persons were expected to arrive Kerala by air in five days and three ships were also expected to arrive. Every one will be kept in government quarantine for seven days. If tested negative in PCR test on seventh day, they will be allowed to go home and remain in quarantine for seven more days. About 2.5 lakh quarantine beds were being made ready by government and two lakh anti-body test kits being ordered. At present state have 45,000 PCR kits and by month end 60,000 tests were expected to be done.  Meanwhile, 3,363 Malayalis stranded in other states so far reached Kerala by road. As many as 1,80,540 Malayalis in other states registered with Kerala government for returning of which 25,410 were already issued passes. The highest number of persons were registered from Karnataka, around 60,000. Around 14,500 migrant workers in Kerala so far left the state by trains. Three trains were operated on Tuesday. Though Congress leaders offered funds to district collectors for meeting the travel expense of migrant workers as per a call by party president Sonia Gandhi, Kerala Chief Minister said that the state would not accept the amount as it was not directly getting involved in return expenses of migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cautions-against-bringing-nris-back-without-covid-19-screening-cm-writes-to-pm-modi-833934.html
05-05-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: DMK accuses Tamil Nadu govt of trying to create feel good factor by easing curbs||The opposition DMK on Tuesday accused the Tamil Nadu government of trying to project a picture of normalcy by announcing lockdown relaxations and warned that easing curbs should not lead to a further spike in coronavirus numbers. Targeting the AIADMK government over the rising COVID-19 cases in the State, party chief M K Stalin said the numbers released by the authorities on Monday showed that the pandemic has not come under control.  In the biggest single-day surge in the state so far, Tamil Nadu on Monday reported 527 new COVID-19 cases, a large number of them linked to Koyambedu market here, taking the tally to 3,550 while the toll rose to 31 with the death of a man. Citing the relaxation in curbs from May 4, Stalin said in a statement that the Tamil Nadu government was trying to project a picture of normalcy by announcing such relaxations in lockdown norms. However, the "numbers showed that the pandemic has not come under control...the government's relaxations should not become a reason for a further rise in numbers." Following the Centre's relaxations coinciding with the start of the third phase of lockdown effective Monday, the Tamil Nadu government had allowed, among others, standalone outlets dealing in trades including building material and computers in non-containment zones. Referring to the government's announcement that State-run liquor outlets will resume operations from May 7, he said, "only the government has to explain the true meaning of lockdown." He also accused the government of allowing small traders to work sans individual distancing. "Prevention is equivalent to treating those who are infected. The government should work on a war footing on such prevention activities," he said adding the present COVID-19 times is more scary that even war times. On Monday, Stalin had dubbed the government move to open up liquor outlets as "shocking," and "dangerous." State-run TASMAC (Tamil Nadu State Market Corporation) outlets were closed on March 24 evening in the State.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-dmk-accuses-tamil-nadu-govt-of-trying-to-create-feel-good-factor-by-easing-curbs-833936.html
05-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu gives home quarantine option to COVID-19 patients with mild symptoms||The latest move by the government, which has issued detailed guidelines, is aimed at ensuring over-crowding in hospitals that are already filled with COVID-19 patients.  The Government Order dated May 4 comes at a time the administration is shifting mild and asymptomatic coronavirus patients from four designated COVID-19 hospitals here to “treatment centers” to ensure hospital beds are available for patients who need critical care. Immediately after the guidelines were made public, the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital (KMC) identified at least 10 patients who fulfill the criteria and sent them to their respective homes for isolation. KMC dean Dr. P Vasanthamani told DH that these patients have already been treated for five days and were sent home after briefing about the guidelines and things to take care of during home isolation. “The patients were allowed to leave only after they signed the declaration form that they fulfill all the conditions imposed in the guidelines. And we will begin sending asymptomatic patients who cannot afford home quarantine to treatment centers from Wednesday,” the college dean said. Tamil Nadu has so far reported 4,058 COVID-19 patients and has ramped up its testing capacity in the past few days by testing more than 12,000 samples a day. The state has 50 testing labs and designated hospitals in almost all districts, while it is also setting up treatment centers or quarantine facilities in district headquarters and other areas to meet any exigency.  With the cases increasing every day and new clusters emerging, the government felt the need to follow guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) that had recommended home quarantine of “very mild or pre-symptomatic” COVID-19 patients. Health Secretary Dr. Beela Rajesh said the option of home isolation for “very mild/pre-symptomatic” COVID-19 cases was based on a proposal from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. The guideline says one can opt for home quarantine once the treating doctor assigns a patient as a “very mild case or pre-symptomatic case”. The patient needs to sign a declaration form, the guidelines say.   A well-ventilated single-room, preferably with an attached or separate toilet, a caregiver who should be round the clock, and “a communication link” between the caregiver and hospital are some of the conditions that need to be followed by those opting for home isolation. Besides, the caregiver and the patient need to take prescribed tablets and kabasura kudineer (a herbal drink) and download Arogya Setu mobile application “which should remain active at all times.” Other conditions include self-monitoring of daily temperature and wearing a triple-layer mask all the time. “Patients under home isolation end home isolation if symptoms are clinically resolved and a medical officer certifies the patient to be free of infection after laboratory testing,” the guidelines said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-gives-home-quarantine-option-to-covid-19-patients-with-mild-symptoms-833942.html
05-05-2020||South||Higher testing behind rise in numbers, says Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami||As Tamil Nadu clocked 500 plus fresh coronavirus cases for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, Chief Minister K Palaniswami asserted that the rise in the number of positive people was due to testing a higher number of samples. Amid clamour from migrant workers to return to their home states, the Chief Minister assured them that the government would arrange trains in a week for those wishing to go back.  "Daily about 12,000 people are being tested and only due to such a high number of tests is the number of those turning positive also on the rise," he said. While 527 people tested positive on Monday, 508 samples were confirmed to carry the contagion today, taking the aggregate number of positive cases in Tamil Nadu to 4,058 and Chennai alone has 2008 cases till date. After chairing a review meeting at the Greater Chennai Corporation, the Chief Minister told officials that only Tamil Nadu has as high as 50 labs to conduct COVID-19 tests and added that the number of people being tested has also been increased. The government later updated the number of labs as 52 (36 in government and 16 others in private sector) following two private labs getting permission for testing coronavirus.  Palaniswami said the public need not fear over more people testing positive as anti-COVID-19 initiatives were being pursued on all fronts, including prevention. As many as 4,000 beds are ready in Chennai alone and immunity boosting preparations like zinc and multivitamins, besides Ayush forumlations were being provided to people, including frontline warriors, the Chief Minister said. On migrant workers, he said in a week, government would arrange trains for those wishing to go back their home states. Since work has resumed following easing of curbs -in sectors including construction- those who wished to stay back may do so, he said. About 50,000 workers from other states were working in Tamil Nadu and it was not possible to make arrangements to send all of them at the same time, he said. He directed officials to arrange trains only after 10 pm as taking people during daytime may lead to traffic congestion.Tasking officials to handle the logistics carefully, he said workers should be apprised that they will be picked up from their places of stay and dropped at the railway station. Till such time, workers should continue to stay put in their places of accommodation and "the government will create opportunities for them to go their native states in a phased manner in a week," he said. Palaniswami asked officials to enumerate the number of workers in their respective places after making all arrangements like deploying police personnel since workers,out of anxiety, may converge in any given location if they got to know that officials are making a head count for their journey. He also listed a slew of relief measures, including financial assistance of Rs 1,000 for rice ration card holders and workers and appealed to the people to follow norms like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and personal hygiene. In the biggest single-day surge in the state so far, Tamil Nadu had on Monday reported 527 new COVID-19 cases, a large number of them linked to the Koyambedu market here,which has emerged as a worrying hotspot for authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/higher-testing-behind-rise-in-numbers-says-tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-833962.html
05-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu clocks 500-plus COVID-19 cases for second straight day; tally crosses 4,000||The expanding Koyambedu market cluster led to another massive spurt in COVID-19 numbers in Tamil Nadu with 508 people testing positive for coronavirus on Tuesday pushing the tally to beyond 4,000 even as testing is being ramped up. The number of people affected by the Koyambedu market cluster is over 500 with several people from northern Tamil Nadu districts like Kallakurichi, Cuddalore, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Villupuram testing positive for the virus. The state’s tally stood at 4,058 COVID-19 cases with 2,537 active cases as 1,485 have recovered so far. Two more deaths - a 56-year-old man and a 60-year-old woman – were recorded taking the death toll to 33. Chennai continued to stand at the top with 2,008 cases even as 1,74,828 samples have been tested so far. Koyambedu market seems to be the biggest cluster after the religious congregation in Delhi with more than 500, including contacts, testing positive for the virus. The market, which is the largest in Tamil Nadu, employs people from across the state and the extent of the spread in its premises could be gauged from the fact that labourers who worked there from several districts from north to central to southern parts of the state contracting the virus. As the cluster spread across the border – a lorry driver from Wayanad in Kerala tested positive on May 2 and his three family members testing positive on Tuesday. Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, under whose department Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) that manages the market falls, appealed to traders and vendors in the premises to get tested voluntarily. Several district administrations have been involved in tracing those worked at the market premises and the efforts seem to have paid off partly with all cases reported today are the contacts of primary patients, including from outside the cluster. Separately, the district administrations are also trying to contact vegetable and fruit dealers who had visited the wholesale market in the past few days to buy supplies. Besides roping in locals, vendors, and also leaders of traders’ associations in the area, the district administrations have made public appeals to the people who either worked or visited the market complex to report themselves and get tested. Most district administrations have quarantined these people at institutions to ensure they do not spread the virus in case they are carrying it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-clocks-500-plus-covid-19-cases-for-second-straight-day-tally-crosses-4000-833963.html
05-05-2020||South||After being slammed, Vizag officials remove teachers from 'wine shop duty'||After being reproached for deploying government teachers to control the crowds at the wine-shops, the Visakhapatnam district administration has taken the teachers off such duties. On Monday, teachers’ unions protested the north-coastal Andhra district authorities' move that positioned school teachers at the wine shops, which saw serpentine queues and overcrowding on the opening day post the COVID-19 lockdown. “It came to our notice that some teachers were assigned at the wine shops to help the policemen control the crowds, based on the district police official’s direction. But it was only for Monday. According to the fresh instructions of the district collector, all the teachers are taken off all COVID-19 duties,” Lingeswara Reddy, Visakhapatnam district education officer, told DH. The teacher’s deployment decision had come under much criticism from intellectuals to political parties. “Unfortunate that teachers who educate our kids and hold a respectable place in the society are made to stand like this at the liquor shops,” said Pawan Kalyan, Jana Sena Party chief. Effective Tuesday, the Andhra Pradesh government has further increased the liquor rates by up-to an additional 50 percent, now making it up-to 75 percent more than the MRP per bottle.   Controlling the public at the wine shops has become a herculean task amidst the spread of COVID-19. Thus, the hike in liquor prices has been imposed on the lines of the Delhi government, which hiked the prices by 70 percent, CMO officials said adding that the number of outlets would also be reduced by the month end. Meanwhile, the state has reported 67 cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 1717. The COVID-19 bulletin mentioned the new cases as including 14 cases from Gujarat. Andhra Pradesh has over the last few days received about 4000 of its fishermen stuck at Veraval in Gujarat. One death was reported in the last 24 hours, making the total COVID-19 fatalities 34 in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-being-slammed-vizag-officials-remove-teachers-from-wine-shop-duty-833968.html
05-05-2020||State||Karnataka: One more tests COVID-19 positive in Mangaluru||A 51-year-old man from Boloor in Mangaluru was tested positive for COVID-19. He was in the contact of P 536, said DC Sindhu B Rupesh.  The man is undergoing treatment at Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru, the designated hospital to treat coronavirus positive patients.  The district has so far recorded 25 positive cases and 12 have been discharged so far.  DK district recorded three deaths to the pandemic and all three hail from Kasba in Bantwal.  The district administration has already declared Boloor as containment zone soon after P 536 was tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-one-more-tests-covid-19-positive-in-mangaluru-833740.html
05-05-2020||State||Pandemic Podcast: A peek into Karnataka’s COVID-19 War Room||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, DH journalist Shruthi Srinath talks to IAS officer Munish Moudgil on the functioning of a COVID-19 war room. DH Correspondent Soumya Das explains how West Bengal corrected the data discrepancy to reveal the real figures of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pandemic-podcast-a-peek-into-karnataka-s-covid-19-war-room-833741.html
05-05-2020||State||Barring Begum Mohalla, lockdown relaxed in Sira||Barring Begum Mohalla in Sira city, which has been sealed down, lockdown norms were relaxed in many urban and rural areas of Sira taluk on Tuesday.    It may be recalled that two COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Begum Mohalla out of which one succumbed to the pandemic. This other, his son, has recovered. Up to a 100-metre radius of the locality has been sealed down for almost two weeks.  Even though the lockdown was relaxed in many orange and green areas in the state, Sira remained in a state of lockdown till Monday. A delegation of citizens under the leadership of former minister T B Jayachandra had urged the Tahsildar Naheeda Zam Zam to relax lockdown norms.  The administration has also decided to reopen the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) market soon. It has been decided that on Monday areca and coconut sales will be allowed. On Wednesday food grains, maize, and corn; on Thursday groundnut and on Friday tamarind and tamarind seeds sales will be held. On Saturday ragi and red chilli will be sold.  Timings have been fixed for cloth shops, gold and silver showrooms, barber salons to remain open. Customers have been warned to maintain social distance. Liquor shops have been allowed to open after stock inspections by the Excise Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/barring-begum-mohalla-lockdown-relaxed-in-sira-833867.html
05-05-2020||State||Unpaid water bills: Palike struggling to find money for salaries||Tumakuru Mahanagara Palike used to earn up to Rs 2 crore per month from water bills. Because of the lockdown, the Palike has so far earned on Rs 80 lakh only in April.   The salaries of water supply division employees were being paid from the earnings from water bills. With the fall in revenue this month, the Palike is finding it difficult to pay employees' salaries.  Even though there are multiple modes of online payment available for water bills, many people in Tumakuru still have the habit of paying offline by standing in queues at the payment counter. Because the water supply bill counters have not opened for over 40 days, the payment of water bills has not been as per the target.    As a result, water supply division staff and even pourakarmikas may face a salary cut or some other form of salary deduction this month according to a senior Palike official.   To make up for the shortfall in revenue, Palike staff are going door-to-door to collect water and sanitation taxes and charges. Property taxes that are paid at this time of the year, are also being collected at doorsteps. But even this measure seems to be slacking because only 41% of the dues have been collected so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/unpaid-water-bills-palike-struggling-to-find-money-for-salaries-833869.html
05-05-2020||State||Labourer electrocuted at Kenjige village||A labourer from Assam was electrocuted when the aluminium ladder which he was carrying came in contact with a live wire, at Kenjige village. The deceased is Azgar Ali (21). He had come to a coffee estate for work. A case has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/labourer-electrocuted-at-kenjige-village-833913.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka SSLC exams likely in June: S Suresh Kumar||Karnataka’s Department of Public Instructions is planning to conduct SSLC exams in the second or third week of June. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said this on Tuesday. Following a meeting with department officials on Monday, the minister said: "We are thinking of conducting SSLC exams in the second or third week of June." The minister, however, said that the time table will be announced after 20 days. "We are waiting for things to come to normalcy. Once we feel it is safe to conduct the exams, we will announce the time table. I myself will announce it on social media after 20-30 days," he said. There will be a 15-day gap for students to prepare mentally after announcement of the time table. "We will not conduct the exams soon after the announcement of time table. We will give at least 15 days for students to prepare mentally to face the exams," he added. The department is also thinking of conducting SSLC exams for students who have shifted from hostels to hometowns at the nearest places, instead of forcing them to come back to the schools/ hostels where they were studying. The department is working out modalities for this exercise. Revision classes through Chandana channel have started for Kannada medium students and the same will be extended to English medium students soon, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sslc-exams-likely-in-june-s-suresh-kumar-833747.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 toll increases to 28 in Karnataka, tally at 659; 8 new cases reported||"Eight new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon. Till date 659 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 28 deaths and 324 discharges," the update said.  The new cases include, three from Bengaluru urban, two from Bagalkote, and one each from Ballari, Dakshina Kannada and Bhatkal- Uttara Kannada. While four of them are contacts of patients already tested positive, two with Influenza Like Illness (ILI), one with travel history to Uttarakhand, and the other person's contact is under tracing. Among 8 cases, six are men and two women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-toll-increases-to-28-in-karnataka-tally-at-659-8-new-cases-reported-833762.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa urges migrant labourers to stay back||A large number of labourers misunderstood the situation during the third phase of the lockdown and are rushing to return to their native villages, Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters after an hour-long meeting with Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Association of India (CREDAI), he said that the migrant labourers need not heed any rumours. "Don't rush to travel back to your native states and return to the places where you have been employed," the CM requested the labourers, assuring that any problems faced by these labourers will be addressed by the government. The meeting came a day after the government temporarily discontinued inter-state travel of migrant labourers, which led to a minor scuffle between labourers and policemen near Nagawara in the city. During the meeting, the builders assured that all arrangements were in place for the labourers and their salaries were also paid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-urges-migrant-labourers-to-stay-back-833797.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Govt mulling to hold SSLC exams in second or third week of June 2020||A day after directing all schools to make suitable arrangements to hold exams for the 10th standard (SSLC), the department of public instructions is considering to hold the SSLC exams around second or third week of June 2020. Soon after the meeting with department officials on Tuesday, the Primary and Secondary Education minister S Suresh Kumar said, “We are considering to conduct the SSLC examination during second or third week of June 2020.” The minister had already said that the time-table for the examination will be announced after 20-days. “We are waiting for the situation to return to normalcy. Once we feel it is safe to conduct examination, we will announce the time table. I myself will announce it in the social media after 20-30 days,” the minister explained. There will be a gap of 15 days for the students to prepare mentally after announcement of the time-table. “The exams will not be held at the announcement of the time table. We will allow at least 15-days of window period for students to prepare for the exams,” the minister clarified.   Keeping in mind the COVID-19 lockdown, the department is also considering to hold SSLC exams for students who have shifted from hostels to their hometowns at the nearby places rather than asking them to come back to the schools and hostels where they were put up. “The department is chalking out a plan for this,” a senior official told DH. The revision classes through Doordarshan Chandana channel have begun for Kannada medium students and the same will be extended to the English medium students soon, according to the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-mulling-to-hold-sslc-exams-in-second-or-third-week-of-june-2020-833822.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||With no approved local labs for PPE testing, B'luru firms send coveralls to Coimbatore||With the increase in demand and production of personal protective equipment (PPEs) across the country, South India Textiles Research Association (SITRA) in Coimbatore one of the four testing laboratories approved for testing and certifying PPEs is taking three to five days to test a sample. According to the union health ministry, 50% of the country's coveralls come from Bengaluru. But since Karnataka has no approved testing lab for PPEs, city-based firms send it to SITRA for testing. SITRA has put up a list of coverall manufacturers and 24 are from Bangalore.  Coveralls are tested for blood penetration resistance. The 30-minute test is used to evaluate the resistance of materials used in protective clothing to penetration by synthetic blood under conditions of continuous liquid contact. Coveralls use woven, non-woven fabric, repellant finish, or anti-viral fabric. Prakash Vasudevan, Director, SITRA, told DH, "Until April 30, we had to stop taking any additional PPE samples for testing because of the backlog. We resumed on Friday. We get a large number of samples from Bengaluru because the production capacity is high there with manufacturers producing close to 5,000 coveralls per day." They are all given a Unique Certification Code after testing. "Those who have failed our tests are not part of the list of manufacturers for coveralls put up on our website," he said.   For each test conducted of fabric and the PPE coverall garment, for which prototype samples are sent by the respective manufacturers, a Unique Certification Code (UCC-COVID19) is generated. This code has records of the type of fabric, type of garment, its date of testing, testing standard and other relevant particulars. "Normally, we would give the reports in 24 hours, but now it is three to five days because of the high number of samples. In the synthetic blood penetration resistance test, we see if any bodily fluids or blood is penetrating through the fabric. We run synthetic blood across the fabric with particular pressure. If the fabric allows it, then it has failed the test," he added. The same test is carried out at the joints of the coverall as well if it lets in any liquid, it is considered failed. A lot of samples have failed and have passed only with the second or third try. "Bengaluru-specific analysis is yet to be done but 80% to 90% of samples have failed from across the country," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-no-approved-local-labs-for-ppe-testing-bluru-firms-send-coveralls-to-coimbatore-833835.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't return home, stay back and continue work: Yediyurappa appeals to migrant labourers||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday appealed to migrant labourers stranded in the state due to COVID-19 lockdown not to leave for their home towns and assured them work, pointing to easing of norms allowing construction and industrial activities in non-red zones. "I appeal to labourers with folded hands don't pay heed to any rumors, it is the responsibility of the government to see to that you get work at the place you were working... don't take hasty decision of going to your natives. Stay here and work, as in the past," he said. This his the second appeal made by Yediyurappa to the migrant workers since last week and it came after a group of builders met him here amid fears of shortage of labourers. The chief minister had on Friday urged them to stay back in the state and co-operate with the government in resuming economic activities. On Tuesday, Yediyurappa held discussions with various builders and officials on issues relating to migrant labourers and restarting of construction activities. "COVID-19 situation in the state is under control compared to other states. So other than in red zones, there is need to restart businesses, building construction and industrial activities. There is need to control this unnecessary travel of labourers," he told reporters after the meeting. He said the construction industry representative told him that they have started providing employment to migrant workers in the past few days after lockdown norms were relaxed. Besides, the builders also said they paid salary and food to the workers during the past one-and-half months despite no work, the chief minister said. According to sources, the Chief Minister's appeal has come amid fears of shortage of labourers at a time when the government has permitted certain construction and industrial activities to resume in orange and green zones. The government had recently allowed one-time inter state and inter district movement of those stranded due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Assuring that government was ready to solve issues that the workers may have, the Chief Minister said the industrialists and builders have agreed to provide employment. "We are trying to convince large number of labourers who are planning to go back, because of some misconception. Buses will be provided to private organisation on contract basis at a discounted rate and the facility can be utilized for the movement of labourers for work," he said. Yediyurappa said he has also held discussions with weavers to understand their issues and problems faced by farmers would come up during a meeting scheduled with the Finance department officials. "What all can be done within the the fiscal limitation that we have, we will decide on it soon," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-return-home-stay-back-and-continue-work-yediyurappa-appeals-to-migrant-labourers-833836.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Stipend of resident doctors in Karnataka likely to increase||Resolving the disparity in payment of stipend to the resident doctors across Karnataka, state medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday directed the medical education department officials to consider the request made by the Resident Doctors’ Association to increase the stipend amount.  Holding a video conference meeting with the department officials and Vice Chancellor of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), the minister instructed the officials to look into the request and submit a detailed proposal pertaining to the increase of stipend.  The Karnataka Resident Doctors Association had submitted a request to the minister seeking a hike in the stipend which is due since 2015. “The department has been increasing the fee for PG medical and dental courses every year. But it is not considering our request to hike the stipend. We hope that this time they will consider our request,” said one of the office bearers of the association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stipend-of-resident-doctors-in-karnataka-likely-to-increase-833863.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt invites experts to offer ideas to mitigate COVID-19 impact||The Karnataka government has invited experts to offer suggestions, new ideas, and suggest projects, strategies and work plans to help it formulate an integrated strategy to mitigate the social and economic impact of COVID-19 and promote a healthy and safe revival of the State. According to a concept note put out for discussion, a uniform revival policy for the whole state is not possible as the impact on the economy varies across the regions and sectors. The estimation of the impact across the administrative divisions/ districts is essential to frame the redressal policy and programmes, it said. The Planning Department, with the help of Directorate of Economics and Statistics (DES) and Data Analytics Centre and with the help of interns and the faculty support, is trying to design the projects to conduct impact analysis across the divisions on various issues, the concept note said. What is required is immediate assessment of the current situation and, with new ideas, design short, medium and long-term policies, it said. During the lockdown period,production almost come to a standstill in the state, whose GDP at current prices is estimated (2019-20) at 15,50,297 crore and the average per day works out to be Rs 4300 crore. It is assumed that the loss would continue for a longer period if the period is extended and even after that, it will require some time for revival. The greatest loss is in service sector which is a major contributor to State GDP (66 per cent) and also to employment (47.44 per cent); the other sector affected is industry/manufacturing contributing 22.8 per cent to State GDP. The production in agriculture sector is comparatively less affected as Rabi harvesting season is over. But the horticulture, floriculture and allied activities have suffered a great loss due to delink from marketing chain , the concept note said. The contribution of Bangalore Urban to the State economy is about 25 per cent to 30 per cent (very low estimation). Hence revival of Bangalore urban economy is essential. The Bangalore urban economy is mainly dependent on migrant labour and therefore the revival depends on bringing back the people for work to meet the labour demand. A policy/programme needs to be formulated, it said. A quick survey of migrant workers and workers in informal sector is being taken up by DES (Planning Department) to assess the nature of these migrants and the quantum of job requirements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-invites-experts-to-offer-ideas-to-mitigate-covid-19-impact-833877.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka moves to resume development works as lockdown eases||Desperate to get development works going, the Finance department headed by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has signalled willingness to approve projects that were put on hold due to the COVID-19 lockdown.  The 2020-21 Budget, with a Rs 2.37 lakh crore outlay, is yet to take off because of the pandemic. The budget promised works across sectors - irrigation, agriculture, Bengaluru development and so on. But all projects - new and ongoing - were put on hold and expenditure was restricted to salaries, pensions and basic administrative costs. “But the Finance department is convinced that ongoing projects in some departments are necessary,” Additional Chief Secretary (finance) ISN Prasad said in a circular.  All administrative departments have been asked to identify projects by prioritising them based on necessity. “For all ongoing projects that are necessary to be implemented, prior concurrence should be obtained. If new projects are necessary for implementation, proposals should be submitted to seek clearance. The Finance department’s permission should be obtained before approving any new project or work,” Prasad said in the circular.   Projects already approved, but not tendered, or those tendered without work orders issued and those approved, tendered and ordered for work should be taken up only after the Finance department’s permission.  It is only now that revenues have started flowing in, after the government permitted property registrations and sale of liquor. But the fiscal road ahead is long. “The lockdown has stalled resource mobilisation and even if the lockdown goes, it’ll take quite some time for the financial situation to recover,” Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-moves-to-resume-development-works-as-lockdown-eases-833914.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Janaushadhi store closed for last 6 months!||The Janaushadhi store that was opened at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital here, has remained closed for the last six months.  A physiotherapy room at MGM Hospital was converted into Janaushadhi store and Mysore Sales International Limited was entrusted with the responsibility of maintaining the outlet.  “The Janaushadhi stores were opened to provide quality medicines at affordable prices to the public. It was a boon for the poor to purchase medicines for diabetes and BP at an affordable price," said Mahesh of Ghattadahalli, who was returning after noticing a board on the closure of the store. A doctor on the condition of anonymity said, "The Janaushadhi store was much beneficial to the poor. The woman, who was working at the store, had gone for delivery. In spite of writing to make an alternative arrangement, no action has been initiated so far."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/janaushadhi-store-closed-for-last-6-months-833916.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BS Yediyurappa govt proposes new rules to penalise erring staff||A government employee found guilty of sexual harassment will face “reduction to a lower post” as penalty, whereas someone misappropriating public money will compulsorily retire. Indulging in dowry practice will lead to removal from service.  These and more are the penalties erring employees will face as Karnataka has proposed a new way to deal with misconduct and misbehaviour.  The Karnataka Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) (Amendment) Rules, 2020, is out for scrutiny and the government has invited objections from the public.  The proposed rules seek to classify penalties as ‘minor’ and ‘major’ for 24 types of offences an employee may commit in service.  Minor penalties are: fine (for Group-D employees), censure, withholding promotion, recovering loss created due to negligence or breach of orders and reduction in the basic pay (only for a specified period). The major penalties are reduction in the basic pay with cumulative effect, withholding annual increments with cumulative effect, demotion, compulsory retirement, removal and dismissal from service.  “This is the first time penalties have been put in the rules,” a senior official from the Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (DPAR) said. “Right now, deciding the nature of the penalty is left to the officers concerned.”  But the penalties are laced with many conditions. Take sexual harassment for instance. The penalty indicated is “reduction to a lower post”, or a demotion. The employee's pay scale will be fixed to the post he is lowered to, but the person’s seniority will remain the same. After the penalty period expires, the employee will be entitled for “automatic restoration to the original post from which he was reduced by protecting his seniority as if the penalty was not imposed.”  Similarly, an employee removed from service will not be disqualified for appointment to the civil services in the future. Only dismissal from service will disqualify the person from becoming a civil servant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bs-yediyurappa-govt-proposes-new-rules-to-penalise-erring-staff-833944.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Liquor sales 300 times higher on Monday||The district witnessed unprecedented liquor sales on Monday. Compared to normal days, the sales were 300 times higher on Monday. The liquor sales were permitted from Monday after a gap of 43 days. The CL-2 and CL-11 C (MSIL units) outlets resumed the sales. Of 240 liquor outlets in the district, 103 of them fall under of CL-2 category and 21 under CL-11 C category. On normal days, the CL-2 and CL-11 C outlets would sell about 22,680 litres of the Indian Made Liquor (IML). About 22,680 litres of the IML were exhausted in just 10 hours. As against the average daily sales of about 10,301 litres of beer, about 32,065 litres were sold. A large number of people from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Bengaluru Rural and Chikkaballapur districts purchased liquor in the district. The two godowns of Karnataka State Beverages Corporation Limited (KSBCL) godowns supply the liquor to the entire district. The supply was halted after the lockdown. The liquor sold on Monday was stocked before the lockdown. Many outlets were shut down before the deadline as the liquor in the stock was exhausted. People waited in long queues to buy the liquor. All brands of liquor cost more as the government hiked the excise duty from April 1 by 6%. The production of liquor is likely to be hit as the production units were shut down during the lockdown. The KSBCL’s stocks can meet requirement only till May 6. Due to increase in demand and suspension of liquor production, the department has fixed limit on procurement. Each outlet can buy liquor upto Rs 5 lakh. “The supply is less while there is more demand in the district. Supply can meet the demand only for a day. Hence, the department has fixed the limit on procurement,” K K Sumithra, deputy commissioner, Excise Department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/liquor-sales-300-times-higher-on-monday-833971.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Goa plans Hampi model for upkeep of heritage Church complex  ||Goa plans to take a leaf out of Hampi on conservation and upkeep of the coastal state’s 17th century Unesco-endorsed Old Goa Church complex, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday. Sawant’s assurance followed a meeting of officials from the Archaeological Survey of India, state government agencies and representatives of the Goa’s Roman Catholic Church at the state secretariat, in order to streamline the processes for the maintenance of the Old Goa Church Complex, one of the most popular tourism sites in the state, as well as the most significant site of worship for Goa’s Catholic community. “In future, a co-ordination committee under ASI officials, on the lines of Hampi, will be formed to decide on the maintenance of the Church complex. We will obtain the rules and regulations which are in place for maintenance of the Hampi (complex) too,” Sawant said. Hampi is a popular tourist destination with a historical importance on account of its monuments and temples, most of which lie in ruins. The site, an erstwhile capital of Vijayanagar empire -which existed between 14th and 16th centuries - is visited by hundreds of thousands of tourists every year, just like the Old Goa Church complex, which is also a popular tourist site. Over the last few weeks, the Rector of the Basilica of Bom Jesus Fr. Patricio Fernandes has been lobbying with the state government to hasten the pre-monsoon repair work. Sawant said, Goa Chief Secretary Parimal Rai had been tasked with formulating a draft of rules and regulations based on the Hampi model to streamline maintenance works at the Old Goa site. The Basilica of Bom Jesus, which is the key heritage building in the Unesco-endorsed site, also holds the relics of Spanish Saint Francis Xavier, who died in the mid 1500s.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/goa-plans-hampi-model-for-upkeep-of-heritage-church-complex-834019.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bison strays into Mangaluru, captured, dies||The Indian Gaur tranquilised by forest officials, after it had strayed to the heart of city, met a tragic end on Tuesday evening. The Bison on being released near a watering hole in Charmady Ghats collapsed and breathed its last, officials told DH. The Indian Gaur that had strayed into the city creating panic among the people. It was found in Mannagudda. When forest officials rushed to the spot, it bolted around the locality scaring residents. The many attempts of officials to capture the animal proved futile. After running helter-skelter, the bison disappeared at a ground near Hat Hill.  Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF) V Karikalan told DH that it was first spotted near Kudroli and later near the Air India office at Hat Hill. “It must have entered the city from Bajpe area or Badaga Ekkar on the outskirts. The animal would have walked nearly 15 to 20-kms to reach the City,” Karikalan said and added that about 30 to 40 officials including personnel Left with no options, officials finally darted and tranquilised the animal. Following complaints about a Leopard creating panic among the residents in and around MRPL, forest officials had placed a trap.  The leopard was finally caught near Bajavu in Kutthethur on Tuesday. “Officials from forest department tranquilised the Leopard and released it in Charmady Ghats on Tuesday evening,”Karikalan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bison-strays-into-mangaluru-captured-dies-834021.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka staff accused of sexual abuse may be reduced to lower post||A government employee found guilty of sexual harassment will face “reduction to a lower post” as penalty, whereas someone misappropriating public money will compulsorily retire. Indulging in dowry practice will lead to removal from service.  These and more are the penalties erring employees will face as Karnataka has proposed a new way to deal with misconduct and misbehaviour.  The Karnataka Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) (Amendment) Rules, 2020, is out for scrutiny and the government has invited objections from the public.  The proposed rules seek to classify penalties as ‘minor’ and ‘major’ for 24 types of offences an employee may commit in service.  Minor penalties are: fine (for Group-D employees), censure, withholding promotion, recovering loss created due to negligence or breach of orders and reduction in the basic pay (only for a specified period). The major penalties are reduction in the basic pay with cumulative effect, withholding annual increments with cumulative effect, demotion, compulsory retirement, removal and dismissal from service.   “This is the first time penalties have been put in the rules,” a senior official from the Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (DPAR) said. “Right now, deciding the nature of the penalty was left to the officers concerned.”   But the penalties are laced with many conditions. Take sexual harassment for instance. The penalty indicated is “reduction to a lower post,” or a demotion. The employee’s pay scale will be fixed to the post he is lowered to, but the person’s seniority will remain the same.  After the penalty period expires, the employee will be entitled for “automatic restoration to the original post from which he was reduced, by protecting his seniority as if the penalty was not imposed.”  Similarly, an employee removed from service will not be disqualified for appointment to the civil services in the future. Only dismissal from service will disqualify the person from becoming a civilservant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-staff-accused-of-sexual-abuse-may-be-reduced-to-lower-post-834025.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ranebennur-Harihar road blocked fearing virus spread||The Kodiyala Gram Panchayat and the police department have blocked all roads and a bridge across Tungabhadra linking Ranebennur with Harihar to prevent the movement of people and vehicle following a spike in Covid-19 cases in Davangere district. The villages on the banks of Tungabhadra in Ranebennur taluk prefer visiting Harihar and Davangere for their daily needs. After Davangere saw a spurt in infections, the panchayat authorities, with the help of the local police, blocked the bridge by placing thorny bushes on it. The panchayat authorities have asked the villagers not to travel to Harihar and Davangere. Despite blockade, a few are still crossing over to Harihar by walking on railway bridge or through a coracle. However, National Highway 4 is open for traffic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ranebennur-harihar-road-blocked-fearing-virus-spread-834026.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||B’luru cop puts Chamarajanagar green tag in jeopardy||A police constable from Bengaluru, who’d tested positive for the Covid-19, has given sleepless nights to the district administration of Chamarajanagar, the district with zero Covid-19 case. The constable, accompanied by his wife and daughter, on Monday visited in-laws house at Belathuru village in Hanur taluk. Addressing media persons on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi, said, “The district administration swung into action after it learnt about the constable’s visit to Hanur and shifted 14 primary and four secondary contacts of the constable to a quarantine facility in Chamarajanagar. Efforts are underway to trace and quarantine seven other secondary contacts of the constable. The police personnel, who interacted with the constable at the check-post, will also be sent to quarantine.” The constable had come to the village on Monday morning, with his wife and daughter. As soon as the tests confirmed that he was positive for Covid-19, the authorities instructed him to return to Bengaluru immediately. “The constable visited Belathuru in Hanur taluk after his throat swab was sent to Covid-19 lab for testing. It is an offence to travel when swab samples are sent for test. He came from Bengaluru without obtaining permission from the higher officials. There is no information that he possessed travel pass. I have written to the authorities to take action against him,” the DC said. Precautionary measures have been taken at Belathuru and Uddanuru villages. So far, 18 primary and secondary contacts of the cop have been placed under quarantine. The Fire and Emergency personnel sprayed disinfectants in both the villages, the DC added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-luru-cop-puts-chamarajanagar-green-tag-in-jeopardy-834027.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to address resident doctors' demand to hike stipend||Resolving the disparity in payment of stipend to the resident doctors across Karnataka, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday directed the Medical Education department officials to consider the request made by the Resident Doctors’ Association to increase the stipend. Holding a video conference meeting with the department officials and the vice chancellor of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), the minister instructed the officials to look into the request and submit a detailed proposal pertaining to the increase of stipend. The Karnataka Resident Doctors’ Association had submitted a request to the minister seeking a hike in the stipend which is due since 2015. “The department has been increasing the fee for postgraduation medical and dental courses every year. But it is not considering our request to hike the stipend. We hope that this time they will consider our request,” said one of the office-bearers of the association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-address-resident-doctors-demand-to-hike-stipend-834030.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||U’khand returnee tests positive,Cowl Bazaar sealed||A 43-year-old man from Cowl Bazaar in the town, with a travel history to Uttarakhand, has tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Tuesday.The district administration has declared Cowl Bazaar as containment zone andsealed it.  Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul told reporters, “Of the 18 people from Cowl Bazaar, who had returned from Uttarakhand trip recently, a 43-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday night. All his primary contacts and family members have been placed under quarantine.” “After the nationwide lockdown was clamped, the group stayed at a hotel at Uttarakhand’s Ludki district. They managed to get pass from the Ludki district administration and with some financial assistance from Bellary City MLA G Somashekar Reddy, they returned home a couple of days back,” the DC said. Throat swab samples of all 18 were drawn and sent to lab for examination two days back. As per the reports received on Monday night, the swab sample of the 43-year-old man has returned positive for virus, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/u-khand-returnee-tests-positivecowl-bazaar-sealed-834031.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cop suspended for consuming liquor in unform||A police constable, attached to the rural station, has been suspended for violating the discipline by consuming liquor in uniform. SP G Radhika has also ordered an investigation against Raju Chavhan after a video, in which he was seen consuming liquor with his friends at a field at Pallavagrere in the taluk, went viral on social media.  The SP said that the constable had consumed the liquor in uniform. The investigation has been ordered to find out whether the incident occurred when he was on duty. The constable has been suspended for violating the discipline, she added. Raju, an ex-serviceman, had joined the police department three years ago. He was deployed on Pallavagere beat. The incident is to have occurred after the liquor shops were opened on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cop-suspended-for-consuming-liquor-in-unform-834032.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bhatkal reports new case after a gap of 20 days||After a gap of 20 days, Uttara Kannada’s Bhatkal town reported a confirmed case of Covid-19 on Tuesday. A 19-year-old girl from port town, with no travel history, has contracted virus. In a media briefing on the new Covid-19 case, Deputy Commissioner Dr K Harish Kumar said, “The girl has no travel history. However, three of her family members had visited First Neuro Hospital in Mangaluru on April 20. On April 19, a Covid-19 patient from Bantwal had died at the same hospital. Also, the girl’s aunt, who was undergoing treatment at the hospital, died four days later. Hence, the girl is believed to have contracted the virus from her family members. Investigations are underway,” the DC said.  Allaying the fears of community transmission, the DC said, “It is not the sign of community transmission. Her family members had visited the Covid-19 hotspot. Throat swab samples of all 10 members including an infant have been drawn and sent for examination. All family members have been placed under isolation, he added. All 11 Covid-19 cases reported earlier in Bhatkal have been discharged post recovery and are placed under quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bhatkal-reports-new-case-after-a-gap-of-20-days-834034.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Testing labs at pvt medical colleges, ESIC hosps in 30 days||All private medical colleges and Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospitals in Bengaluru and Kalaburagi have to set up the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) labs within 30 days, Minister S Suresh Kumar, in charge of media briefings, said. He said National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences will guide and coordinate between all these institutions, he said. To increase the testing capacity to 10,000 tests per day, the RTPCR machines available with the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS) and veterinary colleges will be relocated to ICMR-approved labs located in medial colleges andhospitals. The heads of these institutions will also depute their microbiologists and technicians working on these machines to the approved labs for training and operating these machines, he added. He said the University of Agricultural Sciences on the GKVK campus in Jakkur is lending its machine to the National Institute of Traditional Medicine in Belagavi. The Veterinary College in Hebbal is sending its machine to the Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences in Ballari, and Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences in Kalaburagi. The University of Agricultural Sciences in Dharwad is lending its machine to the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences in Hubballi. The Karnataka Institute of DNA Research in Dharwad is giving its machine to the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences, and Institute of Agri-Biotechnology in Dharwad is sending its machine to Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/testing-labs-at-pvt-medical-colleges-esic-hosps-in-30-days-834035.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PUE department releases key answers||The department of Pre-University Education has published key answers for all the 38 subjects of second year pre-university courses for which examinations have been concluded and has invited objections for the same. Students can send their objections to www.pue.kar.nic.in However, the department has said that the examination for English subject which was postponed due to nationwide lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic, is expected to be scheduled inJune.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pue-department-releases-key-answers-834036.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||U’khand returnee tests positive; Ballari’s Cowl Bazaar sealed||A 43-year-old man from Cowl Bazaar in the town, with a travel history to Uttarakhand, has tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Tuesday. The district administration has declared Cowl Bazaar as containment zone andsealed it.  Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul told reporters, “Of the 18 people from Cowl Bazaar, who had returned from Uttarakhand trip recently, a 43-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday night. All his primary contacts and family members have been placed under quarantine.” “After the nationwide lockdown was clamped, the group stayed at a hotel at Uttarakhand’s Ludki district. They managed to get pass from the Ludki district administration and with some financial assistance from Bellary City MLA G Somashekar Reddy, they returned home a couple of days back,” the DC said. Throat swab samples of all 18 were drawn and sent to lab for examination two days back. As per the reports received on Monday night, the swab sample of the 43-year-old man has returned positive for virus, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/u-khand-returnee-tests-positive-ballari-s-cowl-bazaar-sealed-834037.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Making the best of a gourd-send, Thirthahalli gets its own petha||An effort to support the distressed ash gourd growers in Thirthahalli taluk has resulted in the large-scale production of petha, the translucent soft candy famously linked to Agra, for the first time in Malnad. A few days ago, distress and despair ruled them as over 2,000 tonnes of the vegetable grown by more than 50 farmers remained unsold. Initially, they couldn’t transport the vegetable to Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan where it is used to make the delicious petha due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Eventually, there were no takers for the vegetable as production activities were halted in North India. Young entrepreneur Vishwanath Kuntavally played a key role in the entire process. After learning about the plight of the growers, Thirthahalli MLA Araga Jnanendra and tahsildar Shreepad S B approached Vishwanath who runs Ibbani food industries in Thirthahalli and sought his aid. Vishwanath had not tried petha making before. But that didn’t deter him from taking up the task and helping farmers. He and his team learnt the process of petha production by watching YouTube videos. The first batch of petha was distributed to local people recently and many found it delicious. This has encouraged the entrepreneur to take up commercial production and create a Thirthahalli petha brand.  Speaking to DH, Vishwanath said, “It is a lengthy process and around six workers prepared it manually in six days. Using machines, over 10 tonnes petha can be produced per day.”  So far, he has purchased over two tonnes of ash gourd at Rs 5,000 per tonne. Though this is less compared to the normal price, farmers feel this is better than leaving the vegetable to rot in the field. The tahsildar is confident that farmers will get a better price once the commercial production starts. He said, local production would prove beneficial to both farmers and entrepreneurs. This seems to be a small step ahead in a long journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/making-the-best-of-a-gourd-send-thirthahalli-gets-its-own-petha-834039.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM urges migrant labourers to stay back||Urging migrant labourers to stay back in Karnataka, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa requested them to return to their places of work.  "Outside red zones, construction and economic activities have resumed. So, unnecessary movement of labourers has to be regulated," Yediyurappa told reporters after an hour-long meeting with the members of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Association of India (CREDAI).  A large number of labourers have misunderstood the situation during Lockdown 3.0 and are rushing to return to their native villages, Yediyurappa pointed out, asking them not to pay heed to rumours.  "Don't rush to travel back to your native states. It is the government's responsibility to make sure you are employed and get food," Yediyurappa said, adding that all builders and those from other sectors had agreed to pay labourers and take care of their welfare. The meeting came a day after the government temporarily discontinued inter-state travel of migrant labourers, which led to a minor scuffle between them and policemen near Nagawara in the city. During the meeting, the builders assured the CM that all arrangements were in place for the labourers and their salaries were also paid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-urges-migrant-labourers-to-stay-back-834040.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt okays TV serial shoots at home: Ashoka||The government has permitted shooting of television serials, but outdoor filming of movies and reality shows will have to wait, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said on Tuesday. “More than 6,000 workers are dependent on television serials. Permission has been given to resume shooting inside homes,” Ashoka said. “It has been directed that all precautions should be taken. But, outdoor filming is still not allowed,” he said.  Ashoka reiterated that all shops dealing with the construction sector must be allowed to open. “There are complaints that the police aren’t allowing such shops to operate. Directions have been issued to district police superintendents to allow them,” he said.  Ashoka also said that farmers will be given another window of opportunity to apply for regularisation of their Bagair Hukum cultivation land. “Many applications for regularisation under the Land Reforms Act have been rejected. The applicants will get one more opportunity. This will benefit lakhs of farmers,” Ashoka said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-okays-tv-serial-shoots-at-home-ashoka-834042.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt stops labourers’ applications to travel home||Karnataka has suspended the process of receiving online applications from migrants seeking to return to their native states. The move came even as a large number of migrant labourers from different parts of the country are keen on returning to their native states and also clashed with police on Monday evening. Before the government stopped receiving new applications online, as many as 2.13 lakh migrant labourers had sought to return to their states. While around 85,000 of these are of labourers from Odisha, 82,000 are from Bihar. According to sources, the state stopped receiving applications from migrant labourers from Monday evening based on the directions by the government. The large-scale movement of labourers had jeopardised several government and private infrastructure projects, which was among the reasons for the decision, sources said. Also, some states were not keen on having the migrant population back due to fears of rapid surge in Covid-19 cases. “They have raised concerns on inadequate quarantine facilities to monitor the thousands of labourers who will return,” sources said. The decision to stop the movement of migrant labourers was a ‘win-win’ as construction projects will pick up pace while guaranteeing employment to the migrant labourers, sources added. Revenue Minister R Ashoka told reporters that workers from Bihar had been convinced to stay. “They were convinced after we assured them of work.” The government appointed nodal officers to aid repatriation of Indians stranded overseas on a priority basis, even as some consulates have advised Indians to extend their visa term. IPS officer Umesh Kumar and IAS officer C N Meena Nagaraj have been appointed to coordinate with various agencies and ensure the repatriation of Indian citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-stops-labourers-applications-to-travel-home-834045.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: Davangere reports 12 infections as state tally swells to 673||Karnataka on Tuesday witnessed 22 new infections and two deaths. The number of confirmed cases in the state has gone up to 673 while the Covid-19 fatalities rose to 29. On the bright side, recovered cases outnumbered the active cases for the third consecutive day. On Tuesday, the number of discharged post-recovery were 331 while active cases stood at 312. Two women - one each from Vijayapura and Davanagere - lost their battle against the virus on Tuesday. A 62-year-old woman (Patient-640) died of cardiac arrest at the designated Covid-19 hospital in Vijayapura. She had bronchial asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and was admitted to the hospital with a complaint of breathlessness. With this the Covid-19 fatalities in Vijayapura district reached 3. Davangere, which is witnessing a surge in cases in the last few days, on Tuesday saw its third Covid-19 death. A 50-year-old woman (Patient-662), with a severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) complaint, died at the district hospital.  The cotton hub of Karnataka continued to see a surge in infections. On Tuesday, as many as 12 people - a 5-year-old boy, a 13-year-old girl, fine men and as many women - all contacts of Patients 556 and 581, contracted virus. The day also saw Bengaluru record three more Covid-19 cases. Patient-653 is a primary contact of Patient-420 while Patient-654 is a influenza-like illness (ILI) case. Contact tracing for Patient-652 is underway. Bagalkot reported two more cases on Tuesday, taking its total count to 35. Both the cases are primary contacts of Patients 367 and 368. Haveri district saw its second case. Patient-672, a native of Savanur with a travel history to Mumbai, is a primary contact of Patient-639. Dakshina Kannada, Uttara Kannada, Ballari and Dharwad district also reported one case each on Tuesday. Minister S Suresh Kumar, also Karnataka’s in-charge of Covid-19 media briefings, said, as many as 4,163 samples were tested on Tuesday. So far, the state had tested 83,806 swab samples.  “In March, the state was in third place in terms of number of Covid-19 cases. Now, it is in 13th place in the country. In the past five days, the national average daily growth rate has been 5.97% whereas for Karnataka, it has been 3.13%,” Kumar said.   “Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa met Credai representatives to help migrant labourers at the construction sites. He also met representatives of weavers’ community. After the farmers’ community, the second-biggest community in the state is that of weavers. Discussions are underway on how to help them,” Kumar said. Labourers have to be transported from camps to construction sites in BMTC buses by their employers. An order to this effect will be released by the state police chief in a day or two, Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-davangere-reports-12-infections-as-state-tally-swells-to-673-834046.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ranebennur-Harihar road blocked fearing virus spread||The Kodiyala Gram Panchayat and the police department have blocked all roads and a bridge across Tungabhadra linking Ranebennur with Harihar to prevent the movement of people and vehicle following a spike in Covid-19 cases in Davangere district. The villages on the banks of Tungabhadra in Ranebennur taluk prefer visiting Harihar and Davangere for their daily needs. After Davangere saw a spurt in infections, the panchayat authorities, with the help of the local police, blocked the bridge by placing thorny bushes on it. The panchayat authorities have asked the villagers not to travel to Harihar and Davangere. Despite blockade, a few are still crossing over to Harihar by walking on railway bridge or through a coracle. However, National Highway 4 is open for traffic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ranebennur-harihar-road-blocked-fearing-virus-spread-834052.html
05-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Teenager’s hunger to serve ensures slum dwellers don’t starve||Aryaman Khosla, a Class XII student of The Doon School in Dehradun, Uttarakhand, has raised close to Rs 8.33 lakh through a crowdfunding platform to provide rations and other items to the underserved families in Bengaluru. He supports them through Parikrma Humanity Foundation. Parikrma provides free education to children from the slums in Bengaluru and also gives them three meals a day. With four schools in the city, the foundation primarily covers 105 slums in and around Jayanagar, Nandini Layout, Koramangala and Sahakarnagar. With the lockdown in place, these children were unable to attend the schools. Many of these students are also the children of daily wage workers, who are among the worst-affected in the current crisis. In response, the foundation started sending food and provisions to the children’s families. Aryaman, who has been associated with Parikrma Humanity Foundation, started the ‘Provide for Parikrma’ initiative and went about raising money to help the foundation buy provisions. “We have been able to give these families 5 kg rice, 2 kg dal, 2 kg ragi, 1 kg sugar, some vegetables, some spices, 500 ml oil and one soap every week,” says Shukla Bose, founder of Parikrma Humanity Foundation. In addition to providing ration to the families, worksheets and story books are sent home with the mothers who come to collect the provisions. This is done so that the children’s education is not interrupted and they do not lose the motivation to learn.  In the meanwhile, the work of providing for these families in the slums continues. The money raised by Aryaman is enough to provide over 124,500 meals.  “If it had not been for Parikrma and all the people who have supported them, we would have starved,” says Uma, single mother of two daughters who study at Parikrma. Uma was employed as a maid and has been left without work due to the lockdown.  “My campaign has seen donations and support from over 95 people from around India as well as from abroad, and it is because of their generosity that we are able to continue feeding these families,” Aryaman says. Aryaman has also linked up with Makers Asylum to provide facial 30 M-19 Shields to the volunteers  and with KLRF, which is supporting them with the provision of hand sanitisers and masks for distribution among the families. Contact Aryaman at provideforparikrma@gmail.com||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/teenager-s-hunger-to-serve-ensures-slum-dwellers-don-t-starve-834053.html
05-05-2020||West||Shiv Sena nominates CM Uddhav Thackeray for Maharashtra Legislative Council elections||The Shiv Sena has nominated Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for the forthcoming elections to nine seats of Maharashtra Legislative Council.  Besides Thackeray, it has also named Dr Neelam Gorhe, the current Deputy Speaker of the Council.  Uddhav, the Shiv Sena president, will thus be the second member of the Thackeray family to contest an election even though he is contesting the Council seat for which the electoral college is the 288-member Maharashtra Legislative Assembly.  In the Vidhan Sabha elections held between September-October 2019, his elder son, Aaditya Thackeray successfully contested the Worli seat and is now the state's Environment, Tourism and Protocol Minister.  Uddhav Thackeray, who is currently neither an MLA nor an MLC, was sworn in as chief minister on November 28, 2019,  after having been elected as leader of Maha Vikas Aghadi, which comprises Shiv Sena, Sharad Pawar-led NCP and Congress. Uddhav is needed to get elected by May 27 to either of the Houses. The elections were notified on Monday - and the last day of filing nominations is May 11, scrutiny on May 22, while the last date for withdrawal is May 14. The polling, if necessary, would be held on May 21 and the election process would get over by May 26. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government, in its Cabinet meeting that was presided over by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, recommended Uddhav's name for the post of two vacant seats form Governor's quota. There was a technical issue for Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to take a call as the Representation of People Act, 1951, states that election or nomination to a vacant post cannot be done if the remaining term of the vacancy is less than one year.  The term of the two vacant seats in this case was to end on June 6. In crisis situation, Uddhav spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the issue. Thereafter, the Shiv Sena cited the emergency situation and requested the Governor to impress upon ECI to conduct polls and the latter agreed to it. These seats were earlier held by Neelam Gorhe, Hemant Takle, Anand  Thakur, Smita Wagh, Prithviraj  Deshmukh, Kiran  Pawaskar, Arunbhau  Adasad, Chandrakant  Raghuvanshi and Harisingh Rathod.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-nominates-cm-uddhav-thackeray-for-maharashtra-legislative-council-elections-833679.html
05-05-2020||West||Gujarat hospitals to join WHO's 'Solidarity' clinical trial of coronavirus lockdown||Hospitals from four cities in Gujarat will participate in the World Health Organisation's 'Solidarity' international clinical trial to help find an effective treatment for COVID-19, a senior state health official said. The trial, to be conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at hospitals in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot, will compare the effectiveness of four drugs and standard care on coronavirus patients, principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi told reporters on Monday. The four drug regimes to be tested on patients are - Remdesivir, Lopinavir, Hydroxychloroquine or Chloroquine and Interferon, she said. The other aspects to be assessed in such patients include improvement of health condition, mortality rate, need for ventilator support and severe drug reactions, she said. The medical facilities selected for the trial are - BJ Medical College and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Hospital in Ahmedabad, Gujarat Medical Education & Research Society (GMERS) Medical College in Vadodara, New Civil Hospital in Surat, and Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Medical College in Rajkot, the official said. Nearly 100 countries across the globe are participating in the exercise, she said. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), four treatment options will be compared under the trial to assess their relative effectiveness against COVID-19. "By enrolling patients in multiple countries, the solidarity trial aims to rapidly discover whether any of the (four) drugs slow disease progression or improve survival. Other drugs can be added based on emerging evidence," the WHO says on its website. WHO is facilitating access to thousands of treatment courses for the trial through donations from a number of manufacturers, and also inviting developers and companies to collaborate on ensuring affordability and availability of the treatment options if they prove effective, the website says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-hospitals-to-join-whos-solidarity-clinical-trial-of-coronavirus-lockdown-833701.html
05-05-2020||West||Post Handwara, Shiv Sena calls for another surgical strike||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday pitched for a surgical strike without tom tomming about it to avenge the killing of five security personnel in an encounter with terrorists in Kashmir's Handwara area two days ago. It is not a good sign that the brave men were killed in one go on India's own land, an editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said, adding that this happened when a strong and quite patriotic government is in power at the Centre. The country has forgotten "Kashmir war" due to the war situation triggered by COVID-19, but Pakistan has not, the former NDA constituent said. Noting that the armed forces recently saluted the efforts of frontline workers in the battle against COVID-19 by conducting fly-pasts and showering flower petals on hospitals, the Shiv Sena said the fight against coronavirus and the appreciation of policemen, doctors and nurses will continue, but Kashmir cannot be ignored". "Let there be a surgical strike without tom tomming about it to avenge the martyrdom of the five jawans. It is not a good sign that five of our jawans are killed in one go, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. India had carried out retaliatory surgical strikes on seven terror launch pads across the LoC, with the Army targeting terrorists preparing to infiltrate from PoK after the Uri terror attack in September 2016. Opposition parties like the Congress had later accused the BJP of using the surgical strike for political gains. "Our jawans are getting killed on our own land. It is happening at a time when a strong and quite patriotic government is in place in Delhi (Centre)," the Shiv Sena said. The attacks by terrorists have gone up along the Kashmir border while India is battling coronavirus crisis, it said, and alleged, "India has forgotten the Kashmir war due to the situation triggered by COVID-19, but Pakistan has not." Without naming any party or government, the Sena said somebody should also shower petals on the kin of the five security personnel killed in the Handwara encounter. It said the security personnel who made supreme sacrifices for the country included a Muslim, and asked those who are into Hindu-Muslim politics not to forget this. An Army Colonel and a Major were among five security personnel killed in an encounter with terrorists at a village in north Kashmir's Handwara area two days back. The deceased included Colonel Ashutosh Sharma -- Commanding Officer of the 21 Rashtriya Rifles, Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh and Lance Naik Dinesh and JKP sub-inspector Shakeel Qazi. The Sena said Colonel Sharma's daughter marked her birthday on May 1 and he died protecting the country on May 3. Observing that the incident happened around the same time when the armed forces saluted the efforts of policemen, doctors and nurses fighting the COVID-19, it said, "Somebody should shower petals on the relatives of these martyrs also. Play bands, light up lamps, candles to salute them too." There was lockdown in Kashmir ever since Article 370 was scrapped (last year) and the infiltrators carried out attacks during the lockdown, the Marathi daily said. It has to be admitted that the Article could be scrapped because of the strong intentions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. But, the killings of Indian soldiers still continued there, the Shiv Sena said. What is the use of only paying tributes to soldiers who achieve martyrdom in Kashmir? it asked. The bodies of the five personnel were kept wrapped in the tricolour at the Handwara military camp and the picture of it gave pain to people of the country, the Shiv Sena said. "The picture stifles the slogan of Jai Hind in the throat itself. The land of Kashmir is soaked with the blood of Colonel Sharma and other brave soldiers at a time when the Indian Army showered flowers on COVID-19 warriors. This is not a good picture, is what we can say, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/post-handwara-shiv-sena-calls-for-another-surgical-strike-833738.html
05-05-2020||West||Nagpur lawyers move Bombay High Court against revised coronavirus lockdown order||A petition has been filed in the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court against a civic body notification imposing a revised lockdown in the city on par with the Mumbai, Pune and Malegaon regions. As per the notification issued on Sunday by Nagpur Municipal Commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, the restrictions in place till May 3 will remain in force during the lockdown period till May 17. The plea, filed by five lawyers Prakash Jaiswal, Kishore Lambat, Kamal Satuja, Manoj Sable and Shreerang Bhandarkar, has challenged the notification and termed it as illegal, arbitrary and unreasonable. As per the plea, the Union government on May 2 issued guidelines under which each area or district across the country was divided into three zones red, orange and green depending on the severity of COVID-19 in that particular area. The guidelines prescribed activities and relaxations on the lockdown in each zone. The Maharashtra government also issued guidelines, permitting of opening standalone shops, liquor outlets, private offices with 33 per cent and other relaxations in COVID-19 non-containment zones. It extended the easing of restrictions for shops in the red zones as well. The petition said even though Nagpur was in the red zone, the guidelines permitted liquor shops, stand-alone shops and private offices with 33 per cent staff strength to start functioning. "However, on the same day, the Nagpur civic body through its commissioner altered the guidelines issued by the Union government on the ground that considering the number of COVID-19 positive cases in Nagpur, it was necessary to implement even more strict measures during the lockdown period till May 17, the petition said. The revised lockdown puts Nagpur on par with the lockdown imposed in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune Metropolitan Region and Malegaon (in Nashik district), the plea said. "The notification issued by the Nagpur civic body is abuse of power and passed without any authority under the law, and is illegal, arbitrary, unreasonable and perverse, which deserves to be quashed and set aside, the petition said. The petition is likely to be taken up for urgent hearing this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nagpur-lawyers-move-bombay-high-court-against-revised-coronavirus-lockdown-order-833755.html
05-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Goa CM urges migrants to stay back as 80,000 seek to go home||Nearly 80,000 migrant labourers, mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have registered themselves with the Goa government to return to their native places, according to official figures. However, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has urged them to stay back as the coastal state will require manpower for the economic revival once the lockdown is lifted. As part of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines, the Sawant government has set up counters at the collectorates of North Goa and South Goa districts, municipalities and gram panchayat offices where migrant workers can register themselves to go back home. Till Monday, 80,000 migrant labourers registered themselves at these offices, as per the state governments statistics. "Goa will require manpower. I appeal to them not to go back to their states. They can stay back here as Goa is safe from COVID-19 infection, Sawant told reporters on Monday.  After the Centre's decision to classify Goa as a green zone, the Sawant-led government has set in motion the process of economic revival of the state. Majority of the economic activities have resumed while following physical distancing norms, compulsory wearing of masks and reduced workforce. Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar said the exodus of migrant workers will have an impact on construction, fishing, industrial units and others, but this is an unavoidable situation. "They (labourers) dont want to stay back. This is the right time for the government to map how much labour force we really require in the state, he said. Goa-based labour union leader Puti Gaonkar said if the migrant workers leave the state, it could be an opening of employment opportunities for locals.  "There are enough young people in Goa who can do different jobs. I dont think there would be much impact if the migrant labourers leave the state, he said. Gaonkar said several industries were employing people without respecting the minimum wages rule, but now they will have to hire people by paying proper salaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-goa-cm-urges-migrants-to-stay-back-as-80000-seek-to-go-home-833769.html
05-05-2020||West||Private experts rope in to contain coronavirus deaths in Ahmedabad||The Gujarat government has roped in private intensive care specialists to advise doctors of the Ahmedabad civil hospital on how to control the high COVID-19 death rate in the city. Ahmedabad has so far reported 4,076 coronavirus cases and 234 deaths. The city's COVID-19 death rate stands at 5.8 per cent as on Tuesday, against the national average of around 3.2 per cent. The idea to rope in specialists to bring down the death rate was mooted by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, state principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said. "We have decided to rope in private critical care specialists, who have agreed to give their special service in the wake of the pandemic. On Monday, we had a meeting of our Ahmedabad civil hospital team with some of these specialists," she said. They will guide the civil hospital doctors about critical COVID-19 patients on a case-to-case basis, she said, expressing hope that the move would help save lives. On Monday, Ahmedabad reported 26 COVID-19 deaths. Out of the total 319 deaths in Gujarat so far, Ahmedabad has reported 234, or 73.3 per cent of total deaths in the state. Earlier, some health experts in the state had attributed the high death rate to the 'L strain' or 'Wuhan strain' of the coronavirus. However, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) later clarified that all strains of the virus can cause high number of deaths. Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra last week said the high death rate in Ahmedabad was because of people coming late for admission in the hospital. He said if people come in time whenever they show symptoms of the disease, then more lives can be saved. The city civic body last week also launched a programme, called 'Save Our Old Population'. Nehra said those over 65 years of age should not venture out of their homes and stay protected as many of those who died of coronavirus in the city were senior citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/private-experts-rope-in-to-contain-coronavirus-deaths-in-ahmedabad-833780.html
05-05-2020||West||Maharashtra gears up to handle spike in COVID-19 cases||The Lockdown 3.0 ends on May 17, however, whether to extend or not or what kind of relaxations to be given would be decided at a later stage. Meanwhile, the Mumbai police imposed 144 CrPC in the entire city till the end of the COVID-19 India lockdown.  In Mumbai, there seen to be no flattening of curve in Worli, Dharavi, Lower Parel, Byculla, Chembur, Govandi, Mulund, Malad and Andheri West, that have emerged as hotspots. In the last 10 days, from April 25 to May 4,  the COVID-19 cases have doubled in Mumbai. Nearly 170 deaths were reported in the city during this period. On average, 400-plus cases have been recorded daily, according to the data maintained by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, Public Health & Family Welfare and Medical Education & Drugs departments. According to BMC officials, beds dedicated to COVID-19 patients in Mumbai hospitals like BYL Nair, KEM, St George and Seven Hills is being increased from 3,000 to 4,750.     Isolation and institutional quarantine facilities are being beefed up.  The BMC's target is to have 60,000 to 70,000 isolation beds. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}--> Here are the COVID-19 cases reported in Maharashtra in the last 10 days: **  In last 10 days, 4,261 new COVID-19 patients have been admitted**  In last 10 days, 170 people have died of the viral pandemic||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-gears-up-to-handle-spike-in-covid-19-cases-833818.html
05-05-2020||West||Pregnant woman dies of COVID-19 in Nashik; district toll 13||A 20-year-old pregnant woman died due to COVID-19 here, taking the toll in Nashik district of Maharashtra to 13, while four more persons tested positive for the infection on Tuesday, officials said. The woman, a resident of Bajrangwadi area of the city, was admitted in serious condition in the District Civil Hospital here on May 2, according to an official release. She died at the hospital after two hours, it said. Her swab report was received on Tuesday and it was found to be positive for the novel coronavirus, the release said. This was the first COVID-19 fatality reported from Nashik city, while the district's toll increased to 13, it said. Besides, four more persons - one each from Satana, Sinnar, Yeola and Malegaon towns - tested positive for coronavirus in the district on Tuesday, the release said. Seven people from Dabhadi (Malegaon rural) were found to be infected with the disease on Monday night. With these latest reports, the number of coronavirus cases in the district has gone up to 383, the release said. As many as 332 of these cases have been reported from Malegaon alone, it added. The number of people who have recovered from the disease and discharged from hospitals stood at 25, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pregnant-woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-nashik-district-toll-13-833856.html
05-05-2020||West||Maha: Four missing COVID-19 patients booked in Nanded||A case was registered against four COVID-19 patients, who went missing at Nanded district in Maharashtra, police said on Tuesday. The police have launched a manhunt for four persons, who were among 20 pilgrims from the Langar Sahib, part of the Takht Hazur Sahib Sachkhand Gurdwara, over 255 km from here, an official said. Of the 20 pilgrims who tested positive, 16 were traced on Sunday, while the hunt was on for the remaining four, all of whom are residents of Nanded, he said. At least 20 pilgrims tested positive for COVID-19, after swabs of 97 persons staying in the Langar Sahib were sent for testing between April 30 and May 1. However, by the time the reports came in, the 20 had moved, the official said. A case under section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and other provisions of the IPC, Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act was registered at Vazirabad police station, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-four-missing-covid-19-patients-booked-in-nanded-833950.html
05-05-2020||West||Gujarat: AMC chief quarantined after contact with COVID-19 patient  ||The civic chief has been replaced by vice-chairman and CEO of Gujarat Maritime Board Mukesh Kumar, while Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary of the Forests and Environment department, will supervise and coordinate coronavirus-related activities in the city, a release stated.  The government has also appointed additional chief secretary of the Revenue department Pankaj Kumar for supervision and coordination of health works, it stated. Principal Secretary of health Jayanti Ravi said certain important decisions were taken regarding Ahmedabad, as the number of COVID-19 cases and deaths were rising in the city. "Nehra was home quarantined. Three senior officers have been appointed to manage virus cases in the city. Chief principal secretary in Chief Minister's Office K Kailashnathan visited the AMC and held a meeting with senior officers on how to tackle the situation," Ravi said.  Nehra has been managing and supervising coronavirus situation in the city that accounts for nearly 70 per cent of total COVID-19 cases in the state. The city has also witnessed 234 deaths due to coronavirus, with around 24 patients succumbing to the infection on a daily basis over the past few days. In a briefing earlier, Nehra had claimed that the growth rate of active cases in the city was brought down to 5 per cent from 40 per cent a few weeks ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-amc-chief-quarantined-after-contact-with-covid-19-patient-834001.html
05-05-2020||West||On day one of liquor sale, Maharashtra govt nets Rs 11-crore revenue||The Maharashtra government collected Rs 11 crore in revenue on day one of liquor sale after relaxations in COVID-19 lockdown were announced, a top official said on Tuesday. Liquor shops have sold around four lakh litres of various brands of IMFL (Indian-made foreign liquor) in the state, he said. Following relaxations in lockdown norms, long queues of tipplers were seen outside standalone liquor shops on Monday in various parts of Maharashtra though authorities in some districts decided not to permit alcohol sale. All liquor shops were closed ever since a national lockdown was imposed across the country on March 25 to halt the spread of coronavirus. The lockdown was extended till May 17, but standalone liquor shops were permitted to operate as part of relaxations by the state government. The governments decision saw a large number of tipplers queuing up outside liquor shops across the state on Monday as well as on Tuesday. "As per primary information, liquor shops have sold around four lakh litres of various brands of IMFL. We seemed to have received Rs 11 crore from sale and excise duty of various types of liquor, said Kantilal Umap, state excise commissioner. Restaurants and permit rooms in the state are not functioning as of now; thus this income is only from the sale of IMFL from standalone counters, Umap said. Maharashtra earns Rs 25,500 crore from sale and excise duty on various types of liquor, beer and wine annually, the the commissioner said. However, daily average revenue is of Rs 78 crore on a normal day, he said. However, some district collectors have decided not to open liquor shops in their respective jurisdiction. On Monday, police resorted to mild lathicharge at some places, including Kolhapur and Pune, to disperse people gathered outside liquor outlets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/on-day-one-of-liquor-sale-maharashtra-govt-nets-rs-11-crore-revenue-834015.html
05-05-2020||West||Dharavi coronavirus cases up by 33 to 665, says BMC||Mumbai's biggest slum sprawl Dharavi on Tuesday reported 33 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total count to 665, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. The overall death toll stood at 20, as no fresh fatality has been reported in the last 72 hours. New cases were reported from areas like Ambedkar Chawl, Kumbharwada, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Madina Nagar, PMGP Colony, Vijay Nagar, Mukund Nagar, Social Nagar, Tata Nagar among others, he said. So far, 83,500 people have been screened in Dharavi. While 2380 people are under institutional quarantine, 196 others were discharged from hospitals after recovery, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavi-coronavirus-cases-up-by-33-to-665-says-bmc-834063.html
