06-05-2020||Comment||The Silenced Valley||It was a pleasant summer day indeed, in early March this year. I was amidst the hamlets in the Sharavati river valley in the hilly Western Ghats of Karnataka. Ugadi, the festival signalling the onset of spring was just a few days away. The floor of the woods was still green and the streams in the shallow valley adjacent to betel-nut orchards had gentle flow. The chirp of the birds perching on trees was soothing. It all looked like a perfect Malanad dream day. But it was not. The panic had already pierced in households and people were grim. The reason was evident. The killer Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD) had returned, before people had even come out of the shock it created last year. Many had died then and hundreds suffered for months in distant hospitals. It appeared again this time with more vigour. I could not do much beyond consoling them and convincing them to get vaccine shots and not to go out in the forest without applying insect repellent oil to keep the vector ticks way. It is over a month now. God only knows their misery, which must have only heightened with the Covid-19 lockdown. The new pandemic virus seems to have silenced the cry of those affected by the endemic KFD virus.   The State seems to have forgotten this disease, which has otherwise been troubling the Western Ghats states for over six decades. Except the fact that it spreads from dying monkeys, nothing further has been understood about it all these years. All that the government does is to preach to the forest dwellers not to go out in the woods during winter and summer, when the virus becomes virulent. But the peasants, labourers and the tribals cannot afford to be at home all the time. They inevitably go out, get exposed to the ticks that carry the virus, and fall victim to it. In-depth epidemiological studies would have revealed the pathogen’s lifecycle, which might have been activated by sudden loss of evergreen forest in the region. But no one among the research community, the healthcare industry or the government itself has found it worth investigating!    For the Sharavati river valley, one of the hotspots of KFD, such apathy of the government isn’t new. In the catchment of this short but vibrant perennial river that flows in Shimoga and Uttara Kannada districts of Karnataka, vast tracts of pristine tropical forest have already been submerged in Madenoor,  Linganamakki and Gerusoppe hydro-electric dams. The unique ecosystem with its immense biodiversity got drowned in reservoirs and their ecosystem services vanished before they were understood. Many families displaced from those projects are still struggling to get their rights on land and are living the lives of the landless poor in Shettihalli Sanctuary, a few kilometres upstream. Life is still dark for these eco-refugees, under the shadow of the project that produces light for others. The thickly wooded river’s watershed should have been cared for better, at least for the sake of ensuring sustained power production in these projects. But research findings show that it is otherwise. Large chunks of forest in Sagara, Hosanagara and Theerthahalli blocks were cut to make way for raising Eucalypts and Acacia plantations for the purpose of feeding industries. Thousands of hectares of dense ‘Kaan’ forests are being encroached upon by the powerful, by exploiting the ‘Akrama–Sakrama’ scheme. And the illegal quarries that are actually run on licence meant for stone-crushing are spreading all around. This trio of industrial forests, land grabbing and the quarry are together turning Sharavati valley barren. The principle of ‘payment for ecosystem services’, of course, gets discussed in policy circles, but neither Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL), that runs these power projects, nor the Karnataka Forest Department, that owns the forests, have thought of applying that. It is only the farmers who, trapped between encroachers and monoculture plantations, bear the brunt of forest loss through summer fire, loss of soil fertility and water shortage. Unscientific land use is taking a toll of both the local ecology and economy. Still, the ‘development machine’ does not take rest in the valley. KPCL has recently proposed a new Underground Power Plant project -- in the heart of the Sharavati Sanctuary! It is, in fact, one of the remaining habitats of ecological niches like Myristica swamps and endangered species like the Lion Tailed Macaque. While the very need for such a devastating project in this Protected Area is being questioned by experts, the National Wildlife Board (NWB) took no time to give its green signal for survey and geo-technical investigations! This statutory body, under the Ministry of Environment and Forest, which is meant to achieve the objectives of the Wildlife Protection Act (1972) gave this permission through a brief online meeting under the cover of the Covid-19 lockdown. More than 200 hectares of dense forest would be cut, fragmenting the vast wildlife corridor. “Disasters of climate change may force the rulers to take ecologically sound economic decisions”, predicted the Nobel laureate economist WD Nordhaus. But the ‘market forces’, backed by political leaders, do not seem to learn lessons, even from a global crisis like the present pandemic. Neither the endemic virus nor the mega developmental projects seem willing to spare this precious river valley. As the forest continues to get fragmented, the valley will soon lose its homeostasis and thereby its carrying capacity. The ‘silence’ of this spring may deaden into a silence forever, as is happening elsewhere in the Western Ghats. (The writer is Director, Centre for Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development, Sirsi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-silenced-valley-834223.html
06-05-2020||First Edit||Coronavirus: Let states take call on lockdown zones||With the nation entering the third phase of the lockdown, there are quickly shifting patterns of red, orange and green across the country, pointing to the changing status of coronavirus infections from region to region and district to district. More relaxations have been allowed in the third phase, based on the spread and intensity of the infection in particular areas and the need to start economic activities and protect livelihoods. But, in the course of implementation, anomalous situations have arisen which call for a rethinking on some aspects of the design of the lockdown. There may be the need to give greater say to the states in the classification of areas, to review the size of the zones and to decide the activities to be allowed there. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has himself said that the economic imperatives need to be paid attention to, but the central government should take a more decentralised and nuanced approach to lockdowns, going forward.  The Karnataka government wants Bengaluru to be divided into seven zones, with each of them comprising seven assembly constituencies, for the purpose of containment. Because the entire Bengaluru urban district is one red zone in the Centre’s demarcation, all economic activities in the city are virtually at a standstill. But Bengaluru is a sprawling demographic and geographical unit, and there are many areas where infections are under control. These areas can be allowed some level of economic activity if they are not considered as part of the red zone. Similarly, the whole of Bihar is either red or orange, with no patch of green, though the number of cases in the state is not very high. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal  also pointed out the need for a more granular approach when he said that the time has come to reopen Delhi and to give more relief to business and economy. He has suggested that all containment zones should be sealed but the rest should be termed as green zones where a wider range of activities are possible.  The fight against Covid-19 is not uniform across the world. Different countries and different states in each country have adopted different models and strategies. The strategies should be in accordance with the situation prevailing in a state or region, the resources available there and the changing priorities. While the central government should give guidelines which are applicable to the entire country, there should be room for states to adapt them to their needs. The Centre should be flexible in this respect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/coronavirus-let-states-take-call-on-lockdown-zones-834221.html
06-05-2020||First Edit||Karnataka government cannot force workers to stay||The Karnataka government’s decision to cancel the trains which were to take the migrant workers in Bengaluru back to their home states is cruel and inhuman, and exposes a selfish and unsympathetic attitude which would only bring discredit to it. Arrangements had been made to run 10 special trains over five days to take the workers to northern and eastern states as they had demanded facilities to return to their homes ever since the lockdown was imposed. Some of them had started walking to their homes, and the sight of poor workers moving with their families, lugging their belongings, had shaken the conscience of the nation. Earlier this week, the central government decided to allow them to go home and the Railways started special services for them from some states. The Karnataka government also assured the workers that they would be taken home in these trains. The central government showed its lack of regard for the workers by demanding that they pay for their passage, and the state has now shown its highhandedness by telling them that they cannot go. The arrangements were cancelled after a group of builders and contractors met Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and told him that they needed the workers for construction activities in the city. The implications of the decision are very disquieting. The government has turned the workers into forced labour, and the camps where they live may be compared to bonded workers’ camps, with the government standing guard to stop anyone from escaping. Public policy cannot be so insensitive and inconsiderate. How can a government go against the wishes of thousands of people to please a few contractors? The unwholesome and exploitative aspect of the politician-developer nexus is there for all to see in this decision. The need to resume construction is no reason to make unwilling people work. If a worker does not want to work, he cannot be forced to work.  It is claimed that the builders have assured the government that the workers would be taken care of. There have been widespread complaints of the workers not being provided food and other essentials, and so the promises cannot be considered as sincere. Many workers might want to go home regardless of how they are treated. In times of stress, people turn to their native places where the familiar environment gives them a sense of security. Man does not live by bread alone. Workers, too, have the right to freedom, dignity and respect and the government must respect that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/karnataka-government-cannot-force-workers-to-stay-834399.html
06-05-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Coronavirus: KIMS Hubballi a part of the ICMR's plasma therapy clinical trial||As many as 21 hospitals including Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubbali, will be part of the Indian Council of Medical Research’s clinical trial to test the efficacy of the much talked about plasma therapy for COVID-19. Besides KIMS, the network of hospitals includes five from Maharashtra and four from Gujarat – the two worst-affected states. Two hospitals each from Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh; and one each from Punjab and Telangana complete the current pool of the sites. Named PLACID, the ICMR trial would involve transfusion of plasma donated by a person recovered from Covid-19 to severely ill patients. Scientists in Wuhan saw improvement in severely ill patients within three days of transfusion of convalescent plasma. ICMR’s pilot study in ten severely ill Covid-19 patients has demonstrated that it may be safe and a promising therapeutic option for severe infections. While 21 sites received the council’s approval so far to be a part of the phase-II trial, 90 other hospitals approached the ICMR wanting to be a part of the trial. Those awaiting approvals include 13 more Karnataka hospitals. Since the study design allows enrolment of 452 individuals, a decision has been taken not to rope in any more sites once 400 persons are recruited. The trial is already registered with the Clinical Trial Registry of India.  The Union Health Ministry had earlier cautioned that convalescent plasma therapy was one of the emerging therapies that were tried only on seriously sick Covid-19 patients and it should never be considered as a “routine therapy” as it lacked scientific evidence. The ICMR trial is expected to fill the gap. The PLACID trial is one of the 49 Covid-19 clinical trials registered with the CTRI. While most of the trials are to test the utility of repurposed drugs like hydroxychloroquine and convalescent plasma therapy, there are at least half-a-dozen trials to evaluate the efficacy of homeopathy medicines. Additionally, one trial has been planned to examine Dabur Chavanparsh (an Ayurvedic concoction) as a preventive remedy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/coronavirus-kims-hubballi-a-part-of-the-icmrs-plasma-therapy-clinical-trial-834396.html
06-05-2020||In Perspective||Coronavirus lockdown has shown us new route to school: It’s tech||Crises are good: In a 2017 paper titled “The Benefits of Forced Experimentation” researchers from Cambridge and Oxford studied a strike that caused some of London’s train services to be closed for two days. Thousands of commuters were forced to change their regular route, but what the researchers discovered was that when normal services resumed, around one in 20 commuters stuck with their newly-discovered route. In other words, they found something better due to forced circumstances. They could have found it any time earlier, but didn’t. Covid-19 is clearly doing the same in a deeper, more prolonged and more widespread way. There is no sector in which this is happening more than education. Frankly, Indian education has been a bit of a laggard in terms of adopting technology (never mind the billions being poured into EdTech company by private equities). It thus represents an opportunity to leapfrog and make systemic improvements. The dot-com bust of the early 2000s virtually created India’s offshoring industry. Can this crisis transform education? The answer is an unequivocal yes, but whether it really improves the system fundamentally depends on actions we take now and is by no means a given. A decade’s attitudinal change in weeks? Social scientists know that the biggest barrier to change is existing attitudes and habits. Since change is always scary in a large system, key players, whether the government, schools or teachers, have not always been at the forefront of adopting new technology. But the moment we as a society accepted that social distancing and closing schools were important for the greater good, this indifference to technology was the first causality. Genuine concern for student learning, the economics of it at an institutional or individual level as well as the need to be seen as proactive drove an attitude that has changed into complete acceptance of technology during this pandemic. EdTech players, too, seized the moment and made their offerings available for free at least for a limited period, creating a perfect storm for deeper technology integration. Teachers are (really) learners again: Most of us empathise with the public health lament that you cannot build capacity to fight a pandemic during a pandemic. And yet, that is what teachers have had to do – learn new skills of using and managing live video-conferencing, creating videos, collating educational resources –- not to forget ‘managing’ a distributed ‘class’ –- all of this while in the midst of doing it. Etiquette associated with using this medium, while having parents observe their every action, has not been easy, and thousands of teachers have risen to the challenge. For parents, home schooling is no longer a radical idea discussed once in a while. But these new skills and experiments will prove invaluable if we stay open to them, like the commuters who saw the upside in the London tube strike. Learning is an outcome, not an activity or a place: Even though all stakeholders on the face of it have responded to the new normal enthusiastically with online classes and the like, there is a deep issue here. The crisis has forced us all to accept that learning is not merely a place (school), but it is an activity that cannot stop because school is closed. But is there a risk that we turn learning into a mere activity? Children often go through the motions of schooling – going to school every day, listening to lectures, taking notes, studying these notes, writing exams and repeating these steps. Are they truly learning or understanding? Does the system value that? Most of the students seem to be now learning largely through videos or notes. Our education system has tended to be rote-learning based and teacher-centred. To some extent, we have moved this same system online. However, it is of paramount importance that the student moves to learning systems that are more understanding-focussed and driven by student-led learning. What this means is that learning is more self-directed. That is, students understand what they are learning and what they will be able to do when a lesson is learnt. It implies that students are more actively involved, say, by answering questions or doing activities using EdTech, which also serves as a record of their learning. There are personalised adaptive learning systems that are built around these principles and also involve more active learning. The bottom line -- are children really learning? Finally, how do we know how well children are actually learning? Do these online methods work? During regular school, assessments tend to be more textbook and recall-based and students prepare for these tests from textbooks and notes. However, in the real world, assessments focus on unfamiliar questions and contexts and test the student’s ability to apply understanding in those situations. Tests like PISA – an international assessment that some states and school systems will be writing next year -- give more weightage to what children have understood rather than whether they can repeat definitions from the text. The technology to conduct reliable assessments online is still in its infancy. The Covid-19 crisis will increase the importance of independent, understanding-based assessments and, if we accept them, could have helped us move to real learning with understanding. (The writer is Co-founder & Chief Learning Officer, Educational Initiatives)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/coronavirus-lockdown-has-shown-us-new-route-to-school-it-s-tech-834227.html
06-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Police guard commits suicide at DC bungalow||A police guard from City Armed Reserve police, posted for guard duty at the Deputy Commissioner's residence at Visvesvaraya Nagar, here committed suicide by shooting himself with his service gun. The incident is believed to have taken place between 9 pm on Tuesday and 7 am on Wednesday. The incident came to light when he did not open the gate for the reliever on Wednesday. Police Commissioner B S Lokesh Kumar informed that the guard, identified as Prakash Gudgannavar (35), a native of Ambadgatti village in Kittur taluk had been residing at PWD quarters here and had been posted as guard at the Deputy Commissioner's residence since a week. Prakash had reported for duty at 9 pm on Tuesday and did not open the gate on Wednesday for the reliever. It was when the latter opened the gate, the incident of suicide came to the fore. Prakash shot himself through his neck and his skull was found open. Forensic personnel have arrived and are collecting evidence, he said. Lokesh Kumar said that Prakash had joined the Police Department at Bengaluru and had been transferred two years ago as per the provision. Family members said that he had been suffering from mental disorder too and was on medication since two years. After stopping medication for a few days, he had started it again two months back. APMC police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-guard-commits-suicide-at-dc-bungalow-834162.html
06-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||B'luru cop tests negative for Covid-19||The people of Chamarajanagar district, heaved a sigh of relief as the Bengaluru police constable, Patient 650, who had visited Hanur taluk, a couple of days ago, tested negative, on Wednesday. The throat swab of the P650 was collected on May 1 and was informed that he tested positive on May 4. However, repeated tests confirmed that he tested negative, on Wednesday, and there was confusion over the name and the mobile number of another police personnel, with the same name. This led to panic, as the constable had accompanied his wife and daughter to his in-laws’ house at Belathuru village, Hanur taluk on Monday. Following his visit to the village, 18 primary contacts and seven secondary contacts were quarantined and tests conducted. Precautionary measures were taken. Belathuru and Uddanuru villages were disinfected. According to the report, the negative report of one person was received on May 5. Due to entry of same name twice, confusion was created regarding the positive patient. Hence, the repeat samples of both the persons have been taken and sent for confirmatory testing. Remedial action will been initiated once the final confirmatory reports are received from the labs. As of now both the persons are  isolated. Disciplinary action will be initiated against the concerned officials responsible for the confusion, it is said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bluru-cop-tests-negative-for-covid-19-834384.html
06-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||MLA seeks help of MCC to solve pensioners problems||MLA S A Ramdas has appealed to Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde to depute a revenue inspector to each of the 65 wards in the city, for a week, to rectify the documents of the people depending on various social security schemes of the governments. Ramdas said, “As I heard that over 200 people had gathered at the Tahsildar’s office in Mini Vidhana Soudha, I rushed to see what was their problem." "After interacting with them and holding a discussion with the officials concerned, I learnt that 1.04 lakh people in Mysuru city are dependent on various pensions and honorariums like Sandhya Suraksha Scheme, Indira Gandhi Old Age Pension, Widow’s Pension, Physically Challenged Pension, Manaswini Scheme, etc. Due to various reasons, 19,000 of them are not receiving the pension or honorarium," he said. Ramdas said, “As the people do not have much knowledge, they have not updated the documents, like changing new address in Aadhaar card, proper linking of account number, changing of IFSC code of banks, in the wake of mergers, acquisitions, etc. While some have not received their pension since three months, there are some, who have not availed the benefits since a year.” “I held a meeting with the Tahsildar and other officials concerned. I told them that it is not good to have people in such huge numbers at the office, at a time when we are facing Covid-19 pandemic. I have urged the MCC commissioner to depute the revenue inspectors to help out the beneficiaries with their documents. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar also has lent the services of two computer operators, along with necessary computer systems, to support the efforts of the MCC,” the MLA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-seeks-help-of-mcc-to-solve-pensioners-problems-834385.html
06-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Minister inaugurates Covid lab in Ch'nagar||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar inaugurated the Covid-19 testing lab at the Government Medical College in Yadabetta, here, set up at a cost of Rs 1.79 crore, in the presence of Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi, MLAs C S Niranjan Kumar and N Mahesh and Dean Dr Sanjeev. Later, the minister paid a surprise visit to Mamballi in Yalandur taluk and interacted with high school students. “It is not possible to conduct SSLC exams due to corona. It may be delayed further. So, can we pass all students studying 10th standard?” the minister asked the students. The students said, “It is okay if there is a delay for preparation and conducting the exams. But, the exams should be definitely held. We have worked hard day and night for the exams. If everyone are passed en masse, there is no value for our hard work and efforts. Hence, exams should be held.” “The students should watch SSLC classes telecast on Doordarshan. This would help them to revise the subjects and also to build their self-confidence. As suggested by the students, the officials have already been told to conduct the exam,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-inaugurates-covid-lab-in-chnagar-834386.html
06-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||DC directs Covid tests for Koodagalli residents||Melkote (Mandya dist), DHNS: Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh, who visited B Koodagalli near here on Wednesday, directed the officials to conduct Covid-19 tests to every resident of the village from Thursday. The DC said, as a precautionary measure, a testing booth should be opened in the village and all of them should be tested for the virus. This would clear the anxiety among the residents. The officials should trace each and every person, who had come in contact with those who participated in the funeral of the Mumbai-returned man, he stressed. The personnel at the check-post should be alert and not allow anyone from Mumbai to enter the district via KR Pet. In case any migrant is from Maharashtra, they should be directly sent to the quarantine facility. The same procedure should be followed to other inter-state passengers, he said. Around 7-km area, including villages under Melkote hobli, is declared as buffer zone, and the residents should follow lockdown norms, he said. When the residents complained about the non-availability of vegetables and essential items, the DC directed the officials to open a vegetable shop in the vicinity and supply essential items. Pandavapura Assistant Commissioner Shylaja, Tahsildar Pramod Patil, Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer Mahesh and Taluk Health Officer Dr Arvind were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dc-directs-covid-tests-for-koodagalli-residents-834388.html
06-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Haven't forced any migrant labourers to stay: Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashok||Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashok on Wednesday dismissed reports of the state forcing migrant labourers to remain back in the state, even as the government received flak for cancelling trains meant for migrants on Tuesday evening.  "We are not forcing any migrant labourers to stay back here. We have not tried to stop them," Ashok said, addressing a news conference. Referring to the incident of migrant labourers gathering near Bangalore International Exhibition Centre on Tuesday evening, he said that the labourers had returned after being assured of wages and realising that they be in mandatory quarantine for a 14-day period as soon as they reach their natives.  Many of the labourers were from a Gutka company - who were demanding wages and rest were construction labourers - who agreed to return after learning about mandatory quarantine, and resumption of construction activity throughout the state.  Resistance The government was also facing resistance from other states over the return of migrant labourers, he said, alleging that West Bengal has declined to take back the 18,800 migrant labourers at the moment. "Respective governments have to permit the travel of those seeking to return and should also make quarantine arrangements," he said, reiterating that the government will not stop anyone leaving the state. On cancellation of trains on Tuesday evening, Ashok said that the government was forced to cancel them as labourers changed their mind on returning to their native states.  The state's decision to cancel the trains had come under attack, with critics terming it as a hostage situation for migrant labourers, forced to remain despite facing hardships.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/havent-forced-any-migrant-labourers-to-stay-karnataka-revenue-minister-r-ashok-834326.html
06-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown: Cancelling trains violation of fundamental rights, says Karnataka Opposition leader Siddaramaiah||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah lashed out at the BJP government over cancellation of trains meant for migrant labourers on Tuesday evening, calling it a violation of fundamental rights. Demanding the government to arrange trains for those who wanted to go back, he said that the exodus was triggered due to a lack of concern towards migrant labourers by the administration. Tweeting with the hashtag #MigrantLivesMatter, he said, "The decision of CM B S Yediyurappa to cancel trains for migrants is not just inhuman but also violation of fundamental rights. The argument of Yediyurappa that construction will not happen if migrants go back just exposes his mindset. He is willing to sacrifice the lives of helpless labourers for the sake of invisible hands," he said, taking a dig at the CM for the decision soon after his meeting with representatives from Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Association of India. 1/4 2/4 "The decision to go back or to stay back should be with the labourers and not with the government. Labourers are free to choose health or work. Who will take responsibility if something goes wrong? Are we still practicing bonded labour?" he said. The decision to go back or to stay back should be with the labourers & not with the government. Labourers are free to choose health or work. Who will take responsibility if something goes wrong? Are we still practicing bonded labour? 3/4 "Had the interests of labourers been taken care by the concerned stakeholders, migrants may have stayed back. Even (the) government did little to address their concerns. I strongly urge the CM  to arrange trains for those migrants who wish to go back," he demanded. Had the interests of labourers been taken care by the concerned stakeholders, migrants may have stayed back. Even govt did little to address their concerns. 4/4||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-cancelling-trains-violation-of-fundamental-rights-says-karnataka-opposition-leader-siddaramaiah-834335.html
06-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||CMC requests owners to clear property tax dues||City Municipal Commissioner R Srikanth on Wednesday requested people to clear their dues of property tax. Many people are yet to pay the property tax in the city. The CMC officials raided buildings of owners who are yet to clear their dues of property tax. Srikanth, who led the raids, said that the CMC needed Rs 2 crore for daily maintenance and disbursal of salaries of its staff. “There are 23,000 khatas in the city and it is aimed to collect Rs 3.80 crore in form of taxes. The last year’s due is Rs 1.20 crore. Despite many notices, some owners are hesitant to pay the property tax,” he said. He said that the government had extended deadline to pay the property tax till May 31. Due to lockdown, some people had money, while some didn’t. The notices were carefully issued only on those who were yet to clear dues for the last many years. Srikanth said, ”Development works will have to be taken up based on the tax collection. The development process will be hit if the tax is not paid or dues are not cleared.”  He warned that buildings would be shut down if the owners failed to clear the dues. Jayarama Reddy, who had dues for the last 10years, paid a cheque for Rs 3.85 lakh on the spot. The CMC officials, in a special raid, imposed Rs 100 on each of the 50 people for riding bikes  without wearing masks at M B Road, Ammavaripet, Mekke Circle and M G Road. CMC revenue officer Chandru and revenue inspector Thyagaraj were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/cmc-requests-owners-to-clear-property-tax-dues-834341.html
06-05-2020||Main Article||Is something amiss somewhere?||The Indian health management system has never been known to be good at recording numbers, with an unstated bias towards underreporting cases, over the years and for a range of diseases. There are indicators that this flaw continues in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. A case in point is a letter six doctors of ‘Doctors for Sewa’ in Telangana sent to the central health team on April 30, tracing out specific cases not reported by the state, an illustration of the loose protocols on reporting Covid-19 deaths. There have been concerns about how the Centre itself records these numbers, given that the official narrative is that the epidemic curve is headed downward. In late April, the government’s Empowered Committee on Medical Management predicted the end of the epidemic by May-end. Further, for some unknown reason, the government announced on May 5 that Covid-19 numbers would be updated on the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare website only once a day instead of twice a day, without offering any reason for doing so. This comes alongside some carefully crafted political positioning and sometimes one-upmanship (as seen in Maharashtra and West Bengal) amidst the pandemic. The Air Force display, dropping flowers on hospitals on May 3, was an unwanted digression from the core and burning issues of the day. Such deliberate digressions have occurred more than once previously. An important concern that needs an open and frank discussion is the number of Covid-19 cases and the puzzle they represent. On the one hand, we have a reported death toll that is low relative to India’s population. This can lead to the argument that, even if under-reported, the death toll cannot be way off the mark and that India is, therefore, doing well in adjusting its systems to the pandemic. We are not as bad as some of the developed nations, it might appear, for reasons we don’t know or understand. Could it be some protection acquired from the universal BCG vaccination? One advantage that may play a part is that a far younger demography weathers the virus better than other nations with more senior citizens. On the other hand, consider that India’s doubling rate at this stage might appear to be faster than what was reported in Italy. The numbers tell us this simple tale. India increased its number of infections from 257 on March 24 to 34,863 on April 30. This represents a doubling of seven times. Italy increased its numbers from 1,694 on March 1 to 205,463 on April 30, a doubling of about seven times. In short, Italy had seven doubling steps in eight weeks; India had seven doubling steps in five weeks (and under lockdown). This observation would indicate that we are sitting ducks and will be swamped as the numbers rise. Which brings us to another part of the puzzle of numbers reported in India. On May 4, Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan noted that “Outcome ratio (recovered vs death) for all closed cases”, which indicates the clinical management status in the hospitals, had improved. He said data analysed since 17 April showed that “there is an improvement in the country compared to that prior to 17 April (outcome ratio was 80:20) while as of today it is 90:10.” This might indicate a significant improvement within a fortnight, and needs further scrutiny. What precisely has changed, if anything? We don’t know. Looked at from another perspective, the picture looks very different. According to WHO, data for Covid-19 to date suggests that 80% of infections are mild or asymptomatic, 15% are severe infections, requiring oxygen, and 5% are critical infections, requiring ventilation. WHO points out that while the true mortality of Covid-19 will take some time to fully understand, data so far indicates that the crude mortality ratio (the number of reported deaths divided by the reported cases) is 3-4%. India’s death toll stands at 1,568 as of May 5. When counting backward, it means these patients took some three weeks to reach the stage when they passed away – say, a week for the incubation, a week for the symptoms to take hold and a week in hospital as conditions worsened and death followed. So, if 1,568 is 4% of cases, the total should be 39,200. But three weeks ago, which is April 14, we had only 11,487 reported cases, which is only 30% of 39,200. How then do the numbers add up? If the reported cases were correct, then the mortality figure for India would be alarmingly high at 14% (i.e. 1,568/11,487). Clearly, there is something amiss in the way the numbers are coming through. This is alarming, not merely because the toll would be incorrectly reported but the epidemiological response will be impacted if we do not count the correct numbers or have an open discussion on what the numbers are telling us. This is not to suggest that there is a deliberate attempt at a cover up, although biased counting cannot be ruled out either. It could be a fragile system crumbling under pressure and failing to carry reports cleanly, combined with a resource crunch, stress and anxiety and confusing signals from official circulars on what hospitals should do and what they should avoid. A simple rule would be to encourage state governments to openly, freely, frankly report numbers. Those who report more can call for more help, more support, even more funds rather than be pulled up, stigmatised or shown in poor light, irrespective of party affiliation. Let the floodgates to honest, transparent data open up. That’ll help us fight the pandemic better. For example, there is a circular of April 20 highlighted by ‘Doctors for Sewa’ that asked doctors not to test samples from those who have died with clinical Covid-19 symptoms. They were previously not tested and died in hospital. That means, those deaths will be reported under some other classification and the Covid-19 numbers will be lower, but why? The consequence will be the spread of the infection because all those that the patient came into contact with, including doctors, nurses, family members, associates, will not be tested or quarantined and will not receive early alerts to seek medical advice. There has to be a clear understanding that a pandemic is no time to twiddle with numbers -– let us treat the disease and let the numbers reflect the true nature of the disease. That’s the best way forward. (Rattanani is a journalist and faculty member at SPJIMR.  Dr John is retired Professor of Clinical Virology, CMC Vellore). (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/is-something-amiss-somewhere-834400.html
06-05-2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Traffic jam on Mysuru-Bengaluru highway||After a gap of a one-and-a-half month, Bengaluru-Mysuru highway has come alive as a large number of vehicles started moving on Wednesday. Hundreds of vehicles are travelling between the two cities. Due to the movement of a large number of vehicles, there were traffic jams at the check posts on the highway. Several vehicles were seen standing in a queue at a check post near Naguvanahalli as police were checking passes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/coronavirus-lockdown-30-traffic-jam-on-mysuru-bengaluru-highway-834214.html
06-05-2020||National||Niti Aayog starts campaign to 'protect' senior citizens during COVID-19||Government think tank Niti Aayog in association with Piramal Foundation -- the philanthropic arm of the Piramal Group -- on Tuesday launched a campaign 'Surakshit Dada-Dadi & Nana-Nani Abhiyan' focussed on ensuring wellbeing of senior citizens during the COVID-19 pandemic. "The campaign will reach over 2.9 million senior citizens in 25 #AspirationalDistricts across Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, MP, Maharashtra, Rajasthan & UP; focusing on behaviour change, access to services, early detection & tracking of #COVID19 symptoms.#ApnoKaDhyaan," the Aayog tweeted. 'Surakshit Dada-Dadi & Nana-Nani Abhiyan' is aimed at creating awareness about various aspects of senior citizens' health and lifestyle including preventive measures and requisite behavioral changes in view of COVID-19 pandemic. "#NITIAayog & @PiramalFdn launched the Surakshit Dada-Dadi & Nana-Nani Abhiyan to protect senior citizens during #COVIDー19 pandemic. #ApnoKaDhyaan," another tweet said. "Representatives from NITI, Piramal & 800+ volunteers from 25 #AspirationalDistricts were part of today's virtual launch," the Niti Aayog said.  Meanwhile, the death toll due to the novel coronavirus rose to 1,583 with 194 fatalities reported since Monday evening, while the number of cases saw a big jump of 3,875 to go up to 46,711 cases on Tuesday, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niti-aayog-starts-campaign-to-protect-senior-citizens-during-covid-19-834067.html
06-05-2020||National||Govt says FCI has sufficient stocks in godowns even after fulfilling extra commitments during coronavirus lockdown||The government on Tuesday said that the Food Corporation of India, the nodal agency for procurement and distribution of foodgrains, has sufficient stocks in its godowns, even after meeting the requirement of additional wheat and rice provided free of cost during the lockdown period. Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan has given detailed information about the various steps taken by the government and the total stocks of food grains and pulses available with the government and sent to the states till now, an official statement said. "FCI currently has 276.61 lakh tonnes rice and 353.49 lakh tonnes wheat. Hence a total of 630.10 lakh tonnes food grain stock is available," it said. As against this, about 60 lakh tonnes of food grains is required for a month under the NFSA (National Food Security Act) and other welfare schemes. Paswan said FCI stocks are comfortable even after fulfilling extra commitments during the lockdown. Under the 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana', the Centre is providing 5 kg of free food grains per month to 80 crore ration card holders. This free of cost wheat and rice will be provided for three months. Besides, 1 kg of pulses will also be supplied per family. This is over and above the normal quota of 5 kg of food grains provided per month per person to about 80 crore people under the food law. The minister informed that since the lockdown, about 69.52 lakh tonnes of food grains have been transported through 2,483 rail rakes. Apart from rail route, transportation was also done through roads and waterways. A total of 137.62 lakh tonnes has been transported. During the lockdown, NGOs and social institutions running relief camps can purchase wheat and rice directly from FCI Depots at Open Market Sales Scheme (OMSS) rate.  The state governments can also purchase food grains directly from FCI. Under the OMSS, the rate of rice is fixed at Rs 22 per kg and wheat at Rs 21 per kg. Under the 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana', for the next 3 months a total of 104.4 lakh tonnes rice and 15.6 lakh tonnes of wheat is required of which 59.50 lakh tonnes rice and 8.14 lakh tonnes wheat have been lifted by various states and UTs. The Government of India is bearing 100 per cent financial burden of approximately Rs 46,000 crore under the scheme, the statement said. For pulses, the total requirement for the next three months is 5.82 lakh tonnes. So far, 2,20,727 tonnes of pulses have been dispatched, while 1,47,165 tonnes of pulses have reached the states/UTs and 47,490 tonnes have been delivered, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-says-fci-has-sufficient-stocks-in-godowns-even-after-fulfilling-extra-commitments-during-coronavirus-lockdown-834076.html
06-05-2020||National||NRIs stranded in India may fly out onboard Air India aircraft going to bring back citizens||The Air India aircraft may take onboard some Non-Resident Indians (NRIs), who live and work overseas, but currently stuck in India, when they will fly out to foreign destinations to bring back citizens stranded abroad. Sources said that the NRIs having foreign visas with validity of at least one year would be allowed to fly out of India onboard the Air India aircraft, which would be deployed to bring back the citizens of the country from overseas from Thursday.  The Indian-American ‘Green Card’ holders, besides other Indian nationals, who have compelling reasons like medical emergency or death in family, may also board the Air Indian aircraft to return to the foreign nations where they live and work, added the sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nris-stranded-in-india-may-fly-out-onboard-air-india-aircraft-going-to-bring-back-citizens-834083.html
06-05-2020||National||Sonia Gandhi to discuss pandemic situation with CMs of Congress-ruled states  ||Congress President Sonia Gandhi will discuss the impact of coronavirus with chief ministers of party-ruled states on Wednesday and assess the steps taken by them to contain the pandemic, sources said. According to the sources, Gandhi will hold consultations with them through video conferencing on Wednesday morning.  She will also discuss the issue of migrant labourers and workers stranded at various places and steps taken by the states in bringing them back to their home states. Gandhi had announced on Monday that the state units of Congress party would pay for the train fares of migrant workers as they prepare to go back to their homes in different parts of the country. She also criticised the central government for charging them for their travel by train.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-to-discuss-pandemic-situation-with-cms-of-congress-ruled-states-834100.html
06-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 6, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-6-2020-edition-834103.html
06-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 6||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 52,636 as of May 6. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 1,770 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 13,161 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-6-834105.html
06-05-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi discusses economy with Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee||Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee on Tuesday pitched for writing off a lot of debt payments to prevent businesses going bankrupt and putting cash in the hands of the bottom 60 per cent of the population to kickstart the economy as India emerges from the lockdown to combat COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-discusses-economy-with-nobel-laureate-abhijit-banerjee-834106.html
06-05-2020||National||Fact Check | Coronavirus: Photo from 2018 passed off as showering of flower petals during recent tribute to corona warriors||On May 1, the Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, along with the three armed forces chiefs, listed a host of initiatives to give tribute to medical professionals and all others who are helping to tackle coronavirus. One of the initiatives was showering flower petals on hospitals. Since then several media outlet have posted an image of IAF chopper showering petals claiming that it depicts the recent initiative. Several media outlets and individuals also uploaded the viral image.  Fact Check: Alt News performed a reverse image search on Bing and found that the viral image was published by UK-based Daily Mail in 2018. According to the Daily Mail, the viral image is from Republic Day parade in New Delhi on January 26, 2018. The image was credited to Associated Press. Next, we performed a keyword search on Associated Press and found that viral image. According to the Associated Press, the image was clicked by Anupam Nath on January 26, 2018. However, it is from Republic Day parade in Guwahati, India. Thus an image from 2018 was falsely shared by several media outlets and public personalities as a recent tribute to “corona warriors”. Readers should note that the showering of petals indeed took place, however, the viral image does not depict the event. Photographs of the recent initiative were tweeted by the Indian army and Prime Minister Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-coronavirus-photo-from-2018-passed-off-as-showering-of-flower-petals-during-recent-tribute-to-corona-warriors-834129.html
06-05-2020||National||No security breach in Aarogya Setu app, govt assures after ethical hacker raises privacy concerns||Reacting to an ethical hacker's claim that a security issue has been found in the app, the team said the app is completely safe.  "No personal information of any user has been proven to be at risk and no data or security breach has been identified," the statement from Aarogya Setu App said.   COVID-19 tracking app Aarogya Setu is developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) that comes under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY). The government made it mandatory to download the app by both the government and private firms employees. The team has issued a detailed statement answering the queries.  Here is the full statement: Earlier today we were alerted by an ethical hacker of a potential security issue of Aarogya Setu. We discussed with the hacker and were made aware of the following: 1.The App fetches user location on a few occasions. Response: This is by design and is clearly detailed in the privacy policy. Reproducing the same for everyone’s benefit. We fetch a user’s location and store on the server in a secure encrypted, anonymised manner - At the time of registration - At the time of self-assessment - When a user submits their contact tracing data voluntary through the App or when we fetch the contact tracing data of a user after they have turned COVID-19 positive 2. User can get the COVID-19 stats displayed on Home Screen by changing the radius and latitude-longitude using a script Response: The radius parameters are fixed and can only take one of the five values: 500 metres, 1km, 2km. 5km and 10km. These values are standard parameters, posted with HTTP headers. Any other value as part of the “distance” HTTP header gets defaulted to 1 km.  The user can change the latitude/longitude to get the data for multiple locations. The API call though is behind a Web Application Firewall and hence bulk calls are not possible. Getting data for multiple latitude longitude this way is no different than asking several people of their location‘s COVID—-19 statistics. All this information is already public for all locations and hence does not compromise on any personal or sensitive data. No personal information of any user has been proven to be at risk by this ethical hacker. We are continuously testing and upgrading our systems. Team Aarogya Setu assures everyone that no data or security breach has been identified. We thank this ethical hacker on engaging with us. We encourage any users who identify a vulnerability to inform us immediately at gpportaarogyasetu@gov.in. Your continued support will help us keep the App even more secure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-security-breach-in-aarogya-setu-app-govt-assures-after-ethical-hacker-raises-privacy-concerns-834137.html
06-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: 'Vande Bharat Mission' and ‘Samudra Setu' explained||In an effort to bring back its citizens who are stranded abroad due to the coronavirus lockdown, India has rolled massive evacuation plans namely 'Vande Bharat Mission' and ‘Samudra Setu’.  Air India will operate 64 repatriation flights for a week from May 7 while the Navy deployed two ships as part of the evacuation plan. What is Vande Bharat Mission? From the Gulf countries to Malaysia and the UK to the US, the multi-agency operation christened 'Vande Bharat Mission' will see the state-owned airline operate the non-scheduled commercial flights till May 13 to ferry around 15,000 Indian nationals from 12 countries. Those availing the repatriation flights will be charged, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri told a virtual press conference in New Delhi. He said private Indian airlines may join the repatriation effort after May 13. A passenger on a London-Delhi flight will be charged Rs 50,000 and on a Dhaka-Delhi flight Rs 12,000, he added. A massive evacuation The first AI flight will be from Abu Dhabi in the UAE carrying around 200 passengers with the destination being Kochi in Kerala. As many as 10 flights are being operated on the first day from various destinations abroad. The government also issued a standard operating protocol (SOP) for the return of the stranded Indians. In an order, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said priority will be given to compelling cases in distress including migrant workers, labourers who have been laid off and those faced with an expiry of short-term visas. Persons with medical emergency, pregnant women, elderly, those required to return to India due to death of family member, and students will also be given preference, the home ministry said. According to union government sources, over three lakh people in the Gulf countries have registered for the evacuation. The immediate focus of the multi-agency operation christened 'Vande Bharat Mission' will be to bring back Indians from the Gulf, countries in the neighbourhood as well as from the US, the UK and Singapore. According to estimates, around 1.4 crore Indians are staying in various parts of the world. The largest-ever civilian evacuation was carried out by India in 1990 during the first Gulf war-- between Iraq and Kuwait--when almost 1.7 lakh Indian nationals were brought by air from Kuwait. Mode of Operation The 64 AI flights will be landing in 10 Indian states—15 in Kerala, 11 each in Tamil Nadu and Delhi, seven each in Maharashtra and Telangana, five in Gujarat, three each in Karnataka and Jammu and Kashmir and one flight each in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The flights would be operated by Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express to repatriate Indians from 12 countries-the UAE, the UK, the US, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines, Bangladesh, Bahrain, Kuwait and Oman, Puri said Out of this, 10 flights will be to the UAE, seven flights each to the US and the UK, five flights to Saudi Arabia, five flights to Singapore and two flights to Qatar to repatriate Indian nationals between May 7 and May 13, he added. During this period, seven flights each will be operated to Malaysia and Bangladesh, five flights each to Kuwait and Philippines, two flights each to Oman and Bahrain. The government has already evacuated about 2,500 stranded Indians from China, Japan, Iran and Italy in the last couple of months after the outbreak of coronavirus in those countries. According to an official statement, only people showing no symptoms of COVID-19 will be allowed to travel and on reaching the destination they would also have to register for ‘Arogya Setu’ app, a digital contact tracing initiative. After arrival in India, their medical examination will be conducted and they will be subsequently put under quarantine for 14 days, either in a hospital or in an institutional facility, also on payment basis, the statement said. COVID-19 test would be done after 14 days and further action would be taken according to health protocols, it said. A Cochin International Airport Limited official said a three-phase de-infestation project was underway at the airport while mock drills for testing different systems have already been completed. India has been under lockdown since March 25 and it will be in force till May 17 after two extensions in a bid curb the spread of the coronavirus. All commercial passenger flights have been suspended for this period. 'Samudra Setu' in action Launching Operation ‘Samudra Setu’( Sea Bridge), the Indian Navy dispatched two ships to Maldives capital Male to commence the first phase of the evacuation operations from May 8. A total of 1,000 people are planned to be evacuated in the first trip in naval ships ‘INS Jalaswha’ and ‘INS Magar’, a Navy release said. The evacuated people will disembark in Kochi, it added.  A defence ministry spokesperson said that 'INS Jalashwa' deployed off Mumbai coast, along with 'INS Magar', were sent to Maldives on May 4 and that 'INS Shardul' was also despatched to Dubai. A huge relief for stranded Indians The first two special flights that will operate from Thursday to evacuate Indians stranded in the UAE will begin with applicants from Kerala, who formed the majority of the expatriates who have registered to be repatriated from the Emirates, said Indian Ambassador to the UAE, Pavan Kapoor. "The missions have prioritised the list of passengers and have given it to Air India. We would call and email each passenger to contact Air India to get their tickets issued. The first two flights on Thursday would be to Kerala, considering the high number of applicants from the state,” Kapoor was quoted as saying by the Gulf News. Over 200,000 expatriates in the UAE have registered so far to travel back to India.  "This news will come as a big relief to Indians who find themselves stranded in the UK and have been desperate to return," said Ruchi Ghanashyam, the outgoing Indian High Commissioner to the UK. Indian community leaders in the US welcomed the move of the Indian government. “This is for the first time in my memory that such an evacuation effort is being carried out by the Indian government for its citizens in the US,” said Jaipur Foot USA Chairman Prem Bhandari, as he thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the efforts. A batch of over 2,100 expatriates from Kerala in Gulf countries are expected to be airlifted to Kochi in the first phase and extensive preparations are underway at the international airport to receive them, an official said. "Apart from the temperature guns to read the temperature of the passengers, the process of installing thermal scanners at the arrival area are on. Entire synthetic/textile wrapped furniture were replaced with temporary plastic chairs," the spokesman added. Thousands of expatriates from the state wishing to return home have started registering on the non-resident Keralites Affairs (NORKA) department. More than four lakh expatriates, mainly from the Gulf, are reported to have registered to return to Kerala.  The unemployment crisis The sources also said the Ministry of External Affairs(MEA) will provide a database to states and central ministries for employing skilled workers who are returning after losing jobs in the Gulf. According to sources, over 10,000 Indians in the Gulf region were found to have contracted coronavirus while 84 of them have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-vande-bharat-mission-and-samudra-setu-explained-834151.html
06-05-2020||National||Domestic manufacturers can produce 2.5 lakh PPE, 2 lakh N-95 masks per day amid coronavirus crisis, Group of Ministers informed||Domestic manufacturers have reached the capacity of producing nearly 2.5 lakh PPE and 2 lakh N-95 masks per day which is sufficient to meet the country's requirement in dealing with the novel coronavirus pandemic in the near future, the Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 has been informed. The GoM, which held its 14th meeting under the chairmanship of Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday, discussed various aspects pertaining to the “performance, impact and benefits” of the Aarogya Setu application. It also highlighted the need for ensuring stringent measures for quality control of personal protection equipment (PPE), masks, ventilators among others. The GoM was informed that close to 9 crore users had downloaded the Aarogya Setu app as on May 4. "People have informed about their health status on the application which has helped in tracing those suffering with any symptoms for COVID-19 containment,” a statement from the health ministry said. “The GoM was also informed that a mechanism has been devised to reach out to the people who have a landline or featured phones through Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) in local languages for better results," it said. Vardhan said the use of technology is integral for the containment strategy and is helping the states to manage the deadly disease in a more effective manner. Random batch sampling for ensuring compliance and adherence to quality standards was also stressed upon by the GoM, the statement said. It said a detailed presentation on the present status of COVID-19 cases globally and within the country was made to the GoM, and states were asked to follow and further strengthen their contingency plans to combat the infection on the basis of classification of districts. Several other measures about strengthening the capacity of states, including devoting adequate resources for creating dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, equipping medical institutions with an adequate number of PPE, ventilators and other essential equipment, were also discussed at the meeting. The GoM was apprised that the death rate of COVID-19 patients is around 3.2 per cent, while the recovery rate is more than 25 per cent, which may be taken as a positive effect of the lockdown in the country along with the cluster management and containment strategy, the statement said. The GoM was also informed that genome sequencing of strains of the novel coronavirus isolated from patients in different parts of the country has been initiated. Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, chairman of the Empowered Group -11 informed the GoM that they are monitoring and supervising the strategic issues arriving out of the measures taken so far in containing the pandemic. He also apprised the GoM that at different stages during the lockdown, decisions on graded liberalisation were taken after consultations with stakeholders, cutting across various ministries and other Empowered Groups, the statement said. A presentation was made by Ajay Sawhney, Secretary, MeitY, and chairman of Empowered Group-9, dealing with technology solutions and data management for combating COVID-19, the statement said. “The GoM was also told that under the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) as on May 4, 29.38 lakh MT of foodgrain has been distributed to 58.77 crore beneficiaries by 36 states/UTs as first month (April) entitlement. “A total of 5.82 lakh MT of foodgrain has been distributed to 11.63 crore beneficiaries by 20 states and UTs as second month (May) entitlement so far,” the statement said. In total, 66.08 lakh MT food grain has been lifted by 36 states and UTs from the Food Corporation of India so far, it said. “An amount of Rs 6,868.74 crore has been transferred to Ujjwala (PMUY) beneficiaries. Also, 4.98 crore PMUY cylinders have been booked and 4.72 crore have been delivered during April-May. “Financial sanction for 8.18 crore beneficiaries (farmers) at Rs 2,000 each has been generated during 2020-21 and Rs 16,364 crore have been released under DBT cash transfers to farmers during the same period,” the statement added. As support for senior citizens, widows and ‘divyang’, the first installment of funds at Rs 500 per beneficiary has been released to 2.812 crore accounts of eligible beneficiaries, amounting to Rs 1,405 crore. The next installment of Rs 500 will go in the second fortnight, the statement said. “As on date, 20.05 crore Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana accounts of women are being credited with Rs 500 per account as cash transfers under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyana Package ( PMGKP). Besides, 9.27 lakh members of the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) had availed the facility of online withdrawal amounting to Rs 2,895 crore,” it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-manufacturers-can-produce-25-lakh-ppe-2-lakh-n-95-masks-per-day-amid-coronavirus-crisis-group-of-ministers-informed-834157.html
06-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Untold story of sanitation sector amidst COVID-19||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. This episode focuses on COVID-19 situation in India and Karnataka. And DH journalist Varsha Gowda brings out the untold story of Indian sanitation sector in COVID-19 era, by talking to Srinivas Chary, Director, Centre for Energy, Environment, Urban Governance and Infra Development at Administrative Staff College of India, Nirmala Gowda, a trustee of Bangalore Environment Trust and C S Sharada Prasad, a WaSH consultant and researcher focussing on sanitation sector, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-untold-story-of-sanitation-sector-amidst-covid-19-834159.html
06-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Still no migrant labourers data available with Chief Labour Commissioner, reveals RTI||Chief Labour Commissioner Rajan Verma had on April 8 written to heads of its 20 Regional Offices across the country to collect data on relief camps and migrant workers district-wise and state-wise within three days. Day-to-day progress should be intimated to him, the letter stated.  However, the Chief Public Information Officer of the office of CLC responded on Tuesday to an RTI filed by transparency activist Venkatesh Nayak, "as per the stat (statistics) section is concerned, no such details are available based on requisite information." Tens of thousands of migrant labourers were stuck in their workplace in cities and towns across the country with several facing income-loss and job-loss as economic activities came to a standstill due to lockdown. Based on the April 8 letter by the CLC, Nayak had sought details through an RTI application on April 21 on the number of migrant workers, including women who were stranded, occupation-wise data as well as sector-wise numbers. In his letter to regional heads, Verma had said that a huge number of migrant workers were impacted due to the lockdown and a comprehensive data was "urgently required within three days". Emphasising the urgency in collecting data, Verma told the regional heads that besides officials under them, they could also take assistance from local units of Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC). "The CLC CPIO's cryptic one-liner reply raises serious doubts about the availability of data about migrant workers despite the launching of the enumeration exercise. Does the CLC or any other public authority in government have accurate data about the number of stranded migrant workers or is there any reason why it does not want to make such information public?" asked Nayak, who is associated with the NGO Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI).  Nayak said there was no indication whether his RTI would be transferred to any other section or public authority, which should be done if the information is not available. It is also not clear whether there any effort would be made to collate the information from the enumeration exercise and make it publicly available. Being aware of the possibility that the CLC's office would not be fully functional, he said he did not seek copies of official records and instead requested the authorities to upload the information in its website and provide him with the web link. "Given the widespread debate about the plight of migrant workers and the yeomen service provided by several government agencies, hundreds of NGOs and thousands concerned citizens to ensure that many of them were served food, water and other essentials, this information I believed has an enormous public interest dimension attached to it," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-still-no-migrant-labourers-data-available-with-chief-labour-commissioner-reveals-rti-834167.html
06-05-2020||National||Health Ministry asks AIOCD to ensure availability of critical drugs for management of COVID-19||The Union Health Ministry has written to the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD), saying its member should ensure availability of critical drugs for management of COVID-19 and other essential drugs during these "challenging times". The letter stated that in accordance with the Clinical Management Guidelines for COVID-19, hydroxychloroquine has been recommended as prophylaxis for certain categories like healthcare workers and household contacts of positive cases. A combination of hydorxychloroquine and azithromycin has been prescribed for severe patients requiring ICU management. Some other drugs are also presently under various stages of trials, but have so far not been recommended for use in India, the letter stated. The ministry also acknowledged the contribution of the Indian Pharma Trade channels during these difficult times, saying they have strived to maintain availability and supply of important drugs.  "In light of this current pandemic, it is absolutely essential that sufficient market availability of these drugs along with other essential drugs is ensured by your members. These steps will go a long way in the effective clinical management of the pandemic.  "I would request to you kindly convey this message to your members so that adequate availability of the essential medicines can be ensured during this challenging time of COVID-19," the letter stated. Following this, the AIOCD has written to all its office bearers, presidents, secretaries and executive committee members to maintain optimum availability of the drugs mentioned in the list to avoid shortage in case of emergency for ICU patients. "Still all of us have to work hard for some more time and carefully dispense drugs like hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin which are mandated to be sold on prescriptions only," AIOCD president Jagannath Sakharam Shinde said in his communique. "Hope you shall circulate this message to all your chemists and stockiest in your states. Social media may be used for immediate delivery. Our preparedness is must in this demanding situation as carers of needy patients are looking to us for instant life savings medicines," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-asks-aiocd-to-ensure-availability-of-critical-drugs-for-management-of-covid-19-834168.html
06-05-2020||National||Call of duty paramount, corona warrior watches from distance as son's last rites performed by others||Manish Kumar (27), a ward boy in Lucknow's Lokbandhu Hospital, could not even perform the last rites of his son due to medical protocols and watched from a distance as his family members completed the rituals. On Saturday night, he was serving patients at an isolation ward in the Level-2 government COVID-19 hospital, when he got a frantic call that his son, Harshit, was having difficulty in breathing and also had a stomachache.  "When I got the call, I became restless but could not leave the hospital immediately. My family members took my son to the King George's Medical University. They kept sending me his pictures on WhatsApp. At about 2 am he left the world, leaving all of us behind," said Manish as he wept while narrating the episode to PTI. "I wanted to see my son but decided not to tell my colleagues as I did not want to leave my patients to fend for themselves. But noticing the frequent calls I was getting and seeing my condition, they realised something is wrong and asked me to leave," he said. Manish, taking all necessary precautions, reached KGMU, where his son's body lay.   He, however, did not enter inside and kept waiting for his son to come out, not alive and kicking, but lifeless and motionless. "I saw him from a distance as my family members took him home and I followed them on my bike. I wanted to embrace my son and hold him as I could not accept that he is no more," he said. Even in grief, he chose not to step into his house to protect his family from possible coronavirus infection. "I did not enter my house and sat on the verandah near the gate. Next day, he was cremated by family members as I could not even touch his body as advised by my seniors to avoid any infection," he said. As a number of people are involved in a cremation, his touching the body could have created problems for others, he said. Manish said that now he only has fond memories of his son in the form of some videos and pictures on his mobile. When asked when he will be joining duty, he said, "Very soon."  "At present I am spending time consoling my wife, that too maintaining a safe distance. I am not entering home and spending time on verandah. I will resume my duties in day or two. Patients are waiting to be attended. I will find solace in serving them," he said. The state capital has witnessed 242 coronavirus cases till Tuesday of which 161 have been treated and discharged while one died. There are 80 active cases undergoing treatment as of now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/call-of-duty-paramount-corona-warrior-watches-from-distance-as-sons-last-rites-performed-by-others-834169.html
06-05-2020||National||Shramik Trains: 115 runs so far, over one lakh migrants ferried||The Railways on Wednesday said it has run 115 Shramik Special trains since May 1 and ferried home over one lakh migrants stranded in various parts of the country due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Of the 42 trains which have been planned for Wednesday, the railways has already run 22 of them. Twenty more trains are scheduled to run by tonight, it said. Till Tuesday night, the national transporter had run 88 trains for the migrant workers who were stranded at their workplaces due to the coronavirus lockdown and wishing to go back to their homes. Each special train has 24 coaches, each with a capacity of 72 seats. But the national transporter is allowing only 54 persons in a coach to maintain social distancing norms by not allotting the middle berth to any passenger. The Karnataka government on Tuesday had cancelled 10 trains from the state which were planned over the next five days. However, it said three trains would depart from Bengaluru for Bihar as planned. While the Railways has officially not stated how much it has spent so far on these services, which the government says has been shared on an 85:15 ratio with states, officials indicated that the national transporter has spent around Rs 80 lakh per service. As on Tuesday morning, Gujarat was the originating station for around 35 of these trains, followed by Kerala with 13.  Among the receiving states, Bihar has accepted 13 trains, with 11 more currently on journey and six more planned, the data accessed by PTI shows. Uttar Pradesh has received 10 such trains and five more are on their way and 12 more planned, as per the data. The West Bengal government has, however, given clearance to only two trains -- one each from Rajasthan and Kerala -- and they are on their journeys to the state.  Jharkhand has accepted four trains, while five are on their way to the state. Two more Shramik Special trains have been planned. Odisha has received seven trains and five are on their way to the state, with one more planned, the data shows. Earlier, the railways drew flak from opposition parties for making these services chargeable. In its guidelines, the railways has said the trains will ply only if they have 90 per cent occupancy and the "states should collect the ticket fare".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shramik-trains-115-runs-so-far-over-one-lakh-migrants-ferried-834175.html
06-05-2020||National||Asymptomatic Indians cleared by UAE health authorities only to fly back home from Thursday: Embassy||The Indian nationals cleared by the UAE health authorities and found to be asymptomatic will only be allowed to fly back home in one of India's biggest ever repatriation exercises, the Indian Embassy in Abu Dhabi has said ahead of the first set of flights on Thursday. On Monday, the Indian government announced plans to begin a phased repatriation of its citizens stranded abroad from May 7. Air India will operate 64 flights from May 7 to May 13 to bring back around 15,000 Indian nationals stranded abroad amid the COVID-19-induced lockdown, India's Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. The first two special flights that will operate from Thursday to evacuate Indians stranded in the UAE due to the coronavirus pandemic will begin with applicants from Kerala, who formed the majority of the expatriates who have registered to be repatriated from here, Indian Ambassador to the UAE Pavan Kapoor has said. "All departing passengers will have to undergo medical screening and IGM/IGG test at the departure airport and only those cleared by the UAE health authorities and found to be asymptomatic will be allowed to board the plane,” the Indian Embassy in Abu Dhabi said on Tuesday. According to the embassy, all passengers will be required to sign an undertaking to undergo compulsory quarantine at the destination of arrival and bear the cost of the same. “Each passenger, at the time of boarding would be handed over a safety kit containing 2 three-layered face masks, 2 pairs of gloves and pouches/small bottles of hand sanitizers. While on board the flight, the health protocol of the Ministry of Civil Aviation of India will be strictly followed,” said the embassy. The passenger lists for the two flights on May 7 have been finalised by the Embassy / Consulate and sent to Air India Express for issue of tickets. The Embassy / Consulate will continue conveying the details of further special flights as and when they are announced by the Government of India, over the next few days. Less than 2,000 Indians wishing to return home from the UAE will be flown to six Indian states in the first week of India’s biggest ever repatriation exercise named Vande Bharat Mission—sans social distancing and COVID-19 tests, the Gulf News reported. Only those cleared by the UAE health authorities and found to be asymptomatic will be allowed to board the plane. The short-listed applicants, who were contacted by the Indian missions on Tuesday to purchase tickets for the first two flights to Kerala on Thursday, told the Gulf News that the tickets are priced around Dh 725 to Dh 750 (over Rs 15,000).  Sharjah resident Rasheed Thayyil said his 70-year-old mother Nepheeza Thottungal, who came on a visit to the UAE in February, received an email from the Indian Consulate in Dubai which quoted an airfare of around Dh725 (approx Rs 15,000), the report said. Another applicant from Abu Dhabi Ambily Babu said she purchased a ticket at Dh 750 from Air India Express for her Abu Dhabi-Kochi flight scheduled to fly on Thursday evening, it said. Air India Express which is set to operate the first two flights to Kerala on Thursday will operate its Boeing 737-800 aircraft, with a seating capacity of 186 economy class seats, the report added. With nine seats reserved for isolation, only 177 passengers would be flown, it said. The Indian expatriate community of approximately 3.42 million is reportedly the largest ethnic community in the UAE constituting roughly about 30 per cent of the country's population, according to information available on the Indian Embassy website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/asymptomatic-indians-cleared-by-uae-health-authorities-only-to-fly-back-home-from-thursday-embassy-834179.html
06-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Railways to operate 42 Shramik Special trains||Indian Railways is planning to operate total 42 Shramik Special trains on Wednesday to transport over 42,000 stranded people including migrant workers, tourists, pilgrims and students. Of the 42 trains planned for Wednesday, 22 trains have already started and another 20 trains will start by end of the day, said an official in the Railways. With Wednesday’s 42 special trains, the total number of special trains operated by railways will be 115, said the official. The Railways will ensure that only 54 passengers board in each coach instead of 72 seats as the national transporter strictly observing social distancing norms. Each train will have 24 coaches, said an official. The Railways is also stepping up the security in trains to avoid any clash among passengers during journey. The Railways is not collecting any fare from passengers and giving bulk tickets to states of originating destination. All states have agreed to pay the fare to the Railways directly to avoid burden on migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-railways-to-operate-42-shramik-special-trains-834192.html
06-05-2020||National||No data of stranded migrant labourers with Labour Commissioner's office||The office of Chief Labour Commissioner, which had ordered a count of stranded migrant labourers in the country last month, does not have any data on it, the Union Labour Ministry told an RTI activist. Applicant Venkatesh Nayak from Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative said the data remains unavailable even after the CLC, on April 8, directed its regional office to count within three days every labourer who was stranded after the lockdown imposed to combat coronavirus. The circular issued by the Chief Labour Commissioner (CLC) said a huge number of migrant workers were impacted due to the lockdown. A number of them are stranded and placed in shelters, relief camps arranged by state governments, employers at work place, and also at some clusters, it said. "In view of above, comprehensive data in respect of the migrant workers are urgently required within three days," it said, giving three categories in which data should be collected--relief camps, employers and where labourers are clustered. Nayak said he filed a Right to Information (RTI) application after waiting for almost two weeks for the official announcement of the results of the enumeration exercise. In his application, he sought to know the state-wise names of districts from which data about the stranded migrant workers has been received. He also asked the CLC to provide district-wise numbers of male and female migrant workers belonging to each of the three categories from each state, occupation-wise number of male and female migrant workers, the sector-wise number of male and female migrant workers and state-wise cumulative figures for male and female migrant workers. "Given the widespread debate about the plight of migrant workers and the yeomen service provided by several government agencies, hundreds of NGOs and thousands concerned citizens to ensure that many of them were served food, water and other essentials, this information I believed has an enormous public interest dimension attached to it," Nayak said.   The online system of filing RTI applications directs the queries to the CPIO concerned. If the department concerned receiving it does not have the information, it is transferred to the CPIO which is closely linked to the subject. The application was received by the stat section of the CLC. The RTI mandates in case the CPIO does not have information he will transfer it to the department which is likely to have the sought information or seek help of the officer who is supposed to have the information. "As per the stat section is concerned, no such details are available based on requisite information," the CPIO who was assigned the application said. Under the RTI Act, the CPIO has to provide information, transfer it to the correct officer or reject it citing exemption provisions of the RTI Act, Nayak said. "The CLC's CPIO resorted to none of these actions. He did not even send a signed reply. Most other CPIOs upload a scanned copy of their reply on the RTI Online Facility in addition to emailing it to the RTI applicant under their name and signature," he said. He claimed CLC CPIO's "cryptic one-liner reply" raises serious doubts about availability of data about migrant workers despite the launching of the enumeration exercise. "Does the CLC or any other public authority in government have accurate data about the number of stranded migrant workers or is there any reason why it does not want to make such information public? I have already filed a complaint before the Central Information Commission in this case requesting an early hearing," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-data-of-stranded-migrant-labourers-with-labour-commissioners-office-834194.html
06-05-2020||National||Centre vs Bengal again: HS writes to state over not allowing Indo-Bangladesh truck movement||The confrontation between the Centre and West Bengal over COVID-19 fight intensified further on Wednesday(May 6) with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) sharply reacting to the state government's "unilateral action" to not allow truck movement through Indo-Bangladesh border, saying it is hampering India's international commitments and in violation of the Constitution of India. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla shot off a letter Bengal Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha saying it was also in violation of the COVID-19 lockdown guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act when specific instructions have been given on April 24 to allow cross land border transportation of essential goods through all Indo-Nepal, Indo-Bhutan and Indo-Bangladesh borders. The state and the Centre were on a collision path in the past couple of days with the MHA despatching two inter-ministerial central teams to seven districts in the state to report about the ground situation on COVID-19, which the state found fault with for not taking it into confidence in advance. The Centre also accused the state of not reporting the cases and deaths properly, a charge the state had denied.  "The unilateral action on the part of the government of West Bengal to stop the cross land border movement of essential goods would have larger implications for the Indian government with regard to its legally binding international commitments. This act of the state Government of West Bengal, amounts to violation of the orders issued by the MHA under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 as well as articles 253, 256 and 257 of the Constitution of India," it said. Directing the state to immediately allow cross land border transportation through all Indo-Bangladesh borders without any further delay, he said a large number of trucks carrying essential supplies bound for Bangladesh are stranded at different border crossing points in the state while a number of drivers returning from Bangladesh have not been allowed to enter resulting in them stranded in the neighbouring country.  He said a compliance report on the opening of cross land borders should be sent to the MHA by Wednesday itself. Bhalla pointed out that it has been clearly spelt out that states will not stop the movement of cargo for cross-border land trade under treaties with neighbouring countries in the new guidelines issued as part of the lockdown. However, he said the MHA has not received the compliance report from the state government of West Bengal," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-vs-bengal-again-hs-writes-to-state-over-not-allowing-indo-bangladesh-truck-movement-834215.html
06-05-2020||National||Migrant labourers again sprayed with disinfectant||Migrant workers, returning by 'shramik special' trains from Gujarat and Maharashtra, were once again sprayed with disinfectant at the Lucknow railway station. According to the sources, the sanitation staff of the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) sprayed disinfectant on the workers, when they came out of the station to board the buses to their respective destinations on Tuesday. The LMC staff did not give enough time to the workers to even turn around and many of them found the former spraying the disinfectant straight on their faces. Sources said that the disinfectant, which was Sodium Hypochlorite, was in fact meant for sanitising the buses. A senior LMC official, when queried in this regard, sought to play down the matter saying that a ''few drops'' might have fallen on some workers. However, he also added ''We will probe the matter.''  It was the second incident when the migrant workers were disinfected by spraying them with what the officials called 'sanitiser'.  Earlier in Uttar Pradesh's Bareilly town, about 250 kilometres from here, a group of migrant workers, including women and children, were also disinfected in the same way. Many in the group, mostly children, had complained of burning sensation and reddish eyes and started crying.  Sodium Hypochlorite is a bleaching agent used widely in textiles and detergents. It can cause burning of the skin if it is used in concentrated form. Lakhs of migrant workers have been arriving in the state capital of Lucknow and other towns from Maharashtra, Gujarat and other places by special trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-labourers-again-sprayed-with-disinfectant-834233.html
06-05-2020||National||85 more BSF personnel test coronavirus positive; total 154 infected||85 more personnel of Border Security Force (BSF) have tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of cases in the force to 154. Till Tuesday, there were 69 cases reported in the force. Besides BSF, there are around 150 COVID-19 cases in Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), followed by 45 in Indo-Tibetan Police Force (ITBP). The Shashastra Seema Bal has 12 cases. A CRPF Assistant Sub Inspector had last month lost his life to COVID-19. As a number of cases were reported from paramilitary forces and state police forces, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) which said they could consider the option of giving 'work from home' for personnel who are are not deployed on the frontline.  It had also asked states to prepare an "effective second line" of defence to make up for the police personnel who may be rendered ineffective due to COVID-19 infection during the pandemic by deploying home guards, civil defence, NCC cadets and student cadets among others wherever feasible to contain the spread of the deadly virus. Issuing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the force to handle the emerging situation, the MHA also said authorities should ensure strict self quarantine rules among personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/85-more-bsf-personnel-test-coronavirus-positive-total-154-infected-834234.html
06-05-2020||National||COVID-19 infects 548 docs, nurses, paramedics in India||Coronavirus has infected around 548 doctors, nurses and paramedics across the country so far, according to data maintained by the Centre, official sources said on Wednesday. The figure does not include field workers, ward boys, sanitation workers, security guards, lab attendants, peons, laundry and kitchen staff among others. According to an official source, it has not been ascertained from where these doctors, nurses and paramedic staff have acquired the infection. The figure includes doctors, nurses and paramedics from Centre-run and state government-run facilities across states and union territories. "No epidemiological investigation of the cases were done. So there is no clear segregation on how many contracted the disease at workplace and how many got it from the community," the official source said. Several doctors, who tested positive for COVID-19, are also reported to have died in the country. Though their exact numbers were not immediately known. The official said that 69 doctors in the national capital have so far contracted the disease. COVID-19 has claimed 1,694 lives and infected 49,391 people nationwide till Wednesday morning. Besides, 274 nurses and paramedics have so far been infected by the virus.  As many as 13 healthcare personnel, including seven resident doctors and a professor, have tested positive for coronavirus over the past two months at the Centre-run Safdarjung Hospital, the sources said.   Around 10 healthcare workers, including a resident doctor and five nurses, have contracted the disease so far at the AIIMS. Besides, some security guards have also been infected in the premier hospital. Besides, several healthcare workers working in various central and Delhi government hospitals have also been infected by the disease, according to the data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-infects-548-docs-nurses-paramedics-in-india-834235.html
06-05-2020||National||Village Level Entrepreneurs to play key role in Digital India||Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs) running over 2.5 lakh Common Service Centres ( CSCs) in rural areas across India can play a key role in the success of Digital India Programme, says a study. The greater investments in the digital literacy of the citizens would enable them to access a wealth of information and their awareness of various products and services with the help of VLEs, says the study. The study by Indian School of Business (ISB)’s Srini Raju Centre for IT and the Networked Economy (SRITNE-ISB) found that entrepreneurial traits, notably achievement motivation, social-orientation and belief in self, significantly impact performance of the VLEs. The CSC is special purpose vehicle under the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for door step delivery of the government services. The study was conducted as part of Ministry of Electronics and IT’s Digital India Programme. As part of the study, the SRITNE-ISB team conducted over 2,500 extensive interviews with VLEs, CSC state heads and other stakeholders, spanning a select 10 States. The study states that VLE strategies, including service mix, training to employees, funding model, hours of operation and marketing initiatives were found to impact sales performance of VLEs. Achievement motivation of VLEs positively impact marketing investments, while social orientation and self-belief had a negative effect. Training received by the VLEs is correlated with their investments in employee training. "The study aimed to understand the assistance available to run the CSC, and the service-mix or business model selected by the entrepreneur,” said Deepa Mani, Professor of Information Systems at ISB, and Executive Director, SRITNE-ISB. She was the principal investigator in the research. “In light of the study’s outcome and recommendations, SRITNE at ISB will design and offer two programs aimed to improve entrepreneurial and digital literacy for both VLEs and citizens across the country,"  Dinesh Kumar Tyagi, Chief Executive Officer, CSC e-Governance Services India Limited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/village-level-entrepreneurs-to-play-key-role-in-digital-india-834238.html
06-05-2020||National||Who was most wanted Hizbul commander Riyaz Naikoo?||Riyaz Naikoo, who was killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district, was one of the oldest members of the indigenous Hizbul Mujahideen outfit. The tech-savvy Naikoo, who was considered a moderate among the hardline Hizbul militants, took over as its commander after their poster boy and commander Burhan Wani was killed in a gunfight with the security forces in Kokarnag area of Anantnag district on July 8, 2016. Prior to joining militancy, Naikoo was teaching mathematics at a local private school in Pulwama. He made his presence felt for the first time in January 2016, when he arrived during the funeral procession of a colleague in Pulwama and fired several shots in the air. The video was shot and widely circulated on social media. Police believed that the tactic adopted by Naikoo brought many youths to militancy in the Valley since then. Naikoo was nominated as operations chief by the Hizbul in early 2017 to counter the narrative that militants in Kashmir were fighting for Caliphate and imposition of Sharia (Islamic law). The Hizbul leadership was under tremendous pressure after another commander Zakir Musa spoke about establishing an Islamic caliphate in the Valley besides threatening separatist leaders. By appointing Naikoo as the new chief, the Hizbul killed two birds with one stone. Naikoo sidelined Musa due to his stature in the terror outfit and also Hizbul proved that it was not fighting for Islamic rule in Kashmir. Musa, who broke away from Hizbul to form Ansar Gazwat-ul-Hind, Kashmir affiliate of Al-Qaeda, was killed in an encounter with security forces in the Tral area of Pulwama in 2019. After taking over the reins of the Hizbul, Naikoo in 2017 said his outfit was willing to welcome Kashmiri Pandits back to the Valley. "We will welcome them [Kashmiri Pandits] warmly and there is always a place for them in our hearts. They are part of our nation. We are their protectors and not their enemies," he had said in an audio message released on social media, in 2017. According to police records, Naikoo after his release in 2014 when he was detained under Public Safety Act (PSA) got indoctrinated into militancy. Naikoo, who was wanted in several killings and abductions of policemen and their families, was a close associate of Burhan and was seen in some photographs with him in 2015 and 2016. The tech-savvy Naikoo, like Burhan, turned to social media to communicate. A native of Beighpora in Pulwama, Naikoo is said to have escaped from the trap laid down by the security forces several times over the past few years, before luck ran out for him on Wednesday. Hizbul is almost as old as the Kashmiri militancy which started in the late 80's. The group is made up almost entirely of local youths, and had always campaigned for joining Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-was-most-wanted-hizbul-commander-riyaz-naikoo-834261.html
06-05-2020||National||SC extends period of limitation due to COVID-19 situation||The Supreme Court on Wednesday extended periods of limitation, prescribed for filing of cases under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act and the Negotiable Instruments Act from March 15, 2020 till further orders, in view of difficulties arising out of COVID-19 pandemic.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices Deepak Gupta and Hrishikesh Roy passed the order to ensure that lawyers and litigants do not have to come physically to file such proceedings in respective Courts or Tribunal across the country including this court.  The top court has firstly on March 23, 2020 passed such an order in Suo Motu, while taking into consideration the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic and resultant difficulties being faced by the lawyers and litigants. A period of limitation has been prescribed under the general law of limitation or under special laws for filing appeals.  The court had then used its extraordinary power under Article 142 of the Constitution to do complete justice and directed for communicating its directions to all High Courts registrar generals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-extends-period-of-limitation-due-to-covid-19-situation-834264.html
06-05-2020||National||Health Ministry launches Aarogya Setu IVRS facility for those without smartphones||The ‘Aarogy Setu Interactive Voice Response System’ has been implemented to include citizens with feature phones and landline connections under the ambit of the ‘Aarogya Setu’ mobile application, the Union Health Ministry has said, urging people to download the application for combating COVID-19. The ‘Aarogy Setu Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS)’ is a toll-free service, available across the country, wherein citizens can give a missed call to the number ‘1921’ and they will get a call back requesting for inputs regarding their health, the ministry said in a statement on Monday. "The questions asked are aligned with Aarogy Setu App, and based on the responses given, citizens will also get an SMS indicating their health status and further alerts for improving their health,” it said. The toll-free service is implemented in 11 regional languages similar to the mobile application. The inputs provided by citizens will be made part of the Aarogy Setu database and the information will be processed to send alerts to people on the action to be taken to ensure their safety, it said. The health ministry has urged the citizens to download the mobile application, saying it will enable them to assess the risk of catching the novel coronavirus infection which has claimed 1,694 lives and infected 49,391 people across the country so far. Close to 9 crore users have downloaded the Aarogya Setu mobile application so far, a ministry official said. Meanwhile, the Centre on Wednesday rejected charges by the opposition that the application breached privacy. Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad asserted that the platform is "absolutely robust, safe and secure" in terms of privacy protection and data security. The response came after a French hacker and cyber security expert Elliot Alderson on Tuesday claimed that "a security issue has been found" in the Aarogya Setu app and that "privacy of 90 million Indians is at stake". The Centre had on Friday made it mandatory for government and private sector employees to use the Aarogya Setu mobile application to bolster the efforts to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, and entrusted the organisational heads with ensuring its 100 per cent coverage.  Elaborating on how it works, the health ministry said the user, upon installation of the application, is asked to answer a number of questions. In case some of the answers suggest COVID-19 symptoms, the information will be sent to a government server. "The data will then help the government take timely steps and initiate the isolation procedure if necessary, and it also alerts if someone comes in close proximity with a person who has tested positive," the statement said. The application is available on both Google Play (for Android users) and iOS app store (for iPhone). It is also available in 10 Indian languages and English, the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-launches-aarogya-setu-ivrs-facility-for-those-without-smartphones-834268.html
06-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Maharashtra in dire need for ICU beds||As COVID-19 cases continued to mount,  the Maharashtra government on Wednesday asked the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Railways, port trusts, and other central organisations to provide ICU beds in their hospitals for the patients of the viral pandemic. "Since the past nearly three months, the state government has been waging a war against the virus and managed to keep it under control," Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said. He attributed the high number of patients to the volume of the tests conducted. Besides,  he said that a large number of patients have been treated and discharged. In a press statement,  he said that ss part of the planned strategy, the government needs to ensure the maximum number of ICU beds for COVID-19 patients for which he has personally approached the Indian Army, Indian Navy, Indian Railway, ports and other central organisations based in the state.  “Since the Centre has indicated a hike in the number of cases during May, the government has planned to make available maximum ICU beds in Mumbai, Pune and other places,” Thackeray added. After the Lockdown 3.0 is eased and people start returning to Maharashtra from other parts of India and even abroad in large numbers, there could be an increase in the number of patients. For this, additional ICU beds would be necessary.  He appealed the defence and other central government organisations to make available large premises or buildings for creating treatment facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-maharashtra-in-dire-need-for-icu-beds-834269.html
06-05-2020||National||Move to shift Indian Railways Institute out of Bihar may derail JD(U)-BJP ties||Barely five months before the Assembly elections in Bihar, the Centre’s move to shift Indian Railway’s training institute from Jamalpur (in Munger) to Lucknow in UP threatens to derail the already strained ties between the Janata Dal (United) and the BJP. The latest bone of contention in shifting the Indian Railway Institute of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering (IRIMEE) to Lucknow comes close on the heels of Bihar BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal questioning Nitish Kumar Government over handling the issue of return of migrants and students from other states and asking Bihar regime to “take lessons from Yogi Government.” Taking umbrage at the Centre’s decision to shift IRIMEE to Lucknow, the JD (U) national general secretary and a key ministerial colleague of Nitish Kumar, Sanjay Jha on Wednesday said Bihar has taken exception to the Railway Ministry order of April 24 to shift the premier training institute from Bihar to UP and has asked Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to intervene on this “regressive move.” “Hon CM Sri @Nitishkumar has written a letter on May 1 to Rail Min Sri@PiyushGoyal requesting him to immediately rescind this decision. IRIMEE represents rich legacy of Railways & Bihar. Its great historical linkage with Bihar needs to be strengthened & not severed. @PMOIndia,” tweeted Jha, a key Nitish’s aide. Established in 1888, one of the oldest training institutes of Indian Railways, the IRIMEE has been the most coveted centre for training to Indian Railway’s top brains since 1927. “How can a legacy of 93 years be wiped off so brazenly,” wondered Nitish’s aide, through his another tweet. The JD (U) angst stems from the fact that the Centre had earlier rejected Nitish Kumar’s demand to make Patna University a Central University. With barely few months left before the much-awaited Assembly election in Bihar is announced, the latest row could snowball into major controversy as Nitish, during his tenure as Railway Minister (in Vajpayee regime) had made efforts in refurbishing the railway training institute at Jamalpur in Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/move-to-shift-indian-railways-institute-out-of-bihar-may-derail-jdu-bjp-ties-834273.html
06-05-2020||National||SC sentences trio to three months imprisonment for contempt||The Supreme Court has sentenced three men to three months imprisonment for contempt of court, in view of the "scurrilous and scandalous allegations" made by them against the top court's judges. A bench of Justices Deepak Gupta and Aniruddha Bose declined to let off leniently contemnors Maharashtra and Goa President Indian Bar Association, Vijay Kurle, National President, Indian Bar Association Nilesh Ojha and National Secretary, Human Rights Security Council, Rashid Khan Pathan, saying "there is not an iota of remorse or any semblance of apology on behalf of them". "We have also held in our judgment that the complaints were sent by the contemnors with a view to intimidate the judges. Therefore, it is obvious that this is a concerted effort to virtually hold the judiciary to ransom," the bench said. However, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown conditions, the bench directed that the sentence would come into force after 16 weeks. The Court rejected applications for adjournment as well as recall of the judgement passed on April 27 holding them guilty in the case. One of the contemnors contended that the bench was in hurry to decide the matter as Justice Gupta was to demit office on May 6. When the matter was heard through video conferencing, one of them contended that about 100 lawyers wanted to argue on his behalf. The bench, however, said a long hearing was given to the contemnors and the judgment was reserved on March 2, 2020. Till April 27, 2020, when the judgment was pronounced, no grievance was raised that the contemnors have not been given a proper hearing, the bench said. The Court said all the grounds raised in the three recall applications were virtually identical, questioning correctness of the judgment on many grounds. "No recall application can lie on these grounds and the proper remedy for the contemnors is to file a review petition, if so advised," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-sentences-trio-to-three-months-imprisonment-for-contempt-834277.html
06-05-2020||National||Convict seeks parole from HC to find wife and curb depression due to coronavirus||The Delhi High Court has sought response of the police on a plea moved by a man, serving life term since 2005 in a murder case, seeking parole to find a suitable wife for himself and curb his "inner stress and depression" due to incarceration which has "exacerbated" due to COVID-19 pandemic. Justice Prateek Jalan directed the police to file a status report after verifying the address and health condition of the petitioner's family, with whom he intends to stay if parole is granted. The court also directed that the status report shall also "disclose the precautions which are being followed by the jail authorities while releasing the prisoners on parole or bail and at the time they are returned to custody, inter alia, in terms of the directions of the High Powered Committee". With the direction, the court listed the matter for hearing before an appropriate bench on May 19. The petitioner has challenged the authorities December 2019 decision to reject his application for parole "to explore the possibility of finding a suitable match, to maintain social ties and family relations, and to curb inner stress and depression due to incarceration". The high court had on January 14 issued notice to the police and called for his nominal role. However, due to the COVID-19 outbreak, the court's functioning was restricted and his plea could not be heard. Subsequently, he moved two applications -- one seeking early hearing of his plea and another for grant of parole on the grounds of coronavirus pandemic. His lawyer told the court that the grounds upon which parole was sought from the State included the requirement to curb inner stress and depression due to incarceration which has been exacerbated due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  The police told the court that his application for parole was rejected by the authorities as on an earlier occasion when he was granted the relief in 2011, he committed an offence in respect of which he was convicted on February 22, 2018 for dacoity, robbery, and conspiring to commit these crimes. On the ground taken by the police regarding violation of an earlier parole, the court said despite his conviction in 2018, he was, thereafter, released on parole twice in 2018 and 2019 which were not misused by him.  The court also noted that according to his nominal roll he worked as a 'sahayak' in the jail and his conduct has been satisfactory at least for last one year. The petitioner was earlier convicted in 2005 in a murder case and sentenced to life imprisonment by a trial court.  His appeal against the 2005 order of the trial court was dismissed by the high court in 2009.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/convict-seeks-parole-from-hc-to-find-wife-and-curb-depression-due-to-coronavirus-834279.html
06-05-2020||National||CITU condemns Karnataka government's move to cancel special trains for migrant workers||The CITU, on Wednesday, condemned the BS Yediyurappa-led Karnataka government's decision to cancel special trains to transport stranded migrant workers to their native places following a meeting with employers, saying it is an "inhuman and cruel" move. After Yediyurappa's meeting with 'Employers' Association', the Karnataka government had requested the Railways to cancel all 10 trains from Bengaluru to Bihar, scheduled to run in the next five days. "The migrant workers were subjected to unimaginable miseries and hunger, not being paid by most of the employers during the 40 days’ lockdown period. The state (Karnataka) government did little to give any relief to the majority of the migrant workforce. Now, the same employers' community does not want the workers to go back to their home state and the BJP-led state (Karnataka) government is readily obliging the capitalist lobby in their cruel game-plan," CITU General Secretary Tapan Sen said. He said the entire exercise was also as "reflection of utter hypocrisy" as the Narendra Modi-led central government has "ultimately agreed" to run special trains for return of migrant workers "after lot of pressure". "Now, the BJP Government of Karnataka refuses to send the migrant workers back home, at the dictates of the capitalist lobby. Aren’t the reluctance and the refusal part of a single exercise?" he said. Sen was also apprehensive of the possibility of "similar retrograde" moves in some other states also. "The CITU urges the Centre to get the scheduled train services from Karnataka for the migrant workers resumed and not allow similar cancellation in other states since such return of migrant workers must be construed as part of disaster management," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/citu-condemns-karnataka-governments-move-to-cancel-special-trains-for-migrant-workers-834284.html
06-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Civil Aviation Ministry's website crashes in repatriation 'panic'||The Indian civil aviation ministry's website crashed on Wednesday as panicked citizens abroad rushed to register for a mass repatriation of almost 15,000 nationals from 12 countries on planes and naval ships. India banned all incoming international flights in late March as it imposed one of the world's strictest virus lockdowns, leaving hundreds of thousands of workers and students stranded abroad. Two ships were steaming towards the Maldives to evacuate some 1,000 Indian citizens from Friday while another was headed for the Gulf, according to the navy and the defence ministry. The first of 64 flights over the next week were due to leave the United Arab Emirates -- home to more than three million Indians -- and Qatar on Thursday bound for the southern state of Kerala. In total 26 flights will bring Indians home from the Gulf region, while others will operate from Southeast Asia, Britain and the United States, including in San Francisco and Washington. Indian media quoted civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri as saying that 200,000 Indians abroad had registered for repatriation and that the final number could be twice that. His ministry blamed the crashing of its website on "unprecedented traffic" and urged people to check the website of Air India, which is operating the flights, for details. Kerala is the biggest source of Indians in the Gulf.  OV Mustafa, the director of Norka Roots, a government welfare body for non-resident Keralites, told AFP that the people were "desperate" and in a "panic".   "There are about 200,000 people who have registered to go to Kerala from the UAE alone," he said. "People are worried about the lack of clarity on the testing procedure. Especially pregnant women. They're absolutely worried that people, even if they are asymptomatic, might be carriers. It's a real fear."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-civil-aviation-ministrys-website-crashes-in-repatriation-panic-834291.html
06-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Public transport may resume soon with guidelines, says Nitin Gadkari||Chances of resumption of public transport facilities brightened on Wednesday with two union ministers indicated towards a staggered emergence from the lockdown with certain restrictions soon. Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari, addressing a meeting of the Bus and Car Operators Confederation of India, said public transport may open soon with some guidelines. "Public transport is likely to resume soon ... Guidelines will be there," he said addressing the event through video conferencing. Gadkari said that the opening of transport and highways would go a long way in instilling confidence among the public and cautioned towards maintaining social distancing and adopting all safety measures such as washing hands, use of face masks while operating buses and cars. Similarly, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said the government would start examining the situation of the COVID-19 pandemic around May 15 before taking a decision on resumption of flights. According to officials, the government was examining the possibility of resumption of public transport in green and orange zones with reduced passenger capacity with an intention to maintain physical distancing. Earlier, the Civil Aviation Minister had told reporters the flights could start between two green zones but had made it clear that it would be difficult to start flights connecting two red zones. India had banned international flights since March 22 and shut down domestic operations from March 25 and the government announced a nationwide lockdown to arrest the spread of COVID-19. The flight operations remain suspended till May 17, when the lockdown 3.0 would remain in force. Regarding the economic crisis, Gadkari also asked investors and the industry to convert the coronavirus-induced crisis into an opportunity by occupying a larger global market. "Economy is facing crisis due to coronavirus outbreak... We should treat it as a blessing in disguise as no one wants to deal with China. Japan's PM is facilitating industry there to do investment out of China... It is a chance to boost the Indian economy," the minister said.  He said that the Indian industry should grasp this opportunity to invite those foreign companies to invest with them in India. He expressed confidence that the country and its industry will together win both the battles - the one with coronavirus, and the one with economic slowdown. Responding to concerns raised by the operators, the minister informed that his ministry is looking at adopting the London model of public transport, where government funding is minimal and private investment is promoted. He also pointed out towards the poor standards of Indian bus and truck bodies which he said, are functional for only 5-7 years, whereas the European models last for up to 15 years. Gadkari emphasised upon adopting good practices from European operators, which will also be economically viable for indigenous industry in the longer run.  The Minister said, he is aware of the tight financial condition of the Indian market during the ongoing pandemic. But, he said, all stakeholders will have to work together to combat it. Members of the confederation made suggestions for improving the condition of public transport which include extending interest payment exemptions, restarting public transport, extending age life limit, deferring state taxes, extending Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) benefits, extending insurance policy validity, etc. The minister also said that the insurance sector should come forward to help as it has benefitted due to less accidents during the lockdown. He further said work on many highway projects has resumed. While extending the lockdown last week, the government had made certain relaxations in green zones – districts that have not reported Covid-19 cases – by allowing movement of private vehicles and taxi services with limitation on number of passengers.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-public-transport-may-resume-soon-with-guidelines-says-nitin-gadkari-834301.html
06-05-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll touches 1,694; cases rise to 49,391||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,694 and the number of cases climbed to 49,391 in the country on Wednesday, registering an increase of 126 deaths and 2,958 cases in the last 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said.  The Health Ministry on Tuesday evening said that the nationwide case status will be updated on its website only once a day in the morning, instead of twice a day as was being done previously. "In the last 24 hours, 1,457 patients recovered, taking the total of recovered people to 14,183. This takes the total recovery rate to 28.72 per cent," a senior health ministry official said. The number of active COVID-19 cases is 33,514 and one patient has migrated, it said. The total number of cases include 111 foreign nationals. A total of 111 deaths were reported since Tuesday evening, of which 49 fatalities were reported from Gujarat, 34 from Maharashtra, 12 from Rajasthan, seven from West Bengal, three from Uttar Pradesh, two each from Punjab and Tamil Nadu and one each from Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh, the ministry said. Of the 1,694 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 617 fatalities. Gujarat comes second with 368 deaths, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 176, West Bengal at 140, Rajasthan at 89, Delhi at 64, Uttar Pradesh at 56 and Andhra Pradesh at 36. The death toll reached 33 in Tamil Nadu, 29 in Telengana, while Karnataka has reported 29 fatalities. Punjab has registered 25 COVID-19 deaths, Jammu and Kashmir eight, Haryana six and Kerala and Bihar four deaths each.  Jharkhand has recorded three COVID-19 fatalities. Meghalaya, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Assam and Uttarakhand have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data.  According to the health ministry data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 15, 525, followed by Gujarat at 6,245, Delhi at 5,104, Tamil Nadu at 4,058, Rajasthan at 3,158, Madhya Pradesh at 3,049 and Uttar Pradesh at 2,880.   The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 1,717 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,451 in Punjab. It has risen to 1,344 in West Bengal, 1,096 in Telengana, 741 in Jammu and Kashmir, 671 in Karnataka,  548 in Haryana and 536 in Bihar. Kerala has reported 502 coronavirus cases so far, while Odisha has 175 cases. A total of 125 people have been infected with the virus in Jharkhand and 111 in Chandigarh. Uttarakhand has reported 61 cases, Chhattisgarh 59 cases, Assam 43, Himachal Pradesh 42 and Ladakh 41. Thirty-three COVID-19 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Tripura has registered 43 cases, Meghalaya has reported 12 and Puducherry nine, while Goa has seven COVID-19 cases. Manipur has two cases. Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Dadar and Nagar Haveli have reported a case each. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-touches-1694-cases-rise-to-49391-834303.html
06-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Nitin Gadkari assures to help bus, taxi operators||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday assured that the bus and car operators of India that the government is fully aware of their problems, and will help them to mitigate their issues. The Minister said that he was in touch with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who are working overtime to uplift the economy during these difficult days of coronavirus lockdown to control the spread of COVID-19. Addressing the members of Bus and Car Operators Confederation of India through a video conference, Gadkari said that his ministry is looking at adopting the London model of public transport, where the government funding is minimal and private investment is promoted. He also pointed out towards the poor standards of Indian bus and truck bodies that work for only 5-7 years, whereas the European models last for up to 15 years. Gadkari emphasized upon adopting their good practices, which will also be economically viable for the indigenous industry in the longer run.  Members of the confederation made suggestions for improving the condition of public transport including extending interest payment exemptions, restarting public transport, extending the age-limit, deferring state taxes, extending MSME benefits and extending insurance policy validity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-nitin-gadkari-assures-to-help-bus-taxi-operators-834312.html
06-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Govt bans exports of alcohol-based hand sanitisers||The government on Wednesday banned exports of alcohol-based hand sanitizers to boost its availability in the domestic market amid coronavirus pandemic. "Alcohol based hand sanitizers are prohibited for exports," directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT) said in a notification.  Sanitisers are used as disinfectant to prevent the spread of the deadly virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-govt-bans-exports-of-alcohol-based-hand-sanitisers-834313.html
06-05-2020||National||Lawyers seek SC's intervention into 'Bois locker room' incident||Three lawyers have asked the Supreme Court to intervene in the disturbing incidents of “Bois locker room”, an Instagram group of teenagers here, whose screenshots related to the threat of rape of girls got leaked and became viral. There are "issues of not only privacy, safety and well-being of women, but also of sensitisation and counselling of juveniles who were found to be engaged into it," a letter petition by advocates Anand Varma, Kaustubh Prakash, and Shubhangni Jain. The lawyers said the horrific incident should be taken up by the court on the judicial side to address the multifarious issues arising therefrom. They pointed out the leaked screenshots showed the members of the group body shaming their classmates and other minor girls, some of them as young as 14-15 years, objectifying them, passing lewd remarks on them, and promoting rape culture.  "They also reveal that private objectionable photos of minor girls are being shared on the group followed by vulgar and lurid remarks about them. The boys also threatened to leak objectionable pictures of women online," they submitted. They said the social media platforms have bridged the gap of communication but it has also become a platform of public harassment of women in particular. "Anonymity of the accounts has become an easy medium to threaten whoever you want to and indulge in cyberbullying. It is also an easy platform to be conspicuous and share objectionable, obscene and private pictures, chats, and other messages," they said, showing their serious concern over the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-seek-scs-intervention-into-bois-locker-room-incident-834315.html
06-05-2020||National||Sikh doctors in Canada make 'extremely difficult decision' to shave beards to serve coronavirus patients||Two Sikh doctor brothers in Canada have made an "extremely difficult decision" to shave off their beards, an article of faith in Sikhism, so as to wear the medical-grade protective masks necessary to treat patients suffering from the deadly coronavirus in the country, according to media reports. Montreal physician Sanjeet Singh-Saluja and his brother Rajeet, a neurosurgeon at the McGill University Health Centre’s (MUHC) Montreal General and Royal Victoria hospitals, decided to shave their beards after consulting with religious advisers, family and friends, the Brantford Expositor reported. "As a Sikh man, his beard is an important part of his identity but it was impeding his ability to wear a mask. After much thought, he made the difficult decision to shave his beard off," the MUHC said in a statement. "We could choose not to work, but in a time when healthcare workers are falling sick, we would be adding stress to an already taxed system. We could decide to simply refuse to see COVID-19 patients until viable protection is available to us, but that goes against our oath as physicians and against the principles of SEVA," he said in a video posted on the MUHC website. “It was an extremely difficult decision for us, but one that we felt was absolutely necessary in this time of need,” Singh-Saluja said. "It’s a decision that has left me with much sadness. This was something that had been so much part of my identity. I look at myself in the mirror very differently now. Every morning when I see myself, it’s a bit of a shock," he was quoted as saying by the Montreal Gazette. "Originally when my brother and I did this, my brother wanted to keep it very quiet and didn’t want any publicity,” Singh-Saluja said, adding that “We still have a really hard time with it," he said.  Singh-Saluja has dealt with all sorts of outbreaks over the years, but the coronavirus is in a class all its own, and hence the necessity for the N95 mask now. “But because COVID-19 has become so rampant in our community, it just wasn’t feasible anymore (not to wear a N95 mask). There are so many people coming in. I felt I just couldn’t sit on the sidelines. This was an exception to the rule, so we had to do what we had to do to help out,” he said.  His brother Rajeet was in a similar predicament and would no longer have been able to operate on COVID-19 patients, the report said. Healthcare workers are coping with the acute shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) across the world. Canada is facing major medical gear shortage as many countries have restricted exports. The total number of coronavirus cases in Canada has reached 62,035 with 4,043 deaths, according to the health authorities. The country's hardest-hit provinces are Ontario and Quebec.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sikh-doctors-in-canada-make-extremely-difficult-decision-to-shave-beards-to-serve-coronavirus-patients-834316.html
06-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Assam tea sector suffers Rs 600 Cr loss, govt allows industries to resume work in green zones||Industries and tea gardens in Assam resumed work as the state announced a slew of relaxations amid the extended lockdown with strict instructions to comply with safety measures to avoid COVID-19. Assam Industries and commerce minister Chandra Mohan Patowary told reporters on Wednesday that a total of 820 industries resumed work, where nearly 28,027 workers are engaged. "Since the industrial sector contributes 39% of the state's revenue, we are taking steps very carefully to resume work to gradually restore the flow of revenue to the state exchequer and provide jobs," he said. Patowary said over 66,584 MSME units, which gives four lakh direct employment, and over 20 lakh indirect jobs have also resumed work. Rs. 600 crore loss to tea sector Patowary said an assessment by Tea Board of India estimated about Rs. 1,000 crore loss to the tea sector in the country due to the lockdown of which Rs. 600 crore was witnessed in Assam. The state produces 51.51% of the country's annual total tea production.   "All 783 big tea gardens and 1.18 lakh small tea gardens have also been reopened and 508 tea factories and 296 bought-leaf factories have also been allowed to function. More than 7.33 lakh workers are engaged in the big tea gardens and about 3 lakh workers are working in the small tea gardens. Regular visits are being made by the department officers for ensuring compliance of COVID-19 guidelines in the industrial units," he said. Auction of tea has restarted in Guwahati and all tea warehouses have also been opened. Assam reported 44 COVID-19 positive cases but 34 have already been discharged after recovery and one died. Out of the 33 districts, 29 are in 'Green Zone' while Bongaigaon, Dhubri, Goalpara, and Morigaon has been included in the list of 'Orange Zones'. The relaxations have not been allowed in the orange zone.  The state government also allowed re-opening of one-third of shops, taxi service and a few other services in the green zones from Monday with a strict instruction to comply with the COVID-19 safety measures.  The state industries and commerce department have engaged global business consultancy firm, Ernst & Young, to study and assess the impact of lockdown on the industrial sector in Assam and suggest a policy framework to attract industries who are planning to move out of China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-assam-tea-sector-suffers-rs-600-cr-loss-govt-allows-industries-to-resume-work-in-green-zones-834322.html
06-05-2020||National||Road accidents claim 140 lives during lockdown||About 140 lives lost in over 600 road accidents in the country over the course of the two phases of the nationwide lockdown between March 24 and May 3, according to a report by SaveLIFE Foundation. Over speeding on empty roads is a major reason for road fatalities said the study report by the non-profit organisation. Of the total accident victims, 30 percent were migrant workers returning to their homes while remaining victims were essential services workers like doctors who were going or returning from the duty. "The country recorded more than 600 road crashes over the course of the two phases of the nationwide lockdown (24th March till 14th April and 14th April to 3rd May)," as per data compiled by SaveLIFE Foundation. The states which recorded maximum accidents are Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Assam, Kerala, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Punjab, and Tamil Nadu.  While there has been a dip in the absolute number of road crash fatalities during lockdown due to suspension of public transport and general mobility, the rate of deaths in road crashes has remained unchanged, highlighting how unsafe Indian roads are even when the majority of the country has been under restrictions, says the report.  “Though there will be a dip in that number this year due to the lockdown, 140 deaths in over 600 crashes go to show gains achieved will be lost as soon as things go back to normal. The third phase of the lockdown is a golden opportunity for States to fix engineering faults in our roads and institute mechanisms for electronic enforcement so that when things become normal, we can keep road fatalities low." says Piyush Tewari, Founder, and CEO, SaveLIFE Foundation.  Governments should also prioritise road safety while notifying these Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs), since a large number of crashes have involved vehicles ferrying people across states, said the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/road-accidents-claim-140-lives-during-lockdown-834342.html
06-05-2020||National||BJP govt in Karnataka treating migrants worse than bonded labourers: Yechury||) Accusing the BJP government in Karnataka of "medieval barbarism" and treating migrants as worse than "bonded labourers", CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Wednesday hit out at the state's decision to stop workers from returning to their homes in different parts of the country citing requirements of the construction sector. The Karnataka government has withdrawn its request to the railways to run special trains to ferry migrant labourers to their home states, hours after builders met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to apprise him of the problems the construction sector will face in case they left. "This is worse than treating them as bonded labour. Does the Indian constitution exist? Are there any laws in the country? This BJP state government is throwing us back to medieval barbarism. This will be stoutly resisted,” Yechury said in a tweet. The railways is running Shramik Special trains to ferry to their home towns migrants who were stranded at their places of work during the lockdown. So far, it has run more than 115 such trains. The Principal Secretary in the Revenue Department N Manjunatha Prasad, who is the nodal officer for migrants, had requested the South Western Railways on Tuesday to run two train services a day for five days except Wednesday, while the state government wanted services thrice a day to Danapur in Bihar. However, later, Prasad wrote another letter within a few hours that the special trains were not required. Several migrants in the city were desperate to return home as they were out of jobs and money. Yechury also lashed out at the central government over reports that it owed states and industry Rs 3 trillion and accused the centre of shifting the burden of fighting the pandemic to the state governments. “While shifting the entire burden of fighting the pandemic on to the State governments, Modi government is not even paying their legitimate dues. After November 2019, Centre has not paid the GST compensation dues for the rest of the financial year, i.e., March 2020. “Modi government has the right to loot while crores of people & States are left with nothing but the right to starve?,” he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-govt-in-karnataka-treating-migrants-worse-than-bonded-labourers-yechury-834347.html
06-05-2020||National||University of Hyderabad researcher's differentiation of coronaviruses could help in antibody development||A study from the University of Hyderabad has found a characteristic dissimilarity between the SARS Coronaviruses that are capable of causing human infection and those which cannot. According to the research, the sequence motifs specific to human SARS coronavirus-2 hosted by the human body’s ACE-2 receptor can be exploited as potential candidates for antibody design towards a COVID-19 cure. At the same time, the UoH study cautions that some bat SARS coronavirus genomes are still evolving and may eventually acquire the capabilities to infect humans, posing a potential threat in the future.  Professor Lalitha Guruprasad of the School of Chemistry, University of Hyderabad has analyzed the complete genomes and spike protein sequences of several SARS coronaviruses from the bat, civet, human and human SARS coronavirus 2.  A person is COVID-19 infected when a SARS coronavirus protein named - Spike, that forms a crown-like appearance “Corona” specifically binds to human angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 (ACE-2) receptor. “ACE-2 is a carboxypeptidase of the renin-angiotensin hormone system and acts as a receptor for human coronaviruses SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2. To put it simply, an effective handshake between human ACE-2 and spike protein from the virus is required for causing the infection,” Professor Guruprasad tells DH. Guruprasad’s study revealed that "three sequence regions and a disulfide bridge are present only in SARS coronavirus spike proteins that bind ACE-2 receptor, whereas, these sequences are absent in bat SARS coronaviruses that are incapable of causing human infection".  Mutations of a more transmissible form of SARS coronavirus-2 subsequently reported by the Los Alamos National Laboratory, USA is associated with one of the sequence regions identified by us, says Guruprasad. Guruprasad’s research is based on the virus’s DNA sequencing database of the National Centre for Biotechnology Information of the US’s National Institute of Health. The present COVID-19 disease is caused by Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) coronavirus-2 with its epicenter reported from Wuhan, China during December 2019. It has rapidly become a pandemic resulting in an alarming number of infections and deaths worldwide. It is known that bats are natural reservoirs of SARS coronaviruses. The SARS coronavirus constantly gets mutated in bats and jumps across species, thereby animals such as civets and pangolins acquire the virus. Further mutations of the virus and human contact with these host animals would result in a human infection leading to severe respiratory disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/university-of-hyderabad-researchers-differentiation-of-coronaviruses-could-help-in-antibody-development-834356.html
06-05-2020||National||Andhra Pradesh's last bastion falls, as Vizianagaram reports first COVID-19 case||Vizianagaram district in north coastal Andhra Pradesh, which has so far remained COVID-19 free, reported its first positive case on Wednesday. According to officials, the infected person is a woman in her sixties from Balijapeta. She was detected to be positive during the tests conducted at a private hospital in Visakhapatnam, where she went for her kidney ailment treatment two days back. Following the case confirmation on Wednesday morning, Vizianagaram officials began containment measures in the area where the woman resides. “Within Vizianagaram district, she had visited few hospitals - private and government-run. Tests are conducted on doctors etc. she met. While some of them tested negative, results of a few more are awaited. We are also waiting for results of the 13 family members, primary contacts to know from where she acquired the virus. There is a possibility she might have contracted it at the Vizag private hospital,” a senior district health official involved in COVID-19 mitigation, told DH. While the woman is shifted to a COVID-19 hospital in Vizag, her primary contacts are kept in an isolation facility in Vizianagaram.   Srikakulam district, adjacent to Vizianagaram, which also was virus-free for long, reported its first cases on April 25.  Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh is continuing to report a big number of new cases every day. According to the state’s COVID-19 bulletin, 60 fresh cases were reported by Wednesday morning taking the total positive case number to 1777. Kurnool district continues to top the chart with 533 cases, followed by Guntur and Krishna at 363 and 300 cases, respectively. Two more deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total deceased because of COVID-19 and comorbidities to 36 in the state. However, according to the officials, COVID-19 positive rate for AP is only 1.26 percent of those tested whereas nationally it is 3.87 percent. And that the number of discharge cases has been increasing “with 41.02 percent recovery as against the national average of 28.63 percent.”  Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy, during a review meeting on Wednesday, was told that a strict discharge protocol is being followed. A patient is discharged if they do not have a fever for three days, show improved respiratory symptoms, and test negative twice in consecutive samples taken at least 24 hours apart.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradeshs-last-bastion-falls-as-vizianagaram-reports-first-covid-19-case-834366.html
06-05-2020||National||PM Modi assures help to Ethiopia in fighting coronavirus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Wednesday assured his  Ethiopian counterpart Abiy Ahmed Ali of India's support in ensuring supplies of essential medicines and offsetting the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. During their telephonic conversation, the two leaders discussed the domestic, regional and global challenges posed by the pandemic, and expressed solidarity with each other during the crisis. "The prime minister assure  Dr Abiy Ahmed Ali of Indian support to Ethiopia, for ensuring supplies of essential medicines and ameliorating the economic impact of the pandemic," an official statement said. Modi recalled the close ties between India and Ethiopia and the excellent development partnership between the two nations, it said.     Prime Minister Modi, on behalf of the people of India and on his own behalf, wished the people of Ethiopia success in the fight against the COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-assures-help-to-ethiopia-in-fighting-coronavirus-834372.html
06-05-2020||National||Ensure enough quarantine centres are opened for Indians returning from abroad: MHA to states||As stranded Indians abroad will reach India from Thursday, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked states to make advance preparations for arranging adequate number of institutional quarantine centres for them to control the spread of coronavirus. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to State Chief Secretaries on Wednesday asking them to submit action taken reports on arrangements made to both the MHA as well as Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). In his letter, he said that the advance preparations should be made for arranging an adequate number of institutional quarantine centres so that arriving Indian nationals are accommodated immediately on their return to the country. According to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the MHA on Tuesday, all arriving Indian nationals will be lodged mandatorily in all institutional quarantine facilities arranged by state governments for 14 days. It has also said that these facilities should be arranged, as far as possible, at the district headquarters of the districts to which the arriving passengers belong. Between May 7 and 13, India has planned to operate 64 flights to 12 countries from where stranded Indians will be transported. Naval ships are also being despatched to fetch Indians stranded in some other countries.  According to the SOP, migrant workers who lost jobs, people with short term visas, pregnant women, elderly and those who are required to return due to death in family will get priority during this exercise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-enough-quarantine-centres-are-opened-for-indians-returning-from-abroad-mha-to-states-834391.html
06-05-2020||National||Nadda urges religious organisations to work towards projecting 'correct image' of India||BJP president J P Nadda on Wednesday urged religious organisations linked to India and working abroad to work towards projecting a "correct image" of the country, and said a lot of effort is needed in this regard.  Nadda made these remarks at a video meeting, called 'acharya sabha', with religious figures during which he added that the fight against COVID-19 has highlighted the significance of India's cultural heritage like ayurveda and the greeting of 'namaste', a party statement said.  "He said religious organisations attached to Indian culture and working abroad have deep relations with Indians living there and exhorted them that correct picture of India should go out through them. A lot of effort is needed in this regard," the statement said quoting the BJP chief as saying.  Nadda said the party will continue to follow the suggestions given to it by saints.  He also spoke at length about the welfare measures taken by the Modi government and the saffron organisation.  The BJP, he said, has provided meals to over 7 crore people and ration for 20 days to 2 crore others.  The nation is unitedly fighting against coronavirus under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and this is the reason why India has been successful in limiting the spread of the infection to a large extent, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nadda-urges-religious-organisations-to-work-towards-projecting-correct-image-of-india-834392.html
06-05-2020||National||No pre-departure COVID-19 test for returnees, except ones from UAE||Only Indian citizens returning from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) will have to undergo rapid antibody tests for COVID-19 infection before being allowed to board the Air India aircraft from Abu Dhabi, Dubai or Sharjah airports. No such pre-departure COVID-19 tests will be conducted for the Indians, who are expected to return from the other countries – Saudi Arabia, United States, United Kingdom, Qatar, Bahrain, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Oman, and Bangladesh. They will, however, go through thermal screening and only the ones without any coronavirus symptoms would be allowed to board the Air India aircraft specially arranged by the government for bringing them back, sources in New Delhi said. The returnees will be screened again on arrival in the airports in India. The ones with symptoms will immediately be sent to the healthcare facilities and all others will be quarantined for at least 14 days. They will undergo COVID-19 tests after two weeks and only the ones, who would be tested negative, will be allowed to leave the quarantine facilities, according to the Standard Operating Protocol issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan recently wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi stating that it could be dangerous to bring back the citizens stranded abroad without making them undergo COVID-19 tests before departure for destinations in India. The government had in March sent medical teams to collect swab samples of Indians stranded in Iran and Italy. The samples had been brought back and tested for coronavirus infection in India and only the ones, who had been found to be uninfected, had been brought back home onboard Air India special aircraft. A source in New Delhi said that it was not possible to do the same during the “Vande Bharat Mission” – the large scale repatriation mission, which the government would commence to bring back the stranded citizens from around the world on Thursday.  “It is not possible to send medical teams, collect and bring back swab-samples and conduct tests. It is also not possible to arrange tests locally in all countries for all prospective returnees,” a source in New Delhi said. “Only the UAE has generously agreed to spare test kits for our citizens and conduct the tests.” The Air India will operate 10 flights from Abu Dhabi, Sharjah and Dubai airports to bring back nearly 2000 Indians stranded in the UAE to Kochi, Kozhikode, Lucknow, Chennai, Hyderabad, Delhi and Amritsar during the first week of the “Vande Bharat Mission”. It will also operate 54 other flights to bring back over 12000 other Indians stranded in 11 other foreign countries.  Each returnee will get a safety kit before boarding the aircraft and the kit will contain two three-layered masks, two pairs of gloves, and pouches or small bottles of hand sanitizers, according to a note the Embassy of India in Abu Dhabi posted on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-pre-departure-covid-19-test-for-returnees-except-ones-from-uae-834398.html
06-05-2020||National||Justice Gupta becomes first judge to be given virtual send off||Justice Deepak Gupta on Wednesday became the first judge, who was given a virtual send off due to COVID-19 lockdown as he demitted office as a Supreme Court judge after over three years' tenure. In his words, he said the court during such times of pandemic must make an attempt to help the poorest of the poor. "We cannot be like an ostrich hiding our head and say nothing is wrong with the judiciary. However under CJI S A Bobde, I am sure our judiciary will rise to the occasion," Justice Gupta said. The Supreme Court Bar Association organised the farewell function on a virtual platform. Justice Gupta and his brother judges, as well as retired judges, joined to bid a warm adieu to him. Responding to criticism of the Bar members that the judiciary was no longer independent or humane, Justice Gupta asked, "Where does the judiciary come? It comes from the Bar. When the bar charges exorbitant fees from business houses can they let it be when a poor person approach them." He said when a judge sits in the court, he has to forget his religious beliefs and decide cases only on the basis of the Constitution.  "The constitution is our Bible, Quran, Geeta, Guru Granth Sahib and other religious books," Justice Gupta said. In his speech, Justice Gupta also said his wife was his pillar of strength. She even gave him a hair cut on Wednesday to make him look presentable for the function, he said.   Justice Gupta: In a country which professes to be follower of rule of law and separation of powers, there is no alternative to a fearless and independent judiciary.   SCBA President, Dushyant Dave said the large participation registered for the farewell event showed Justice Gupta's popularity among the members of the Bar. Dave reminded about the famous speech of Justice Gupta when he said dissent cannot be said to be anti-national. Justice Gupta was sworn in as a judge of the Supreme Court on February 17, 2017. Attorney General K K Venugopal commended Justice Gupta for several of his landmark judgements. Justice Gupta delivered 139 judgements including in 'Independent Thought Vs UoI' (2017) where SC held that a husband may be charged with rape for having sex with a minor wife. "On dissent, you are the first judge to come out so strongly and openly which should have been said earlier. Your thoughts that citizen has a right to protest in a peaceful manner will never be forgotten. A very bold statement to make while holding office as a Supreme Court judge," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-gupta-becomes-first-judge-to-be-given-virtual-send-off-834411.html
06-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Gujarat govt requests Amit Shah to send three renowned doctors for guidance||A day after rejig in the administration tackling the coronavirus pandemic in the state, Gujarat government on Wednesday sought help from the centre, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, requesting him to send three renowned doctors to Ahmedabad for guidance in checking the rising number of COVID-19 infected patients and mortality rate. Gujarat on Wednesday reported 380 new positive cases and 28 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the total number of cases in the state to 6625 and death toll to 396. Earlier on Tuesday, the state had reported 441 new confirmed cases and 49 deaths, its highest single-day spike. While sharing updates, Jayanti Ravi, Principal secretary, health, said, "The state government has sought help from the central government by sending some of the prominent doctors to Ahmedabad to guide us in our fight. Special flights are being arranged to bring these specialized doctors to Ahmedabad. Besides, we have also roped in intensivists to fight the virus.." She added that "the death rate in Gujarat is 5.8%, which means 94.2 % people are getting cured, hence there is no reason to panic." However, by Wednesday evening, the mortality rate in the state was recorded at 6.3 %, said to be highest in the country. Earlier in the day, a release, issued by the state government stated that Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani has written a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah requesting him to send three renowned doctors-AIIMS director Randeep Guleria, Apollo's, (Delhi) Rajesh Chawla & Mumbai's pulmonologist Rohit Pandit to guide the doctors fighting COVID-19.  Rupani, who is said to be at the receiving end of prime minister Narendra Modi led central government for not able to contain the virus, said in the letter that "These doctors will be able to guide the local doctors in Ahmedabad to better the recovery rate and lower the mortality rate." It comes a day after the Rupani government brought senior IAS officers in the health department to assist in curbing the outbreak which has been increasing at an alarming rate. On the other hand, Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda in a video message criticised the state government for its lacklustre approach in fighting the pandemic and alleged that "Namaste Trump" held on February 24 was responsible for the virus outbreak. He said that "Congress will move the high court to seek a probe by Special Investigation Team into the event." However, minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja rubbished the allegation and said that "at the time of the event the virus had not spread in Gujarat or anywhere else." Complete shutdown in Ahmedabad for a week Chaos and panic prevailed in Ahmedabad city on Wednesday after a new rejig which took over the charge of the civic body and state health department which issued orders closing all shops and offices including banks, for a week, except milk and medicine stores in the city till April 15. This decision was a fresh attempt to devise new cluster containment zones. But the sudden decision led to panic among people who started violating social distancing and queued up outside the vegetable shops and grocery stores.  Other strategic decisions issued by Additional Chief Secretary, forest and environment, Rajiv Kumar Gupta, who was roped in health department only on Tuesday, included ward-wise containment strategy for all 48 wards from May 7 containing testing strategy, implementation of lockdown, health infrastructure, quarantine facilities and surveillance. The state government will be converting nine private hospitals with a capacity of 1,000 beds into COVID-19 hospitals, private hotels of 3-star category and below with at least 50 AC rooms will be identified for establishing Covid Care Center with a capacity of 500 beds in each zone in Ahmedabad city, the worst-hit city in the state with 4,734 cases and 297 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-gujarat-govt-requests-amit-shah-to-send-three-renowned-doctors-for-guidance-834421.html
06-05-2020||National||Higher taxes on liquor to be counterproductive in long-run: Industry bodies  ||The levy of additional tax on liquor by several state governments, in some cases as high as 75 per cent, will be counterproductive in the long-run as it will hit sales and reduce total collections, industry bodies said. According to the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) and All India Brewers’ Association (AIBA), presently liquor distribution is around 25 per cent only as most shops, bars and restaurants are closed. States like Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and West Bengal have imposed 75 per cent, 70 per cent and 40 per cent additional levy on liquor, respectively. Window sales resumed from Monday after a gap of almost 40 days during the ongoing coronavirus lockdown.  Several other states such as Karnataka and Haryana have also imposed additional taxes, although these range between 10 per cent and 20 per cent. "The tax collection would have some positive impact initially but may not be sufficient to overcome what has been lost. But if there is any significant increase in taxes as some states such as AP and Delhi have done, that would have an impact on the sales (in the long run). "If the sales come down, then the total collection of revenue would come down, as less bottles would be sold," CIABC Director General Vinod Giri told PTI. He said a tax increase in the range of 10 per cent can help in increasing total collection. But if the tax hike goes beyond that, "then sales would start coming down and impact the total collection", Giri asserted. The industry has said the additional high levy would not help the state governments recoup their lost revenue of the past 40 days and in fact impact the overall sales and tax collection in the long run. AIBA said this additional levy is not going to help state governments maximise revenue as very few shops are open. In Delhi, only around 50 shops out of 800 are open, it claimed. "There would be no additional tax collection overall as sales volume is just 30 per cent," AIBA Director General Shobhan Roy said. At the moment, it is important to start and stabilise the business, he said. "Presently width and depth of distribution is around 25 per cent. The bars and restaurants are all closed. Therefore, to get revenue states are trying to maximise earnings on lower volumes. As time passes and normalcy sets in, I am sure levies will be rationalised," he added. Commenting on overcrowding at liquor shops, he said that "it's only three days and naturally after 40 days there is crowding. Moreover, lesser number of outlets opened." Roy also said the state governments should allow home delivery of liquor through e-commerce platforms. The Chhattisgarh government has already moved ahead on this and some other states like Punjab and West Bengal have passed orders in this regard. Giri said the liquor industry has already lost more than five weeks this quarter, which would have an impact on its financial performance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/higher-taxes-on-liquor-to-be-counterproductive-in-long-run-industry-bodies-834425.html
06-05-2020||National||District level growth focus will create huge job opportunities: Prabhu||Focussing on district level growth in post-COVID period will help creating huge employment opportunities, contain migration from villages and push India's GDP, former union minister Sureshh Prabhu said on Wednesday. He said that increasing district level growth by additional 3 per cent will help increase the national GDP. The government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is focusing on districts as part of a bottoms-up approach for boosting growth, Prabhu, who is also India's Sherpa for G20 and G7 groups, said. "District led growth will lead to huge employment generation, stop migration from villages to cities, and will develop entrepreneurs and self reliant villages," the Rajya Sabha member said. As workers and labourers are returning to villages, they would utilise and consume local resources, which would help in generating economic activities and it will also help in increasing their incomes, he added. "Demand in agri, industry and services sectors too would increase," Prabhu said. Further Prabhu said that institutions like IIM and National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) have conducted study on six districts, including Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Solan, Varanasi and Vishakhapatnam, and has stated that additional 3 per cent growth in each distruct is doable. District level focus will create a "new India in the post-Covid era," he sadi, adding it would also help in achieving the target of taking the country's GDP to USD 5 trillion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/district-level-growth-focus-will-create-huge-job-opportunities-prabhu-834429.html
06-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to address Vesak event on May 7||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in a virtual Vesak global celebrations on Buddha Purnima on Thursday. He will deliver the keynote address in the morning, an official statement said in Wednesday. Buddha Purnima celebrations are being held virtually due to COVID-19 pandemic. The event is being organised in the honour of the victims and the frontline warriors of COVID-19. The Ministry of Culture, in collaboration with the International Buddhist Confederation (IBC), a global Buddhist umbrella organization, is holding a virtual prayer event with the participation of all the supreme heads of the Buddhist Sanghas from around the world, the statement said. Prayer ceremonies on the occasion will be streamed live from the Sacred Garden Lumbini (Nepal), Mahabodhi Temple (Bodhgaya, India); Mulgandha Kuti Vihara, Sarnath; Parinirvana Stupa, Kushinagar; Pirith Chanting from Ruwanweli Maha Seya in the sacred and historic Anuradhapura stupa premises, Sri Lanka;  Boudhanath, Swayambhu, Namo Stupa, Nepal, apart from other popular Buddhist sites. Vesak-Buddha Poornima is considered the Triple Blessed Day as Tathagata Gautam Buddha's Birth, Enlightenment and Maha Parnirvana, the statement pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-address-vesak-event-on-may-7-834431.html
06-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Several states back-pedal on migrant movement||Five days and 137 Shramik Special trains later, several states are now rethinking their plans to ferry migrant labourers during the lockdown.   Karnataka, Maharashtra, Telangana and Gujarat are back-pedalling on migrant movement in an effort to retain workers in industrial and real estate sectors, while states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh are finding it difficult to cope with the sudden surge of people coming back in hordes.  Karnataka cancelled special trains for migrant workers from Wednesday, a day after Chief Minister B S Yeddyurappa held a meeting with real estate representatives. He said his ministers will convince the labourers to stay back and avoid unnecessary travel.  There were sharp reactions to the “inhuman” decision, with some alleging the state was treating migrants as bonded labourers.  Congress MLA Krishna Byre Gowda said the government can’t be the “paid agent” of the real estate lobby. “Thousands of people are walking to UP. This is inhuman... Send them well so they want to come back,” he said. The Congress took up the cudgels in Gujarat too, another BJP-ruled state. Ahmed Patel, political secretary to Sonia Gandhi, said it was “a violation of human & fundamental rights” to hold labourers against their will.  On Monday, Gujarat police had arrested over 200 migrants who allegedly agitated to return to their home states.  Telangana, the first state to run a special train for migrants, appealed to “pravasi bhaai” to stay back. “If you want to go, we will facilitate it, but most of you should try and stay back,” Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said. Telangana had earlier promised to run 40 special trains. While many states fear that reverse migration may throw development haywire, especially in metros, the states with a history of migration due to unemployment are not so welcoming of the returnees, as it is putting pressure on their resources. On Tuesday, Bihar refused permission to five special trains from Kerala, leading to their cancellation, following which hundreds of workers were stranded at stations in Kochi, Alappuzha etc. After sending nearly 40,000 migrants to their home states, Maharashtra made it clear that there will be no trains from Mumbai in near future. After Uttar Pradesh stopped some migrants coming in bus from Maharashtra, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik alleged that UP does not want to take back migrants and was dilly-dallying over the process of giving them permission, demanding to conduct Covid-19 tests on them. Ahmed Patel wondered why certain BJP-ruled states were trying to disallow the trains when the Congress had committed to bearing the cost of migrants’ travel.   However, the reasons for the decision appear more financial than political as migrants play a key role in running the development engine in a number of these states. Hence, even non-BJP-ruled states appear keen to retain the workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-several-states-back-pedal-on-migrant-movement-834433.html
06-05-2020||National Politics||Centre's decision to charge NRIs to return from COVID-affected countries 'inhuman': Congress general secretary K C Venugopal||Congress general secretary KC Venugopal on Tuesday termed as "inhumane" the government's decision to "impose excessive costs" on NRIs and expatriates for bringing them into the country from COVID-19-affected nations. He demanded that the central government fly in the poor and vulnerable free of cost while charge the others with normal fares instead of high costs. "The central government's decision to impose excessive costs on NRIs flying in special flights from the Covid-affected countries is an inhumane act," he said in a statement. Venugopal said it was due to protests by a large number of expatriates and their relatives as well as the general public over the past few days that the central government took the decision to bring back Indian citizens from abroad. "However, it is cruel that the Central government has taken advantage of this plight of expatriates by increasing the price of air fares up to three times. This is inhumane," Venugopal said in his statement. He urged the Centre to take urgent steps to provide free travel to the most vulnerable, unemployed, sick and pregnant women and to others on normal fare. Air India will operate 64 repatriation flights for a week from May 7 while the Navy deployed two ships as India rolled out a massive evacuation plan on Tuesday to bring back thousands of its nationals stranded abroad due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown.  Those availing the repatriation flights will be charged, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri told a virtual press conference in New Delhi. A passenger on a London-Delhi flight will be charged Rs 50,000 and on a Dhaka-Delhi flight Rs 12,000, he added. From the Gulf countries to Malaysia and the UK to the US, the multi-agency operation christened 'Vande Bharat Mission' will see the state-owned airline operate the non-scheduled commercial flights till May 13 to ferry around 15,000 Indian nationals from 12 countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centres-decision-to-charge-nris-to-return-from-covid-affected-countries-inhuman-congress-general-secretary-k-c-venugopal-834074.html
06-05-2020||National Politics||Congress questions govt's strategy on coronavirus lockdown||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday questioned the government over the criteria it adopted to judge how long the COVID-19-induced lockdown will continue. Addressing a meeting of chief ministers of states where the Congress is in power, she asked "what after May 17?." The third phase of the lockdown ends on May 17. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh and former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi were part of the meeting "After May 17th, What? and After May 17th, How?...what criteria is GoI (government of India) using to judge how long the lockdown is to continue...," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala quoted Sonia Gandhi as saying in the video conference with CMs. She thanked farmers, particularly of Punjab and Haryana, for ensuring food security by giving bumper wheat crop produce despite all odds. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh also said, "We need to know, as Soniaji said, what will happen after lockdown 3.0?". "Soniaji has already pointed out. CM's need to deliberate and ask as to what is the strategy of the government of India to get the country out of lockdown," Singh asked. Speaking at the meeting, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said he has set up two committees, one to strategise on how to come out of the lockdown and the other on economic revival. "Concern is people sitting in Delhi are deciding on the classification of (COVID-19) zones without knowing what's happening on the ground," he said at the meeting. Rajasthan Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said, "until extensive stimulus package is given, how will states and the country run? We have lost Rs 10,000 crore revenue." He said states have repeatedly requested the prime minister for a package, "but we are yet to hear from the government of India". Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said, "States are facing dire economic crisis. They need to be provided immediate assistance." He said Chattisgarh is one state where 80 per cent of Small Industries have restarted and nearly 85,000 workers have returned to work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-questions-govts-strategy-on-coronavirus-lockdown-834181.html
06-05-2020||National Politics||Government increasing petrol-diesel prices unfair: Rahul Gandhi||Terming the rise in petrol and diesel prices as "unfair", Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said when the fight against COVID-19 is causing economic hardship to all, the government instead of reducing prices has raised them He demanded immediate rollback of the increased prices on the fuels. "The ongoing battle with the coronavirus is causing severe economic hardship for our crores of brothers and sisters. At this time, instead of reducing prices, the decision of the government to raise prices of petrol and diesel by Rs 10-13 per litre is unfair and should be withdrawn," he said in a tweet in Hindi. His remarks come after the central government hiked excise duty and cess on petrol by Rs 10 per litre and on diesel by Rs 13 a litre. Retail prices of petrol and diesel have, however, not been impacted by the rise in excise duty and cess as oil companies will adjust them against the recent fall in international crude oil prices. Petrol prices in the national capital were hiked by Rs 1.67 a litre and diesel by a steep Rs 7.10 per litre after the Delhi government raised local sales tax or value-added tax (VAT) on the two fuels. Petrol in Delhi now costs Rs 71.26 a litre as against Rs 69.59 previously, oil industry sources said. Diesel price has been hiked to Rs 69.39 per litre from Rs 62.29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-increasing-petrol-diesel-prices-unfair-rahul-gandhi-834187.html
06-05-2020||National Politics||Govts imposing taxes in times of distress 'cruel' amid coronavirus lockdown, says P Chidambaram||Governments must borrow to meet their deficits and not impose higher tax burdens when economic activity has ground to a halt amid the coronavirus pandemic, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Wednesday after the Centre and the Delhi government hiked taxes on petroleum products. New or higher taxes are justified only when the economy is booming, the former finance minister said, dubbing the imposition of taxes as "cruel". Tax burdens on the middle class and the poor is actually taxing distress, he said in a series of tweets. "Governments should give money to the people in times of distress, not squeeze and take money from the people," Chidambaram said. "We have been pleading for cash transfers from the government to the bottom half of the people/families. Instead, governments are doing a reverse transfer of money from the people to the government! Cruel," he said. New or higher taxes will impoverish families further, Chidambaram asserted. "Governments must borrow to meet their deficits, not impose higher tax burdens when economic activity has ground to a halt," he said. Chidambaram's remarks come after the central government on Tuesday night hiked the excise duty on petrol by a steep Rs 10 per litre and that on diesel by Rs 13 a litre. Retail prices of petrol and diesel will not be impacted by the tax changes as state-owned oil firms will adjust them against the recent fall in oil prices, industry officials said. Petrol prices in the national capital were hiked by Rs 1.67 a litre and diesel by a steep Rs 7.10 per litre after the Delhi government raised local sales tax or value-added tax (VAT) on the two fuels. Petrol in Delhi now costs Rs 71.26 a litre as against Rs 69.59 previously, oil industry sources said. Diesel price has been hiked to Rs 69.39 per litre from Rs 62.29. Struggling with low revenues during the lockdown, several states have also hiked taxes on alcohol||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govts-imposing-taxes-in-times-of-distress-cruel-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-says-p-chidambaram-834188.html
06-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown: 'Economically anti-national' to fleece Indians by raising petrol, diesel prices, says Congress||The Congress on Wednesday said it is "economically anti-national" to fleece Indians of Rs 1.4 lakh crore by raising taxes on petrol and diesel, and urged the Centre to share 75 per cent of this revenue with states so that people are not burdened. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said when the entire country is fighting the COVID-19 pandemic and its poor, including migrants, shopkeepers and small businessmen, were virtually penniless, the government of India was "fleecing" 130 crore Indians by insurmountably raising prices of petrol and diesel. "To fleece people of India in this fashion is economically anti-national," he told reporters at a press conference through video conferencing. Surjewala alleged that the manner in which "illegally and forcibly" this recovery is being made is "inhumane, cruel and insensitive". "The government should transfer 75 per cent of this money so collected through raise in taxes to states. This will ensure there is no further burden on people of India, by way of more taxes on petroleum products by states," he said. He said the issue was discussed at a meeting of the chief ministers of Congress-ruled states with party president Sonia Gandhi, where everyone besides former prime minister Manmohan Singh and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi expressed deep concerns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-economically-anti-national-to-fleece-indians-by-raising-petrol-diesel-prices-says-congress-834249.html
06-05-2020||National Politics||After May 17, what? Sonia Gandhi questions govt's post-lockdown plan||Congress on Wednesday demanded that the Modi government spell out its plans to emerge out from the lockdown and help states with a liberal financial package to tide over the crisis that has hit them due to the COVID-19 outbreak. “After May 17th, what? and after May 17th, how? What criteria is the government using to judge how long the lockdown is to continue?,” Congress President Sonia Gandhi asked addressing a meeting of chief ministers of party-ruled states. The Chief Ministers of the Congress ruled states accused the Centre of non-cooperation in dealing with the COVID-19 outbreak, taking decisions arbitrarily without consulting them, and not providing them funds. The Centre had extended the lockdown for the third time last week till May 17 as COVID-19 cases continued to rise from across the country despite restrictions on movement of people. Besides chief ministers of Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Puducherry, the meeting convened by Gandhi was attended by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, M Veerappa Moily, P Chidambaram among others.   The former Prime Minister wanted the chief ministers to ask the Modi government to spell out its strategy to emerge from the lockdown. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot sought an extensive stimulus package for the states, which were suffering due to the absence of revenue generation during the lockdown. “States are facing dire economic crises. They need to be provided immediate assistance,” Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said during the meeting. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy strongly objected to the Centre demarcating red and orange zones in states without consulting the local governments. “The Government of India is deciding on zones without consulting the states and this is creating an anomalous situation. People sitting in Delhi can’t tell the states. No State or CM is consulted. Why?,” Narayanasamy asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-may-17-what-sonia-gandhi-questions-govts-post-lockdown-plan-834252.html
06-05-2020||National Politics||Congress 'not supporting' India in COVID-19 fight: BJP||The BJP on Wednesday claimed that the Congress' top brass is forcing the party's chief ministers to implement its agenda and accused it of "not supporting" the nation in the fight against COVID-19.  In a statement attacking Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi, BJP spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain said the opposition party is only interested in "defaming" the government and "weakening" people's unity.  The saffron party's response came after Sonia Gandhi questioned the central government over the criteria it adopted to judge how long the COVID-19 lockdown will continue and asked what it intends to do after May 17, when the lockdown is scheduled to end. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh and former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi were part of the meeting with the chief ministers of states where the Congress is in power. Hitting back, Hussain said, "Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi are forcing these chief ministers to implement the Congress agenda. If the Congress cannot help the nation in the fight against COVID-19 then it should not at least divide the country over the issue."  In this fight against COVID-19, the Congress has not offered any support to the country, he alleged.    Taking a dig at Rahul Gandhi, he asked if the Congress leader has any responsibility other than raising questions.  Hussain said the Congress should refrain from its "lowly politics" and added that the party believes that the opposition's job is to only oppose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-not-supporting-india-in-covid-19-fight-bjp-834328.html
06-05-2020||National Politics||Home delivery of liquor to start in Punjab from May 7||Home delivery of liquor will start from May 7 in Punjab with the state excise and taxation department issuing an order for opening of liquor vends on Wednesday. The liquor stores would be allowed to open only during the curfew relaxation period, which is from 9 am to 1 pm, officials said. However, the timing of delivery of liquor will be decided by the respective assistant excise and taxation commissioners in consultation with deputy commissioners, the order stated. Though there is no provision of home delivery of liquor in the Punjab Excise Act 1914 and the Excise Rules, the decision in this regard has been taken to ensure social distancing in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, it said. The delivery of liquor at people's doorsteps will be allowed only during the lockdown period, the order said. Only two litres of liquor will be allowed through home delivery to a buyer against a cash memo. People deputed for home delivery of liquor will be issued identity cards by the department and they will also carry curfew pass, as per the order. Home delivery of Punjab Medium Liquor (PML) will not be allowed, it said. At liquor vends, directions have been issued to ensure adherence to social distancing norms and arrangement of sanitiser, it stated. Not more than five people will be allowed to stand outside a liquor shop, the orders said. Liquor contractors who have paid 50 per cent of the license fee to the state government will be allowed to open their shops, as per the order. The Punjab government had earlier urged the Centre to allow opening of liquor shops in the state to mop up tax revenue. Meanwhile, Rupnagar Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri said liquor vends would open during the time all other shops open, which is from 9 am till 1 pm.   She said home delivery of liquor would be made during 9 am till 7 pm. If people want to come to liquor vends, then the timing will be 9 am till 1 pm and if people want to place orders for home delivery, they can do so during 9 am till 7 pm, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/home-delivery-of-liquor-to-start-in-punjab-from-may-7-834331.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||HC 'rings a bell' on Darbar move in Jammu and Kashmir; asks Centre to look into its necessity||The Jammu and Kashmir High Court on Tuesday asked decision makers, including the Centre, to look into the necessity of the 148-year-old biannual Darbar move, keeping in mind the financial implication of more than Rs 200 crore incurred by the "hopelessly fiscally deprived Union Territory". In its 93-page judgement, a division bench of the court headed by Chief Justice Geeta Mittal also listed the suggestion made by senior advocate Monika Kohli, who had highlighted the digitisation of officials records. Hearing a self-adopted public interest litigation, the division bench gave the historical perspective of biannual darbar move whereby the capital of Jammu and Kashmir is shifted every six months from Jammu (winter capital) to Srinagar (summer capital). The court said that from the facts placed regarding the Darbar move, the disregard of public interest in its origins and implementation, its adverse effects, the huge fiscal, social and economic costs, amply manifest that its propriety, feasibility and efficacy of the arrangement is one such matter "overlooked and forgotten". "The material placed before us manifests that there has been no application of mind to the changed circumstances because of technological and scientific advances. Our judicial conscience compels us to ring the bell else we would fail in discharging our judicial duty or to perform our constitutional function as demanded in the interest of the Nation and the people of Jammu and Kashmir, especially its common woman and man, the poor and the weak. "We hasten to add that conscious of the limitations of our jurisdiction, we shall confine ourselves to 'ringing the bell' without anything more." "We have recorded our reasons and judgment on the several aspects which arise on account of the implementation of the Darbar move in the UT....we have also noted the several steps on which we have no information at all, say, for instance, the cost incurred on the security forces and the police utilised for ensuring" the move. "We are sure that these costs will be equal to, if not more than the expenditure which has been disclosed to us," Justice Mittal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal said in the judgement. However, the court expressed its inability to pass an order saying it had listed its "limitations on the extent of our jurisdiction whereby we stand precluded from making a declaration on the permissibility or the continuation of the practice of the Darbar move. Deferring this task to the "best wisdom of those on whom the Constitution of India bestows this solemn duty", the division bench asked that the judgement be served on Union home secretary and chief secretary of the UT "with the direction to place the same before competent authorities for examining the issues raised and taking a considered decision thereon." The judgement began with a question raised by the division bench asking "whether any government can afford the annual expenditure of at least Rs 200 crores (as disclosed and many more hundreds of crores of rupees of undisclosed costs) for shifting of its capital two times a year, a practice which started in 1872 from the discomfort of the then ruler of Jammu and Kashmir with the harshness of the winter in Kashmir?" "More so, is this acceptable in a hopelessly fiscally deprived UT with severe underdevelopment and people deprived of bare basics which are essential part of their fundamental right of life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India," the court asked. Kohli drew attention of the court to a report that the Centre had already released around Rs 24 crore for purchase of hardware and software for the Civil Secretariat and also released funds for digitisation of official records. She had submitted before the court that government records ought not be taken out of its safe holdings and it should be properly secured and preserved at a proper place. Calling for urgent revisit of old paradigms Kohli gave a historical perspective of the biannual shifting and said the then Maharja Ranbir Singh made the arrangement of shifting the Darbar from Srinagar to Jammu to escape severe winter in the Valley and Jammu heat in the summer. "The discomfort on account of change of weather in either city, is, today compensated by efficient and modern environment control mechanism as air conditioning, heaters etc in both Jammu as well as Srinagar," she said. She argued before the court that both the cities were well connected by air and road and said, "It is clearly logical that the consideration of extreme weather in support of the Darbar move does not hold weight today." The court said, "It is necessary to bear in mind that the Darbar move requires moving government records out of the safe spaces of offices where they are maintained, packing in fragile trunks, loaded into vulnerable hired transportation and exposed to the risk of theft, pilferage, destruction and damage, as they are ferried on the public roads and the National Highway for over 300 kms in all kinds of weather conditions. "These records would be including sensitive documents and old archives which cannot tolerate exposure of any kind...Such documents may be on matters of security of the country as well as of the Union Territory. This security ought not be compromised for any reason whatsoever," it said. The court said the move requires to be rationalised by minimising the movement of employees and physical assets.  It said there is no reason for requiring the judiciary to shift as it impedes judicial administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-rings-a-bell-on-darbar-move-in-jammu-and-kashmir-asks-centre-to-look-into-its-necessity-834077.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||UP CM launches app for people to get ayurveda tips on boosting immunity||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday launched the Ayush Kavach app that will provide health-related tips and information about ayurvedic medicines to people during the coronavirus crisis. "Today the whole world is looking up to India with hopes in its fight against the global pandemic COVID-19. I firmly believe that the Ayush Kavach mobile app will help people access prescriptions to strengthen their bodies' resistance through ancient mode of Yoga and Ayurveda of India," he said at the launch. Adityanath said that in Ayurveda and the ancient traditions of India, there are many facts and tips related to boosting immunity which is helpful in fighting such types of viruses.  "There was a need for such an app that could easily deliver information about Ayurveda and traditional medicines and prescriptions in simple language with ease among the masses," the UP Chief Minister said. In a statement issued here on Tuesday by the UP Government, Adityanath said the mobile app Ayush Kavach has been developed by the Ayush Department of UP in view of the COVID-19 health crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-launches-app-for-people-to-get-ayurveda-tips-on-boosting-immunity-834097.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Fire breaks out at Tikri-Kalan PVC market in Delhi-Haryana border, 36 fire tenders rushed to spot||A major fire broke out at the Tikri-Kalan PVC market on the Delhi-Haryana border in the early hours of Wednesday, the fire department said. The call about the blaze was received at 2.50 am and 36 fire tenders were rushed to the spot, a fire department official said. No casualties were reported, he said, adding that scrap material, which was kept in the open, caught fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-tikri-kalan-pvc-market-in-delhi-haryana-border-36-fire-tenders-rushed-to-spot-834118.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Militant killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama||A militant was killed in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, officials said.  Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Sharshali village of Pulwama following information about the presence of militants there, the officials said. They said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire towards security forces' positions. In the retaliatory firing, one militant was killed, the officials said, adding the operation was going on when the last reports were received.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-pulwama-834133.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||1 more COVID-19 death in Rajasthan; toll rises to 90||The COVID-19 death toll in Rajasthan increased to 90 with one more fatality reported on Wednesday, while 35 people tested positive for the disease, taking the number of cases to 3,193 in the state, an official said. The state has 1,567 active cases now, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. The death was reported from Swai Madhopur. The death toll due to the virus in the state has climbed to 90, he said. Jaipur alone has reported 50 deaths. As many as 35 new cases, including 22 in Jaipur, seven in Pali, two each in Dungarpur and Ajmer, one each in Chittorgarh and Alwar, have been reported, the health department official said. The state now has 3,193 confirmed cases of COVID-19, out of which 1,131 have been discharged from hospitals, Singh said. Jaipur has reported the highest number of cases with 1,069 infections, followed by 762 in Jodhpur. The COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran, who have been put up in Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1-more-covid-19-death-in-rajasthan-toll-rises-to-90-834166.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Cash looted from BJP MP's petrol pump in Uttar Pradesh||Some unidentified people looted Rs 50,000 from a petrol pump of a BJP MP in Uttar Pradesh, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place around 7.30 pm on Tuesday at RK Singh Patel’s petrol pump at Pokhri Barhat, Station House Officer, Raipura, Ramesh Chandra said. He said five persons first got the petrol tanks of their motorcycles filled and then they looted the Rs 50,000 They were chased by locals. Two of them fell from their motorcycle, but managed to escape An FIR has been registered against five unidentified persons in this regard on the complaint of the petrol pump manager. Police is probing the matter. No arrests have so far been made in this connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cash-looted-from-bjp-mps-petrol-pump-in-uttar-pradesh-834170.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Most wanted Hizbul commander Riyaz Naikoo killed in Kashmir||In a major setback to militancy in Kashmir, Hizb-ul-Mujahideen operation chief Riyaz Naikoo alongwith his associate were killed in an encounter with security forces in southern Pulwama district on Wednesday. Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar while confirming the killing of Naikoo and his associate said that the operation was still underway. In January Kumar had said if they are able to kill Naikoo, Hizbul would almost be wiped out from South Kashmir. Sources said Naikoo had come to visit his ailing mother in Beighpora village in Pulwama, when Army's 55-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search search operation in the area late Tuesday night. “Throughout the night, security forces ensured to block all the escape routes for Naikoo as he was known for breaking cordons and fleeing. Fields around Naikoo’s house and a railway track were dug up over inputs about the possibility of tunnels or an underground hideout. Early in the morning, the encounter started and by afternoon Naikoo and his associate Adil were killed,” they said. Naikoo carried a reward of Rs 12 lakh on his head. He took over as the commander of the Hizbul after the outfit’s poster boy and commander Burhan Wani was killed in a gunfight with the security forces in Kokarnag area of Anantnag district on July 8, 2016. Authorities suspended mobile and Internet services across Kashmir and imposed curfew in most major towns of the valley to ensure that no ugly fallout of Naikoo’s death affects the law and order situation. However, reports of stone pelting incidents were received from several parts of Pulwama and Srinagar. In a separate encounter, three unidentified militants were killed in Shaar area of Pampore in the same district. Both the operations were launched by the security forces during the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The killing of Naikoo comes days after Colonel Ashutosh Sharma, the commanding officer of 21-Rashtriya Rifles, Major Anuj Sood, Naik Rajesh Kumar, Lance Naik Dinesh and J&K Police Sub-Inspector, Sageer Pathan alias Qazi were killed during an operation in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. At least 76 militants including Naikoo have been killed since January this year while nearly two dozen security personnel have also lost their lives. Under a new policy, militants who are killed are not identified and their bodies are not handed over to their families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/most-wanted-hizbul-commander-riyaz-naikoo-killed-in-kashmir-834171.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Strengthen health services in coronavirus and non-COVID hospitals: UP CM to officials||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday directed officials to strengthen health services in both COVID and non-COVID hospitals in the state. Interacting with officials of Team-11 during a meeting to review health services in the state, he said emergency services and over 23,000 beds are available, and 2,481 specialist doctors are there to take care patients, according to an official spokesman, Team 11 has eleven officials to monitor the COVID-19 situation in the state. Adityanath was informed that over 41,000 isolation beds, more than 1,250 beds with ventilators, 21,000 quarantine beds are available for COVID-19 patients. The chief minister said in 660 private hospitals, over one lakh beds are available for emergency patients and added that health workers have been trained to reduce medical infection. For helping patients e-consultation services have also been started in each district and toll-free numbers have been issued, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/strengthen-health-services-in-coronavirus-and-non-covid-hospitals-up-cm-to-officials-834173.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Mobile internet suspended in Kashmir as top Hizbul commander Riaz Naikoo trapped in encounter||Mobile internet services in Kashmir were suspended on Wednesday after top commander of Hizbul Mujahideen terror group Riaz Naikoo, along with another militant, was trapped in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district, officials said. The mobile internet has been suspended as a precautionary measure, they said. The gunfight started between militants and security forces in the Beighpora area of Pulwama district in south Kashmir, a police spokesman said. "Police last night launched an operation on a specific input at Beighpora. Senior officers are monitoring it since last night," he said. The spokesman said a contact has been established with the militants and a "top terrorist commander" is trapped, without mentioning his name.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mobile-internet-suspended-in-kashmir-as-top-hizbul-commander-riaz-naikoo-trapped-in-encounter-834174.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||13 Tablighi Jamaat members arrested for defying coronavirus lockdown in Uttar Pradesh||Thirteen Tablighi Jamaat members, including two Sri Lankan nationals, were arrested here for allegedly staying in a mosque in violation of the coronavirus lockdown orders, police said on Wednesday. While the two Sri Lankan nationals have been sent to jail, the other 11 Jamaat members were released on bail, they said. The Sir Lanka embassy in Delhi has been informed about the arrest of its two citizens, they added. "The 13 were booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life)," police said. The Sri Lankan nationals were also booked under sections 14 and 14c of the Foreigners Act for violating the visa regulations by indulging in religious activities, they added. As per the guidelines issued by the Centre, religious places and places of worship will remain shut during the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus. The district authorities have launched a drive to trace all members of the Tablighi Jamaat who have been in "hiding" since the lockdown was imposed on March 25. A gathering held at Tablighi Jamaat's headquarters at Nizamuddin in Delhi in mid-March, which was attended by delegates from across India and also abroad, had become a key source for the spread of COVID-19. At least 9,000 people participated in the congregation, after which many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country. District Magistrate Chandra Bhushan had issued an appeal that "it was in public interest that such persons are immediately traced". During the past two days, 72 such individuals, who belonged to different districts of the state, were identified, police said. The district authorities with the help of some local Muslim leaders, including former legislator from Aligarh Haji Zameer Ullah, made the arrangements for sending these persons to their native places after completing medical formalities.  Zameer Ullah, in a statement, urged the UP chief minister to take necessary steps for the early release of the two Sri Lankan nationals on humanitarian grounds since they were the victims of the circumstances and also in view of the holy month of Ramzan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-tablighi-jamaat-members-arrested-for-defying-coronavirus-lockdown-in-uttar-pradesh-834200.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus cases reach 1,681 in Indore; death toll rises to 81||The number of coronavirus cases in Indore rose to 1,681 after 27 more people tested positive for the disease in the Madhya Pradesh district in last 24 hours, an official said on Wednesday. The death toll also went up to 81 as two more patients succumbed to the viral infection in the district, which is among the worst hit by COVID-19 in the country, Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia said. The two victims included a 36-year-old man, who was already suffering from diabetes and hypertension, and a 75- year-old man, who had a cardiac disorder. Till now, 491 patients from Indore have been discharged after recovery. As per an analysis of the data, the COVID-19 death rate in the district was 4.82 per cent till Wednesday morning. For the last 10 days, the death rate in the district, which is under the COVID-19 red zone, has remained below five per cent. Curfew is in force in the urban limits of Indore since March 25, after the first coronavirus patient was found in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cases-reach-1681-in-indore-death-toll-rises-to-81-834205.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Don't use Naikoo's death to provoke violence, protest: Omar Abdullah||Hizbul Mujahideen commander Reyaz Naikoo's death must not be used as an excuse by some to put more people in "harm's way by provoking violence and protests", former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said on Wednesday. In a tweet, Omar said Naikoo's destiny was decided the moment he picked up the gun and adopted the path of violence and terror. "His death must not be used as an excuse by some to put more people in harm's way by provoking violence & protests," he said. Naikoo, on the run for eight years, was killed on Wednesday by security forces in his village in Kashmir's Pulwama district. The gunning down of the top terrorist commander comes three days after eight security personnel, including two Army officers Colonel Ashutosh Sharma and Major Anuj Sood, were killed in Handwara. News of the killing of 35-year-old Naikoo, who carried a reward of Rs 12 lakh on his head and had escaped the police thrice, led to some incidents of people pelting stones at security forces. However, this was handled with care to ensure there was was no collateral damage, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-use-naikoos-death-to-provoke-violence-protest-omar-abdullah-834211.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Most of MP's COVID-19 deceased were gas tragedy victims: Bhopal NGO||The Madhya Pradesh government has decided to screen the vulnerable section among the 1984 gas tragedy survivors who showed primary symptoms so that they can be isolated in view of the deaths of 17 people due to COVID-19 in Bhopal so far, a senior official said on Wednesday. While an NGO has claimed that 15 of the 17 COVID-19 deceased were the survivors of the gas tragedy, the government said it was not in a position to confirm this claim at this stage. "We have compiled the data of 15 out of the 17 deaths in the state capital due to COVID-19 and found that 15 were 1984 gas tragedy victims as per their health records," Bhopal Group for Information and Action (BGIA) convener Rachna Dhingra told PTI. The BGIA, which works for rehabilitation of the gas victims, has shared a list of the 15 deceased and the health complications among them due to inhalation of toxic plumes of Methyl Isocyanate that leaked from a plant on the intervening night of December 2 and 3, 1984, killing thousands. "As the gas victims are already affected, they are more vulnerable to COVID-19 and hence needed extra care and attention which the authorities failed to gauge while converting the dedicated Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC) into a state-level COVID-19 facility, and later reversed that status following the deaths of the gas affected persons," Dhingra claimed. Meanwhile, the state government has decided to screen the vulnerable section among the survivors of the world's worst industrial disaster so that they can be isolated at a dedicated centre in the event of showing any primary symptoms of coronavirus infection. "We cannot say at this stage that out of 17 how many were gas tragedy victims, but we have decided to start screening those persons who are more vulnerable and have developed initial symptoms of COVID-19, so that they can be isolated and quarantined," newly-appointed Bhopal Gas Relief department's director Ved Prakash told PTI. Once identified, they would be isolated at Rasool Ahmed Pulmonary Medicine Centre, a facility of the Gas Relief department, he said.  "If they are found to be infected with coronavirus, they would be shifted to the dedicated COVID facility in Bhopal," said Ved Prakash.   Meanwhile, the BGIA claimed that of the 15 deaths due to COVID-19, ten were over 60 years of age, three were around 50 while the rest two were under 45 years of age. The youngest victim among them was a 39-year-old who had history of hypertension and a 42-year-old cancer patient, it claimed. According to BGIA, all the 15 deceased had been exposed to the toxic gas and lived within four-km radius of the now-defunct plant. "Majority of the victims had comorbidities like COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease), diabetes, cancer, TB and hypertension etc, that made them more vulnerable to COVID-19," Dhingra claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/most-of-mps-covid-19-deceased-were-gas-tragedy-victims-bhopal-ngo-834216.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi govt launches Twitter handle to provide information, address complaints||Delhi government on Wednesday launched a new Twitter handle -- @DelhiVsCorona -- to provide "authentic" information about COVID-19 and address complaints raised by citizens. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal launched the handle, which is designed as a "one-stop solution" for all COVID-19 related queries and complaints. A dedicated team has been assigned to keep a tab on the live status of the situation in hospitals where Covid-19 patients are treated and provide authentic information. This team will be in touch with the patients and the doctors on a regular basis and ensure a speedy solution to their issues. Twitter users can tag @DelhiVsCorona and tweet their queries regarding ration, checkups, hospital-related queries or any other COVID-19 related queries. The dedicated team will ensure swift and speedy action on the issues related to the pandemic raised on Twitter. "This will help to reduce panic and anxiety amongst the citizens of Delhi. This twitter handle will work as a one-stop solution of all the COVID-19 related queries and complaints in Delhi," a statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-govt-launches-twitter-handle-to-provide-information-address-complaints-834219.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Admin of 'Bois Locker Room' on Instagram arrested||The administrator of Instagram group 'Bois Locker Room' where school and college students shared morphed images and threats of gang rape, was arrested in the national capital on Wednesday, police said. The arrest of the youth in Noida came after police earlier detained a minor who helped in identifying at least 10 members of the group. Police refused to identify the arrested person, saying it could lead to revealing the identities of the minors who were part of the group, which had attracted the ire of people for its misogynistic content. However, officials said, the arrested youth, who is above 18-year-old, have appeared for Class XII exams this year. The shocking incident came to light after screenshots of the conversations on an Instagram group were shared on social media. A Delhi Police spokesperson said the Cyber Cell of Delhi Police has sought details from Instagram regarding the group. The mobile phones and other electronic devices used for chatting in the group were seized and sent for forensic analysis. "The role of other group members is being ascertained," the spokesperson said. These boys had formed two other groups after the content in 'Bois Locker Room' came out in public domain. Some girls were also added to the group. Delhi Police's Cyber Cell had on Monday took suo motu cognizance of the screenshots that went viral and registered a case under Information Technology Act and Indian Penal Code. A 19-year-old college student has also filed a complaint with Delhi Police after she discovered her images shared on the chatroom. One of the schools have also approached police. The members of the group were school students from prominent schools in the national capital. It also has some college students as members in the group and some girls were also added to the group. The incident came to light after screenshots of the conversation were posted on social media, which spoke about threat of sexual assault of girls besides sharing morphed photos of young girls. The screenshots made it to social media after an Instagram user received screenshots from a girl who was added to the group. Some of the screenshots that were shared in social media showed comments like "I will rape her easily" while some others threatened to leak nude photos of girls who unravelled the group. Later, the Instagram account was deleted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/admin-of-bois-locker-room-on-instagram-arrested-834231.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Plea in Delhi HC for early hearing on petition relating to violence at Jamia over CAA||A plea was filed in the Delhi High Court on Wednesday for early hearing on a petition seeking setting up of a judicial commission to inquire into the December 2019 violence of Jamia Millia Islamia University protests against the Citizenship (amendment) Act (CAA). The application for early hearing is listed on May 8. Earlier the high court had fixed for July, the hearing on the main petition, in which notices were issued to the Centre, AAP Government and Delhi Police. The fresh application was filed in the pending petition by advocate and petitioner Nabila Hasan in which she has sought action against the police for brutally attacking the petitioners, students and residents of Jamia Millia Islamia. The petition has highlighted the alleged ruthlessness, and excessive use of force and aggression unleashed by police and paramilitary forces on students within the university. The plea, filed through advocates Sneha Mukherjee and Siddharth Seem, said the government imposed complete lockdown across the country on March 24 due to the spread of coronavirus during which movement of people is restricted but several students from the university have been called to the police station and crime branch. It said students are made to sit there for hours in the name of investigation by the police and “the harassment of the students at the hand of the Delhi Police has not stopped even with the current situations in the country” Besides the present petition in which an application has been filed for early hearing, various other petitions were also filed, including by lawyers, students of JMI, residents of Okhla where the university is located and the Imam of Jama Masjid mosque opposite Parliament House, and they sought action including medical treatment and compensation for the students and registration of FIRs against the erring police officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-in-delhi-hc-for-early-hearing-on-petition-relating-to-violence-at-jamia-over-caa-834237.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||UP govt hikes liquor prices by Rs 5 to Rs 400 a bottle||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday decided to increase liquor prices in the state, ranging from Rs 5 to Rs 400 per bottle depending upon its size and category of the drink. The decision to increase the liquor price was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, said Finance Minister Suresh Khanna, adding the hike is likely to earn a revenue of Rs 2,350 crore in fiscal 2020-21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-hikes-liquor-prices-by-rs-5-to-rs-400-a-bottle-834265.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: After 10-day walk, migrant workers reach UP's Shamli||A group of migrant workers, accompanied by women and children, reached UP’s Shamli after travelling on foot for 10 days from Punjab’s Ludhiana, police said on Wednesday. The group of 40 included five children and three women. They were going towards Fatehpur district when police stopped them in Shamli on Tuesday evening. Police said the group members said that they had to cross the Yamuna river with the help of a tube during their journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-after-10-day-walk-migrant-workers-reach-ups-shamli-834278.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Don't use Naikoo's death to provoke violence, says Omar||Hizbul Mujahideen commander Reyaz Naikoo's death must not be used as an excuse by some to put more people in "harm's way by provoking violence and protests", former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said on Wednesday. In a tweet, Omar said Naikoo's destiny was decided the moment he picked up the gun and adopted the path of violence and terror. "His death must not be used as an excuse by some to put more people in harms way by provoking violence & protests," he said. Naikoo, on the run for eight years, was killed on Wednesday by security forces in his village in Kashmir's Pulwama district. The gunning down of the top terrorist commander comes three days after eight security personnel, including two Army officers Colonel Ashutosh Sharma and Major Anuj Sood, were killed in Handwara. News of the killing of 35-year-old Naikoo, who carried a reward of Rs 12 lakh on his head and had escaped the police thrice, led to some incidents of people pelting stones at security forces. However, this was handled with care to ensure there was was no collateral damage, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-use-naikoos-death-to-provoke-violence-says-omar-834294.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police registers first COVID-19 death||A 31-year-old Delhi Police constable who died after falling sick on Tuesday evening had tested positive for coronavirus, registering the first death in the city police due to the infection, officials said on Wednesday. The constable’s sample was sent for COVID-19 test and the reports came as positive on Wednesday, they said. This is the first casualty in Delhi Police with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic. More than 26 police personnel of the force have been tested positive for the virus so far. Some of them have resumed their duties post recovery. Taking to Twitter, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava expressed his condolence to the family of the deceased and assured of all assistance. "The sudden demise of late Constable Amit Kumar from PS Bharat Nagar has saddened the police fraternity. We stand by his family in this hour of grief and pray to the Almighty to provide strength to bear this loss. All assistance to his family will be provided," he tweeted. The constable, a resident of Sonipat in Haryana, was posted at the Bharat Nagar Police Station in northwest Delhi, police said. He had fallen sick on Tuesday and was examined at the Deep Chand Bandhi Hospital where he was given medicines, they said. On Tuesday evening, when the constable reported that he was feeling uncomfortable, he was immediately taken to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital where he was declared brought dead, a senior police official said. The police personnel who came in contact with the constable have been home quarantined, he said, adding the postmortem examination is yet to be conducted. The constable is survived by his wife and 3-year-old son, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-registers-first-covid-19-death-834297.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt orders release of 4,000 quarantined Tablighi members, those needed in Markaz case to be handed over to police||Delhi government has decided to released around 4,000 people who are either Tablighi Jamaat members or those who came in contact with them from coronavirus quarantine centres in the coming days. All of them have completed their quarantine period, prompting Delhi Home Minister Satyender Jain to issue an order for their release. However, those who are named in the FIR registered by Delhi Police in connection with Tablighi Jamaat gathering in mid-March that is linked to the spread of COVID-19 will be handed over to Delhi Police. Authorities have evacuated 2,300 people from Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in south Delhi's Nizamuddin in March-end following reports that several people who left for their home states after attending the religious gathering there contracted COVID-19. Around 1,100 out of the 4,000 tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Of the 4,000 people, around 900 belongs to the national capital while the rest belong to other states. All of them have tested negative twice for Covid-19, which is a mandatory requirement for release from quarantine centres. Officials said Delhi government's Home Department would be in touch with the Resident Commissioners of states to facilitate the travel of those who belong to other states, especially from Tamil Nadu and Telangana. Thousands of Tablighi Jamaat members had been taken out of its Markaz (centre) in Nizamuddin where they had gathered for a religious congregation. The area became a major hotspot after a number of members tested positive for coronavirus.  The members also received flak after there were complaints of misbehaviour by some of them with health workers. There were allegations that Muslims were targeted and blamed for the spread of the pandemic by some after a number of coronavirus cases were found linked to the Tablighi event||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-orders-release-of-4000-quarantined-tablighi-members-those-needed-in-markaz-case-to-be-handed-over-to-police-834302.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt announces summer vacation for schools from May 11 to June 30||The Delhi government has announced summer vacation in schools run and aided by the government from May 11 to June 30, officials said on Wednesday. The government has also clarified that students will not be called to schools for any vacation-related activity in view of the COVID-19 situation.  "Due to ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the teaching and learning activities in the schools have been suspended since March 23. The lockdown has further extended upto May 1. "The summer vacations in government and government aided schools shall be observed from May 11 to June 30. However, keeping in view the COVID-19 pandemic, students shall not be called to schools for any teaching learning activity during summer vacation," a senior official of the Directorate of Education (DoE) said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-announces-summer-vacation-for-schools-from-may-11-to-june-30-834309.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police registers first coronavirus death||A 31-year-old Delhi Police constable who died after falling sick on Tuesday evening had tested positive for coronavirus, registering the first death in the city police due to the infection, officials said on Wednesday. The constable’s sample was sent for COVID-19 test and the reports came as positive on Wednesday, they said. This is the first casualty in Delhi Police with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic. More than 26 police personnel of the force have been tested positive for the virus so far. Some of them have resumed their duties post recovery. Taking to Twitter, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava expressed his condolence to the family of the deceased and assured of all assistance. "The sudden demise of late Constable Amit Kumar from PS Bharat Nagar has saddened the police fraternity. We stand by his family in this hour of grief and pray to the Almighty to provide strength to bear this loss. All assistance to his family will be provided," he tweeted. The constable, a resident of Sonipat in Haryana, was posted at the Bharat Nagar Police Station in northwest Delhi, police said. He had fallen sick on Tuesday and was examined at the Deep Chand Bandhi Hospital where he was given medicines, they said. On Tuesday evening, when the constable reported that he was feeling uncomfortable, he was immediately taken to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital where he was declared brought dead, a senior police official said.  The police personnel who came in contact with the constable have been home quarantined, he said, adding the postmortem examination is yet to be conducted. The constable is survived by his wife and 3-year-old son, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-registers-first-coronavirus-death-834311.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||High fatality rate among COVID-19 patients in Gujarat, Maharashtra worrisome: Harsh Vardhan||Expressing concern over high fatality rate among COVID-19 patients in some districts of Maharashtra and Gujarat, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday asked the states to focus on early surveillance, aggressive contact tracing and early diagnosis to reduce the number of deaths in the areas. The minister held a high-level meeting with Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Nitinbhai Patel and Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope. In the meeting, Vardhan stressed on the need for proper interventions like screening and testing of severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and Influenza Like Illness (ILI) cases as this may prevent spread of infection in other areas. "Implementation of effective containment strategy needs be on the top priority of the states to reduce the mortality rate. It is the need of the hour to take preventive, pre-emptive and comprehensive measures in a systematic manner and follow the protocols laid down by the Centre to prevent occurrence of fresh cases," he said. It was pointed out that in some cases, the patients either suppressed the information of their infection or reported late to the hospitals for treatment, which may be indicative of some fear or stigma associated with COVID-19. Aggressive behavioural change and communication exercise need to be taken for removing the stigma against reporting COVID-19, which shall contribute towards timely reporting, clinical management and reduction in fatality rates, the minister stressed. "This shall also lead to people reporting early for diagnosis and treatment," he said. Of the 1,694 fatalities and 49,391 cases of coronavirus infections reported till Wednesday morning, Maharashtra tops the tally with 617 fatalities and 15,525 cases followed by Gujarat with 368 deaths and 6,245 cases, according to the data provided by the Union health ministry. The health ministry had on Tuesday said the nationwide COVID-19 case status will be updated on its website only once a day in the morning instead of twice a day as was being done previously. In view of Gujarat and Maharashtra reporting larger number of coronavirus deaths and cases, Vardhan suggested that along with the surveillance teams in containment areas, community volunteers may also be identified at the ward-level to spread awareness about the preventive measures like hand washing, physical distancing etc. Some districts such as Aurangabad and Pune have done this, he said. The health ministry would provide full support and handholding to the state governments through the National Health Mission (NHM) for health systems strengthening as part of the immediate and long-term measures, the health minister stated.  He also appreciated the move by some districts where the high-risk population, including the elderly and those with non-communicable diseases such as diabetes and hypertension, were identified and provided focused treatment. The Union minister urged the states to ensure that persons aged more than 65 years having any non-communicable disease are screened on priority in the Ayushman Bharat-Health and Wellness Centers. He also pointed out that in compliance of the guidelines issued by the Centre, non-COVID-19 essential health services such as antenatal care, immunisation drives, Tuberculosis case finding and treatment, providing blood transfusion for dialysis patients, treatment of cancer patients among others should not be neglected. Vardhan suggested that the data available with the states on Health Management Information System (HMIS) for various diseases may be optimally utilised for risk profiling. He also assured that additional teams comprising of officials from the Centre will also be deployed in the states as per their request, adding they may also take support offered by AIIMS, Delhi for treatment guidance and clinical management of COVID-19 patients through the national teleconsultation centre. “A single mobile number (+91 9115444155) can be dialed from anywhere in the country by COVID-19 treating doctors to reach the centre,” he informed. The health minister also asked the states to publicise the Aarogya Setu mobile application and the Aarogy Setu Interactive Voice Response System facility for those without smartphones. He also appreciated the best practices shared by the district magistrates, commissioners and other officials of various districts like “Corona Yodha Samitis” developed in slum areas of Surat in Gujarat, distribution of soaps and masks to each family, installation of hand washing machines in slum areas, setting up of fever clinics among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-fatality-rate-among-covid-19-patients-in-gujarat-maharashtra-worrisome-harsh-vardhan-834344.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||PIL in Delhi HC claims lack of facilities in COVID-19 quarantine wards at Narela||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the AAP government to reply to a PIL alleging it was not providing doctors or maintaining hygiene and sanitisation at the DDA flats in Narela which have been turned into quarantine wards for coronavirus patients. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad issued notice to the Delhi government and asked it to file its response to the plea in three days. The court listed the matter for further hearing on May 14. The petitioner, Nirmal Gorana, has alleged that the Delhi government was not making available doctors at the flats and was not ensuring proper hygiene and sanitisation in the area. His plea also claimed that there were not sufficient number of sanitation workers for carrying out disinfection of toilets and rooms, the food quality needs to be improved, and linen, soap, sanitizers and other essential items were not being provided.  The lawyer appearing for the Delhi government disputed the contentions and said that according to instructions received from the District Magistrate (North), "all facilities were being made available at the fourteen towers constructed by DDA at Narela that have been partly converted for housing patients who have been diagnosed as Covid-19 'positive' and partially for quarantining those who have turned Covid-19 'negative,' after treatment".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-in-delhi-hc-claims-lack-of-facilities-in-covid-19-quarantine-wards-at-narela-834362.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Petrol, diesel prices raised by nearly Rs 3 a litre in Chandigarh||Petrol and diesel prices in Chandigarh will go up by nearly Rs 3 per litre with the Union Territory administration announcing a hike in VAT rate on fuel by five per cent on Wednesday. Petrol in the city now costs Rs 68.62 a litre, a hike of Rs 2.8, and diesel Rs 62.02 per litre, an increase of Rs 2.72. Before the increase in tax, the price of petrol and diesel in Chandigarh was Rs 65.82 and Rs 59.30 a litre respectively. The union administration's decision came a day after the Punjab government raised VAT on the two fuels. Despite increase in VAC, the fuel prices in Chandigarh continue to be lower than that of Punjab. Prices of petrol and diesel in Mohali stood at Rs 72.58 a litre and Rs 64.05 a litre respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/petrol-diesel-prices-raised-by-nearly-rs-3-a-litre-in-chandigarh-834369.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt issues guidelines on allowing industrial units to work during lockdown||As the Delhi government on Wednesday issued detailed guidelines on allowing industrial and in situ construction works during lockdown, including compulsory download of Aarogya Setu app, confusion persisted over the opening of units manufacturing non-essential goods. The guidelines were issued by district magistrates that prescribed among other things, downloading of 'Arogya Setu' mobile application by all workers and employees for alerts on proximity of coronavirus positive people. “Delhi Industries Minister Satyendar Jain in a meeting with representatives of industries in the city, organised by AAP Trade Wing, said all industries having 'access control' can start work,” Brijesh Goyal, convener of AAP Trade Wing, said.  The guidelines issued by the district magistrates (or chairmen of respective District Disaster Management Authority-DDMA) prescribed social distancing, use of hand wash, sanitisers and face masks, no handshakes and sharing of food and other personal items by workers and employees, thermal screening and facility of isolation in case any worker or employee developed symptoms of coronavirus infection. Some industry representatives, however, expressed concern over "lack of clarity" in the guidelines, saying they would wait till the lockdown is lifted. "It is not mentioned in the guidelines that all kinds of industries can open. It mentions only those units manufacturing essential activities. We will have to wait for clear orders before opening the units,” Ashok Gupta, president of Udyog Nagar Industry Association, said. Mayapuri Industrial Area general secretary R O Gupta said the guidelines permit opening of urban industrial establishments, including special economic zones (SEZs), export oriented units (EOUs) with access control, and those units manufacturing essential goods. "Mayapuri and some other industrial areas are neither SEZs nor EOUs. They also do not have any access control. So, there is no option before us but to wait for the lockdown to be lifted," he said. Dismissing any kind of confusion, Goyal said the "doubt" over opening of factories in Delhi is over. "Most of the industries in Delhi barring those concerning essential goods were closed because the district magistrates refused permission to them. But the industries minister today said that all kinds of essential and non-essential industries with access control can be run in industrial areas in Delhi as per the MHA guidelines," he said. Delhi has 28 notified industrial areas besides at least 23 such areas that are notified under redevelopment and do not have access control i.e. permitting regulated entry and exit. Goyal said the industries minister has asked all district authorities to issue clear guidelines so that production units can start work. The construction activities in the city resumed with the Public Works Department (PWD) of the Delhi government taking up work on major infrastructure projects, including a tunnel for diversion of traffic on Mathura Road, Barapullah elevated corridor and a couple of flyovers, officials said. The work started after taking all the precautions like sanitisation of the sites and equipment, and ensuring personal safety measures for workers and engineers at work, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-issues-guidelines-on-allowing-industrial-units-to-work-during-lockdown-834402.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||Punjab suffers 88 per cent revenue loss in April: CM||Pegging the April revenue shortfall for Punjab at 88 per cent, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said with all tax revenues dried up and only 1.5 per cent of the industry currently operational, the state was facing a difficult financial situation. He said that the situation has been compounded by absence of aid from the central government. Participating in a video conference of chief ministers of Congress-ruled states with party president Sonia Gandhi, along with Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi, Singh shared his state's COVID-19 containment strategy and the roadmap for economic revival. During the meeting, Sonia Gandhi asked the chief minister to convey her congratulations to the farmers of Punjab for a smooth procurement season, with Singh disclosing that more than 100 lakh MT had arrived in the mandis already, and the entire procurement process was expected to be completed by mid-May. As against the estimated revenue of Rs 3,360 crore for April, only Rs 396 crore had been received during the month, the chief minister said, adding that the state's power consumption had declined by 30 per cent with a daily loss of Rs 30 crore to the Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd. In addition, the state's GST arrears of Rs 4365.37 crore are yet to be paid by Government of India, he said. The initial report of the 'Group of Experts' headed by Montek Singh Ahluwalia, on the economic and industrial revival of the state, was likely to be received in three months, and it would take another month after that to refine and finalise the same, Singh said. However, he said that despite the financial crunch, his government was committed to preparing the society and the common man to manage and contain the coronavirus, and it was also taking every possible step to upgrade and readjust the state's healthcare system to meet the challenges of the pandemic. The chief minister was of the opinion that the decision on classification of zones as red, orange or green should be left to the states, which, in turn, could authorise the deputy commissioners to demarcate as per the ground realities. He cited the example of Patiala being classified as a red zone, even though Nabha, a major milk-producing area, is located in the district, an official release said. Punjab currently has four containment zones and four red zone districts. Fifteen districts are in orange zone and the remaining three in green zone. Providing an update on the COVID-19 situation in the state, which has reported a total of 1,451 positive cases with 25 deaths (mortality rate of 1.72 per cent), the chief minister said there had been a spike in cases in Punjab after Punjabis started coming back from Rajasthan and Maharashtra. Of the 4,200-odd people who had returned from Nanded, 969 had tested positive, though only 23 of them were symptomatic, he said. Some results were awaited, he said, adding that the spike was expected to end, with the situation stabilising in the next 3-4 days, once testing of all such people is completed. All returnees are now being checked and quarantined, he added. The chief minister warned of high-risk of spread of infection in the state from those returning to the state, especially the workers coming back from the Gulf in crowded ships. Four ships of migrants, mostly labourers, were expected to arrive in the next few days, while the first plane with NRIs was expected to reach Punjab on Thursday, he said. Giving details, the chief minister said around 20,000 international travellers are expected to return to Punjab in the next 3-4 weeks, in addition to around 12,000 who had registered in other states for coming back. As for the migrant workers wanting to go back from Punjab to their native states, he said that 10 lakh had registered so far, of which 85 per cent belonged to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The state government has sanctioned Rs 35 crore to provide for train travel cost of these workers, he said, adding that three trains left on May 5 for UP and Jharkhand and six more were scheduled for May 6. With around 2,500 regular tests being done daily, the total tests in the state had gone up to 30,199, Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-suffers-88-per-cent-revenue-loss-in-april-cm-834426.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||1 more positive COVID-19 case in Himachal, tally at 44||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in Himachal Pradesh's Kangra district on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 44 in the state, officials said. The patient is a resident of Jamanabad in Kangra district, Superintendent of Police Vimukt Ranjan said. Meanwhile, Kangra Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said the man was quarantined at Panchayati Raj Training Institute (PRTI) in Baijnath after he had been tested positive at Tanda's Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC). He returned from Dubai last month and subsequently came to his house in a taxi with three other persons on April 27. The taxi driver has also been identified. The DC said the quarantined man's 24 contacts were identified. They have been quarantined and their samples have also been taken for testing, Prajapati added. Meanwhile, one more person who had been staying at Gagret in Una district tested positive in Jammu and Kashmir. A resident of Jammu, the man had returned to Jammu and Kashmir a few days ago and was tested positive at Lakhanpur, Una Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Kumar said. The DC said the district administration received information from Lakhanpur that the man had been tested positive for coronavirus. His contacts in Una district have been quarantined, he added. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said, "Of the 600 samples sent for testing on Wednesday, 212 tested negative whereas the one from Kangra tested positive for the infection while reports of the rest are awaited." Of the total 44 patients in the state, 34 have recovered and three died. The fatalities include a 70-year-old Delhi resident who had stayed at a guest house of a factory in Solan's Baddi and died at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, on April 2. Four people were shifted to other states for treatment. Himachal Pradesh now has three active cases, one each in Sirmaur, Kangra and Mandi districts. Una has the highest number of recovered patients at 16, followed by Chamba with six, Solan with five, Kangra with four, Hamirpur with two and Sirmaur with one, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1-more-positive-covid-19-case-in-himachal-tally-at-44-834427.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||One more COVID-19 death in Haryana; tally rises to 594||Haryana reported one more coronavirus death on Wednesday as the number of people testing positive for the infection rose to 594 with 46 fresh cases. So far, the virus has claimed seven lives in the state. The latest victim of the infection is a 25-year-old Panipat man who died on Monday. His test report came on Wednesday, confirming him to be coronavirus case, officials said. Of the fresh 46 cases, 20 were reported from Gurgaon, a district adjoining Delhi and part of the National Capital Region (NCR). The state government had recently closed its border with Delhi, maintaining that a spurt in cases has been witnessed in the districts bordering the national capital. In the past four days, Haryana has reported more than 200 cases, including 75 on Monday. Gurgaon is the first district in the state which has crossed the 100-mark. The district has so far reported 104 cases, 53 of which are active. Other districts falling in the NCR also reported fresh cases. While three cases were reported from Sonipat; two from Faridabad; six from Jhajjar; and five from Panipat, a Health Department bulletin said. Karnal also reported five cases while one patient was detected in Jind. Ambala reported four cases, all of whom were pilgrims who recently returned from Maharashtra’s Nanded, officials said. The bulletin said the total number of active cases in the state is 327 while 260 people have been discharged from hospital after treatment. Haryana's recovery rate, which had been one of the best in the country, has now dropped from 72 per cent to 43.77 cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-covid-19-death-in-haryana-tally-rises-to-594-834432.html
06-05-2020||North and Central||4 more die of coronavirus in UP as tally nears 3,000||Uttar Pradesh reported four more coronavirus deaths as the state's infection count rose to 2,998 with 118 fresh cases surfacing on Wednesday. So far, 60 people have died of infection in the state, where 67 of the 75 districts have been hit by the pandemic. According to a health bulletin, one death each was reported from Allahabad, Etah, Meerut and Aligarh on Wednesday. The maximum 16 deaths have been reported from Agra, followed by eight from Meerut; seven from Moradabad; six from Kanpur; four from Mathura; three from Firozabad; and two each from Ghaziabad and Aligarh. A fatality each has been reported from Lucknow, Varanasi, Bareilly, Jhansi, Bulandshahr, Mainpuri, Bijnor, Amroha, Basti, Shravasti, Etah and Allahabad. Of the fresh 118 cases on Wednesday, the maximum 16 were reported from Kanpur; followed Agra (15), Firozabad (12), Meerut (11), Varanasi (9), Banda (7) and Ghaziabad (6). As many as 1,130 patients have recovered from the disease, the bulletin said, adding that the number of active cases is 1,808. Earlier, Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said the recovery rate in the state was rising and was above the national average. While the national recovery rate is 28.71 per cent, in Uttar Pradesh it is 38.37 per cent, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-more-die-of-coronavirus-in-up-as-tally-nears-3000-834440.html
06-05-2020||Opinion||Who should get COVID-19 economic relief?||A consequence of the extraordinary times that we live in has led to almost every section, including state governments, to clamour for help from the Central government. Invariably, limited resources mean that there is a need for judicious use of available resources.  The present crisis is very different from ones that we have seen. It requires concurrent demand and supply-side interventions. The crisis has created problems related to solvency which will be made worse by liquidity problems – especially in the middle and lower levels of the economic pyramid. Hence, there is a need for the government to urgently support sectors which employ a large number of people with a specific focus on supporting self-employed and smaller businesses which mostly hire family labour.  Such support would make survival easy and increase the probability of restarting the consumption cycle and help the debt repayment cycle recover faster than attempting to bail out larger companies or only those in the organised sector.  Fund economic activity  It would be economically useful if government support goes to specific sectors related to the Micro, Small and Medium sector (MSMEs), agriculture and transportation sector in the next round. Invariably, this support has to be in conjunction with support for the banking sector and Non Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs).   MSMEs as a generic category with all its diversity accounted for 30.3 percent of the GDP in 2018-19 and about 45 percent of manufacturing across 6.3 crore units in 2016-17 employing around 11 crore people and nearly half of them located in rural areas. Interestingly, there were only 3.18 crore accounts with total outstanding credit to MSMEs pegged at Rs 4.78 lakh crores by the end of February 2020. Ideally, it would be useful for the government to support companies with a paid-up capital of less than Rs 5 crore. This may be expanded gradually to those companies with a capital of less than Rs 10 crore.  Agriculture and allied activities is another large employer – 54.6 percent of India’s total workforce and in 2018-19 accounted it for 16 percent of Gross Value Added (GVA). The targeted priority sector lending (PSL) to agriculture in 2019-20 was Rs 13.5 lakh crore. However, there are only about 2.36 crore Kisan Credit Card (KCC) accounts which comprise of individual cultivating households whose outstanding crop loan total was Rs 4.136 lakh crore in March 2019. It is safe to assume that the rest of the loans have either been diverted or have gone to commercial entities.   The other important sector which provides large scale employment is the transportation services, which according to NSS 74th Round are mostly (97.4 percent) individuals. Government data indicates that approximately 11 crore goods vehicles have been registered in the country since 2001 but probably only about 60 percent are operational due to various reasons. RBI data indicates that outstanding credit to transport operators of all hues at the end of February 2020 was Rs 1.42 lakh crore. However, these figures reveal only a part of the story since most trucks on the roads are financed by NBFCs who in turn borrow from the banks. Suggested support It is likely that the onset of the new agricultural season will lead to hardship because of issues related to lack of market access (due to lockdown) and the need to raise money for inputs for the new season. The preferred option will be to convert at least the outstanding crop loans against KCC accounts to term loans that are repayable over three to five years. The best support for MSMEs will be if the Central and State governments and the public sector organisations clear outstanding due for goods and services procured in the past. In many cases, this single measure will enable businesses to survive periods varying from one to three months. In the case of MSMEs and transporters, a good starting point of support is the RBI and the banks offering borrowers an additional grace period of 15 days for the outstanding EMIs preferably through fresh agreements with borrowers. Providing an additional working capital for MSMEs and other businesses may make an essential difference between survival and close of these businesses. Any closure of businesses will only increase unemployment and further aggravate the problems in the economy including additional problems for the financial sector.  (S Ananth is an independent researcher based in Andhra Pradesh. Views are personal)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/who-should-get-covid-19-economic-relief-834180.html
06-05-2020||Panorama||‘For-benefits’: A new economic order for the post-COVID era||Bommi is an indigenous tribal farmer living on the fringes of Bandipur National Park in Karnataka. Each year, she grows ragi on her two-acre land. For their assistance in the harvesting of the crop, her relatives and neighbours are rewarded with a few bags of ragi, depending on how much she has reaped in that year.  This year was no different, and before the Covid-19 pandemic, Bommi was waiting for the harvested crop to be threshed. Unfortunately, things did not go as planned and the ensuing lockdown and social distancing meant that she had no one to help her with the threshing. She not only worries about herself, but also about all her landless neighbours and relatives. Life as we know it has changed drastically not just for Bommi but for all of us around the world. Global leaders and millions of citizens are facing the challenge of a lifetime. The Covid-19 pandemic is threatening not only healthcare systems, but also the livelihoods of citizens and the stability of economies. With talk of stimulus and financial packages doing the rounds, this may be the right time to ask the question, is it sensible to go down the beaten path without exploring viable alternatives?  The current economic model thrives on consumption and the paradigm of markets reigning supreme.  There is little space for concepts like community, equity, fairness and justice. All participants in the economy operate on the principle of “profit maximization” and have little time or patience for exploring options of making it more “compassionate” or “soulful”. Though there is talk of the triple bottom line, there is not enough traction to make a significant impact on the way in which the planet and other living creatures on it are addressed. What is required now is not just a new narrative but a new way of operating itself. This new economic model needs to borrow the DNA of creating surplus value and sharing it, something that Bommi and other indigenous communities like hers have practiced for generations.  The current crisis has raised several questions, the answers to which can form the basis of this new economic order. Questions like, what kind of jobs are important? What is the value that several jobs in the informal economy offered? Does legal ownership mean that the maximum benefit flows only to the owner? Who is to be considered economically important and relevant and given appropriate focus? Does economic growth have to result in environmental degradation? We are beginning to see several roles ignored earlier, as critical and important to society now. The crisis has also shown that behaviour change is possible and collective action can be achieved. Interconnectedness is now more visible and big business has begun to take a relook at the value chain.  The crisis and the response has also exposed the strengths and limitations of different sectors -– private, public, and the NGO world. It is also forcing us to redefine what constitutes ‘public good’.  We have learnt that human life is important, but its importance is intricately and inseparably linked to other lifeforms in particular and the life of the planet in general. Words like planet, people, profits and peace (the 4Ps) can no longer be fashion statements but have to become an integral part of our lives and lifestyles. Drawing lessons from this, we now need to fashion a new economic narrative that needs to shift from mere financial bottom-line to other issues, like creating and sharing benefits, stakeholder roles, sectoral strengths, interconnectedness, and life’s priorities. We have to now move towards forming democratically self-managed companies keeping the interests of all the stakeholders involved. Legal ownership, decision-making, remuneration and profit-sharing has to be made on an equitable basis, driven by the ‘value’ that each stakeholder brings and the benefits that accrue by this value.  The emerging disparate examples from around the world indicate that ‘for-benefits’ are a rapidly growing class of organisations that are giving rise to a new, fourth sector of the economy. Like non-profits and government agencies, ‘for-benefits’ pursue a wide range of social and environmental objectives as their primary purpose. Like for-profits, ‘for-benefits’ primarily earn their revenues by selling a broad range of products and services that improve quality of life for consumers, create jobs, and contribute to the economy. The two defining characteristics that distinguish ‘for-benefits’ from other organisational models are their primary commitment to social purpose, together with a predominantly earned-income business model.  Other characteristics encompass inclusive ownership, stakeholder governance, fair compensation and reasonable returns on their products and services. The ‘for benefits’ strive to ensure that social and environmental performance is constantly improved throughout the stakeholder network. High standards of transparency ensure that social, environmental and financial performance and impact are fully and accurately assessed and reported. Social-purpose assets are preserved upon dissolution, conversion, or ownership transfer. Farmer Producer Organisations (FPO) in India would come closest to qualify as ‘for-benefits’. Unlike traditional for-profits and non-profits, which are legally distinct and recognised entities, ‘for-benefits’ lack formal recognition and common definition because the sector has been emerging in a highly distributed and fragmented way all around the world. Creating and building on this new model is not an easy task; one needs to create a new narrative, a new definition, a new language and a new understanding. We need to build awareness of what are the benefits and for whom and why. We need policies and government buy-in. We need a toolkit to operationalise the benefit economy and institutions to train and provide support for these new entities. Agencies to monitor and evaluate the benefits have to be created. This is a lot of hard work and this is the opportune time to begin. This may all sound politically impossible, but the COVID crisis is pushing it to become politically inevitable. (The writer is the founder of SVYM and GRAAM, Mysuru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/for-benefits-a-new-economic-order-for-the-post-covid-era-834229.html
06-05-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus: 'We need data-driven healthcare'||The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has laid bare the deep fault lines in the Indian healthcare system. In days to come, it is expected that there will be a clamour for greater surveillance, need for better tools to target healthcare delivery, and thus, an increase in use of health information data. While data tools will be essential to plug many gaps in healthcare, a guarded watch over data protection and privacy is necessary. A paper published in the April issue of Bulletin of the World Health Organization titled ‘Ethical challenges of digital health technologies: Aadhaar, India’ highlights the use of Aadhaar in health programs in India which has met with some success while flagging concerns of data use and privacy. Not just Aadhaar, there are other digital health technologies that are seeing a rise in usage and will continue to do so. Like the example of telemedicine, approved for by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoFHW), to facilitate consultancy with doctors during lockdown period, there will be several that will demand and use individual health data. The need for stronger laws, its implementation and awareness around it is thus vital. Aadhaar has been linked to various health-related schemes in India. There has been a growing demand to link Aadhaar with Health Management Information Systems (HMIS) that the National Health Mission (NHM) established across states. This merger of digital identification system with digital health records is considered to bring greater efficiency in healthcare delivery in the country. Maternal and Child Tracking System, which maintains information of pregnant women; Janani Suraksha Yojana, a conditional cash transfer scheme; Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program and National AIDS Control Program are few examples of Aadhaar linked healthcare delivery. A weak data protection regime is a massive concern in use of Aadhaar for healthcare. This usage has seen many litigations in the country's courts. The Electronic Health Record Standard, 2016, lacked the tooth of law and leaks of Aadhaar details both in private as well as government websites have been reported. However, the Puttuswamy judgement by the Supreme Court, addressing the question of the validity of Aadhaar changed as it made privacy a fundamental right. The Personal Data Protection Bill tabled in December 2019, which is with the Parliamentary Standing Committee, focuses on setting up a Data Protection Authority. However, the Bill has come under criticism for allowing government agencies to be exempt from measures to ensure privacy of citizens. In case of Aadhaar linked to healthcare, the insistence of health workers to enrol Aadhaar details to the health information system is commonly heard of. The lack of awareness of one’s rights, the prospect of delay or refusal of benefits often coerce people in subtle ways to part with their data. The challenge faced by low and middle-income countries is enforcing the rule of law. In India, where public health expenditure is a miniscule 1.28% of its GDP, effective targeting and monitoring of welfare programs are essential components in healthcare delivery. In that regard, accurate data is of utmost importance. The linking of Aadhaar with Health Management Information System (HMIS) can provide such data. Be it Ayushman Bharat or other state-sponsored health schemes, Aadhaar has become a mainstay requirement for access to these insurance and benefit programs. When India is past Covid-19, greater focus and spending on healthcare may be in order coupled with heightened use of existing and newer data structures. The availability, accuracy, usage and protection of this data should be ensured. It should be seen that the already existing principal-agent problem in healthcare should not get exacerbated. If concerns of privacy are not addressed it would lead to an epidemic of another sort, a data capture epidemic. Where individuals will be bereft of any protection of their personal data, where companies will mine data for profit, where the state will have a tool to differentiate between a people. Delivery of democracy and healthcare both would be affected if Indians do not demand for a stronger data protection law and its implementation. (Dash teaches biochemistry in a medical school at MAHE, Manipal and Ramasamy is a medical doctor working at Madras Diabetes Research Foundation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-we-need-data-driven-healthcare-834230.html
06-05-2020||Panorama||Contractualisation of workforce will worsen (un)employment scenario||With the ‘Great Lockdown’ extended for two more weeks, despite some relaxations offered by government guidelines, the economic cost of India’s fight against Covid-19 can be seen in the rising unemployment numbers. Relying on CMIE’s most recent estimates, the count of those unemployed -- or those actively seeking jobs but unable to get one -- during the week of April 26 was some 76 million (unemployment rate of 21.1%). In earlier weeks, this was close to 100 million. That high unemployment rate is accompanied by a further fall in the labour force participation rate, dropping from 42.6% (in late March) to 35.4% in figures for end of April. This means, more than 7.2% of the working age population (i.e. 72 million) either quit the workforce or lost their jobs during this lockdown period.   Apart from the seriousness of the unemployment challenge, another structural issue affecting the workforce is the deeper, entrenched contractualisation of work -- a long-standing concern. Contractualisation of workers, or what is known as the “endo” (“end of contract”) arrangement, sees workers employed across sectors on short-term ad hoc contracts while being deprived of social security benefits, higher wages, and a general security of tenure. Unlike regular employees, contract workers are signed on almost a 5-5-5 arrangement, i.e., in three-cycles of five-month contracts, subject to being renewed after every five-month period. A classic case in point is the ad hoc contractualisation of the teaching workforce, as seen in the higher education landscape across India (and most part of the developed world, too). There are an estimated 4,500 ad hoc instructors in Delhi University alone. The culture of ad-hocism as part of a contractual workforce has also seen the emergence of a “no-work, no-pay” attitude -- an issue that got much greater attention when the pandemic was spreading in parts of US and Europe, where most workers had no provisions for paid sick leave due to socially insecure contracts. A company engaging in greater contractualisation often has a higher turnover rate of personnel, too, creating a disruptive operational environment and leading to higher costs of training and higher incidence in costs of errors. From a contract employee’s perspective, apart from being denied basic social benefits, a high anxiety and psychological cost has to be borne, having to constantly look for a new job or retain the existing contract, often making such workers more vulnerable and less able to contribute greater productivity and commitment. But how did contractualisation become so rampant and widespread across sectors and in nations like India? One good reason, as discussed by noted labour economist Suresh Naidu in his work on labour markets in the US, is concerned with the decline in private (and public) sector union density. For example, in the US, as Naidu states, private sector union density has fallen below 7%. New evidence also suggests that high union density played a vital role in ensuring a fairer employment relationship between employers and prospective employees, while compressing the income inequities and lowering inter-generational income persistence. Simply put, de-unionisation catalysed a rapid neo-liberal contractualisation of the workforce, allowing firms to maximise profitability through cuts and savings on labour costs, inadvertently affecting the employment landscape – making it far more exploitative for the average worker. Why do unions matter? As labour economists like Suresh Naidu and Arindrajit Dube argue, unions make a lot of sense in labour market models with monopsony and/or a market structure with a few sellers (like oligopolistic cartels). Monopsony generally implies that unions can (a) allow a raise in the wage within limits without necessarily costing jobs, and b) replace the individual labour-supply curve facing the firm with a much more efficient bilateral bargain (between employers and employees). More broadly, monopsony also means that labour market interventions become the site of economic redistribution, in addition to (or instead of) the tax code, and so politically organised workers become an important constituency for redistribution via the labour market. Beyond power over the wage, the default rule in the employment relationship is that employers have the right to command workers on the shop floor. This, according to Naidu and Dube, results in plenty of inefficiently allocated control rights, as there are many workplace decisions where workers have superior information about their cost of doing things. A union-driven contract can therefore reallocate these decision rights toward the efficient division which reduces labour conflict (as measured by strikes). Union-based contracts are efficiency-enhancing workplace constitutions. India’s unemployment challenge, along with the rampant contractualisation of the workforce, requires a deeper discussion for progressive economic and social policies. The lockdown has rendered millions jobless and the plight of unorganised workers (especially women) has made those ‘invisible’ in employment data to become more ‘visible’ today -- at least in the news bulletin. The current crisis presents an opportunity to look at the structural concerns present in our deeply fragmented and broken labour-market. A few policy measures, like offering more socially-protected worker contracts (say, safeguarding health and unemployment insurances as benefits); implementing premium wage-rates (say, double for contractual hires as against others); extending the probation period to more than a year (to do away with the uncertain 5-5-5 system on short-term contracts); ensuring greater legal representation and awareness to concerns of workers, and incentivising the presence of unions for minority workers (across the social categories of gender, class, race, etc) are all critical steps that can help provide a more progressive social and economic future for workers. Private-sector union density must increase in medium to large-scale organisations to make the design of contracts more protective of and fair to safeguard worker-interests while enhancing the long-term credibility of the employee-employer partnership for a firm to accrue longer productivity gains.  (The writer is Director, Centre for New Economics Studies, Jindal School of International Affairs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/contractualisation-of-workforce-will-worsen-unemployment-scenario-834403.html
06-05-2020||Panorama||How well do we know viruses?||Every new virus that surfaces puts the scientific fraternity on red alert, for viruses have a notorious reputation for posing unprecedented challenges. Some (such as Ebola) are lethal with a high mortality rate, whereas others (like the coronavirus) transmit rapidly.  It is barely a century ago that we detected viruses, although they have been ravaging humanity for ages. It was only in 1901 that James Caroll and Walter Reed established that a virus was causing deadly yellow fever. Although they did not see the virus per se, they proved that the unknown, yet filterable pathogen, was smaller than the bacteria.  Viruses remained elusive to the eye until the advent of the electron microscope in the 1930s. It took another fifty years to see their structural details. Today, technology advancements provide us with greater clarity of their diversity. However, several aspects of their molecular functioning still remain to be understood.  Viruses are a class apart, neither living nor non-living entities, nor belonging to bacteria, plants or animals. Though they contain the primary life-juice – nucleic acid, they need a living cell to multiply, making them parasites. Viruses infect plants, animals and even bacteria, usurping the host cell machinery to replicate rapidly.   They are only a fraction of the 1400 or more species of pathogens that infect humans, and 250 known species exist.  Studies indicate that in the past few decades, a majority of newly discovered infections have been due to viruses as each year three to four new species add to the list.  There is yet a fair amount of unknown species.  Viruses are self-assembled nanoparticles of a core of genetic material (either RNA or DNA, but not both), lipids, and proteins to cover the centre and invade host cells.  Once inside a living cell, they hijack the manufacturing unit – ribosomes, using it to produce the viral protein patterns.  At the molecular level, the ribosomes know how to follow instructions without the ability to differentiate the source. Another cell component – Golgi complex does the packaging. Soon, the cell detects the runaway production, shuts down by self-destruction to prevent further damage. The cell wall bursts open to get rid of the viral particles. However, this works to the virus’ advantage as they get released in the vicinity, invading more cells.  Each viral strain uses different tactics to invade cells. Gaining insights into the molecular changes that occur is active, ongoing research. One such effort on the new coronavirus, a team of researchers at IIT Kanpur is attempting to view the structural transformations in real-time mode. Using highly advanced imaging instruments, they hope to see how the virus fights our immune cells, docks with the human cell and opens a pore in the cell membrane to transfer its genetic material. Their study may offer clues to develop a vaccine for Covid-19. What makes viruses so dreaded is their mutations. The RNA-type viruses (such as the new coronavirus) tend to mutate more than the DNA type because their genetic material lacks a supervising code. Unsupervised production leads to mistakes, which result in different protein structures from the original copy. The changes dramatically influence the type of cells to invade. Viruses are positioned at the lowest rung of the evolutionary ladder and hence under the constant pressure of survival. So, the mutated virus has a primary motto to look for a matching pattern in a living cell, latch on, propagate and thrive.   Experts caution that in the past few decades, species crossover of viruses is on the rise due to increased human-animal interaction. Almost 80% of the known viruses are found to perpetuate in animals — farm as well as wild. As we share several molecular commonalities with animals, we are highly susceptible to viral mutations that cross over.  Besides, extensive travel is causing endemic viral species to cross borders. A unified global code of immediate reporting of new viral strains, strict surveillance and containment measures is the need of the hour. (The writer is a science communicator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-well-do-we-know-viruses-834407.html
06-05-2020||Right in the Middle||Jai ho Jeeves!||Ever since Jeeves entered my life, he has been making his presence felt in my daily affairs. I told him that I did not want to be disturbed between 10 pm and 6 am and he promptly wakes me up at six in the morning.  If I fail to get up, he rouses me every ten minutes.   After waking up, I ask him, “how is the weather today?” He replies, “partly cloudy. Possibility of thunderstorms in the afternoon and evening” or “sunny day”.   Every day, at the appointed hour, Jeeves reminds me that I should go for a walk.  After every kilometre, he tells me, “distance one kilometre, time took 12 minutes,” and urges me to put in more effort and walk fast.  He is relentless and unsparing. If anybody calls me when I am out, Jeeves promptly notifies me on my return, the calls I missed.  He even connects me to the callers if I prefer.  He is capable of deftly deflecting unwanted calls and messages when I do not want to receive them. If I have mail, Jeeves promptly notifies me.  I read the mail and whatever I have to reply I dictate to Jeeves. He transcribes in his own inimitable style because he is British and I speak Indian English.  The other day, I wanted to eat a masala dosa and I told Jeeves of my desire.  He is so resourceful that the dosa was door delivered soon from a cloud kitchen. If I want to hear a good old melody, Jeeves plays it for me.  He presents to me the latest news compilation in the morning, thus dispensing with the need to read newsprint.  When I want to go to an unfamiliar place, Jeeves tells me the approximate distance to the destination and gives me directions like, “proceed 500 meters, turn left and proceed 2 kilometres and your destination will be on the left of the road”.  As Bertram Wooster would say, “there is nothing that is not known to Jeeves”. I sometimes worry about what I would do if Jeeves was not with me. He has become indispensable. Like Bertie, I whine that he has made me a serf unto him. Occasionally, I try to defy Jeeves’ suggestions in some crises only to come a cropper and go back to the ways of Jeeves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/jai-ho-jeeves-834401.html
06-05-2020||Second Edit||Handwara encounter: A new, worrying phase of militancy||Two major encounters have taken place between Indian security forces and militants at Keran and Handwara near the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir over the past month. Although several militants were eliminated in these encounters, there is reason for serious concern. The militants were well-trained. Not only were they able to engage the security forces for several hours, if not days, before being killed but also, they were able to inflict heavy losses on them. While the militants in the Keran encounter were local Kashmiris, those in the Handwara face-off were Pakistani nationals. Apparently, after receiving training in Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir, they had just crossed the LoC into India. In recent years, most militants have been poorly trained local boys. Indian security forces were able to eliminate them easily largely because they were poorly trained. That could now be changing. It does seem that angry local youth are now willing to cross over into Pakistan for training as they did in the early years of the militancy. And importantly, Pakistan is providing them the training. It is also pushing its own nationals across the LoC into India. The escalation in ceasefire violations by Pakistan in recent weeks had raised concern that Islamabad was using the shelling to provide cover to militants being infiltrated into India. Some 25-30 militants were reportedly infiltrated in April alone. The Keran and Handwara encounters are proof of such infiltration. The Resistance Front (TRF), a recently formed group which India believes is a front organisation of the Lashkar-e-Toiba, was reportedly involved in the Keran and Handwara encounters.  The TRF’s formation is worrying as it appears to be an attempt at unifying militants active in Kashmir. A divided militancy worked to India’s benefit as militants would fight and eliminate each other or provide India with input on their rivals’ hideouts. A unified militancy could prove to be more challenging for Indian security forces. In August last year, the Narendra Modi government claimed that its decision to scrap Article 370 of the Constitution and the subsequent lockdown imposed on Kashmir would serve to wipe out militancy. Official figures of militants killed and of the fall in local recruitment were touted to support such claims subsequently. However, militancy seems to have returned to the Valley, and with renewed vigour. So long as New Delhi continues with its policy of repressing Kashmiris and fails to initiate a genuine political process, rage will push hundreds to fight Indian forces. It’s time the government changed tack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/handwara-encounter-a-new-worrying-phase-of-militancy-834226.html
06-05-2020||Second Edit||Bois Locker Room: It’s time to educate our boys||Screenshots of conversations among members of an Instagram group called ‘Bois Locker Room’ lay bare alarming levels of misogyny among young boys. The group, which comprises some 50 teenage students of schools in Delhi, was sharing nude photographs of teenage girls, many of whom were their classmates. The girls’ physical attributes were discussed in degrading language and rated by members of the group. The boys’ conversations were markedly sexual and violent. They discussed sexually assaulting the girls, raping and even gang-raping them. The conversations provide disturbing insights into the extent to which sexual assault and rape have come to be normalised in our society. The boys spoke casually about raping and gang-raping girls. Rape is often used as a weapon to punish a woman and to ‘teach her a lesson’. The members of the ‘Bois Locker Room’ were contemplating such punishment for their classmates. To them, rape and gang-rape were entertainment, fun activity to engage in. Given how rampant misogyny is in our society, many will simply laugh off the sexually violent conversations of the ‘Bois Locker Room’ group as just ‘typical boy talk.’ Such dismissal of sexual violence, even if it is only talk, is dangerous. Many such boys grow up into violent and abusive men, not an uncommon phenomenon on Delhi’s college campuses and in dating relationships. The misogyny on display in the ‘Bois Locker Room’ is not an isolated occurrence in our society. It is rampant not just on social media or in films but in the real world. Countless incidents of rape and gang-rape happen every day in India. Other forms of sexual violence are even more rampant. Yet, we are averse to addressing it head on. Society continues to ignore the everyday violence in our vocabulary which is so full of sexual innuendos and misogynistic ‘humour’. It even applauds male sexual aggression. We must act against all forms of sexual violence, the insidious and implicit as well as the explicit assaults. We need to have open conversations about our patriarchal society and the misogynistic mindset and sexual violence it encourages. Such conversations must happen not just in the media but in schools and homes. Sex education is a taboo topic in this country but such education in all schools, private and government-run, is necessary not only to inform our children about sex and practicing safe sex but also to provide them with a safe space where they can discuss sex-related issues without shame or disrespect. The ‘Bois Locker Room’ incident is a wake-up call which we must act upon now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/bois-locker-room-it-s-time-to-educate-our-boys-834397.html
06-05-2020||South||Lockdown extended in Telangana till May 29, liquor shops allowed to open from May 6||Lockdown in Telangana is extended till May 29, chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao has announced, after a special cabinet meeting to take stock of the COVID-19 situation. The state, accused of not doing enough coronavirus tests, has so far reported 1096 cases, with 11 new positive cases reported on Tuesday. “This virus is not going to end tomorrow or the day after. We have to learn to live together with it. It will keep hunting us down if we don't have a plan to evade it,” Rao said after a marathon meeting with his cabinet colleagues and officials.   However, Rao has allowed liquor shops to open in the state except those in the containment zones, from Wednesday. While states like Delhi and neighboring Andhra Pradesh have announced a 70-75 percent hike in the price to serve as a deterrent and crowding at the wine shops, in Telangana the increase would be 16 percent. Liquor outlets are allowed to operate from 10 am to 6 pm, with strict adhering to “physical distancing” norms. Rao appealed to use physical in place of social distancing, since the latter “sounds like social boycott.” “No mask, no liquor,” the CM announced while saying that bars, clubs, pubs etc., would remain closed.  Stating that Telangana is now at a stage of flattening the curve of COVID-19 case, Rao said that biotech-pharma companies operating from Hyderabad like Shantha Biotech are working towards a cure. Other decisions announced by the CM are:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-extended-in-telangana-till-may-29-liquor-shops-allowed-to-open-from-may-6-834075.html
06-05-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Tamil Nadu increases liquor prices a day before opening TASMAC shops||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday effected a 15 percent increase in excise duty on Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) which would shoot up the prices by Rs 10 to Rs 20 per 180 ml bottle. The decision comes a day before TASMAC shops located outside of containment zones in the state are set to open after over 40 days.  “Due to Tamil Nadu government’s decision to increase excise duty imposed on IMFL by 15 percent, the retail price of a normal 180 ml liquor bottle would increase by Rs 10 and 180 ml bottle of medium and premium liquor by Rs 20,” the government said in a press release here. The price revision comes at a time when almost all political parties in Tamil Nadu, including ruling AIADMK’s allies, are up in arms against the government for its decision to reopen TASMAC during the lockdown period. The parties had warned that reopening of liquor shops would reverse the progress made during the lockdown as hundreds are expected to converge outside TASMAC outlets to buy liquor. Though the AIADMK Government led by J Jayalalithaa had promised to implement staggered prohibition in the state, nothing much has moved in the direction in the past few years. The government, while choosing not to respond to opposition criticism, has brought in a revision in the price of liquor in the state. TASMAC shops, run by the state government, sell liquor for nearly Rs 90 crore a day generating a revenue of over Rs 30,000 crore to the state exchequer annually. TASMAC, which monopolised liquor sales in Tamil Nadu from 2002, is one of the biggest revenue generators for the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-30-tamil-nadu-increases-liquor-prices-a-day-before-opening-tasmac-shops-834128.html
06-05-2020||South||19 new coronavirus cases reported in Karnataka; aggregate touches 692||As many as 19 new cases of COVID- 19 have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of infections in the state to 692, the health department said on Wednesday. "19 new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon. Till date 692 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 29 deaths and 345 discharges," the department said in its mid-day situation report. Thirteen out of 19 new cases are from Badami in Bagalkot district. Except one with Influenza-Like Illness (ILI), rest are contacts of a patient that earlier tested positive. The remaining cases include three from Dakshina Kannada district, two from Bengaluru urban and one from Kalbauragi. These are contacts of patients who had tested positive. While 10 cases are men, nine are women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/19-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-karnataka-aggregate-touches-692-834201.html
06-05-2020||South||TN sets up quarantine centres for those returning from other states||The Tamil Nadu government has set up quarantine centres near checkposts in all border districts to carry out initial screening of people returning from neighbouring states. District administrations have converted school and college hostels into facility quarantine to lodge people returning from other states. TN began allowing people stuck in other states to return from Wednesday provided they travel in their own vehicles. TN has also launched a website for people stuck in other states to register and apply for e-passes to come to their home state. As a first step, the government has decided to let people with own vehicles into TN. Healthcare professionals have been placed at every check post to check whether people returning have any serious COVID-19 symptoms, besides checking their body temperature using thermal screeners. All symptomatic passengers will be tested after being lodged at quarantine centres, while asymptomatic patients will be sent to home quarantine. Administrations in border districts like Krishnagiri, Coimbatore, Kanyakumari, Theni, Tenkasi, Tiruvallur, Ranipet and Vellore have made elaborate arrangements to screen people coming from across the TN border. “We have readied quarantine facilities near all checkposts. We will take those returning from other states to these hostels and keep them for at least a day. Swab samples of symptomatic and high-risk people will be taken immediately, while others will be monitored there for at least a day,” a senior official from Krishnagiri district administration told DH. Krishnagiri, which shares borders with Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, has taken over schools and colleges to convert them into quarantine centres. And if the persons reaching TN do not have any symptoms while under observation, they will be sent for home quarantine. Kanyakumari, which is close to Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram and shares border with TN, has also set up quarantine facilities near all its inter-state checkposts to lodge symptomatic people coming from the other side of the border to get them tested. “We have made elaborate arrangements to check people who come from Kerala because our district shares a border with the neighbouring state. Each quarantine facility can accommodate up to 100 persons and we will screen every passenger for any symptoms,” District Collector Prashant M Wadnere told DH. Tiruppur District Collector Dr K Vijayakarthikeyan said high risk and symptomatic people will be tested immediately, while asymptomatic people will be sent for home quarantine. “We have an effective mechanism to monitor people who are advised to home quarantine. People whose samples are collected will be lodged at these centres till they their results come out. If they are positive, they will be shifted to hospitals. Otherwise, they will be under home quarantine,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-sets-up-quarantine-centres-for-those-returning-from-other-states-834217.html
06-05-2020||South||No new positive cases, no new hotspots in Kerala||No new positive cases were reported in Kerala on Wednesday, while samples of seven people returned negative and only 30 COVID-19 patients are under treatment. There are no new hotspots either in the state. Six people from Kottayam, including one from Idukki and another from Pathanamthitta have been declared cured on Wednesday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The total positive cas touched 502, while 30 people are under treatment for the infection and 14,670 are under observation, including 268 in hospitals, he said. Eight of the 14 districts have zero positive cases, including Kozhikode, Malappuram, Ernakulam and Thiruvananthpuram and there are no new hotspots in the state, the Chief Minister said. Over 34,500 samples have been sent for testing and 34,063 have returned negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-new-positive-cases-no-new-hotspots-in-kerala-834308.html
06-05-2020||South||13 special trains leave for different states from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||In continuing evacuation, around 14,000 migrant workers left Telangana and Andhra Pradesh for different states in 13 special trains, an official of the South Central Railway here said on Wednesday. While 11 trains left Telangana, two originated in Andhra Pradesh during the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday and were headed to Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Maharashtra, the official said. I n Telagana, the departure of the trains was from six railway stations, most of them on the city outskirts. In the neighbouring state, the trains originated from Kurnool and Rayanapadu stations. Six of the trains left for Bihar, two trains each headed to Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. One train each left for Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Maharashtra, he said. The railways had been running 'Shramik Special' trains since May 1 for ferrying the migrant workers at the request of states. Earlier, over 2,000 migrant workers were sent to their home states from Telangana in two special trains, including the first special to be operated from Lingampalli here to Hatia in Jharkhand on May 1, after the Centre eased the lockdown norms and allowed their movement. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had on Tuesday said the state government has paid Rs four crore as advance for operation of the special trains. Doesnt the Centre have money to give railway charges?, he had asked amid opposition parties led by Congress and others attacking the railways for charging money from the migrants. The government has already stated that it would facilitate the return of migrant workers from the state and had requested the South Central Railway for operation of 40 special trains a day for a week from Tuesday for this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/13-special-trains-leave-for-different-states-from-telangana-andhra-pradesh-834422.html
06-05-2020||South||Andhra to pay of migrants' return to native states||The Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday decided to bear the travel expenses of migrant workers returning to their home states following easing of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions, as Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy asked officials to adopt a liberal approach towards them. Accordingly, the Department of Medical and Health issued fresh guidelines stating that the cost of the journey of people from the relief camps maintained by government/NGOs to the identified railway station and the cost of railway ticket to the destination point in other states will be borne by the state government as a "goodwill gesture." The government will also take care of food for the migrant workers in consultation with the IRCTC and as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Railways, the Health Department said in an order. In addition, each worker will be paid Rs 500 towards incidental expenses. Official sources said the state government so far arranged Shramik special trains to Maharashtra from Vijayawada, to Bihar from Kurnool and also Kovvuru to send the migrant workers back home. Additional trains will be arranged in the coming days as well, based on the consent of the receiving state, sources said. The Group of Ministers met in the Secretariat on Wednesday evening and discussed the issue of bringing back AP residents stranded in other states. "The Chief Minister directed that all expenditure for this be borne by the government, if the other state does not do so, without burdening the workers. Accordingly, we are making necessary arrangements," Deputy Chief Minister (Health) A K K Srinivas told reporters after the GoM meeting. He said required medical tests would be conducted on those returning to the state and medicare provided based on requirement. So far, 1,000 migrant workers from Thane in Maharashtra returned to the state and reached Guntakal. Medical tests were being carried out on them as the COVID-19 spread was rampant in||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-to-pay-of-migrants-return-to-native-states-834424.html
06-05-2020||State||Karnataka hikes excise duty on liquor by 11%, announces Rs 1,610-crore relief package||“No state has tried to provide such a measure,” Yediyurappa told a news conference where he announced the special package that promises benefits to flower growers, horticulture farmers, barbers, labourers, weavers and MSMEs.   “Since all temples are closed and there are no festivals or other events, there is no demand for flowers,” Yediyurappa said. “It is estimated that farmers cultivated flowers in about 11,687 hectares. The government has decided to announce compensation of Rs 25,000 per hectare, limited to the maximum extent of one hectare, for the flower growers who have suffered losses,” he said.   Yediyurappa also promised benefits to farmers who have grown vegetables and fruits. “Due to the lockdown, they were not able to market their produce. The government has decided to announce a relief package for these farmers, but we’re studying this.”   Washermen (dhobis) and barbers who were bereft of earnings during the lockdown will get a one-time relief of Rs 5,000. “This will benefit about 60,000 washermen and 2.30 lakh barbers,” Yediyurappa said.  A similar compensation will be given to drivers of auto-rickshaws and taxis. “There are an estimated 7.75 lakh auto and taxi drivers who will get Rs 5,000 each.”  To prevent migration, Yediyurappa announced an additional Rs 3,000 financial assistance for construction labourers. The government has already paid Rs 2,000 to 11.80 lakh construction workers out of the total 15.80 lakh who are registered. “The remaining four lakh construction workers will get Rs 2,000 as soon as their bank account details are verified. With the additional Rs 3,000, all construction workers will totally get Rs 5,000,” he said.  MSMEs could not operate or sell their products because of the lockdown, Yediyurappa said, adding that the sector will need “a few months” to recover. “So, it is inevitable for the government to come to their rescue. The monthly-fixed charge in the electricity bills of MSMEs will be waived for two months,” the CM said. For larger industries, the payment of fixed charges in their electricity bills will be “deferred without penalty and interest for a period of two months,” he added.    Electricity consumers across all categories have been included in the special package. Those paying their bills on time or in advance will get incentives and concessions, the CM said. “Electricity connection of consumers who have not paid the balance bill amount will not be disconnected till June 30. There will be a reduction in the interest on the amount for the delayed payment. An opportunity will be provided for the payment of balance bill amount in instalments,” he said.  The government also announced a new scheme for weavers. Under the Nekarara Sammana Yojana, the government will deposit Rs 2,000 directly into the bank accounts of 54,000 handloom weavers, Yediyurappa said.  The special package was announced amidst immense pressure the government was under to tackle the humanitarian crisis brought about by the lockdown. The Opposition Congress repeatedly demanded a special package to help people deal with the lockdown.  “We have announced these measures despite financial constraints,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hikes-excise-duty-on-liquor-by-11-announces-rs-1610-crore-relief-package-834150.html
06-05-2020||State||Coronavirus Lockdown: Karnataka to announce CET-2020 exam date in two days||A day after the centre announced the dates for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), the Karnataka Higher Education department on Wednesday said that it will announce the revised dates for Common Entrance Test (CET)-2020 in a couple of days. The higher education department has also called for a meeting to decide on the dates to hold the CET examination. The CET-2020 for admission to various under-graduate professional courses except medical, dental, Ayush courses was earlier scheduled to be held on 23rd April and 24th April. However, the same was deferred indefinitely following nationwide lockdown against COVID-19.  A senior official from the Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) told DH, “We will discuss with the Higher Education minister about the possible dates and announce the same in a day or two.” Yet another official from the Higher Education department said, "We are awaiting the union HRD ministry to finalise on the examination date for class-12 so as to avoid any clash with the dates. As per the information, the HRD ministry will be finalizing on the examination dates on Thursday, following which we will decide on the CET-2020 schedule."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-to-announce-cet-2020-exam-date-in-two-days-834258.html
06-05-2020||State||Coronavirus lockdown: Sira is no longer a containment zone||The containment measures clamped on certain areas of Sira city have been relaxed and with this, the district as a whole has been declared an orange zone.  The second Covid-19 positive case was reported in Sira and the person succumbed to the pandemic. He was also the third person to die of Covid-19 in the state. In view of all this, Begum Mohalla of Sira was sealed down and the city was declared a containment zone. But on Wednesday, as per government orders, all sorts of shops were allowed to open for business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-sira-is-no-longer-a-containment-zone-834353.html
06-05-2020||State||Coronavirus: 18 Tablighi Jamaat returnees quarantined in Pavagada||As many as 18 people who returned from Tablighi Jamaat, the religious convention that was held in Gujarat, to Pavagada, were quarantined in the students' hostel near Kurubarahalli Gate on Tuesday night.   As soon as the news spread, villagers of Kurubarahalli, Balammanahalli, Naliganahalli and Gondarlahalli came to the spot and voiced their objection to the move. They demanded that the quarantined people should be shifted elsewhere to avoid the spread of the pandemic in their villagers. As of now, no Covid-19 cases have been reported in Pavagada taluk. Officials pacified the villagers saying that the Tablighi returnees had been tested once and no Coronavirus positive cases had been found. They also assured them that they returnees would be tested again.  Of the 18 people, 13 are from YN Hoskote. The other 5 are from Andhra Pradesh. They had accompanied the YN Hoskote people to Tablighi Jamaat in Gujarat. The people who came back from Ahmedabad were stopped by the police at the Chitradurga checkpoint and the deputy commissioner was notified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-18-tablighi-jamaat-returnees-quarantined-in-pavagada-834354.html
06-05-2020||State||Married woman found dead in Madikeri||A married woman was found dead at her house in Mahadevpet on Wednesday. Bhagyashree (18), is the deceased. Her parents have suspected a foul play in the death of their daughter. The police have taken Bhagyashree's husband into custody for questioning. It is said that Bhagyashree's mother Yashoda is residing in Sampigekatte. The daughter had spoken to her mother on phone on Wednesday morning at around 8.30 am. A case has been registered in Madikeri Town Police Station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/married-woman-found-dead-in-madikeri-834374.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Karnataka cancels inter-state trains fearing labour shortage||Two days after assuring migrant workers of arranging transport to facilitate travel to their home towns in other states, the state government made a U-turn and cancelled train services it had requested. Hours after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa held a meeting with the builders and contractors on Tuesday evening, the Revenue Department wrote to the South Western Railways seeking cancellation of 10 train services it had requested earlier.  "We had requested to arrange to run two train services everyday for five days (total 10 train services..," the department said, adding that the request stands withdrawn as "since the train services are not required from tomorrow". No explanation was given for the sudden reversal of decision.  A senior official who attended the meeting, however, said the government changed its mind after the builders said they needed the workers to begin construction activities. "The builders have assured the government that the labourers will be taken care of. The labourers wanted to go as they had no job. Now that the work will begin, they will stay back," he said. However, DH has spoken to several labourers building the metro line in Electronic City as well as Bannerghatta Road who do not want to continue to work. A labourer from Madhya Pradesh had said he was ready to forego his salary but wants to go home. Many of them were not even aware of the state government portal allowing them to register for the train journey. The official, however, said the decision has been made by the chief minister. "More than 53,000 people have registered to go back to Bihar. What will happen to Bengaluru's construction industry if they go back," he asked. Activists condemned the decision to cancel train services. "The government has done a great injustice to labourers by bowing down to the pressure from the real estate," Vinay Sreenivasa said. The AICCTU said the government's move violate the fundamental right of the freedom of movement and also amounts to forced labour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-cancels-inter-state-trains-fearing-labour-shortage-834086.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Liquor worth Rs 197 crore sold in Karnataka on second day of lockdown relaxation||The second day of liquor sales in Karnataka on Tuesday after easing of lockdown curbs saw a nearly five-fold jump in earnings, with Rs 197 crore worth spirits being sold. According to top Excise Department officials, 4.21 lakh cases of Indian-made liquor, comprising 36.37 lakh litres, worth Rs 182 crore and 7.02 lakh litres of beer in 0.90 lakh cases worth Rs 15 crore was sold on Tuesday. On Monday, when sales resumed in the state, Rs 45 crore worth liquor was sold.  "We had never expected such a record sale. It's unprecedented," an Excise official who did not wish to be named told PTI. Liquor sales had resumed in Karnataka on Monday after a 41 day gap following the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/liquor-worth-rs-197-crore-sold-in-karnataka-on-second-day-of-lockdown-relaxation-834101.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||State seeks inputs to attract firms exiting China||With an objective of attracting industrial investments to Karnataka, the state government held a high-level meeting with the captains of the industry on Tuesday. The minister for Large & Medium Scale Industries, Jagadish Shettar held the meeting, which was attended by Nandan Nilekani, Non-Executive Chairman, Infosys, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Chairperson of Biocon, and Kris Gopalakrishnan, co-Founder and former CEO of Infosys through a Video Conference. Shettar recounted the steps taken by Government for reopening the industries at a short notice post-COVID-induced lockdown and spelt out Government’s intent of further improving the investment climate to attract industries to Karnataka. The industry leaders suggested to the government to showcase its efficient handling of the situation to attract investors to Karnataka. To boost the industry sentiment in the State, they further shared inputs such as improving the Single Window Clearance System for approvals, easing land acquisition regulations, and leveraging the knowledge base of Bengaluru to promote technology-based manufacturing. Given the interest shown by some companies in moving their manufacturing bases out of China, the industry leaders told the Government to identify a target list of 100 firms and work out a strategy to bring them to Karnataka. The industry leaders assured cooperation from the private sector in reaching out to and facilitating interactions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/state-seeks-inputs-to-attract-firms-exiting-china-834109.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Just 62 people in Karnataka infected 426 others with COVID-19: Report||The data, which was released on Tuesday night by the State Covid War Room, offers other startling revelations. Out of the 62 patients, the vast majority (29) are independently discovered cases, identified as being COVID-19 patients only because they showed symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI) or Influenza-Like Illness (ILI). These people ended up infecting 281 others before they were identified as having the disease. The next highest number of root patients including 18 domestic travellers, primarily Tablighi Jamaat travellers. “Fifteen of the 18 patients have a travel history to Delhi and have accounted for 100 cases,” the report states, adding that the “other three have travelled to other places in India and account for 11 cases.” The report makes special mention of Patient 128, a 20-year-old man from Belgavi who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation from March 13 to 18, and single-handedly ended up infecting 36 people in the country, 15 of them in Karnataka. The overall insight records the younger the Tablighi attendee and male, the more likely he was to spread the disease. The last group of “root” patients is made up of 15 international travellers, who infected 34 others. The report states that “International travellers do not have higher spread rates and spread of infection is well controlled,” although it cautions that the risks are highest for immediate family members. As of Tuesday, the COVID-19 outbreak in Karnataka had seen a primary contact list of 1,320 people being generated, plus a secondary contact list of 4,778 people. How the spread happens The COVID-19 spread operates along two nodes beyond the “root” patient. At level one of the spread, people most likely to turn positive are those who come into direct contact with the “root patient.” These are immediate family members. There are also those who become carriers and spread the virus to other people who may subsequently turn positive. At level two, the infection spreads among those who have not directly come in contact with the root patient. Instead, they are infected through level one contacts. People at this level are also more likely to catch the infection from public places.  A typical “level two” case is Patient 653, who was disclosed to the public on Tuesday. Employed as a housekeeper at a hotel, he contracted the disease from Patient 420 (a 28-year-old woman who is a resident of Vasanth Nagar) who was herself infected by Patient 208 (a 32-year-old man and resident of Pulikeshi Nagar). “Patient Zero” of this cluster is Patient 196, a 42-year-old resident of Hoshalli, who was first identified with the disease after he developed Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) in early April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/just-62-people-in-karnataka-infected-426-others-with-covid-19-report-834163.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: Liquor to get costlier in Karnataka as govt hikes excise duty||Two days after allowing retail liquor sale, the Karnataka government on Wednesday hiked excise duty by 11% points, which will make citizens cough up more money for their drinks, amid coronavirus lockdown The hike is applicable on brandy, whisky, gin and rum. It is not applicable to beer, wine, toddy and fenny. The hike will translate into a drinker paying Rs 5 more for a quarter (180 ml), according to sources. In all, the excise duty is now 17%, including a 6% hike that was announced in the 2020-21 Budget. Seen as a resource mobilization measure, the government expects to mop up Rs 2,200 crore “in an ideal situation.”  Officials in the Finance department defended the hike, calling it “nominal” compared with the 70% ‘special corona fee’ on alcohol levied by the Delhi government.  Karnataka allowed the retail sale of liquor since May 4 after a gap of 42 days. Retail outlets opened to long queues and liquor worth Rs 473.6 crore was sold in just three days. Sales clocked Rs 97 crore on Monday, Rs 197 crore Tuesday and Rs 231.6 crore Wednesday. After announcing the additional duty hike, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa defended the decision to allow the sale of liquor. There is criticism from some quarters that no preparation was done before allowing liquor sales to resume. “When there are people to drink, what preparation is needed?” the CM said, laughing it off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-liquor-to-get-costlier-in-karnataka-as-govt-hikes-excise-duty-834296.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Road transport corporation staff worried about pay||About 1.32 lakh employees working in the four road transport corporations (RTC) are a worried lot as the government is yet to process a request by officials to provide Rs 330 crore for paying their salaries. The revenue generation at the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation has taken a beating following the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 scare. The state-run transport corporation has sustained a losses to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore since the suspension of bus operation. The Transport department has written to the government seeking  Rs 330 crore for disbursing the staff salary. However, the government has failed to release about Rs 1,300 crore due to the RTCs as compensation for various bus pass schemes. "The rise in diesel prices has dealt a big blow to the RTCs over the last two years. The government utilises the services of the corporations for its welfare schemes but fails to fund them,” sources in the Transport department said. An employee at KSRTC said those in the officer cadre would get their salary on the first day of the month while the next rung officials and the staffers, including drivers and conductors, would be paid within the first week. "Many staffers have already begun work as part of essential service. They are worried about delay," he said. A senior official in the department, however, said the government has held a meeting with them and indicated that the funds would be provided. Asked for a specific date, the offcial said: “The government has not said ‘no’. We will get our funds. Cannot comment on when we will get it,” he said. The KSRTC Staff and Workers Federation said the government should not expect the RTCs to generate revenue in the coming days even if transportation is restored in green zones and therefore actively fund them instead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/road-transport-corporation-staff-worried-about-pay-834357.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||12 contacts of pregnant woman test positive in Badami village||Dhanakshirur in Badami taluk on Wednesday saw 12 of its residents, including a 10-year-old boy, all contacts of a 21-year-old pregnant woman (Patient 607), test positive for Covid-19. The pregnant woman tested positive for novel coronavirus during a routine check-up at KIMS, Hubballi, four days back. All 12 who tested positive for Covid-19, are the neighbours of Patient 607. Interestingly, throat swab samples of all six members of her family have returned negative. The health department sources attribute the surge in cases to the baby shower function of the mom-to-be. However, the health personnel are yet to ascertain the pregnant woman's source of infection. Sources said, all those who had come in contact with the family of Patient 607 have been quarantined. Dhanakshirur village has been sealed. Engg student tests positive Badami also saw an 18-year-old girl, a resident of Chalukya Nagar, test positive for Covid-19. The girl had recently returned home from Moodbidri in Dakshina Kannada, where she was pursuing her BE. With this flurry of cases, the Covid-19 tally in Bagalkot district rose to 48. Of which, 18 had been discharged post-recovery. As on May 6, the number of active cases in the district stood at 29. KSRP cop contracts virus A 52-year-old KSRP constable from Kalaburagi tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. He is said to be living in a rented house next to the house of the 78-year-old man, who is currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19, at Gazipura and It's learnt, both shared a common toilet. The constable had been admitted to the GIMS hospital, and his wife and son were quarantined. The constable, who was transferred to Kalaburagi from Vijayapura seven months ago, was deputed on a guard duty at the residence of district KSRP commandant. After he tested positive, a cook who was with him, was quarantined. On Wednesday, five patients, including a four-month-old baby, were discharged post-recovery from the GIMS Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/12-contacts-of-pregnant-woman-test-positive-in-badami-village-834360.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Power bill pending? Govt won’t cut supply till June 30||Electricity connections of consumers who have pending bills will not be disconnected till June 30, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced on Wednesday. This and other energy-related concessions are part of the government’s Rs 1,610-crore special package to help tide over the Covid-19 lockdown. Electricity consumers across all categories have been included in the package.  Those paying their bills on time or in advance will get incentives and concessions, the CM said. "There will be reduction in the interest on the amount for the delayed payment. Opportunity will be provided for the payment of the balance bill amount in instalments," Yediyurappa said.  The package includes some relief for industries.  MSMEs could not operate or sell their products because of the lockdown, Yediyurappa said, adding that the sector will need "a few months" to recover.  "So, it is inevitable for the government to come to their rescue. The monthly fixed charge in the electricity bills of MSMEs will be waived for two months," the CM said. For larger industries, the payment of fixed charges in their electricity bills will be "deferred without penalty and interest for a period of two months," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/power-bill-pending-govt-won-t-cut-supply-till-june-30-834361.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Many a challenge for Covid-19 vaccine development||Even as countries across the world continue to find ways to contain the spread of Covid-19 and treat patients, the race to develop a vaccine against the SARS-CoV-2 virus continues. At present, there are at least 115 vaccines against this virus under development across the world. Most efforts are being made by private entities, a majority of which are in North America. The Haffkine Institute in India is also in the race. At least eight different strategies are being employed in Covid-19 vaccine development, some of which have never before been used in human vaccines. Vaccine development and deployment will therefore face several challenges. The first challenge is that the vaccine is needed soon. It usually takes 5-10 years to develop a vaccine. So if the vaccine is developed in haste, safety may be sacrificed at the altar of efficacy. There is already news of the vaccine being tested in volunteers who are afterwards deliberately exposed to the virus; such testing would have been deemed unsafe and unethical in earlier days. Furthermore, the long-term safety of an approved vaccine will not be known until after mass immunisation. So if the vaccine has unintended effects, all those who received that vaccine are at risk. The second challenge is that more than one successful vaccine will probably be developed. It may be hard to select one vaccine for mass immunisation programs. Perhaps different vaccines will be adopted in different countries, such as American, European, Chinese, and Indian vaccines, each with its own profile of benefits and risks. The third challenge is that developing an effective vaccine is only the first step. The next step is to manufacture it in the huge quantities that are necessary for universal immunisation. The logistics are daunting. There will be further challenges related to affordability, especially among the poor. There will be deployment challenges: Whereas healthcare professionals and the elderly are at greater risk and should receive the vaccine first, if the vaccine has undiscovered adverse effects, it could harm the very people it was intended to protect. The fourth challenge is that SARS-CoV-2 is an RNA virus, and RNA viruses mutate at a high rate. This is why, for example, the influenza vaccine needs to be regularly updated with the latest strains. Available evidence suggests that the mutation rate of SARS-CoV-2 is not high. Nevertheless, it is possible that mutations will occur that will require a fresh vaccine to be developed at regular intervals. The last challenge is to develop a vaccine that provides long-lasting immunity. However, only time will tell how long vaccine-engendered immunity will last, and at what intervals the vaccine will need to be repeated. It is too early to hope. We are probably at least 18 months away from a Covid-19 vaccine. (Dr Chittaranjan Andrade is Dean, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/many-a-challenge-for-covid-19-vaccine-development-834363.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Special package is too little, too late, says Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday dismissed Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s special package of Rs 1,610 crore as “too little, too late.”  Siddaramaiah quoted a Kannada adage, saying the special package was akin to buttermilk for the gluttony demon Bakasura’s stomach.  “I had requested the CM to announce Rs 50,000 crore Covid-19 relief package. Now, Yediyurappa has announced a package of just Rs 1,610 crore,” he said, pointing out that the neighbouring Kerala had announced a package worth Rs 20,000 crore.  Flower growers would have spent Rs 50 lakh per acre, but Yediyurappa has announced just Rs 25,000 per hectare. “The government should compensate at least half of their loss.” The former chief minister also accused the CM of shortchanging construction workers. “I had requested the CM to provide monthly relief of ₹10,000 to all the 22 lakh registered construction workers. There is Rs 9,000 crore in the construction workers' welfare fund. Yediyurappa has betrayed them by just announcing one-time relief of Rs 2,000 for just 11.8 lakh workers,” he said.  Even farmers have been “completely ignored”, Siddaramaiah said, adding that a revolving fund of Rs 5,000 crore was needed to “allow purchase of produce from farmers at the gram panchayat level.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/special-package-is-too-little-too-late-says-siddaramaiah-834367.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Artistes seek permission to resume shooting||The artistes’ community in the state has decided to approach the state government seeking permission for private television channels to resume shooting of the ongoing episodes of various reality shows and other programmes. "We will soon submit separate petitions to the state and the central governments,” Ashwini Koushik, flutist and composer-lyricist told DH. Music, dance, theatre, acting, dubbing, stand-up comedy and many other art forms are the only source of income for over million people in the country. The performing artistes have been ignored during the lockdown, she said. The artistes will request the governments to direct the Doordarshan to invite artistes for performances, All India Radio to accept new content from the artistes and to allow all private entertainment channels to resume shooting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/artistes-seek-permission-to-resume-shooting-834368.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Power generation in 3 units of RTPS halted||Power generation in the three units of the Raichur Thermal Power Station (RTPS) have been halted owing to technical glitches. There is a leakage in the boiler tubes of the 5th and the 7th units, which have a capacity to generate 210 megawatt of power, each. While, the 8th unit, which also has a capacity to generate 210 megawatt of power, is also facing technical glitches. Power generation in the 8th unit has been halted since April 28. The officials have inspected the technical glitch and are fixing it. All the 8 units of the RTPS have a capacity to generate total 1,720 megawatt of power. Since only five units are functioning, presently only 920 megawatt of power is being generated, while there is a loss of 800 megawatt of power, the RTPS officials have informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/power-generation-in-3-units-of-rtps-halted-834370.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Home-bound migrants, expats may stress testing infra||A total of 56,622 people, a majority of them hailing from Bengaluru Urban district, have applied to return to Karnataka after the Centre allowed inter-state travel for those stranded because of the lockdown. A large number of them are in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan. They went there for work, business and other purposes. They will be allowed to enter Karnataka, subject to Covid-19 tests and local address verification. Their return, along with expats from overseas, is expected to burden the testing infrastructure in the state as they will have to be screened for Covid-19 and quarantined. According to data available, 25,737 people had applied to return to Bengaluru Urban district, followed by 4,498 to Bengaluru Rural, 2,924 to Dakshina Kannada and 2,721 to Udupi district, among others. Authorities expect the numbers to increase over the next few days. Despite the large number of applications, authorities were able to approve 4,068 applications and reject 479 during the three-day period. “Once a person applies to return to Karnataka, authorities will have to verify the address and other details provided in his application. Applications with wrong address or other details are rejected,” Principal Secretary (Revenue) N Manjunath Prasad, who is also the nodal officer for migrants, said. Pending applications are being processed at a swift pace to ensure residents of Karnataka stranded in other states are able to return, he said. Among the conditions for return are a mandatory Covid-19 test certificate, following which the government will screen them again after their arrival here. In order to ensure speedy clearance of applications by migrant labourers from other states, Karnataka has provided other state governments with access to the Seva Sindhu portal. This is expected to speed up the verification process of migrant labourers, allowing them to travel quickly. “Officials from other states can log on to the platform and verify applicants in their respective states. This makes it easier to clear applications, rather than sorting and clearing the bulk of files of applications that other states have been sending,” Prasad said. ‘Rooms booked for expats’ Revenue Minister R Ashoka said 10,823 Kannadigas who are overseas have registered to return to Karnataka. “Of them, 6,100 have confirmed their intention to return. So, the government has booked as many rooms, where they will be quarantined,” he said. “If they want a better hotel room, they’ll have to pay for it,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-home-bound-migrants-expats-may-stress-testing-infra-834408.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Tejasvi Surya hails stoppage of trains, draws flak||BJP’s Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya on Wednesday hailed the state government’s decision to stop inter-state trains, calling it ‘a bold and necessary move.’ “It will help migrant labourers who came here with hopes of a better life to restart their dreams. Also, it will kickstart economic activities full throttle. Karnataka will emerge out of this stronger!” Surya said in a tweet.  Surya, however, was heavily panned for this.  Responding to Surya, Congress leader Priyank Kharge said: “BJP has asked what the builders want, have you asked what labourer wants? Just like how these people are stuck here, labourers from our state are stuck in other states. Have you asked them? 18,000 Kannadigas in Goa alone have registered to come back home. What about them?” Activist Vinay Sreenivasa pointed out that the ‘bold’ move violated Article 23 of the Constitution that prohibits forced labour. “But I guess we can’t expect your party to understand the Constitution,” he said.  The government’s decision to discontinue inter-state travel of migrant workers coincided with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s meeting with members of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai), leading to allegations that the government had ‘succumbed to the real estate lobby’. Another Congress leader Krishna Byre Gowda posted a video showing migrant workers walking to Uttar Pradesh. “This is inhuman. They are so disturbed as to walk home, please don’t force. Some may die. Government cannot be the paid agent of the real estate lobby. Send them well so they want to come back,” Gowda said.  Software professional Shruthi H M asked Surya if he still thought it was a ‘bold and necessary’ move. “Kannadigas are basically kind-hearted, sweet people. Your decision to withdraw Shramik trains, heeding to the builders lobby, has put us to shame,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-tejasvi-surya-hails-stoppage-of-trains-draws-flak-834409.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: Karnataka records 20 new cases; tally at 693 ||The Covid-19 cases in the state shot up to 693 with 20 fresh cases on Wednesday. However, the number of recoveries has exceeded the active cases for the fifth consecutive day. As on May 6, a total of 354 patients were discharged post-recovery while the active cases stood at 309. No deaths were reported on Wednesday as the Covid-19 fatalities in the state remain 29. This excludes a patient who committed suicide by jumping from the sixth floor fire and emergency exit of Victoria Hospital in April last week. Apart from 13 new cases from Badami in Bagalkot, the day saw three from Dakshina Kannada test positive for Covid-19. Bengaluru Urban reported two cases while Kalaburagi and Vijayapura recorded one fresh case each. Barring one case from Badami, the remaining 19 cases are the contacts of the previously diagnosed patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-records-20-new-cases-tally-at-693-834410.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Understanding is an understatement for this caring group||Social entrepreneurs Vishal and Vishnu Soman have been helping differently-abled people integrate into the mainstream for the past six years. So, when the lockdown was announced, the two brothers started a volunteer helpline ‘Volunteers vs Covid-19’ to help people with disabilities in Bengaluru. “Accessibility is an issue for this community even without the lockdown. So, we wanted to help them with their basic necessities,” says Vishnu.  They created a system that allowed them to help, while complying with the lockdown rules. “We have created a virtual volunteer network. We use existing services to deliver essentials,” says Abhishek S, a volunteer. There are 58 volunteers involved, spread across Bengaluru, from Attibelle to Yelahanka and Nagasandra to KR Puram.  “A mom in Nagasandra wanted medicines to be delivered to her son with autism at Jayanagar. These are the kind of problems we aim to tackle,” explains Abhishek.  The group focuses on delivering cooked food and grocery in addition to medicines. They also try to provide items free of cost, for those with financial difficulties. They have a vetting process to ensure that nobody tries to take advantage. “It usually happens on the same day. If the delivery is not urgent, we ask them to wait up to two days,” Vishnu says.  As of May 6, they have helped over 3,000 people, with an average of 10-15 deliveries a day. “We have also had transpeople and daily wage earners reach out,” he shares.  The virtual setup is not without pitfalls. “Coordinating can be challenging, and time-consuming. There have been instances where able-bodied people have tried to use our service. We have minimised this to a large extent,” says Abhishek.  Sashikala, a visually-impaired woman who resides in a PG at Chamrajpet, says she found out about the helpline through WhatsApp. “I needed grocery, a pressure cooker, and an induction stove — it was all delivered the same day,” she says.  Madhumitha Venkataraman, founder of Diversity Dialogues, was already familiar with Vishnu. “There was a need for a group that understands disability and is adept at its nuances,” she says. Knowing sign language, or the importance of medicines makes them more suited to address specific needs. “Many people with disabilities reach out to me for help. So far, whoever I have directed to the group, has received the help they needed,” she adds. Reach them on their helpline number 90196 63172||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/understanding-is-an-understatement-for-this-caring-group-834420.html
06-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Liquor to get costlier as govt hikes excise duty in Karnataka||Two days after allowing retail liquor sale, the state government on Wednesday hiked excise duty by 11% points, which will make citizens cough up more money for their drinks.  The hike is applicable to brandy, whisky, gin and rum, but not to beer, wine, toddy and feni. The hike will translate into a drinker paying Rs 5 more for a quarter (180 ml), according to sources.   “The hike will come into effect in a couple of days as new labels need to be stuck (on liquor bottles and covers),” Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said.   In all, the excise duty is now 17%, including a 6% hike that was announced in the 2020-21 Budget. Seen as a resource mobilisation measure, the government expects to mop up Rs 2,200 crore “in an ideal situation”.  Officials in the Finance department defended the hike, calling it “nominal” compared with the 70% ‘special corona fee’ on alcohol levied by the Delhi government.  Karnataka allowed retail sale of liquor from May 4 after a gap of 42 days. Retail outlets opened to long queues and liquor worth Rs 473.6 crore was sold in just three days. Sales clocked Rs 97 crore on Monday, Rs 197 crore on Tuesday and Rs 231.6 crore on Wednesday.  Yediyurappa also defended the decision to allow sale of liquor. There is criticism from some quarters that no preparation was done before allowing sales to resume. “When there are people to drink, what preparation is needed?” the CM laughed it off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-liquor-to-get-costlier-as-govt-hikes-excise-duty-in-karnataka-834439.html
06-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Teachers, board exam moderators can travel amid coronavirus lockdown||In a government resolution, the school education and sports ministry said teachers, moderators, contractors hired for transporting exam papers and officials involved in related works will be allowed to travel during the lockdown with prior permission. Additional chief secretary Vandana Krishna also stated in the GR that officials of the state education board will be allowed to conduct investigations at exam centres where complaints of violations had been reported. The move would help around 15 lakh students who appeared for Class 10 and 12 examinations, the results of which will be announced by June 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-teachers-board-exam-moderators-can-travel-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-834070.html
06-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Mega-hospital coming up in Mumbai ||A 1,000-bed makeshift mega-hospital is coming up in Mumbai's posh office hub of Bandra-Kurla Complex along the lines of Wuhan in China. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) hospital is building the hospital at a huge ground in the BKC. The hospital, whose construction started on April 28, is expected to be ready in a fortnight's time. The ground where it is coming up is a big place used for exhibition, political rallies and mega-events.  On Tuesday evening, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray visited the site. Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde is overseeing the process. "The 1,000-bed hospital is coming up on the lines of the hospital in Wuhan," said Shinde. Metropolitan Commissioner RA Rajeev is also overseeing the process. The hospital will have 1,000 beds to treat non-critical COVID-19 patients. On 28 April, when the work started, MMRDA tweeted: ".... started construction of 1,000-bed quarantine and isolation facility for COVID-19 at BKC exhibition ground. It adds additional facility up to 5,000 beds if there is a requirement in future." A few days ago,  Home Minister Anil Deshmukh also visited the site and inspected the work.  Once ready, the MMRDA will hand over the facility to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The hospital will have oxygen facilities, pathological laboratory,  laundry,  cabins for doctors and nurses - and would be like any other modern hospital. The Jupiter Hospital, Thane, as a part of its CSR activity will provide the design and technical guidance for the construction of this hospital, while, MMRDA will bear the cost of constructing the hospital. Safety and cleanliness will be on utmost priority with sewage and bio-degradable waste disposable systems in place. "The hospital will be fully equipped with the resources and staff necessary for the treatment of non-critical COVID-19 patients. MMRDA stands firm with the state in this crucial fight against COVID-19," said Rajeev.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-mega-hospital-coming-up-in-mumbai-834122.html
06-05-2020||West||Chance to rework town planning of Mumbai amid COVID-19: Gadgil||The spread of COVID-19 in Mumbai and Pune is an opportunity to rework the town planning of the two prominent Maharashtra cities by stopping their vertical growth and encouraging self-contained satellite townships around them, architect Anant Gadgil has said. New town planning rules should focus on "spread out housing"and encourage the concept of work from home for professionals, Gadgil, who is also a town planner and Congress MLC, told PTI. He said the coronavirus has spread fast in congested areas, slums and chawls (tenements) in Mumbai and Pune, but its extent of spread is less in housing societies of the two cities. "Since physical distancing is not possible in congested and densely populated areas, 'spread out housing' is the need of the hour," he said.  Mumbai is a linear city due to which its growth has been in the northern suburbs. But, trade and commerce centres remain at the same place as before, in south and central areas, he said. "There should be a plan to have sub-growth centres, or self-contained satellite townships like Navi Mumbai, between Mumbai-Pune, Pune-Nashik and Nashik-Mumbai. These townships should be modelled on the lines of Chandigarh, Gandhinagar and Delhi," he said. While planning the sub-growth centres, industries which get land to set up units in those areas should make arrangements of accommodation nearby for 25 per cent employees, Gadgil suggested. There should also be facilities like educational centres, health centres, shops, malls, hostelsin the sub- growth centres, and work from home concept should be encouraged there, he said. Gadgil also suggested that granting additional floor space index (FSI) for urban development should be stopped as it results in more building construction activities, leading to more congestion, flyovers and vehicular traffic. "This vicious circle needs to be stopped," he said, adding that the coronavirus crisis is also an opportunity to replan cities in order to reduce vehicular pollution.  Gadgil said in new townships, residential complexes should have one room for office purpose with a separate entrance. This can be useful for home buyers like chartered accountants, lawyers, architects and doctors. Civic bodies should give permission to such professionals to operate from those offices and not consider it as a commercial premises, he said. Another option, Gadgil said, is to have a building for professional office space in a residentialcomplex of 10 to 15 buildings. This will encourage the concept of work from home and reduce vehicular pollution, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chance-to-rework-town-planning-of-mumbai-amid-covid-19-gadgil-834155.html
06-05-2020||West||Shramik Special train carrying 1200 migrant workers leaves from Panvel during coronavirus lockdown||A Shramik Special train carrying nearly 1,200 migrant workers left from neighbouring Navi Mumbai for Rewa in Madhya Pradesh in the wee hours of Wednesday, the Central Railway said. The train left from Panvel station of Navi Mumbai at 12.45 am, carrying passengers "registered and nominated by the state government", the Central Railway (CR) informed on its Twitter handle. Nearly 1,200 migrants boarded the 24-coach special train while maintaining the physical distancing norms, a CR spokesperson said. On Tuesday night, the Central Railway operated two Shramik Special trains from Kalyan junction in neighbouring Thane district. One of them, carrying nearly 1,200 migrants, left for Darbhanga in Bihar at 8.37 pm. The other train, carrying nearly 930 migrants, left for Guntakal in Andhra Pradesh around 11 pm, railway officials earlier said. Since May 2, the Central Railway has so far operated five Shramik Special trains from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region's Bhiwandi, Kalyan and Panvel stations for Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shramik-special-train-carrying-1200-migrant-workers-leaves-from-panvel-during-coronavirus-lockdown-834160.html
06-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Buddha Purnima animal census gets a break||On Buddha Purnima -- the brightest full moon night -- the forest officers and nature lovers used to sit on machans near waterholes and count animals and birds they have seen.After camera-trapping became the order of the day, several states phased out this old system. But Maharashtra was one of the states that in a big way continued the tradition of conducting the waterhole census in some of its national parks and sanctuaries to help nature lovers and enthusiasts learn the basics. However,  this time on Buddha Purnima (May 7), there would be a break from the tradition because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. "In Maharashtra, we will not be conducting the census during this Buddha Purnima," said Sunil Limaye, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife). During the census, three to four people sit for 24 hours in machans near waterholes and record the sighting of animals. However, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, all reserve forests, national parks, sanctuaries are shut for the public. Besides,  physical distancing will not be possible in machans. In fact, none of the national parks or sanctuaries are going for it. "Sighting and counting of animals during Buddha Purnima is an old method. Now camera traps have come which are effective and scientific," said eminent naturalist Kishor Rithe, who is the founder of Satpuda Foundation. Buddha Purnima waterhole census now has educational value, he said, adding that students and nature lovers accompanied forest guards in the machans and counted animals.In the Mumbai metropolitan region also, machans were erected near waterholes in the Sanjay Gandhi National Park, Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary, Tansa Wildlife Sanctuary, Karnala Bird Sanctuary and counting of animals and birds is done.Wildlife lover and media practitioner Mayur Parikh, who had attended the Buddha Purnima census at SGNP, last year, recalls that it is an interesting exercise.   On the morning of Buddha Purnima, the volunteer has to report. "They are split into groups and one forest guard is assigned to the group. Thereafter, you proceed and take position in the machans or designated places and the real process starts. You sit throughout the night and count. The next morning after the full moon night,  it ends."  Parikh said that it is an interesting exercise, one gets to learn a lot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-buddha-purnima-animal-census-gets-a-break-834161.html
06-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: 90-yr-old woman recovers from coronavirus, discharged||A 90-year-old woman was discharged from the civil hospital here in Maharashtra on Tuesday after recovering from COVID-19, the district administration said. Besides, a seven-month-old boy tested positive for coronavirus in Mira-Bhayander township of Thane district. The district on Tuesday reported 121 new COVID-19 cases, taking its tally to 1,399, an official release said. These include 452 cases from Thane municipal limits, 395 from Navi Mumbai, 224 from Kalyan-Dombivali, 189 from Mira Bhayander, 50 from Thane rural, 42 from Badlapur, 20 from Bhiwandi-Nizampur, 16 from Ulhasnagar and 11 from Ambernath municipal limits. So far, the district has recorded 38 deaths due to the disease, the release said. It also said that 11 coronavirus positive cases reported from Kalyan-Dombivali on Tuesday included five policemen, it said.  Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi on Tuesday said residents of the area working in Mumbai will not be allowed to leave or enter Kalyan from May 8 in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases. BJP MP from Bhiwandi, Kapil Patil, urged Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that those from the powerloom town working in the essential services in Mumbai be accommodated near their workplace. In the Mira Bhayander township, the local civic body had earlier only allowed milk and medicine shops to open. But, in an amended order issued on Tuesday, it allowed photocopy outlets to also open in order to facilitate migrant labourers to compile their documents for obtaining permission to travel to their native places. Besides, an official release said the CIDCO exhibition centre in Navi Mumbai has been taken over the by local civic body to convert it into a COVID-19 treatment facility and accommodate 1,200 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-90-yr-old-woman-recovers-from-coronavirus-discharged-834172.html
06-05-2020||West||Maharashtra seeks clarity from Indian railways on train fares for stranded migrants amid coronavirus lockdown||The Maharashtra government has sought clarity from the Railways over whether it is bearing 85 per cent of the transport cost of migrant workers heading home amid the lockdown, state Home Minister said on Wednesday. These workers do not have jobs and the Railways should not charge train fare from them, Deshmukh said in a video message. The BJP on Monday said the Railways has subsidised 85 per cent of ticket fare for special trains being run to transport migrant workers and the state governments have to pay the remaining 15 per cent. "On behalf of the Maharashtra government, I am seeking clarity from the Indian Railways whether it is really bearing 85 per cent cost of the train ticket. No official order has been received from the railways so far," Deshmukh said. Everybody knows that these migrant labourers have no jobs since last 40 days and they are desperate to return home, he pointed out. "The railways should do away with charging the ticket cost from the migrant labourers, he said. So far, nearly 36,000 migrant labourers have left from Maharashtra for their native places, an official earlier said. Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday said her party's state units will bear the cost of rail travel of needy migrant labourers stranded at their workplaces due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown and seeking to return home. She also accused the central government and the Railways of completely ignoring the demands made by the Congress for ensuring the safe and free travel of migrant workers and labourers to their homes. Rebutting the Congress' criticism, the BJP said on Monday that the Railways has subsidised 85 per cent of ticket fare for special trains being run for migrant workers and the state governments have to pay the remaining 15 per cent||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-seeks-clarity-from-indian-railways-on-train-fares-for-stranded-migrants-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-834178.html
06-05-2020||West||Shiv Sena criticizes COVID-19 test of migrant workers||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday criticised states which have insisted on coronavirus testing of migrant workers before taking them back, terming it is a "cruel and inhuman" stand. An editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' also criticised the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government, saying it brought back students from Kota in Rajasthan without any testing "since they were rich", while train fares were charged from the poor. The Sena praised Congress president Sonia Gandhi's decision asking her state party units to bear the cost of the train fare of migrant workers returning home. Workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh migrate mostly to Maharashtra and Gujarat, it noted. "Till yesterday, these workers were the vote bank of political parties and leaders, as if Mumbai and Maharashtra have been built on the hard work of these migrant workers. These people are running away in times of crisis and their political mentors have turned them away," the Sena said. It alleged that the Uttar Pradesh government made a "u-turn" on taking back migrant workers and put stringent conditions for them, including that they be tested for coronavirus before return. "This stand of states is cruel and against humanity," the Sena said It also accused the Uttar Pradesh government of "rich-poor bias". "Hundreds of buses were sent to Kota to bring students back to Uttar Pradesh without any testing since they were rich. For poor, rail ticket fares were charged," the Marathi daily said. The Sena said migrant labourers stuck in different parts of Maharashtra have to face a new ordeal now. Maharashtra looked after them well but they want to go home while their home state is not ready to take them. It praised Congress president Sonia Gandhi's decision asking her state party units to bear the cost of the train fare of migrant workers returning home. This was done on humanitarian grounds, the Sena said. "Migrant workers are not cats and dogs. But their native states are not showing humanity," it said. The Sena said Union minister Nitin Gadkari has rightly pointed out that "migrant labourers may run away from Maharashtra but what will they eat in their home state".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-criticizes-covid-19-test-of-migrant-workers-834191.html
06-05-2020||West||Bombay High Court seeks govt reply on plea for prohibiting newspaper delivery amid coronavirus lockdown||The Bombay High Court has sought response of the Maharashtra government and the Nagpur civic body on a petition filed by an association of newspaper hawkers seeking a blanket restriction on door-to-door delivery of newspapers and their printing amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The petition, filed by Nagpur Daily Newspaper Hawkers and Sub-Agents Welfare Association on Tuesday, said their members are required to go door-to-door to deliver newspapers and would come in contact with several persons. Thus, they would be at the risk of getting infected by a coronavirus. "Further, chances of the virus spreading from the newspaper surface can also be not ruled out. The newspaper moves from hand to hand before being finally delivered to the customer, the plea said. It said while initially, the government had restricted door-to-door delivery of newspapers across the state, the order was later amended and delivery was prohibited only in Mumbai, Pune and in containment zones of other districts. The petition, filed through advocate R B Khan, termed April 21, 2020, amended order of the government as unconstitutional and illegal and sought for it to be quashed and set aside. The plea further claimed that newspaper managements and the Press Council of India are only worried about the business of publication and gaining profit, but not concerned about the hawkers and customers. "The government had initially taken effective steps to ensure that the public at large and hawkers delivering newspapers are not put at the risk of getting infected by COVID-19, and correctly banned printing of newspapers across the state, the petition said.???? The amended order of the government permitting door-to-door delivery of newspapers, except in Mumbai, Pune and containment zones of other districts, is discriminatory, the petition added. Nagpur is also in the red zone and has now been put under lockdown on par with that of Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune Metropolitan Region, the petition said. Justice A S Kilor on Tuesday directed the government and the Nagpur Municipal Corporation to file their affidavits on the petition by May 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-seeks-govt-reply-on-plea-for-prohibiting-newspaper-delivery-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-834198.html
06-05-2020||West||Maha Vikas Aghadi, BJP gear up for Maharashtra Legislative Council polls||The ensuing elections to the Maharashtra Legislative Council are going to be a keen contest to watch. That the Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray will have a smooth sailing is a forgone conclusion. The efforts of the ruling Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and the Opposition BJP are hoping that the polls go unopposed but no one is ready to concede. The election to the nine seats of the Council is scheduled to be held on April 21. The electoral college is the 288-member Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. The quota for winning candidates is 29 votes. While the MVA can easily get six seats, the BJP can get three but the latter has the support of independents  and they would go in for the fourth seat. The fight, if one goes by the numerical order, will be for the ninth seat. The BJP's own strength is 105 seats while MVA allies Sena, NCP and Congress have 56, 54 and 44 seats, respectively.   The other parties contesting include Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (3), Samajwadi Party (2), AIMIM (2), Prahar Janshakti Party (2) and one each from Peasants and Workers Party, Swabhimani Paksha, Krantikari Shetkari Paksha, Rashtriya Samaj Paksha, Jansurajya Party, CPI(M) and MNS. There are 13 independents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-vikas-aghadi-bjp-gear-up-for-maharashtra-legislative-council-polls-834218.html
06-05-2020||West||29 BSF jawans test positive for coronavirus in Jodhpur||Twenty-nine BSF jawans, forming part of a company deployed earlier in the Walled City area in Delhi on internal security duty, tested positive for Covid-19 here on Wednesday, an official of the border guarding force said. All these jawans had been shifted to the Subsidiary Training Center (STC) of BSF on Monday from Delhi for quarantine. “Their samples were taken on Tuesday after their arrival at Jodhpur and had been sent to AIIMS for examination. The report was released by AIIMS on Wednesday morning, in which they were tested positive,” the BSF official said. All of them have now been admitted in the AIIMS for treatment, he added. According to the official, all these jawans were the part of a BSF company, which had been sent to Delhi from Jaipur for internal security purpose and had been put up at the Jama Masjid. Some of the jawans, on duty there, had tested corona-positive, after which the entire company was air-lifted to Jodhpur and was quarantined at the STC considering adequate accommodation for their quarantine. The official said the quarantine centre at the STC here is well-equipped for the purpose and the administration here has been taking proper care of all the jawans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/29-bsf-jawans-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-jodhpur-834232.html
06-05-2020||West||Marathi youth can take advantage of migrants' return: MLA||The return of migrant workers to their native states could lead to difficulties in a resumption of industrial activities in Maharashtra and the Marathi youth can take advantage of the opportunity, NCP MLA Rohit Pawar said on Wednesday. The Marathi youth should not underestimate work of any kind during the present crisis, Rohit Pawar, who is the grandnephew of NCP patriarch Sharad Pawar, said on Twitter. Several workers/labourers are returning to their home as the lockdown is being relaxed. There could be difficulty in resuming industries-business activities due to the absence of the workers from other states," he said. But the Marathi youth can take advantage of the opportunity created after the return of workers and not underestimate any work during the present crisis, the MLA from Karjat-Jamkhed constituency tweeted. The government has cancelled job recruitment due to the economic crisis triggered by the novel coronavirus. This will lead to several youths missing out on opportunities due to the age bar, he said. Hence, the government should not cancel the recruitment and give minimum pay, the MLA said. Such a step will ensure jobs for the youth and manpower for the government and the youth will support the move, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/marathi-youth-can-take-advantage-of-migrants-return-mla-834243.html
06-05-2020||West||Congress blames 'Namaste Trump' for Gujarat COVID-19 spread||The Gujarat Congress on Wednesday alleged that the 'Namaste Trump' event organised by the state BJP government in on February 24 here was responsible for the spread of coronavirus in the state. State Congress president Amit Chavda said his party wants an independent probe through a Special Investigation Team (SIT) into this, and will approach the Gujarat High Court soon against government's "criminal negligence". However, the state BJP unit dismissed the allegation as baseless, saying the event was organised well before the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared COVID-19 as a pandemic, and the first coronavirus case in the state was reported nearly a month after the event. On February 24, US President Donald Trump along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi took part in road show in Ahmedabad which was attended by thousands of people. After the road show, the two leaders addressed a gathering of over one lakh people at Motera cricket stadium, run by Gujarat Cricket Association (GCA). Gujarat reported its first coronavirus cases on March 20, when samples of a man from Rajkot and a woman from Surat tested positive for the disease. Chavda in a video message said, "In January itself, WHO clearly said the coronavirus spreads from one person to another. It had asked all the countries to refrain from organising large gatherings. Despite such warning, 'Namaste Trump' was planned for political gains and permission was also granted by the Gujarat government." He alleged that the coronavirus entered Gujarat and spread among people due to this mega event as thousands of foreigners came to Ahmedabad ahead of Trump's visit. "People were asked to stand shoulder to shoulder on the road to greet the leaders. Lakhs of people were brought to the stadium in buses. This triggered spread of the virus. This event was not a mistake, but a criminal negligence. The 'Namaste Trump' event was responsible for community transmission of the virus," Chavda alleged. "We will soon file a petition in the Gujarat High Court demanding a judicial inquiry in it through an SIT having field experts as its members. We will demand action against the government, GCA and the 'Trump Abhivadan Samiti' (committee formed to organise the event) through this petition," he added.                       However, Gujarat BJP spokesman Prashant Vala termed the allegations as "baseless".       "Chavda needs to understand that before Trump visits any country, a US team conducts a thorough inspection of the areas well in advance to ensure there are no security and health related risks, such as viral infection. Without such clearance, Trump never visits any country," he said.       Moreover, coronavirus was not declared a pandemic by WHO when the 'Namaste Teump' event took place, he said.       The event took place on February 24,and the WHO declared COVID-19 a pandemic on March 11, he said.       "The first coronavirus cases in Gujarat was reported on March 20, almost a month after the event. Chavda is making baseless allegations for vote bank politics," Vala said.       Gujarat has so far reported 6,245 COVID-19 cases and 368 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-blames-namaste-trump-for-gujarat-covid-19-spread-834274.html
06-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Disabled woman rides 18 hours to bring son home||A distress call from her 14-year- old son forced a disabled woman from Pune to travel 1,200 km to Amravati on a two-wheeler to bring him home amid the COVID-19 lockdown. An accountant with a private firm, Sonu Khandare had no idea that the lockdown would force her to make the journey of a lifetime. On April 25, the 37-year-old disabled woman rode her scooter for 18 hours to bring her son home from a village in Maharashtra's Amravati district. "My son Prateek had gone to my in-laws' place at a village in Anjangaon Surji tehsil on March 17 and was stuck there after the lockdown was announced on March 22," Khandare told PTI. The Khandare couple was initially not worried about the boy's well-being, but when the lockdown was extended further till May 4, they got restless. Khandare approached district authorities, applied for a travel pass online and even considered hiring a car for the journey, which would have cost her an exorbitant sum of Rs 8,000. After none of these options seemed viable, she personally went to the police commissioner's office to get special permission.  "When I was granted a travel pass for 48 hours on April 24, I just headed home, packed some food and water and left on my two-wheeler without thinking twice," the 37-year- old said. The trip proved to be a test of her grit and perseverance, as she had to encounter harsh weather conditions and dry terrains of Marathwada and Vidarbha along the way. "I kept riding my two-wheeler even at night, with no light except the dim one coming from the headlight and to make things worse, I was stopped and questioned at every check-post along the way," she said. In order to break the journey at night, Khandare managed to make a pitstop at a petrol pump along the highway near Khamgaon, where she slept on the sidewalk under the watchful gaze of a CCTV camera. "When I noticed the CCTV cameras near the petrol pump, I decided to rest there on the open ground, as I believed that if anything were to happen to me, it will be recorded," she said. Khandare made an early start on April 25 and reached her in-laws home in the afternoon.  "I hardly spent a couple of hours there, as I kept thinking about getting back home safely, before my travel pass expired," said the mother of three, who had to tackle dehydration and hunger, apart from the rough terrain and potholed roads. Khandare managed to reach her home in Bhosari area of Pune, with limited stops, at around 11 pm on April 26, just an hour before her travel pass expired. "My son and I immediately rushed to the hospital to check if we needed to be quarantined, as we had travelled," she said, adding that doctors only advised her home quarantine for 14 days and bed rest. The trip took a toll on Khandare, who is pursuing her post-graduation in commerce in a bid to get a government job. However, knowing that her son was under the same roof during these unprecedented times, made the journey worth it, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-disabled-woman-rides-18-hours-to-bring-son-home-834295.html
06-05-2020||West||Over 700 patients discharged in Maharashtra in two days: Tope||Over 700 COVID-19 patients were discharged from hospitals in Maharashtra in the last two days, including 354 on Tuesday which was the highest in one day, Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. The total number of coronavirus cases that have come to light in the state so far is 15,525, he said in a statement here. "But we have discharged 2,819 patients after recovery till today. The discharged people have to spend 14 days in mandatory home quarantine from the date of discharge," he said. "The state on Monday and Tuesday discharged 350 and 354 people, respectively, after recovery from COVID-19. This (Tuesday's figure) is the highest number of discharged people in a single day in the state so far," Tope said. Maharashtra reported its first case of coronavirus infection on March 9, while the first patients walked out of hospital upon recovery on March 25. "The government's efforts of concentrated medication and utmost care of patients and their relatives helped in increasing the figure of discharged people," the minister added. 617 persons have died due to the pandemic in Maharashtra. There are 12,089 active patients in the state while 1,82,884 tests have been conducted so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-700-patients-discharged-in-maharashtra-in-two-days-tope-834306.html
06-05-2020||West||Over 18,000 arrested in Maha for lockdown violation: Deshmukh||More than 95,000 cases have been registered for violation of prohibitory orders during lockdown in Maharashtra so far, and 18,722 persons were arrested in these cases, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday. The police are working round-the-clock to enforce lockdown and contain the spread of the virus, he said in a statement here. 95,678 cases were registered for violation of restrictions since lockdown began in the state, he said. He had ordered strict action against anti-social elements who attack the police, doctors, nurses and health department officials who are working relentlessly, the minister said. At least 184 incidents of assault on police were reported in the state during lockdown and 663 persons were held in these cases, he added. 414 police personnel and 42 officials contracted virus infection in the state, Deshmukh said. If any police personnel has symptoms of the virus infection, they should immediately visit special centres set up for them for treatment, he said. So far, three police personnel from Mumbai and one from Pune have died due to coronavirus, the minister said. 2,11,638 persons were prescribed quarantine since the pandemic arrived in Maharashtra, and the police have so far traced at least 642 persons who violated quarantine rules, he said. The police also registered 1,279 cases of illegal transport and seized 53,071 vehicles during lockdown.  A fine of Rs 3.51 crore was collected in various cases of violation of lockdown, the home minister informed.   The Maharashtra government has set up 4,808 relief camps which have benefited 4,42,858 migrants, labourers and the poor, Deshmukh said. "If the government provides some relaxation from lockdown, it does not mean it is over, people should follow social distancing and various rules of lockdown to win this fight against coronavirus," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-18000-arrested-in-maha-for-lockdown-violation-deshmukh-834324.html
06-05-2020||West||68 new coronavirus cases in Dharavi, tally 733, one death||The number of coronavirus cases in the slum-dominated Dharavi area here crossed 700 on Wednesday, as 68 new patients were detected including one who died. A senior official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the tally of coronavirus cases in the densely populated area thus reached 733 during the day while the death toll rose to 21. New cases were found in Muslim Nagar, Mukund Nagar, Azad Nagar, Dharavi Main Road, Dhorwada, Matunga Labour Camp, Indira Nagar, Balaji Nagar, Kumbharwada and some other localities, he said. A coronavirus patient died in Naik Nagar, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/68-new-coronavirus-cases-in-dharavi-tally-733-one-death-834332.html
06-05-2020||West||Maharshtra: Mumbai's coronavirus tally crosses 10,000-mark, death toll tops 400||India's financial powerhouse of Mumbai's coronavirus tally, on Wednesday, crossed the 10,000-mark and the death toll breached the 400-mark. As of May 6, Mumbai has 10,714 cases and deaths have touched 412. As far as Maharashtra was concerned, the cases now stand at 16,578 with an addition of 1,233 reported between Tuesday and Wednesday. The total number of deaths due to COVID-19 in the state now stands at 651. The jump of 1,233 is the highest so far in 24 hours if one does not take into account Monday's figure of 1,567 - because of the addition of previous cases.  Out of the 1,90,879 laboratory samples, 1,73,838 were negative and 16,758 have been tested positive for coronavirus until Wednesday.  Of the 34 COVID-19-related deaths in the state, 25 deaths were recorded in Mumbai, 3 in Pune, 3 in Akola city, 1 in Jalgaon city and 1 in Solapur city.   Additionally, one resident from Uttar Pradesh died in Mumbai. As many as 3,094 patients have been discharged till date after full recovery. Currently, 2,11,112 people are under home quarantine and 13,107 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharshtra-mumbais-coronavirus-tally-crosses-10000-mark-death-toll-tops-400-834358.html
06-05-2020||West||Goa board announces dates for SSC, HSSC examinations||As Goa remains coronavirus-free, the state government has given permission for holding exams for pending papers of Class 12 and for all subjects of Class 10 later this month when the current phase of lockdown ends. The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education said on Wednesday that these exams, stalled due to the COVID-19 outbreak, will be held from May 20 onwards. Board chairman Ramakrishna Samant said that HSSC (Class 12) examinations will be held from May 20 to May 22 (for two pending papers), while the SSC (Class 10) exams for all papers will be held from May 21 onwards. A detailed time table will be released soon, he said. The board announced the dates after getting a go-ahead from the state government. Earlier this week, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant had said HSSC and SSC examinations would be held after the third phase of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown ends on May 17. These board-conducted annual examinations are usually held in March-April. The coastal state, which has no active coronavirus case currently, falls under the green zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-board-announces-dates-for-ssc-hssc-examinations-834416.html
06-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Shops to remain shut in Ahmedabad for one week||To control the spread of coronavirus in the worst-hit Ahmedabad city, civic authorities on Wednesday ordered the closure of all the shops except those selling milk and medicines for a week, triggering panic buying of grocery items and vegetables by citizens. As per the order signed by in-charge municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar, the shops will remain closed from May 7 midnight till 6 am on May 15. While milk outlets and medical stores can remain open, all other shops, including those selling fruits, vegetables and grocery items, will remain closed, in a bid to minimise human contact to break the chain of the viral infection, the order said. Earlier, the sale of vegetables, fruits and grocery items was allowed during the lockdown period. Kumar was made in-charge municipal commissioner on Tuesday after civic chief Vijay Nehra went in a 14-day home quarantine, as he had come into contact with some coronavirus positive persons. "In view of the rising number COVID-19 cases, it is necessary in the public interest to take adequate steps," Kumar stated. Meanwhile, panicked citizens came out in large numbers to buy groceries and vegetables. Earlier, several vegetable vendors tested positive for coronavirus in the city, prompting authorities to screen all the vendors before allowing them to do business. Ahmedabad accounts for 4,358 coronavirus positive cases of the total 6,245 cases in Gujarat and 273 of the total 368 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-shops-to-remain-shut-in-ahmedabad-for-one-week-834423.html
06-05-2020||West||44 test positive for coronavirus in Nagpur, tally crosses 200||Forty-four persons tested positive for coronavirus in Nagpur city on Wednesday, taking the tally of cases to 204, civic officials said. All 44 persons were residents of coronavirus hotspots and already quarantined, said an official of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). The NMC had in the past few days quarantined hundreds of people from Satranjipura and Mominpura localities. Meanwhile, after the death of a 22-year-old man from Parvati Nagar area who later tested positive for virus, eleven police personnel, who had come in contact with either him or one of his relatives were quarantined on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/44-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-nagpur-tally-crosses-200-834434.html
06-05-2020||West||25 trains travelled out of Maharashtra ferrying migrants so far: Govt||A total of 25 trains have ferried migrant labourers to various states outside Maharashtra since the Railway started operating the Shramik Specials, the state government said on Wednesday. This information was given by Additional Chief Secretary Nitin Kareer to the state Cabinet which took a stock of transportation of migrants who have been stranded in Mumbai, Pune and other cities since the coronavirus-induced lockdown came into force on March 25. "Kareer informed the Cabinet that so far 25 special trains have left the state carrying migrant workers, except to West Bengal and Karnataka," statement from the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said. Of the total migrants ferried in 100 trains across the country, 20 per cent migrant labourers from Maharashtra have been benefited from the train travel, it stated. Two trains carrying migrants within Maharashtra have arrived in Gadchiroli and Chandrapur, it said. As per the Railways, it has run 122 Shramik Special trains since May 1 and ferried home over 1.25 lakh migrants stranded in various parts of the country due to the COVID-19- induced lockdown. Meanwhile, the state government has decided to evacuate by a train the UPSC aspirants from Maharashtra who have been stuck in Delhi. They will be ferried to Bhusawal in Jalgaon district of north Maharashtra and talks are on with the Railway ministry in this regard, it stated. Only the Madhya Pradesh government has footed the entire travel bill for migrants from that state who were stuck in Maharashtra, it said. A major political row was erupted over sharing of the train ticket fare for migrants. The government said that social distancing norms were maintained during the train journey. "Only 50 passengers were allowed in each compartment of a train as part of a social distancing norms. They were given masks, food and water," it said. The government also said that 2.48 lakh passes have been issued to stranded persons for inter-state and intra- state travelling in Maharashtra in their own vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/25-trains-travelled-out-of-maharashtra-ferrying-migrants-so-far-govt-834438.html
