07-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Three more test positive for COVID-19 in Kalaburagi||Three men aged between 35 to 41 years contracted the virus. While a 35-year-old man came in contact with P642, others contracted the infection from P641.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/three-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kalaburagi-834670.html
07-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka BJP Naleen Kumar Kateel chief slams Siddaramaiah for criticism of CM's COVID-19 relief package||Karnataka state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Thursday mounted a sharp attack on former chief minister Siddaramaiah for terming as "too little" the state government's latest relief package to farmers and weaker sections and accused him of playing politics during COVID-19 crisis. Congratulating Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for the special package announced for agriculturists, flower growers, weavers, barbers and other deprived sections, he said it was regrettable that Siddaramaiah has come out against it. Yediyurappa on Wednesday announced a Rs 1,610 crore package, including a one-time compensation of Rs 5,000 each to thousands of washermen, barbers, auto rickshaw and taxi drivers and Rs 25,000 per hectare for affected flower growers. Siddaramaiah in a series of tweets has termed the package as "Too little, too late" and accused the chief minister of "completely ignoring farmers". Referring to Siddaramaiah's reported comment that a flower grower spends Rs 50 lakh per acre, Kateel said it was surprising that the Congress leader, who had held the Finance portfolio and presented several budgets, does not have the basic knowledge about the money spent by farmers and flower growers. The Dakshina Kannada MP alleged that Siddaramaiah was playing politics at a difficult time when the state had been trying its best to tackle the Covid crisis. As an experienced politician, he should have welcomed the initiative of the state government, Kateel said. The state BJP chief alleged that Siddaramaiah had not provided any relief to farmers during his rule though there were a number of farmer's suicides reported from different parts of the state then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-bjp-naleen-kumar-kateel-chief-slams-siddaramaiah-for-criticism-of-cms-covid-19-relief-package-834702.html
07-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Yettinahole project work will be expedited'||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jharkiholi assured that the works to supply water to the central districts, under Yettinahole project, would be launched by March 2021. The minister visited the Yettinahole project site in Sakleshpur on Thursday. Speaking to reporters after a meeting with the officials, he said, “On an experimental basis, water will be released for 37 km (up to Aruvanalli sub-station in Alur taluk). Later, steps would be taken to supply water from there to various places. We will not do politics in water matters. However, there may be minor problems in releasing the funds.” The minister explained that land acquisition and compensation process would be expedited. A meeting would be held with Chief MinisterB S Yediyurappa by the end of the month and grants will be sought for the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yettinahole-project-work-will-be-expedited-834842.html
07-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Akrama-Sakrama scheme in Mysuru: Minister||Urban Development Minister B A Basavaraj said that the state government is planning to introduce Akrama-Sakrama scheme in Mysuru City on the lines of Bengaluru. The minister explained the scheme in a meeting, at Mysuru City Corporation here, on Thursday. The government has planned to introduce Akrama-Sakrama scheme in Mysuru to regularise unauthorised properties. The government has already reintroduced the scheme in Bengaluru, he said. Basavaraj said the officials and people’s representatives have done a commendable job to combat the spread of Covid-19. The minister urged them to continue their work and assured his support. The government aims to make the state 100% free from Covid-19. Since the outbreak of Covid-19 over the last three months, the state has suffered hundreds of crores loss. I have requested Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to provide additional funds to all city corporations. The CM has assured of sanctioning of funds once the state recovers from Covid-19, he said. The minister said that he will discuss with Mandya Deputy Commissioner in connection with the land acquisition to arrange drinking water to MUDA layouts in Mysuru district. In another meeting at MUDA, the minister directed the officials to follow up the proposals sent to the state government for approval. MUDA has come up with a project to distribute sites to economically weaker sections, which is pending with the government.  MUDA officials said that MUDA has planned six projects and is waiting for approval from the government. The minister assured of getting approval.    MP Pratap Simha, MLAs S A Ramdas, G T Devegowda and Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/akrama-sakrama-scheme-in-mysuru-minister-834843.html
07-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Mysuru to be declared as Orange Zone soon'||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that the district administration has urged the state government to declare the district as ‘Orange Zone’ as the numbers of Covid-19 cases are on a decline. Speaking to reporter here, on Thursday, the minister said the number of active cases declined to seven on Wednesday. “The district was declared ‘Red Zone’ as a total of 90 cases were reported. A majority of the cases were linked with Nanjangud-based Jubilant Generics of Jubilant Life Science in the spread of Covid-19 infection. As many as 73 cases were linked to the company and eight are linked to a congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, Delhi. Somashekar said the district will be Covid-19 free within in a week. The minister said there are three possible sources for the outbreak of Covid-19 in Jubilant Generics. “A few auditors had come from Delhi and a few people of the company had visited Delhi. These people might have carried the infection. In addition, a few people of the company had participated in a religious meet at Thanisandra in Bengaluru. However, the source for Covid-19 is yet to be ascertained,” he said. The minister said he is not aware about the investigation report submitted by IAS officer Harsha Gupta to the government. He said, “Nanjangud MLA B Harshavardhan has no difference of opinion over investigation of Covid-19 at the company.” The MLA had alleged that few powerful hands are trying to safeguard the Jubilant Company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-to-be-declared-as-orange-zone-soon-834844.html
07-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||KSMDMCL launches online mango sales||Karnataka State Mango Development And Marketing Corporation  Limited (KSMDMCL) has inked an agreement with the India Post (IP) to deliver the king of fruits at customers’ doorstep. The agreement was signed for the sales of fruits online to help to mango growers facing distress due to restrictions in the wake of lockdown. The move also avoids the intervention of middlemen. Large quantities of mangoes grown in Kolar, the largest producer in the state, are exported to other states and countries. At present, the fruits are grown in 52,371 hectares in the district. About 2.35 lakh tones of yield is expected. The KSMDMCL and the IP have launched a web portal (www.karsirimangoes.karnataka. gov.in) for online sales. About 68 farmers, besides 28 from Kolar, those from Chikkaballapur, Ramanagar, Tumakuru and Bengaluru Rural districts have registered their names for the online sales. The portal has names and mobile numbers of farmers and varieties of fruits available with them. They will receive a text message once customers place orders for the fruits of their choices. The farmers pack the fruits in boxes and send them General Post Office (GPO), Bengaluru. The boxes are dispatched to respective destinations from the GPO. The online service is available only on Tuesdays and Fridays. The payment should be made while placing orders. An amount of Rs 27 needs to paid extra post-delivery charges. Funds will be deposited to the farmers’ accounts after the customers receive the boxes. There is good response from farmers as the number of farmers willing for the registration is increasing.“The KSMDMCL has launched online business for the welfare of mango growers. The farmers should utilise the facility, ” H T Balakrishna, deputy director, Holagere Mango Development Centre, said. So far, about 14,755 customers have placed orders for 47.81 tonnes of mangoes. By Tuesday, 42.71 tonnes of fruits were sent to 14,075 customers. The orders of 68 customers have been reserved due to non-payment. Taluk                Mangoes grown (in hectares)  Srinivaspur:          26,834 Mulbagal:            13,851 Kolar:                     5,635 Bangarpet:             1,725 Malur:                   1,760 KGF:                     2,565||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/ksmdmcl-launches-online-mango-sales-834769.html
07-05-2020||Mysuru||S T Somashekar raises additional Rs 1.5 crore for Mysuru Zoo||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar raised an additional Rs 1.5 crore towards Mysuru Zoo. With this, Somashekar collected and donated Rs 2.32 crore in three phases.The Minister handed over a cheque of Rs 21.14 lakh to the Zoo director Ajit Kulkarni. In addition, Urban Development Minister B A Basavaraj donated Rs 84 lakh. Earlier, Somashekar had raised Rs 45.30 lakh and Rs 73.60 lakh towards the zoo. The Minister had promised of raising funds for the zoo as there is no revenue due to lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/s-t-somashekar-raises-additional-rs-15-crore-for-mysuru-zoo-834667.html
07-05-2020||National||Congress lauds armed forces for eliminating Hizbb terrorist Reyaz Naikoo||The Congress on Wednesday lauded the security forces for bringing Hizbul Mujahideen’s de facto chief Reyaz Naikoo to justice, with Rahul Gandhi saying the killing of innocents by terrorists must never go unpunished. "I congratulate our security forces for bringing the terrorist, Riyaz Naikoo, to justice. The killing of innocent people by terrorists must never go unpunished," he said on Twitter. I congratulate our security forces for bringing the terrorist, Riyaz Naikoo, to justice. The killing of innocent people by terrorists must never go unpunished. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the party applauds the brave armymen and the entire armed forces who, despite the coronavirus pandemic, are taking on terrorists being pushed into India by the ISI and the Pakistani government. He said the manner in which the terrorists are pushed into India by Pakistan and the ISI is known to everybody. "But, the way this architecture of terror is being demolished by our armed forces makes every Indian proud of them," he said. "We salute their valour and bravery in demolishing this terror network on a daily basis which is now proven from the killing of the terror Commander in Jammu and Kashmir when he attacked our armed forces. Our armed forces ensured that the terror network was demolished, so we applaud them and we salute their valour," Surjewala said. Hizbul Mujahideen's de facto chief and one of Kashmir's most wanted terrorists Reyaz Naikoo was on Wednesday killed by security forces in his village in Pulwama district, prompting authorities to suspend mobile phones and mobile internet across the Valley.   The 35-year-old maths teacher-turned-terrorist, with a Rs 12 lakh bounty on his head, had successfully escaped the dragnet for eight years. But his luck finally ran out when he was shot dead after a five-hour gunbattle in restive Pulwama's Beighbpora village, about 40 km from Srinagar, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-lauds-armed-forces-for-eliminating-hizbb-terrorist-reyaz-naikoo-834449.html
07-05-2020||National||TMC slams Centre for announcing lockdown extension without clarifying COVID-19 situation||The Trinamool Congress on Friday criticised the BJP-led central government for extending the lockdown by two weeks from May 4 without giving an account of the prevailing coronavirus situation and "failing" to chalk out a roadmap for revival of the economy reeling under the COVID-19 outbreak. The government on Friday announced that a "limited" lockdown, including suspension of inter-state travel, air and train services, will continue to remain in force for another two weeks throughout the country from May 4 but some activities would be allowed after classifying areas into Red, Orange and Green zones. "We have nothing to say about the extension of the lockdown for two more weeks as our party has already said that we would go by the Centre's decision on the lockdown," veteran TMC leader and MP Saugato Roy told PTI over phone. "But the Union government should come out clean on various issues including the exact reasons for extending the lockdown," he said. He wondered whether the Centre was serious to revive the economy and provide financial package to states to combat adversity due to the pandemic. "We all know we are in the midst of a pandemic. But the government must explain whether the situation is under control or not. It should clarify whether community transmission has started. "The country is waiting to hear from the Centre about a roadmap and an outlook on how the economy would be revived, how to help the unorganized and agricultural sectors. But there is no such assurance so far," he said.  The TMC and the BJP are locked in a war of words over visit of central teams to assess COVID-19 situation in West Bengal. The Union government order, which announced the extension of the lockdown invoking the Disaster Management Act, said a limited number of activities will remain prohibited throughout the country, irrespective of the zone. These prohibited activities include travel by air, rail, metro and inter-state movement by road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-slams-centre-for-announcing-lockdown-extension-without-clarifying-covid-19-situation-834451.html
07-05-2020||National||India donates Bangladesh 30,000 COVID-19 testing kits||India on Wednesday donated 30,000 COVID-19 test kits to Bangladesh as part of its emergency medical assistance to the neighbouring country which has reported 11,719 coronavirus cases and 186 fatalities. "This assistance which is covered under the SAARC COVID-19 Emergency Fund is intended to support the efforts of Government of Bangladesh in tackling the spread of coronavirus," the Indian High Commission in Dhaka said in a statement. Indian High Commissioner Riva Ganguly Das handed over the kits to Bangladesh’s Foreign Minister AK Abdul Momen at his office, saying these domestically produced kits were widely used in India for COVID-19 detection. According to the statement, Das said Bangladesh was the first country to receive these test kits from India on priority, "which reflects the importance of Dhaka to New Delhi". Momen appreciated India’s help for the three tranches of assistance. An Indigo cargo flight transported the supply to be dispatched to Bangladesh’s Institute of Epidemiological Disease Control and Research (IEDCR). Dhaka received the first tranche of the Indian emergency medical assistance containing 30,000 surgical masks and 15,000 caps on March 25. The second Indian consignment consisted of 50,000 sterile surgical latex gloves and 1,00,000 Hydroxychloroquine medicine tablets. The Indian gesture came as Prime Minister Narendra Modi ensured his country's readiness to help Bangladesh in containing the spread of COVID-19 and in mitigating health and economic impact of the pandemic. In a video conference on forming a joint strategy to fight COVID-19 in the SAARC region, Prime Minister Modi on March 15 proposed the emergency fund with an initial offer of USD 10 million from India and asserted that the best way to deal with the coronavirus pandemic was by coming together, and not growing apart. Bangladesh's foreign ministry said in a statement that Momen thanked India for the medical supplies as well as assistance in returning Bangladeshi nationals stranded in India.  He also urged India to take steps to allow goods-laden Bangladesh-bound trucks stranded in Petrapole land border to cross the frontier, saying the delay would result in huge loss to Bangladeshi importers.   Meanwhile, Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) Additional Director General (administration) Nasima Sultana said that three people died with coronavirus infections in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 186. The confirmed cases have jumped to 11,719, as the country recorded the highest single-day jump with 790 more people testing positive in the last 24 hours, she said. On March 8, the health authorities in Bangladesh reported the first case of COVID-19, a severe acute respiratory illness caused by a new strain of coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-donates-bangladesh-30000-covid-19-testing-kits-834452.html
07-05-2020||National||Proposal for voluntary monthly contribution to PM-CARES by armed forces for 11 months cleared||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday approved a proposal for voluntary monthly contribution of one day's salary for next 11 months to the PM CARES fund for COVID-19 by nearly 1.5 million-strong armed forces and all other employees of his ministry, officials said. The total estimated contribution would be around Rs 5,500 crore if majority of the armed forces personnel and employees of the ministry including from the defence public sector undertakings decide to go for it, they said.  According to an official note, the contribution to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES) will start from May and will continue till March 2021. "Any officer or staff willing to contribute one day's salary for any or all the months from May 2020 to March 2021 may intimate their willingness to their respective Drawing and Disbursing Officers (DDOs) in writing mentioning her/his employee code," according to the note. Officials said the defence minister as well as all senior officials of the ministry and three services are making their contributing to the fund as mentioned in the note. The armed forces personnel as well as employees of the defence ministry have already made a contribution of one day's salary last month, totalling around Rs 500 crore. In March, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced setting up of the PM-CARES to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. Political leaders, corporates, defence personnel, employees of PSUs such as Railways and Bollywood personalities were among a cross-section of organisations and people making their contribution to the fund. The government has also decided to accept contributions from abroad to the fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/proposal-for-voluntary-monthly-contribution-to-pm-cares-by-armed-forces-for-11-months-cleared-834455.html
07-05-2020||National||Health ministry decides to use modified train coaches for mild coronavirus cases||Considering the possibility of increase in novel coronavirus infections, the Health Ministry has decided to use train coaches as COVID Care Centres for suspected or confirmed patients categorized as mild or very mild cases. According to a "guidance document on appropriate management of suspect/ confirmed cases of COVID-l9: Railway Coaches - COVID Care Centre" released by health ministry on Wednesday, the patients lodged in coaches will be observed for their symptoms and clinical condition. In cases of change of the symptoms or clinical conditions, they would be referred to a designated centre or hospital for further management, the document said.  Separate coaches for suspect and confirmed cases should be ensured to avoid cross infection, the document says.  "As far as possible, wherever cases are admitted in the COVID Care Center coach, preferably individual cabin should be assigned for each case. Should the situation warrant, up to a maximum of two confirmed patients can be assigned in individual cabin," the ministry stated.  The Centre has classified health facilities into three categories -- COVID Care Center,  Dedicated COVID Health Centre (DCHC) and Dedicated COVID Hospital (DCH).    The COVID Care Centers offer care only for cases that have been clinically assigned as mild or very mild cases or suspect cases while Dedicated COVID Health Centre are hospitals that offer care for all cases that have been clinically assigned as moderate. Dedicated COVID Hospitals will offer comprehensive care primarily for those who have been clinically assigned as severe and these should either be a full hospital or a separate block in a hospital with preferably separate entry\exit.    The Ministry of Railways, as its contribution to national cause, has initiated conversion of Railway Coaches into COVID Care Centers to provide additional beds for coronavirus infected patients as and when required, the ministry said.  According to the Standard Operating Procedures released by the ministry, special train coaches shall be cleaned and disinfected as per protocol for disinfection of quarantine facilities issued by Ministry of Health. The document mentioned a list of 215 stations where the special train coaches can be placed. The Railways will designate state-wise nodal officers for allocation of trains and for coordinating with the respective state and UT government and share the list of their nodal officers with them.  After the allocation by the Railways, the train shall be placed, at required station with necessary infrastructure, and handed over to district collector or district magistrate or one of their authorized persons, the SOPs stated. The state government shall map at least one COVID Dedicated hospital for each train so that patient can be shifted to the hospital in case of emergency. The state and UT government shall make suitable ambulance arrangements for shifting the patient. Preferably one Basic Life support Ambulance with oxygen and ambubag should be stationed at the railway station where the train is placed, the SOPs said.  The respective state and UT government request for placing the coaches at the other 130 stations only if they agree to provide staff and essential medicines at such stations.  "The Railways would be responsible for provision of all the items as prescribed by Health ministry for the CVOID care centers, including arrangements for oxygen cylinders in each coach and other necessary items including linen etc," it stated. Para-medic staff on train will do bio-medical waste segregation at source and respective state and district shall do waste disposal arrangements following the mechanism being followed for hospitals. "Standard Treatment Protocols of the Ministry shall be followed for management of cases. The staff deployed at the special train coaches shall be suitably oriented and trained, wherever necessary," the ministry said.  Wherever the train is stationed, the rolling stock department of Railways shall make arrangements for watering of coaches regularly, any repairs required in coaches, and also for replenishment of chlorine tablets at the bio-toilet discharge and wherever required, catering arrangements shall be made by IRCTC of the commercial department.  "The Railway Protection Force will ensure suitable security to the coaches, patients and staff working there. Proper signages shall be placed outside railway stations, platforms and near location of coaches to guide authorities and patients to the coaches in a way that they are separate from the general public using the railway facilities," according to the SOPs. One changing facility for doffing at end of the train on platform where the train is parked is required to be provided, the ministry said. This facility, if not available as a permanent set up, may be provided as a temporary arrangement by the Railways.  As a special case, the Ministry of Environment change has provided one-time exemption from registration of train coaches for the purpose of generating hospital waste    However, the guidelines issued by CPCB and the State Pollution Control Board related to treatment of COVID patients has to be followed. Before a train is handed back to Railways, the staff deployed there shall ensure all biomedical waste bins are cleaned and emptied, the train cleaned and disinfected, the SOPs said.   The Railway staff will have to again disinfect the train as per protocol issued by Ministry of Health from time to time and lock it till further orders, the SOPs stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-decides-to-use-modified-train-coaches-for-mild-coronavirus-cases-834457.html
07-05-2020||National||Tomar seeks Centre help to fly back Indians stuck in Australia||Expressing concern over Indians stranded in Australia due to the COVID-19 outbreak, Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday requested his cabinet colleagues in foreign and civil aviation ministries to take necessary steps to bring them back. Tomar has sought intervention of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri to bring back the Indians stranded in Australia due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Tomar requested Jaishankar and Puri to take necessary action in the matter, official sources told PTI. Tomar has forwarded a letter from Bhopal resident Rajesh Malik about his son Varun, who is stranded in Australia, where he had gone on an assignment. In the letter, Malik has also attached a list with names of a few others who were stuck in Australia and wished to return home. The Union government has launched the country's biggest-ever peacetime evacuation plan to bring back thousands of Indians stranded in foreign countries due to the global pandemic, which has affected more than 190 nations. The Indian Navy and Air India are bringing back around 16,000 Indians stuck in 13 countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tomar-seeks-centre-help-to-fly-back-indians-stuck-in-australia-834461.html
07-05-2020||National||Vardhan expresses concern over high fatality rate among COVID-19 patients in Maha, Gujarat||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday expressed concern over high fatality rate among COVID-19 patients in some districts of Maharashtra and Gujarat, asking the two states to focus on early surveillance and aggressive contact tracing. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,694 and the number of cases climbed to 49,391 across the country on Wednesday, registering an increase of 126 deaths and 2,958 cases in the last 24 hours since 8 am on Tuesday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 33, 514 while a total of 14,183 people have recuperated in the country so far. "In the last 24 hours, 1,457 patients have recovered, taking the total recovery rate to 28.72 per cent," the ministry said.  According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 12,76,781 samples have been tested as on May 6 till 9 am. Considering the possibility of increase in cases of novel coronavirus infections, the ministry has decided to use Railway coaches as COVID Care Centres for suspected or confirmed cases categorized as mild or very mild cases. The health ministry had on Tuesday said the nationwide COVID-19 case status will be updated on its website only once a day in the morning instead of twice a day as was being done previously. Vardhan held a high-level meeting with Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Nitinbhai Patel and Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope as the states reported 368 and 617 COVID-19 fatalities respectively. In the meeting, Vardhan stressed on the need for proper interventions like screening and testing of severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and Influenza Like Illness (ILI) cases as this may prevent spread of infection in other areas. "Implementation of effective containment strategy needs to be on the top priority of the states to reduce the mortality rate. It is the need of the hour to take preventive, pre-emptive and comprehensive measures in a systematic manner and follow the protocols laid down by the Centre to prevent occurrence of fresh cases," he said. It was pointed out that in some cases, the patients either suppressed the information of their infection or reported late to the hospitals for treatment, which may be indicative of some fear or stigma associated with COVID-19. The Union minister urged the states to ensure that persons aged more than 65 years and having any non-communicable disease are screened on priority in the Ayushman Bharat-Health and Wellness Centers. Vardan also pointed out that in compliance of the guidelines issued by the Centre, non-COVID-19 essential health services such as antenatal care, immunisation drives, tuberculosis case finding and treatment, providing blood transfusion for dialysis patients, treatment of cancer patients among others should not be neglected. Meanwhile, the ministry said Aarogy Setu Interactive Voice Response System has been implemented for the people having feature phones or landlines while urging citizens to download the mobile application, noting that it will enable them to assess the risk of their catching the novel coronavirus infection. Close to nine crore users have downloaded the Aarogya Setu mobile application so far, the Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 was informed on Tuesday. The 'Aarogy Setu Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS)' is a toll-free service, available across the country, wherein citizens can give a missed call to the number '1921' and they will get a call back requesting for inputs regarding their health. The questions asked are aligned with Aarogy Setu App, and based on the responses given. Citizens will also get an SMS indicating their health status and further alerts for improving their health, the ministry said. "All the citizens are urged to download the mobile application. This is designed to keep a user informed, in case she/he crosspaths with someone who has tested positive," a health ministry statement said. The Centre meanwhile rejected charges by the opposition that the application breached privacy. Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad asserted that the platform is "absolutely robust, safe and secure" in terms of privacy protection and data security. The response came after a French hacker and cyber security expert Elliot Alderson on Tuesday claimed that "a security issue has been found" in the Aarogya Setu app and that "privacy of 90 million Indians is at stake". The Centre had on Friday made it mandatory for government and private sector employees to use Aarogya Setu mobile application to bolster the efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, and entrusted the organisational heads with ensuring its 100 per cent coverage. According to the ministry data,of the total fatalities, Maharashtra tops tally with 617 fatalities, Gujarat comes second with 368 deaths, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 176, West Bengal at 140, Rajasthan at 89, Delhi at 64, Uttar Pradesh at 56 and Andhra Pradesh at 36. The death toll reached 33 in Tamil Nadu, 29 in Telengana, while Karnataka has reported 29 fatalities due to the respiratory disease. Punjab has registered 25 COVID-19 deaths, Jammu and Kashmir eight, Haryana six and Kerala and Bihar have reported four deaths each. Jharkhand has recorded three COVID-19 fatalities. Meghalaya, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Assam and Uttarakhand have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vardhan-expresses-concern-over-high-fatality-rate-among-covid-19-patients-in-maha-gujarat-834462.html
07-05-2020||National||Hike NAFED's onion procurement limit from Maharashtra: Ajit Pawar to Centre||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday asked the Centre to increase the 40,000-metric tonne limit set for NAFED for procuring onions to 50,000 metric tonnes in the interest of cultivators and consumers in the state. Pawar, who holds the finance portfolio, made the demand in a letter to Union Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Minister Ram Vilas Paswan. The National Agricultural Cooperative Federation of India (NAFED) is a central agency that aims to promote cooperative marketing of agricultural produce to benefit farmers. Pawar said Maharashtra has witnessed good production of onions and the produce is available on a big scale presently across agricultural produce market committees in the state. The current COVID-19 crisis, however, has affected the purchase of onions, the senior NCP leader added. Pawar predicted that with favourable weather conditions, the onion production will be on the higher side during the rabi (winter) season. Once the crop taken during the rabi season will hit markets, the prices will plunge, adversely affecting farmers, the finance minister said. This needs to be avoided. The Centres decision to purchase onion through NAFED is worth welcoming, but reducing the procurement limit to 40,000 metric tonnes from 45,000 metric tonnes last year is unjust. Hence, the procurement limit should be increased to 50,000 metric tonnes, a statement quoted Pawar as saying in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hike-nafeds-onion-procurement-limit-from-maharashtra-ajit-pawar-to-centre-834465.html
07-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 7, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-7-2020-edition-834509.html
07-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 7||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 55,827 as of May 7. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 1,881 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 13,161 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-7-834510.html
07-05-2020||National||Govt to bring back Indians stuck outside nation amid coronavirus outbreak||The Union government is going to bring back all Indians, stranded in various countries, including in Nepal, through special chartered flights, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-bring-back-indians-stuck-outside-nation-amid-coronavirus-outbreak-834511.html
07-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Fight stigma, says government as spike in COVID-19 cases continues||Harsh Vardhan reached out to health ministers of Maharashtra and Gujarat, the worst-hit states that together account for 23,383 confirmed cases of COVID-19, with a message to tighten surveillance and make efforts to remove the stigma associated with the disease, which was leading to delay in reporting of patients.  The death toll also rose by 98 to touch 1,785 since the outbreak of COVID-19 in the country on January 30. The sudden spike in cases in these two states was attributed to patients suppressing information about infection and reporting to hospitals late, which was considered as the reason for the high mortality rate in the two states. Since May 1, Gujarat has reported an average of 30 deaths every day. For Maharashtra, the death rate was slightly higher than that of Gujarat. He also assured the states that additional teams comprising officials from the Centre would be deployed in states as per their request. During the review, officials noted that the delay in reporting COVID-19 symptoms to hospitals was indicative of some fear or stigma associated with the disease. “Aggressive behaviour change communication exercise needs to be taken for removing stigma against reporting COVID-19, which shall contribute towards timely reporting, clinical management, and reduction in fatality rates,” Harshvardhan told the health ministers of Gujarat and Maharashtra. In Maharashtra, the situation was particularly worrisome as 34 of the 36 districts of the state were reporting COVID-19 cases with population-dense regions of Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Solapur becoming a matter of concern.  The minister suggested that the state government rope in community volunteers along with the surveillance teams in the containment areas to spread awareness about the preventive measures like hand washing, physical distancing. These volunteers can also play an effective role in removing the stigma prevailing in society. On the brighter side, so far, a total of 15,185 people have been cured, taking the total recovery rate to 28.69%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-fight-stigma-says-government-as-spike-in-covid-19-cases-continues-834516.html
07-05-2020||National||Those leading fight against coronavirus worthy of praise: PM Narenra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday hailed people leading the fight against coronavirus and said India is standing firmly with those facing difficult times during the pandemic, both in the country and abroad. He also said India's development will always aid global growth. Speaking at a global virtual Buddha Purnima event, Modi said, "People world over working selflessly for others in these difficult times are worthy of praise." "India is standing strong and selflessly in these difficult times with those facing trouble in India or abroad. India's growth will always be aiding global growth," he said. Buddha Purnima celebrations are being held virtually due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The event is being organised in the honour of COVID-19 victims and frontline warriors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/those-leading-fight-against-coronavirus-worthy-of-praise-pm-narenra-modi-834543.html
07-05-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi expresses shock over Andhra Pradesh gas leak incident||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday expressed shock over the gas leak incident in Visakhapatnam and prayed for the speedy recovery of those hospitalised. He also urged Congress workers in the area to provide all necessary support to those affected. "I'm shocked to hear about Vizag Gas Leak. I urge our Congress workers and leaders in the area to provide all necessary support and assistance to those affected. My condolences to the families of those who have perished. I pray that those hospitalised make a speedy recovery," he said on Twitter. At least six people have died and over 100 hospitalised after gas leaked from a chemical plant in Visakhapatnam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-expresses-shock-over-andhra-pradesh-gas-leak-incident-834556.html
07-05-2020||National||Vizag gas leak 'disturbing', closely monitoring situation: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday described the gas leak at a chemical plant in Andhra Pradesh's Visakhapatnam as "disturbing" and said the central government is closely monitoring the situation. He said he is praying for the well-being of the people of Visakhapatnam. "The incident in Vizag is disturbing. Have spoken to the NDMA officials and concerned authorities. We are continuously and closely monitoring the situation," Shah tweeted. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy spoke to Andhra Pradesh's chief secretary and director general of police and took stock of the situation. Reddy instructed teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to provide necessary assistance to the victims. "I am continuously monitoring the situation. Hundreds of people have also been affected in the unprecedented and unfortunate event in Visakhapatnam, AP," he said here. At least six people, including a child, have been killed and over 100 hospitalised due to the gas leak which took place at LG Polymers chemical plant in Visakhapatnam's Gopalapatnam area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vizag-gas-leak-disturbing-closely-monitoring-situation-amit-shah-834559.html
07-05-2020||National||Over 150 Mizoram people return without informing govt, quarantined: Official||The Mizoram government has quarantined over 150 people who have returned to the state without informing the state authorities, an official said. They came back to the state from Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya and Tripura, the home department official said. "A total of 154 people, who returned from four northeastern states, have been quarantined in different districts," home secretary Lalbiaksangi told PTI. These people, who were stuck in Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya and Tripura due to the ongoing lockdown, have travelled back without informing the government, deputy resident commissioners (DRCs) of Mizoram houses and Young Mizo Associations (YMAs), creating a gap in the management system, she said. "It does not mean that these people were not sent to quarantine facilities. But the fact is that they were left out from the list as they did not report to DRCs and YMAs before they returned," she said on Wednesday. The Mizoram government had carried out an exercise to bring back nearly 700 people, who were stranded in the four states of the north-east region, between April 30 and May 2.  The people were asked to report with DRCs and YMA of states where they were stranded to facilitate their return. The home department asked people, who had failed to return during the exercise, not to come back on their own. Meanwhile, main opposition party in the state, Zoram People's Movement (ZPM), has demanded disciplinary action against those who had returned on their own from outside.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-150-mizoram-people-return-without-informing-govt-quarantined-official-834569.html
07-05-2020||National||Vizag gas leak: PM Modi reviews situation; assures help to Andhra Pradesh CM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday morning reviewed the situation in Visakhapatnam following a gas leak that has claimed at least eight lives so far. Modi held a meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and top functionaries of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and instructed officials to ensure that no stones be left unturned to ensure that citizens remain safe. A gas leak at LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam early morning has claimed at least seven lives. Earlier, Modi tweeted, "Spoke to officials of MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs) and regarding the situation in Visakhapatnam, which is being monitored closely. I pray for everyone's safety and well-being in Visakhapatnam." Modi also spoke to Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy and assured him all help. Home Minister Amit Shah said the incident was disturbing and that he has spoken to NDMA officials and concerned authorities. "We are continuously and closely monitoring the situation. I pray for the well-being of the people of Visakhapatnam," Shah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vizag-gas-leak-pm-modi-reviews-situation-assures-help-to-andhra-pradesh-cm-834575.html
07-05-2020||National||Vizag gas leak: Chilling scenes bring back memories of Bhopal gas tragedy||The Vizag gas tragedy may not be comparable to one of the world’s worst industrial disasters that happened in Bhopal 36 years ago in terms of fatalities and injuries, but the two have many chilling similarities. Both chemical disasters occurred past midnight, had leakage of toxic gases as the root cause and hit the poor living in close vicinity of the plants the hardest. The Vizag chemical plant is owned by a South Korean company while the then multinational giant Union Carbide Corporation ran Bhopal’s killer factory for 15 years till the disaster on December 3, 1984, forced its closure. A manufacturer of pesticides, the now-defunct Bhopal factory was responsible for the leak of 40 tonnes of highly toxic methyl isocyanate gas that killed over one lakh people and permanently maimed over six lakh.   In comparison, the casualty to human lives from the Styrene gas leaked from the Vizag plant owned by LG Chemicals is very low. Nevertheless, the scenes in Vizag on Thursday morning were reminiscent of the Bhopal gas disaster. Many of the Bhopal survivors had either experienced firsthand or seen others collapsing on streets or complaining of irritation in eyes.  Footage from Vizag showed people lying on roads near the site, possibly unconscious. The scenes were more horrendous 36 years ago. Scores had left their homes in a hurry as the gas started to spread. It mostly affected the low-lying areas of Bhopal and led to decaying of vegetables, fruits, etc.  There is one remarkable difference between the two though. There was no such institution as the National Disaster Management Authority then. Bhopal missed professionalism in rescue and relief operations. Vizag is lucky on that count. Visakhapatnam Collector Vinay Chand said 20 ambulances were pressed into service as soon information about the gas leak was received. Exposure to styrene, also known as ethenylbenzene, vinylbenzene can affect the central nervous system (CNS), causing headache, fatigue, weakness, and depression. LG Polymers was established in 1961 as "Hindustan Polymers" for manufacturing Polystyrene and its co-polymers at Visakhapatnam. It merged with McDowell & Co. Ltd of UB Group in 1978, according to the company's website. Taken over by LG Chem (South Korea), Hindustan Polymers was renamed LG Polymers India Private Limited (LGPI) in July, 1997.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vizag-gas-leak-chilling-scenes-bring-back-memories-of-bhopal-gas-tragedy-834583.html
07-05-2020||National||Vizag gas leak: What are the NDMA guidelines for gas leakages?||At least seven people have been killed and several hundred hospitalised after a gas leak at a chemicals plant, LG Polymers, located in Vizag, Andhra Pradesh.  The plant operated by LG Polymers is located in the outskirts of Visakhapatnam, an industrial port city in the state of Andhra Pradesh. The city and the surrounding area are home to around 50 lakh people.  Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi convened a meeting of the National Disaster Management Authority in the wake of the situation in Visakhapatnam following a gas leak incident, the Prime Minister's Office said. Here are the precautions that need to be taken during and after the chemical (industrial) accidents: * Do not panic, evacuate calmly and quickly perpendicular to wind direction through the designated escape route * Keep a wet handkerchief or piece of cloth/ sari on face during an evacuation * Keep the sick, elderly, weak, handicapped and other people who are unable to evacuate inside the house and close all the doors and windows tightly * Do not consume the uncovered food/ water etc open to the air, drink only from a bottle * Change into fresh clothing after reaching safe place/ shelter, and wash hands properly * Inform Fire & Emergency Services, Police and medical services from a safe location by calling 101, 100 and 108 respectively. * Listen to PA (Public Addressal) System of the plant/ factory, local radio/ TV channels for advice from district administration/fire/health/police and other concerned authorities * Provide correct and accurate information to a government official * Inform others on the occurrence of the event at public gathering places (like school, shopping centre, theatre etc.). * Don’t pay attention to the rumours and don’t spread rumours. Source: National Disaster Management Authority||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vizag-gas-leak-what-are-the-ndma-guidelines-for-gas-leakages-834584.html
07-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast | Can transport be sustainable post COVID-19 lockdown?||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. This episode focuses on COVID-19 situation in India and Karnataka. DH journalist L Subramani talks to Sathya Sankaran, a sustainable transport activist in Bengaluru, about healthy sustainable modes of transport in the post-COVID-19 era. DH Journalist Akash Sriram dives into the world of misinformation with DH Factcheck.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-can-transport-be-sustainable-post-covid-19-lockdown-834591.html
07-05-2020||National||India’s COVID-19 landscape a melting pot of mutations||The presence of such a range of mutations of the Sars-Cov-2 virus in India’s population could have serious implications in the accuracy of diagnostic tests and even creating a vaccine, preliminary research at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) suggests. Already, researchers working worldwide have identified several key mutations to the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which could potentially make the disease more infectious.  On Tuesday, a paper published by US-based scientists suggested that one particular subtype of the virus, involving a mutation at the 614th position of the Spike protein (D614G) is rapidly becoming dominant and could potentially make the disease more virulent. This D614G mutation possibly generates an additional serine protease cleavage site near its virus’ S1-S2 junction of the Spike protein. This, with the combination of a nucleotide deletion (delC) allele present in some people (depending on your genetic makeup), accelerates the spread of the virus into a person. This paper is still under peer-view and has not yet been formally published.  Two different strains in India? The D614G mutation is also present in Indian genomic samples being uploaded to the Global Initiative in Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID) database, which is the primary source of all Sars-Cov-2 research being conducted worldwide. Researchers at the Department of Microbiology and Cell Biology, Indian Institute of Science (IISc), who have been analysing these genomic sequences have also found that the virus in India falls into two distinct strains. Many of them show similarities to specific countries hit by the pandemic. The findings, published in a paper which is still under peer-review, postulates that these “may have important consequences with respect to virus transmission rate and virulence, the extent of the disease severity and various other aspects of disease pathogenesis”. Over fifty percent of Indian sequences fall into viral clade (or strain) G, which is the virus strain prevalent in Europe, plus some Middle East and South Asian nations. This shows that this strain was brought back to India primarily by travellers from Europe, who were also passing through places such as Dubai and Abu Dhabi. Most of the remaining Indian samples fall into clade I, a strain of the virus now identified as being in Iran, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, with a connection to Oceania. But would not the presence of G clade viruses in India mean that the country should also expect to suffer the same high rate that Europe has been experiencing? "Yes. It should. But the fact that it has not is simply mind-boggling. We just don’t know why yet,” said a senior microbiologist at IISc who did not want to be named. Implications for testing, vaccination The presence of such multiple strains of the Sars-Cov-2 virus in India’s population could have serious implications in the accuracy of diagnostic tests and even creating a vaccine, the IISc paper states.  Special diagnostic kits based on the type(s) of clades prevalent in an area would possibly need to be developed, the paper adds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-covid-19-landscape-a-melting-pot-of-mutations-834610.html
07-05-2020||National||Gas leak at Vizag plant under control: LG Chem||The gas leak at the Visakhapatnam polymers plant that killed at least eight people is now under control, the units' South Korean parent firm LG Chem said on Thursday. LG Chem, which operates the plant, said it is cooperating with Indian authorities to help residents and employees. "The gas leakage is now under control, but the leaked gas can cause nausea and dizziness, so we are investing every effort to ensure proper treatment is provided swiftly," LG Chem said in a statement. The firm is looking into what caused the leak of styrene monomer gas, which is used for producing plastic. "We are investigating the extent of damage and the exact cause of the leak and deaths," it added in a statement. Stating that the plant operations were suspended because of coronavirus lockdown at the time of the accident, the firm said none of the LG Chem's employees have died in the accident. LG Chem said it was seeking to ensure casualties received treatment quickly. Company staff reportedly inspecting machines to restart the factory noticed the leak and raised an alarm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gas-leak-at-vizag-plant-under-control-lg-chem-834614.html
07-05-2020||National||COVID-19: PIL in SC seeks rehab package for 'pravasis'||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pil-in-sc-seeks-rehab-package-for-pravasis-834615.html
07-05-2020||National||Shashi Tharoor asks LS Speaker to urgently allow parliamentary panels to meet via video conferencing||Chairman of parliamentary committee on Information Technology Shashi Tharoor has reiterated his demand to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla for urgently allowing parliamentary panels to make use of video conferencing for their meetings, citing UK's example. In a letter to Birla, the senior Congress leader said the number of COVID-19 cases in the country has increased in a dramatic manner over the past few days which has raised serious questions about the health and safety of not just frontline healthcare workers but of all citizens. Members of Parliament have a responsibility to the nation via their constituencies to ensure that they are carrying out their duties to the best of their abilities, Tharoor said. "Those duties clearly include, constitutionally, parliamentary oversight of government work. Time is of the essence, we need to get to work, but we must of course work with respect for the guidelines issued by our authorities to ensure social distancing is maintained," the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. "You are the custodian of the House of the People and the ultimate authority on all matters relating to the functioning of the Lok Sabha. I therefore appeal to you to allow us to have the use of video conferencing at the earliest," Tharoor said. "I understand the objection you have received is regarding the risk that confidentiality may be compromised since cameras are involved. This is easily addressed by restricting logins to members and official note-takers only and reminding MPs of their oath of confidentiality," he said. After all, regular meetings are also recorded for purposes of maintaining a verbatim record and this would be no different, he said. "As an example, our colleagues in the House of Commons in the United Kingdom have been using video conferencing technology to even carry out prime minister's questions, question hour etc...if it can be carried out in one country, there is no reason why we cannot do it in ours," Tharoor said. "Aside from parliamentary efficiency, we need to do this for the promotion of Indian technology, to demonstrate the quality of our skilled IT professionals; and we should take this opportunity to demonstrate to the country that despite our political differences, as elected representatives of the people we are united in our commitment to the country's well-being," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shashi-tharoor-asks-ls-speaker-to-urgently-allow-parliamentary-panels-to-meet-via-video-conferencing-834621.html
07-05-2020||National||Experts warn resurgence of ‘Kala-Azar’ in endemic states as spraying postponed due to COVID-19||The postponement of Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS), a critical component in the prevention of build up of ‘sandfiles’ (the vector that spreads Kala-Azar, a dreaded disease in which a parasite causes sickness after migrating to internal organs, including liver, spleen and bone marrow) in the endemic states owing to COVID-19 pandemic could result in a resurgence of cases of the disease, warn experts.  With a commitment to eliminate Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) or Kala-Azar as a public health problem by 2020, the government’s targeted interventions have resulted in a significant reduction in a number of VL cases over the years with only 3128 cases reported from four endemic states -- Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal -- in 2019.  The number of Post Kala-Azar Dermal Leishmaniasis (PKDL) cases has also significantly reduced with only 817 cases recorded in 2019.  Prof Shyam Sunder, head of medicine department at the Institute of Medical Sciences at Varanasi-based Banaras Hindu University (BHU), who had developed the first orally effective drug ‘miltefosine’ for the treatment of VL, said that the current strategy for Kala-Azar elimination was based on two pillars, that included early diagnosis and treatment and Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS). ‘’IRS is the application of a long-lasting, residual insecticide on surfaces such as internal walls, eaves and ceilings of all houses or structures (including domestic animal shelters) to prevent build-up of sandflies,’’ he said while speaking to DH over the phone.  "The timing of IRS rounds is a critical factor for a successful programme…the best practice is to schedule the completion of spray application to coincide with the build-up of vector populations just before the onset of the peak transmission season…the IRS was scheduled to be undertaken in all endemic states in the last week of March…however, due to COVID-19 pandemic, IRS has been postponed in Jharkhand, UP and West Bengal, which might lead to a resurgence of cases,’’ Prof Shyam Sunder warned.  He said that IRS rounds were started in Bihar from April 24 this year. ''UP, Jharkhand and West Bengal should also start IRS following the example of Bihar,'' he added. He stressed the need for ‘Integrated Vector Management’ stating that it was key to controlling diseases, vector-borne diseases, including Kala-Azar, filariasis, malaria, dengue and chikungunya.      With India up for the elimination of VL (by 2020), LF (by 2021), and malaria (by 2027), improved disease prevention through IVM based approaches should be initiated as per usual timelines. In recent directives, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, the health ministry and WHO have recommended continuing with preventive activities to protect people from vector-borne diseases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-warn-resurgence-of-kala-azar-in-endemic-states-as-spraying-postponed-due-to-covid-19-834627.html
07-05-2020||National||2 BSF personnel die of COVID-19; 41 news cases reported||Two Border Security Force personnel have succumbed to the COVID-19 infection while the force has reported 41 new cases of infection, a senior official said on Thursday. The total number of infections or active cases in the 2.5 lakh personnel strong force now stand at 193 now. Two jawans have recovered. These are the first cases of death in the BSF due to coronavirus infection and the second among paramilitary forces after a 55-year-old sub-inspector of the CRPF had succumbed to the disease last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-bsf-personnel-die-of-covid-19-41-news-cases-reported-834634.html
07-05-2020||National||Delhi court issues production warrant against J&K officer Davinder Singh||A Delhi court Thursday issued a production warrant against Jammu and Kashmir Police officer Davinder Singh, who was arrested while ferrying two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway earlier this year. Special judge M K Nagpal directed the authorities of Hira Nagar Jail in Jammu and Kashmir, where Singh is currently lodged, to produce him before the court here on May 18, his advocate Prashant Prakash said. The judge also issued production warrants against three other accused persons — Javed Iqbal, Syed Naveed Mushtaq and Imran Shafi Mir — arrested in the case. The order was passed after Tihar jail authorities informed the judge that the accused persons could not be brought before the court since they are currently in a J&K jail. Singh, a DSP, was suspended in January this year.  The Special Cell had brought him to Delhi from Hira Nagar Jail in Jammu and Kashmir. The court had earlier sent Syed Naveed Mushtaq and others to police custody till April 3 after the police said that he and other co-accused were planning to execute terror attacks in Delhi and various parts of the country and targeted killings of the protected person.  The police had said that Mushtaq, the commander of Shopian district of Hizbul Mujahideen, used to chat with other co-accused and militants through various internet platforms, including darknet chat. “Mushtaq, along with other militants of Hizbul Mujahideen, were planning to execute terror attack in Delhi and other parts of the country and targeted killings of protected persons,” police had told the court. The Delhi Police had filed an FIR under Section 120B of IPC. The FIR said that the youths of Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab are being trained for carrying out terrorist activities. The FIR also mentioned of D Company and Chhota Shakeel. According to the FIR, the Delhi Police Special Cell had received an input that the D Company is funding to pro-Khalistan terrorist organisations in Punjab.     Under this very FIR Davinder Singh was taken in custody. He is currently in judicial custody in the case. The Special Cell had also interrogated Davinder Singh regarding the Khalistan angle, police said. Although Davinder Singh is not named in the FIR, but the Special Cell has some inputs on the basis of which the enquiry will be done carried out and Davinder Singh will be questioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-issues-production-warrant-against-jk-officer-davinder-singh-834635.html
07-05-2020||National||NCLT cancels summer vacation this year, to hear cases||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has cancelled the scheduled summer vacation for all its benches across the country this year. In a notification, issued by the registrar on May 5, NCLT said it has cancelled summer vacation for this year and all benches of NCLT will function during the said period. The Delhi-based principal bench was scheduled to go on summer vacation in the month of June. "President, National Company Law Tribunal is pleased to order that summer vacations falling in the months of May/June/July 2020 as shown in the calendar of the respective NCLT benches stand cancelled and all benches of NCLT shall function during the said period," it said. Several judicial bodies and quasi-judicial bodies have also cancelled their summer vacations as they were closed during the lockdown and were disposing only urgent matters through video conferencing. Recently, NCLT had transferred its eight members to different benches spread across India with "immediate effect". Presently, hearing in all NCLT benches across India is closed following the lockdown declared by the government to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. It hears only urgent matters through video conferencing. Last month, the government had extended the tenure of the Acting President of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) BSV Prakash Kumar for another three months. NCLT was set up under section 408 of the Companies Act, 2013 on June 1, 2016. Besides a Principal Bench at New Delhi, it has 14 other benches across India in cities which includes Ahmadabad, Allahabad, Bengaluru, Chandigarh, Chennai, Guahati, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai, Cuttack, Jaipur, Kochi, Amravati, and Indore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nclt-cancels-summer-vacation-this-year-to-hear-cases-834637.html
07-05-2020||National||Nearly 3 lakh people registered to return to Jharkhand, says CM Hemant Soren; assures them all help||Nearly three lakh people from Jharkhand, mostly labourers, stranded in various states due to the lockdown have registered to return home, Chief Minister Hemant Soren said on Thursday, and asserted that they will be brought back without any "ifs and buts". Jharkhand is the only state which has made advance payments for receiving its people coming from other states through 'Shramik Special' trains, according to railway sources. Soren also slammed the Centre for charging 15 percent of the rail travel cost from the state, saying no relief was given to Jharkhand despite it being a source of high revenue for the railways. In an interview to PTI, the chief minister said about 20,000 migrant labourers and students stranded in other states due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown have already returned to the state since the Centre allowed the movement. An online registration process has also been started by the Jharkhand government for stranded migrants wanting to return home. "About three lakh people have registered for returning home since we started the online process about four-five days ago. And the registration is still on," Soren said. He, however, added that everyone who has registered may not eventually return with the opening of some economic activity. "All those who want to come, our government is fully committed to bring them back. We will greet them with open arms and take them home, there are no ifs and buts in that," the Jharkhand Chief Minister said. Soren said the challenge for the state government was to transport such a large number of people in a short span of time while taking all precautions. "We are able to allow only one train at one station and people have to go from there to other areas by buses. We have designated stations where trains are coming. We already have the database of where people have to go and are designating train stations accordingly," he said. Jharkhand is also feeling the pinch as it is mostly dependent on the Centre for resources and economic help, and there is no financial assistance after it got about Rs 250 crore from the initial package announced by Finance Minister Niramla Sitharaman, Soren said. He asserted that the Centre has delayed a second financial package to states by a bit too long which has already defeated its purpose and to drive home his point he used the analogy -- "Baraat jaane ke baad khichchdi pakane se kya fayda. (what is the point of a feast when the wedding is over)". On the railways charging 15 percent from states for ferrying migrant labourers, Soren said,"who will make them understand that they are bringing people from abroad in flights and inside the country charging for ferrying labourers who do not even have money for food." Soren said his government was committed to help the poor migrant laborers irrespective of whether the Centre helps or not and had already transferred money in the accounts of migrant labourers registered on its 'Sahayta App' which cost the state nearly Rs 20 crore. "I had requested Railway Minister Piyush Goyal that the Railways earns maximum revenue from Jharkhand so at least it can be given some relief. But no help has been forthcoming," he said. Asserting that he was not afraid of the influx and cases of coronavirus going up because of that, Soren said even if 1,000 or 2,000 people are COVID-19 positive, it will make the way forward clearer and the state will take care of it. Listing his demands from the Centre, Soren said Jharkhand should get a complete waiver in train transportation cost, the role of the PSUs be fixed in accommodating the migrant labourers that are coming in and medical infrastructure for screening and quarantining of those coming in be boosted. "We have asked for the Cobas-6800 machine, which can conduct about 1,000 coronavirus tests in one day, so that more and more people can be tested," he said. Soren said in order to boost the rural economy, he has launched  three schemes to generate 25 crore man-days for MGNREGA to enable the workers earn wages as well as bring in a long-term plan to provide steady income to the poor households. MGNREGA was a rural lifeline and yet Jharkhand and underdeveloped states have wages fixed even below the standard wage rate i.e Rs 194/195 , not even Rs 200, so people have migrated in large numbers to other states because they know they would get Rs 300-400 upwards per day for work, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-3-lakh-people-registered-to-return-to-jharkhand-says-cm-hemant-soren-assures-them-all-help-834638.html
07-05-2020||National||Hydroxychloroquine no wonder drug for treating COVID-19, can be fatal: Experts||As countries around the world explore the potential of hydroxychloroquine to treat COVID-19 patients, several experts have sounded a note of warning to say it is not a wonder drug and may even be fatal in some cases. While frantic efforts are underway to develop a vaccine and doctors all over try and control the spread of the disease for which there is yet no cure, hydroxychloroquine, or HCQ, has emerged as a prime focus area of treatment. This reliance on HCQ must immediately stop, the experts say, adding their voices to the growing debate to stress that there is no scientific evidence to prove that it is beneficial in treating COVID-19. “It is only on anecdotal evidence that doctors are using HCQ along with other antiviral medication (used in HIV and other viral infections) as empiric therapy to treat COVID-19 patients as there is no definite treatment available yet,” said M C Misra, former director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi and one of India’s top surgeons. “However, there have been reports of some patients developing cardiac arrhythmias due to hydroxychloroquine which can cause sudden cardiac death,” Misra told PTI.           Yudhyavir Singh, a core member of AIIMS’ COVID-19 team deployed at the hospital’s trauma centre, agreed.           “Globally, some deaths have been reported due to the administration of HCQ alone and along with azithromycin as well. HCQ blocks the potassium channel and potentially prolongs the QTc (heartbeat) with consequences of sudden cardiac arrest death and various arrhythmias. This has also been documented in prominent studies,” he explained. The assistant professor of anaesthesia at AIIMS said there are contradictory reports on HCQ usage for treating COVID-19. As the pandemic spreads and the urgency for effective treatment of COVID-19 mounts, several countries, including the US, have started relying heavily on HCQ, majorly used in the treatment of malaria and rheumatoid-arthritis. India has become the biggest supplier of the drug and has fulfilled large orders from countries such as the US, UAE and UK. With US President Donald Trump touting the anti-malaria drug as a definite cure for COVID-19, his administration has stockpiled millions of doses of HCQ despite the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issuing a safety communication regarding the known side effects of the drug. The FDA said HCQ has been given ‘Emergency Use Authorisation’ for the treatment of patients who have tested positive for coronavirus but its side effects include serious and potentially life-threatening heart rhythm problems. In India too, HCQ is being used by many hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients though there is no scientific proof of its benefit for the disease.  “We are using HCQ among other drugs but ignoring its extreme hazardous side effects,” Misra said. In the first week of April, when coronavirus cases in India started to surge, a doctor in Assam who was put on a high dose of HCQ after he showed COVID-19 symptoms died of a cardiac arrest, he said.  Citing research from France in which one-half of COVID-19 patients was administered hydroxychloroquine while the other half was not, Misra said the recovery and outcomes of the two groups were same.           “Another study submitted in The New England Journal of Medicine on April 4, 2020, concluded that HCQ administration to the hospitalised SARS-CoV- 2 positive population was associated with an increased need for escalation of respiratory support,” he said, adding that hydroxychloroquine was not a “wonder drug”.        COVID-19, which broke out first in China’s Hubei province, has caused havoc across the world, claiming the lives of more than 2.6 lakh people and infected over 37 lakh. Ashraf Ganie, professor of endocrinology at Srinagar’s Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, described as brazen the manner in which HCQ was being projected as a cure for treating coronavirus. “HCQ can have serious cardiac side effects and cannot be used without prior evaluation,” Ganie told PTI.      "There is no quality scientific evidence available, which can prove the efficacy of the drug in prevention or cure of COVID 19,” added D K Mangal, director of the Centre for Health Systems and Policy Research in Jaipur’s IIHMR University.           “It should be used with precautions for patients with severe heart disease and require continuous monitoring of the QT interval. HCQ is known for its cardio-toxicity. Hence it should be used in health care settings only,” he told PTI.         Rajesh Kumar, a doctor of Internal Medicine at Gurgaon’s Paras Hospital, said HCQ can also cause hypoglycemia in diabetes patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hydroxychloroquine-no-wonder-drug-for-treating-covid-19-can-be-fatal-experts-834640.html
07-05-2020||National||Shramik Trains: Over 163 run so far, more than 1.60 lakh migrants ferried||The Indian Railways on Thursday said it has run over 163 Shramik Special trains since May 1 and ferried home over 1.60 lakh migrants stranded in various parts of the country due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Railways said that it ran 56 Shramik special trains on Wednesday and 14 so far on Thursday, taking the total tally to 163. "We are planning to run some more trains by the end of the day," a railway spokesperson said. Till Wednesday night railways had run 149 such trains. Every special train has 24 coaches, each with a capacity of 72 seats. But the national transporter is allowing only 54 people in a coach to maintain social distancing norms by not allotting the middle berth to any passenger. While the railways has officially not stated how much it has spent so far on these services, the cost for which the government says has been shared on an 85:15 ratio with states, officials indicated that the national transporter has spent around Rs 80 lakh per service. Since the beginning of the services, Gujarat remained one of the top originating stations, followed by Kerala.  Among the receiving states, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh remained the top states. Earlier, the railways drew flak from opposition parties for making these services chargeable. In its guidelines, the railways has said the trains will ply only if they have 90 per cent occupancy and the "states should collect the ticket fare".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shramik-trains-over-163-run-so-far-more-than-160-lakh-migrants-ferried-834642.html
07-05-2020||National||Naveen Patnaik, Dharmendra Pradhan express concern over Vizag gas leak tragedy||Expressing grief over the gas leak incident in Andhra Pradesh, which has claimed at least 10 lives and left many ill, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday prayed for the well-being of the people in the neighbouring state. Taking to Twitter, Patnaik wished speedy recovery to those undergoing treatment. "Deeply saddened to know about the tragic loss of so many lives and so many fell sick in #VizagGasLeak. My thoughts and prayers are with bereaved families in the hour of grief and pray for the speedy recovery of those who are hospitalized. #Visakhapatnam," Patnaik tweeted. Union Petroleum and Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan also voiced his concern over the incident, and said the situation was being monitored and all assistance provided. "Distressed to learn about the gas leak incident at LG Polymers industry in Vizag, Andhra Pradesh this morning. The situation is being monitored closely and all assistance is being provided. I pray for the safety and well-being of people in Vizag," Pradhan posted on his Twitter handle. Among others, BJP national vice-president and former MP Baijayant Panda also conveyed his condolences to the family members of the deceased. "Very saddened at the #VizaGasLeak incident in Andhra Pradesh this morning. Prayers for the speedy recovery of those admitted in hospital. Condolences to the bereaved families," Panda said. At least 10 people, including a child, died and hundreds fell ill after a major gas leak at a polymer plant in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, early on Thursday. The gas leak impacted villages within a 5-km radius of the plant, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naveen-patnaik-dharmendra-pradhan-express-concern-over-vizag-gas-leak-tragedy-834646.html
07-05-2020||National||Chhattisgarh: Seven workers fall ill after inhaling poisonous gas||Seven workers fell ill after inhaling some poisonous gas at a paper mill in Chhattisgarh's Raigarh district, police said on Thursday. The incident occurred at Shakti Paper Mill in Tetla village, where the victims were cleaning an open tank on Wednesday evening, Raigarh superintendent of police Santosh Singh told PTI. However, the factory owner did not inform the administration about the incident, which only came to light after the hospital authorities alerted the police, he said. The mill had remained shut ever since the COVID-19 lockdown was enforced and the cleaning work was underway to resume operations, the official said. The workers were admitted to a local hospital, from where three were shifted to Raipur in view of their critical condition, he said. A team of forensic experts was dispatched to the spot to investigate the exact cause of the incident, Singh said, adding that a case will be registered soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-seven-workers-fall-ill-after-inhaling-poisonous-gas-834650.html
07-05-2020||National||Gas Leak: NDRF, NEERI to send expert teams for assessing ground situation in Vizag||A five-member team of National Disaster Response Team (NDRF) specialising in Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) disasters will assess the ground situation in Visakhapatnam following a gas leak in a chemical factory there and provide the required assistance to Andhra Pradesh government in tackling it. Another expert team from National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) in Nagpur has also been roped and rushed to Visakhapatnam. The dispatching of the teams came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the situation along with Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and top officials of National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). These teams will support the state government in the management of the crisis on the ground and also take measures for resolving the short term as also long term medical impact of the leak. NDMA member Kamal Kishore told a press conference here that it was a chemical disaster that happened in LG Polymers, which is located 20 km from Visakhapatnam, and the response requires expertise on chemical, chemical management, medical as well as on evacuation sides. The five-member team led by Anupam Srivastava based in Pune will be flying from their base in Pune assess the ground situation and give any assistance to the state government that is required. The CBRN unit of the NDRF is based in the 5th Battalion located in Pune. NDRF Director General Satya Narayan Pradhan said the NDRF Regional Response Centre located in Visakhapatnam was roped in at around 5:45 AM after the initial evacuation process initiated by local administration soon after people reported about the gas leakage at 2:30 AM. "Initially people were affected in terms of throat irritation, skin irritation and toxic gas smell. The initial response was from local administration and fire services...We undertook two tasks, which were neutralizing the leakage inside the factory and evacuation of villagers near the factory," he said. He said the local administration had evacuated 200-250 families from the nearby Venkatapuram initially and later NDRF personnel dressed in chemical suits and armed with oxygen cylinder went for a door-to-door search to rescue those still stranded. "Some were unconscious. Some could not walk. There were children, women and elderly. We rescued around 500 such people," he said. The NDRF team will stay back in the locality until the situation is in complete control. "The situation is now under control. The leakage is now down to minimal. There is hardly any leakage," he said. Kishore said the Prime Minister directed the officials to ensure that all steps that is needed should be taken to ensure that minimum damage is done. He inquired about the antidote needed to treat people and the process to decontaminate while directing the top officials to leave no stone unturned in dealing with the situation. Nearly 1,000 people were affected by the gas leakage, which had impacted villages surrounding the factory, like Narava, BC Colony, Bapuji Nagar, Kampalapalem and Krishna Nagar. After Modi's meeting, the National Crisis Management Committee also met under Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba to chalk out the steps needed to be taken for the same. Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister P K Mishra also directed sending teams of experts as well as steps for assessing the short-term and long term medical impact on people due to the gas leakage. Earlier, PM Modi had tweeted, "Spoke to officials of MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs) and regarding the situation in Visakhapatnam, which is being monitored closely. I pray for everyone's safety and well-being in Visakhapatnam." Spoke to officials of MHA and NDMA regarding the situation in Visakhapatnam, which is being monitored closely. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being in Visakhapatnam. PM Modi also spoke to Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy and assured him all help. Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the incident was disturbing and that he has spoken to NDMA officials and concerned authorities. "We are continuously and closely monitoring the situation. I pray for the well-being of the people of Visakhapatnam," Shah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gas-leak-ndrf-neeri-to-send-expert-teams-for-assessing-ground-situation-in-vizag-834655.html
07-05-2020||National||4 COVID-19 patients 'recover' after plasma therapy in Indore||Amid the ongoing debate in the medical fraternity about the efficacy of the plasma therapy on COVID-19 patients, a private hospital in Indore has claimed that four such persons recovered from the infection after undergoing this therapy. A district health official confirmed that plasma therapy was used on some coronavirus positive persons at the privately-run Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences (SAIMS), and said that as per the doctors at that hospital it helped these patients in their recovery. Talking to PTI on Thursday, head of the Chest Disease Department at SAIMS, Dr Ravi Dosi, said that one of these four patients is a 26-year-old woman. "According to the protocol set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for the plasma therapy, we had started clinical trial on the woman and three male patients aged 23, 40 and 55 years from April 26. Now all four patients are free of COVID-19 infection," he said. Consent was obtained from all four patients prior to the clinical trial of plasma therapy, he added. Indore district's Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO), Praveen Jadia, said, "At SAIMS, the use of plasma therapy was done on some COVID-19 patients and according to the doctors there, it helped them in the recovery." He said that plasma therapy would also be used on some coronavirus positive patients at a government-run hospital in Indore soon. "We hope that it would help the patients in their recovery," Jadia added. Convalescent plasma therapy involves injecting patients with plasma from people who have recovered from COVID-19 infection. The theory is that the plasma will have the antibodies required to boost a sick person's immunity response to the coronavirus. Dosi said that after treatment and plasma therapy under the prescribed protocol, the repeat samples of four patients tested negative for COVID-19. In addition, reports of the CT scan of their lungs also confirmed that they have been free of coronavirus infection, he added. Dr Dosi, however, said, "We are not yet announcing any results regarding the effect of plasma therapy on COVID-19 patients. We want to try this clinical trial on a few more patients. We will share the results of clinical trial with the ICMR." He also said that more than 30 people who were free from the infection after treatment have expressed their desire to become plasma donors. The experts said that the antibodies develop in the blood of the people fully recovered from COVID-19, which help them to fight the disease in the future. Indore is among the worst-hit districts by COVID-19 in the country. As per the official information, 1,699 patients of this epidemic have been found in the district so far, of whom 83 people have died during treatment, while 595 others have been discharged from hospitals after recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-covid-19-patients-recover-after-plasma-therapy-in-indore-834656.html
07-05-2020||National||COVID-19 testing kit developed by researchers in West Bengal gets ICMR nod||A low-priced COVID-19 testing kit designed by a group of researchers in West Bengal has received the approval of ICMR, and would soon be employed to examine samples, an official statement said on Thursday. The kit 'DiAGSure nCOV-19 Detection Assay' can meet the growing demand for testing equipment across the country to a certain extent. Priced around Rs 500, the device has demonstrated a near-100 per cent accuracy in detecting the virus in a short span of 90 minutes, the statement said quoting an ICMR report. Developed indigenously, one kit can test up to 160 patients, it said. The researchers, under the guidance of former CSIR scientist Samit Adhyay, put together the kit in a matter of one-and-half months with logistic support from Koustubh Panda, the head of the biotechnology department, University of Calcutta, the statement said. The equipment was then developed by GCC Biotech (India) Private Ltd, a company based in Bakrahat, South 24 Parganas, following rigorous clinical trials, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-testing-kit-developed-by-researchers-in-west-bengal-gets-icmr-nod-834660.html
07-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Why migrants in Bihar are not a threat as anticipated||All those who had apprehensions that the number of COVID-19 patients in Bihar would increase drastically once the migrants start returning to this part of the cow-belt, should take a look at these figures. Out of 535 coronavirus cases recorded till May 6, the migrant workers accounted for only 65 cases. This essentially means that around 12-percent of the COVID-19 patients in Bihar are migrants while the remaining 88 percent are those who have been residing here with no travel history. Sources in the Health Department confirmed that 65 cases attributed to migrants are spread across 21 districts out of 38 districts in Bihar. “Of this, Madhubani accounts for nine and Rohtas eight. The State Capital Patna, West Champaran, Sitamarhi and Aurangabad have reported five each,” said the source while giving a break-up of those districts where most of the cases (of 65 migrants) have been reported. The minuscule number of affected migrants should not ring alarm bells since around 1.95 lakh migrants have already reached Bihar since the last week of March. This again essentially means that of these around two lakh migrants (having returned since March), only 0.03 percent (approx) are COVID-19 patients.      Little wonder, more and more migrants are on their way to Bihar. “Altogether, 28,467 persons, in 24 special trains from seven different States, arrived in Bihar on Thursday,” said Anupam Kumar, Secretary, Information and Public Relations Department, here in the State Capital. “This is the highest number of special trains reaching Bihar in a single day in the last one week,” he added.  These special trains exclude the ones cancelled by the Karnataka Government a day back. “Even on Wednesday, 14,951 persons arrived in Bihar in 13 trains,” the official said, adding that standard operating procedures (SOPs) have been maintained at various railway stations and passengers sent to their respective districts in government buses after proper screening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-why-migrants-in-bihar-are-not-a-threat-as-anticipated-834665.html
07-05-2020||National||61 new COVID-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, total rises to 3,059||Uttar Pradesh reported 61 fresh cases on Thursday taking the total number of COVID-19 patients in the state to 3,059, a senior official said. "A total of 3,059 cases have been reported in the state so far in 67 of the 75 districts, of which eight have no case of active infection," Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said. So far 61 deaths have been reported, Prasad said, adding that 1,130 people have fully recovered from the disease. The number of active cases in the state is 1,868, he added. The official pointed out that ventilators have been made available in all the districts of the state with 20 districts that did not have one getting them recently. Among those infected, 75.16 per cent are men and 24.84 per cent are women, he further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/61-new-covid-19-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-total-rises-to-3059-834666.html
07-05-2020||National||What is Styrene gas that killed 11 in Andhra Pradesh?||A major early morning chemical leak from a polymer plant near Vishakhapatnam impacted villages in a five-km radius, leaving eleven people dead and scores of citizens suffering from breathlessness and other problems, as the Andhra Pradesh government ordered a probe into the issue. The leak of styrene, a chemical used to make synthetic rubber and resins, among others, occurred in the wee hours of Thursday while people were still fast asleep. What is Styrene? What happens if you are exposed to Styrene? Exposure to styrene, also known as ethenylbenzene, vinylbenzene can affect the central nervous system (CNS), causing headache, fatigue, weakness, and depression. As per the US-based Environment Protection Agency (EPA), short-term exposure to the substance can result in irritation to the eyes, skin and nose respiratory problems, and gastrointestinal issues.  Long-term exposure to styrene can also cause cancer. "The spread of styrene monomer vapours in the air depends on the wind speed and currently, personnel are working to neutralise the air with chemicals such as 4-tert-Butylcatechol (TBC)", a senior official of the Department of Factories told PTI. What is the situation in Vishakhapatnam? The government sent a specialised CBRN (chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear) team of the NDRF and medical specialists to Vishakhapatnam after the news broke out. As of now, 11 people have lost their lives and 20-25 people are critical due to the gas leak. Nearly 1,000 people were directly exposed to living in close proximity to the plant where the leak took place. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy also announced an ex- gratia payment of Rs one crore each to the kin of those killed in the gas leak incident. LG Polymers was established in 1961 as "Hindustan Polymers" for manufacturing Polystyrene and its Co-polymers at Visakhapatnam. It merged with Mc Dowell & Co. Ltd of UB Group in 1978, according to the company's website. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-is-styrene-gas-that-killed-11-in-andhra-pradesh-834681.html
07-05-2020||National||Long-term health effects due to styrene vapour exposure less: AIIMS director||The chances of long-term health effects because of exposure to styrene vapour, which leaked from a chemical plant in Andhra Pradesh's Visakhapatnam, are less and illnesses caused by the gas is not universally fatal, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria said on Thursday. As far as treatment is concerned, there is no specific antidote or a definite medicine for reversing the effect of this compound. The therapy remains mainly supportive, he said. Eleven people have died and 1,000 others exposed to styrene vapour that leaked from a chemical plant in Visakhapatnam in the early hours of Thursday and quickly spread to villages in a five-kilometre radius. A large number of people have been admitted to hospital. Most of them are in a stable condition and hopefully will make a good recovery, Dr Guleria told reporters here. To a question on wheather the impact of the exposure can be long-term as was in Bhopal gas tragedy, Dr Guleria said, "The gas doesn't stay for a very long time. The chances of long-term impact is less as the compound metabolises and leaves the body quickly." "This is an acute exposure rather than a chronic exposure. But we will have to follow up and see. As of now, the data doesn't suggest any significant long-term effect." Those who have had a very close exposure, are the ones with a higher chance of experiencing severe effects, he said, adding a house-to-house visit in the surrounding areas have been initiated to see if anybody has developed medical problems. Guleria said inhalation and ingestion of styrene can cause effect the skin and the eyes. Absorption of this compound can affect the central nervous system causing headache, nausea, vomiting and fatigue. People become unsteady, have difficulty in walking and sometimes also can fall over. High exposure can lead to coma, pulmonary edema and irregular heart beat, he said, adding the syndrome is known as styrene sickness. Effect on skin is usually mild in form of irritation, itching and some degree of dermatitis. It causes irritation in the airways and depending on the degree of the exposure the effect can be much higher, the AIIMS director said. He said the first thing that has to be done is to remove individuals from the affected area, as has been done aggressively.  Eyes need to be washed with water. Tissues or towel can used to clean the deposition in the skin, Dr Guleria said, "Individuals have to be monitored for any breathing difficulty or drowsiness because the compound can affect the lungs and the brain." "The main treatment strategy is to watch out for any breathing difficulty and airway management. Some of these patients will be required to be incubated and put on ventilator. Many will just require oxygen therapy and can be monitored in terms of their oxygen requirement, respiratory rate and their CNS depression," he said. At a press briefing, Director General of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) S N Pradhan said leakage from the factory is now minimal but the force's personnel will be at the spot till it is totally plugged. Pradhan said 500 people belonging to 200-250 families living in 3-km radius have been moved to safer places.   Member of the National Disaster Management Authority Kamal Kishore said about 1,000 people living in nearby areas of the factory have been exposed to the gas leak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/long-term-health-effects-due-to-styrene-vapour-exposure-less-aiims-director-834686.html
07-05-2020||National||Delhi, Mumbai, 6 other cities hold key to fight against COVID-19: Amitabh Kant||Mumbai, Delhi and Ahmedabad are among the cities that hold the key to India's fight against the coronavirus pandemic as these cities account for the majority of COVID-19 cases, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Thursday. "Cities which hold the key to India's fight against COVID-19: Mumbai accounting for 20 per cent, Delhi ~11%, Ahmedabad is around 9%, Pune around 4%, Chennai~ 4%, Indore around 3%, Thane also close to 3% & Jaipur around 2.5%. Testing, contact-tracing, & community surveillance critical," Kant said in a tweet. The death toll due to COVID-19 in the country rose to 1,783 while the number of cases climbed to 52,952 on Thursday, registering an increase of 89 deaths and 3,561 cases in the last 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-mumbai-6-other-cities-hold-key-to-fight-against-covid-19-amitabh-kant-834692.html
07-05-2020||National||COVID-19 fund: Little contribution by Kolkata school students making a big difference||It all started 13 years ago when students of a school in south Kolkata were urged by teachers to voluntarily contribute Rs. 1 every day from whatever they were able to save from their pocket money. Now in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak the school authorities, upon being requested by the students, have donated Rs. 1 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund from the fund raised by their contribution. The school Niva Ananda Vidyalaya was founded by noted academician and former Vice-Chancellor of Rabindra Bharati University Subhankar Chakraborty in 2003 along with some other teachers. Since the beginning, one of the key objectives of the school authorities was to instill a sense of humanity in the students. Chakraborty said that the fund raised from the voluntary contribution of students is used for charity works. “Seeing the plight of people especially the poor due to the COVID-19 outbreak the students suggested that the fund should be used for them. This resulted in our humble contribution of Rs. 1 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund,” said Chakraborty. There is an aluminum box placed in every classroom of the school which currently has about 800 students. Every day after coming to school students drop an Rs. 1 coin in them. The contributions amount to about Rs. 60,000 every year. The fund is used to help the poor and to stand by those affected by natural calamities.  Chakraborty said that the students are requested never to ask for money from their parents for making the contribution but to contribute from whatever they are able to save from their pocket money. “ It is completely voluntary. We want the students to understand that even a little contribution from them can make a big difference,” said Chakraborty. The generous act of the students has earned praise from Education Minister Partha Chatterjee.  “I heartily welcome this act of kindness by the students. No word is enough to praise them,” said Chatterjee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-fund-little-contribution-by-kolkata-school-students-making-a-big-difference-834693.html
07-05-2020||National||Maharashtra: Cop, family test positive for COVID-19 in Aurangabad||A police inspector and five of his family members tested positive for COVID-19 in Maharashtra's Aurangabad city on Thursday, an official said. The police official's son tested positive for the infection on Wednesday and was recuperating at a private hospital, the official said. The officer's son had recently returned from Delhi and was admitted to the hospital with fever, following which he tested positive, he said. Swab reports of the official and five of his family members also came out positive on Thursday, he added. "We have spoken to the official and his condition is stable. We are tracking down others who had come in contact with him," deputy commissioner of police Meena Makwana told PTI. Meanwhile, a police constable has also tested positive for the infection in Aurangabad and has been quarantined, the official said. At least 378 cases of COVID-19 have been reported in Aurangabad district so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-cop-family-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-aurangabad-834697.html
07-05-2020||National||Vizag Gas Leak: Styrene polymer harmful but not universally fatal, says AIIMS Director Dr Guleria||Leakage of Styrene, an alkaline benzine compound, is harmful to human beings but not "universally fatal", a well-known physician and AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said on Wednesday as a gas leak in a factory in Visakhapatnam triggered panic. He says it can cause harm to humans by inhalation, ingestion, ocular effect or skin contact. There is no antidote, no definite medicine for reversing the effect of styrene and the treatment mainly remains supportive. Dr Guleria explains: *An alkaline benzine compound. It can cause harm to humans by inhalation, ingestion, ocular effect or skin contact *Causes irritation in throat and airways which can lead to coughing, breathing difficulty and wheezing *Higher levels of inhalation of Styrene can cause breathlessness and respiratory distress *Those with close exposure to have severe effects *Absorption can lead to CNS depression, that it affects brain and leads to headache, nausea, vomiting, unsteadiness of gait. *High exposure can lead to coma, pulmonary oedema and sometimes irregular heartbeat *Effect on skin is usually mild in the form of irritation, itching. It can also cause irritation in eyes *Chances of long term health impacts are less, as it quickly metabolizes and leaves the system Treatment *No specific antidote, no definite medicine for reversing the effect of Styrene. *Treatment mainly remains supportive *In most people, there is good recovery *People should be monitored for breathing difficulty and drowsiness because it can affect lungs and brain *Some of the patients will have to be put on ventilator. *Many will just require oxygen therapy *Data in some cases suggests that serious persons are given steroids Things to do *First thing to do is to remove the person from the affected area *Exposure can happen through clothes, so clothes need to be removed *Eyes should be washed using water. Use tissue, towel to clean the skin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vizag-gas-leak-styrene-polymer-harmful-but-not-universally-fatal-says-aiims-director-dr-guleria-834706.html
07-05-2020||National||Government starts compiling achievements in one year to mark 1st anniversary of Modi 2.0||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is completing one year in the office later this month, the Centre has started an exercise to compile achievements of various ministries and departments in the first year of the Modi 2.0. The cabinet secretariat last month asked all ministries and departments to list their important activities and achievements during the past one year and most of them have submitted their responses, sources said. The government is not likely to have public events on the occasion of the first anniversary given the current situation due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and consequent lockdown, according to sources. However, they said the government may choose to highlight some of the key achievements through social media platforms, print and television advertisements. The Modi government started its second innings on May 30, 2019. Achievements are being compiled so that it will give an idea as to what were the milestones that ministries had set and how far they have reached, sources said, adding that it would be like an annual exam for various ministries. As the government assumed charge for the second time last year, it asked all the ministries to prepare a five-year roadmap keeping into consideration their contribution in achieving USD 5 trillion economy by 2024-25. Soon after assuming charge, the prime minister while addressing the governing council of the NITI Aayog in June 2019 emphasised on the government's goal of making India a USD 5 trillion economy by the end of 2024-25. It is challenging but achievable, Modi had said while addressing the meeting, which was attended by most of the chief ministers. "Our economy was at approximately USD 1.85 trillion when we formed the government in 2014. Within five years it has reached USD 2.7 trillion. Hence, it is well within our capacity to reach the USD 5 trillion in the next few years," Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said while presenting the Budget in July 2019. Modi had also stressed upon the need for structural reforms in agriculture to boost private investment, strengthen logistics and to provide ample market support to farmers. Various reforms in agriculture marketing, management of marketable surplus, access of farmers to institutional credit and freeing the agriculture sector of various restrictions with appropriate backing of the statute were discussed at a high-level meeting chaired by the prime minister on last Sunday. Discussions also emanated on the possibilities of the uniform statutory framework in the country to facilitate new ways for farming which will infuse capital and technology in the agrarian economy. The Prime Minister also held a meeting to discuss strategies as well as structural reforms in the financial sector to spur growth and welfare in the current context. At a meeting with the finance minister and officials on Sunday, Modi discussed strategies and interventions to support MSMEs and farmers, enhance liquidity and strengthen credit flows. He also discussed ways and means to ensure financial stability in the wake of COVID-19 and measures taken to enable businesses to recover quickly from the impacts. Different milestones were set for achieving the goal and the first anniversary would be an opportunity for the government to review their strategy in view of the outbreak of the pandemic, sources said. Going forward more attention would be required towards healthcare and prepare the country better to meet such kind of challenges in the future, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-starts-compiling-achievements-in-one-year-to-mark-1st-anniversary-of-modi-20-834718.html
07-05-2020||National||Reduced GATE score, lateral entry option for PM Research Fellowship applicants: HRD||The HRD Ministry on Thursday announced significant amendments in the Prime Minister's Research Fellowship Scheme including reduction in the required GATE score and introduction of a lateral entry option. The National Institutes of Technology (NITs) among the top 25 institutions as per NIRF ranking will also be eligible to grant the fellowship. "To boost research in the country various amendments have been carried out in Prime Minister's Research Fellowship Scheme. Now for the students from any recognised institute or university (other than IISc, IITs, NITs, IISERs, IIEST and IIITs), the requirement of GATE Score is reduced to 650 from 750 apart from minimum CGPA of 8 or equivalent," Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank said. "There will be two channels of entries, one direct entry and lateral entry. In lateral entry, the students, who are pursuing PhD in PMRF granting institutions (completed 12 months or 24 months as per certain requirements) can also apply to become fellow under the scheme as per new guidelines," he added. The scheme announced in the 2018-19 Budget is aimed at improving the quality of research in various higher educational institutions in the country. The scheme seeks to attract the best talent into research thereby realising the vision of development through innovation. The institutes which can offer PMRF include all the IITs, the IISERs, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, some of the top central universities and NITs that offer science or technology degrees. "The candidates will be selected through a rigorous selection process and their performance will be reviewed suitably through a national convention. Starting Academic Year 2020-21, candidates can apply for PMRF through either direct entry channel or lateral entry channel," Nishank said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reduced-gate-score-lateral-entry-option-for-pm-research-fellowship-applicants-hrd-834719.html
07-05-2020||National||Hold LG Polymers culpable, hold judicial enquiry: CPI(M) on Vizag gas leak||The CPI(M) on Thursday demanded a judicial enquiry into the "deadly" gas leak in Visakhapatnam to identify and punish the guilty, saying it was a "clear case of criminal negligence" by the company management. In a statement, the party's Polit Bureau said it was aghast at the gas leak that took place early morning and it needed to properly investigated if all the precautionary measures were taken when the closed plant was restarted after the lockdown restrictions were eased. "People were seen running from their houses and the deaths occurred primarily due to asphyxiation. It is reported that the district authorities failed to intervene in time to take the affected people for treatment," it said. Demanding a judicial enquiry in a time-bound manner, it said the LG Polymers management must be held culpable and actions must be taken in accordance with the law. Separately, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) said the leakage took place while the 5000 tonne-capacity tanker was being filled with chemicals in preparation to start the factory operations shortly. "The leakage took place owing to utter neglect and failure on the part of the company to ensure basic preventive safety as per Standard Operative Procedures (SOP) on chemical handling, with the gas spreading fast to the adjoining areas. The LG Polymer Plant, having its plant located in the midst of thickly populated areas cannot evade its responsibility to ensure that the machinery and chemical/gas-storage facilities are properly maintained even during shutdown/lockdown," it said. The CITU alleged that reports suggested that two huge tankers with chemicals were left unattended during the lockdown by the company management and the incident of gas leakage was "nothing but a reflection of criminal negligence" on the part of the company "concerned only of minimising cost to maximise profit". It also said the incident showed that the central and state governments have not drawn any lessons from the Bhopal Gas tragedy decades back owing to such criminal default on the part of Union Carbide. "The company should be held responsible and liable for this disastrous gas-leakage and must be prosecuted. The company also must be  made to pay not less than Rs 50 lakh as compensation to the families of those who lost their lives; adequate compensation must also be paid to all the other affected people; the Company also must be made to bear the entire expenditure for medical treatment of all those affected by the gas leakage," the CITU added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hold-lg-polymers-culpable-hold-judicial-enquiry-cpim-on-vizag-gas-leak-834730.html
07-05-2020||National||JEE-Advanced for admission to IITs will be held on August 23: HRD Ministry||The Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) will conduct the joint entrance examination –Advanced (JEE-Advanced) on August 23, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced on Thursday. The exam was earlier scheduled for May 17, 2020, but was deferred due to the nationwide lockdown to arrest the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak. The announcement comes two days after the HRD ministry declared the dates for JEE -Mains for admission into top engineering colleges and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission into medical colleges JEE (Mains) will take place from July 18 to July 23, while the NEET exam will be held on July 26. Earlier this week, the government had announced to hold the Joint Entrance Exam-Mains (JEE-Mains) from July 18 to July 23. JEE-Mains is the first leg of the two-tier JEE entrance examination. JEE-Mains is conducted for admission to engineering colleges across the country and is considered as a qualifying exam for JEE-Advanced. The HRD Ministry's National Testing Agency (NTA) had also given students an option to change their opted centres for the two tests as many of them have moved to different places during the lockdown. The country is locked down since March 25, over a week after universities and schools across India were closed as one of the measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. The IIT counselling process also hinges on when CBSE and respective state boards announce results for the Class 12 board exams. To seek admission to one of the IITs, applicants also need to secure at least 75 per cent marks in their board exams. The HRD Ministry is likely to announce the schedule for pending board exams on Friday.    (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-advanced-for-admission-to-iits-will-be-held-on-august-23-hrd-ministry-834734.html
07-05-2020||National||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, Dy CM Sachin Pilot express grief over Vizag gas leak tragedy||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Thursday expressed grief over the Visakhapatnam gas leak tragedy early on the day that killed at least 11 persons and affected over 1,000 people, leaving them gasping for breath. "Shocked to know about the terrible Vizag gas leak tragedy. My condolences to the bereaved families, who lost their loved ones. May God give them strength to bear this loss. Prayers for the speedy recovery of those injured," Gehlot said. Deputy Chief Minister Pilot called the incident “sad and unfortunate”. "It is very sad and unfortunate that many people died in an accident caused by the poisonous gas leaking from the factory of a multinational company in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh," Pilot said. He prayed for strength to the family members of those who lost their lives and wished speedy recovery of the injured. Former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje has also expressed grief over the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-dy-cm-sachin-pilot-express-grief-over-vizag-gas-leak-tragedy-834738.html
07-05-2020||National||PIL in SC seeks protection of employees facing salary cuts, termination||Advocate Rajesh Inamdar and Harpreet Saluja, general secretary National Information Technology Employees Sena, wanted the government to ensure that employers in the private sector at least make payment of a subsistence salary to the employees, without terminating them unreasonably and illegally against their rights under Articles 14, 19, and 21 of the Constitution. "Although, government is taking necessary steps to provide possible assistance to the needy on priority like daily wagers, migrant workers, small businesses, the corporate employers have been reluctant and are acting inhuman in fulfilling their duty towards the nation and assist it by ensuring timely payments of full wages and salaries," they said. They also wanted initiation of action against all such companies under Section 51 and 58 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 which were in breach of orders and advisories issued by the Ministry Labour and Employment on March 29 and the Union government on March 29, 2020. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, and B R Gavai would take up the petition filed by advocate Amit Pai on May 8, Friday. The petitioners said that the economic and social impact of unregulated mass terminations and delayed payment of salaries or pay cuts would be extremely severe and would have a very large and serious human impact particularly on several thousand people in the bracket of the middle class.  The employees working in various IT/ITES companies for over several years have been informed over phone calls about their termination without even following the procedure envisaged under various enactments viz Industrial Disputes Act etc. Moreover, such terminations are illegal, unreasonable, and based on convenience, they said in their petition.  The petitioners claimed no procedure like notice period, intimation to government authorities, payment of retrenchment compensation, payment of gratuity, leave encashment, etc. has been undertaken by the Companies. Even though the employees were in no way responsible for the present situation, but they were at the receiving end. "Mass termination and the withholding of the salaries of the employees during these severe times is contrary to public policy, and directly affecting the right to livelihood of several persons," they contended.  The petitioners also wanted immediate financial assistance to all such employees whose companies have been closed after the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-sc-seeks-protection-of-employees-facing-salary-cuts-termination-834739.html
07-05-2020||National||Gas leak accidents that made the headlines in the past||The gas leak from a chemical plant in Visakhapatnam in which at least 11 people were killed and 1,000 affected on Thursday is one in a long list of industrial accidents resulting from poisonous gases seeping into the air. The December 1984 Bhopal tragedy in which more than than 3,000 people were killed when methyl isocyanate leaked out is the world’s worst industrial disaster. Here are other gas leaks that made headlines in the last few years: Bhilai, Chhattisgarh: On June 12, 2014, there was a leak in a methane gas pipeline at the Bhilai plant of Steel Authority Of India Limited (SAIL). Six people, including two deputy general managers of the company, were killed and over 50 injured.   Nagaram, Andhra Pradesh: On June 27, 2014, a massive fire broke out following a blast in Gas Authority of India Limited’s plant, killing 29 people and injuring 10. The 18-inch underground pipeline, designed to supply gas to the Lanco power plant, was used for transporting wet gas having condensate/water. This corroded the pipe and led to a gas leak. An ignition triggered the explosion and the subsequent fire. Mangaluru, Karnataka: On November 17, 2016, a gas leak in an HPCL running between Mangaluru-Hassan-Mysuru and Solur created panic in villages in the area. Several people were reportedly hospitalised after they inhaled the gas. The leak was spotted early on and was contained before much damage.   Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh: At least five people were killed and several injured in an explosion caused by an ammonia gas leak in the Katiyar cold storage in Kanpur on March 15, 2017. The explosion caused the roof of the building to collapse, trapping several people.   Delhi: About 450 girl students were hospitalised on May 6, 2017, after toxic fumes spread due to chemical leakage at a container depot near two schools in south-east Delhi's Tughlaqabad area. The chemical, 'chloro methyl pyridine' is an eye and respiratory irritant and causes redness and watering of eyes along with respiratory symptoms like sneezing, coughing or difficulty in breathing. Por village, Gujarat: At least 20 people were hospitalised after the valve of a chlorine gas cylinder in a drinking water tank in Gujarat’s Por village developed a leak on April 13, 2017. Those exposed to the gas complained of eye and throat irritation. Belur, Karnataka: At least 25 people were reportedly hospitalised after inhaling chlorine gas that leaked from a water treatment plant on the outskirts of Belur on May 16, 2017. Those who inhaled the gas showed symptoms like breathlessness, nausea and burning sensation in the throat. Bhilai, Chhattisgarh: On October 9, 2018, 11 people died and 14 injured in a blast at the Bhilai Steel Plant. The blast took place in a pipeline near the coke oven section at the steel plant during a maintenance job. Valsad, Gujarat: Over 40 workers of a glass manufacturing factory in Gujarat’s Valsad district were hospitalised following a leakage of chlorine gas in an adjacent chemical company on December 20, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gas-leak-accidents-that-made-the-headlines-in-the-past-834754.html
07-05-2020||National||Arunachal Pradesh spent Rs 9.49 cr on COVID-19 management so far: Official||The Arunachal Pradesh government has spent Rs 9.49 crore on COVID-19 management so far, an official said here on Thursday. The amount was spent from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund (CMFR) on capacity building, procurement of essential equipment, providing relief to stranded persons and logistics, Secretary to the chief minister, Ameya Abhyankar said. Chief Minister Pema Khandu had on Wednesday said Rs 19.89 crore was donated to the CMRF till date. "My gratitude to all those generous persons who have contributed to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund towards our battle against #COVID 19. So far we have received a sum of Rs 19,89,08,644," Khandu had tweeted. Only one COVID-19 case has been reported in the state so far. The 31-year-old attendee of the Tablighi Jammat congregation in Delhi was treated at the Tezu Zonal Hospital in Lohit district and discharged from the facility on April 17 after being cured of the disease. Meanwhile, a health department bulletin said that 1,039 samples have been tested in the state so far, of which results of 180 are awaited. The maximum number of samples were collected from Capital Complex (625), followed by 111 from East Siang district, 89 from Namsai and 63 from Lohit, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arunachal-pradesh-spent-rs-949-cr-on-covid-19-management-so-far-official-834756.html
07-05-2020||National||Ensure below 50% occupancy in buses post lockdown: Tamil Nadu govt||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday instructed State transport undertakings to ensure below 50 per cent passenger occupancy in buses after the COVID-19 induced lockdown ends and services resume. In a circular to STUs, the government listed the Standard Operating Procedures for the post lockdown period and asked the authorities to follow the SOP without fail. "Maximum allowable total passenger capacity should be below 50 per cent," the SOP said, adding the provision for seats and standing locations for passengers must maintain social distancing. Disinfecting buses after completion of every trip, avoiding use of air conditioners, ensuring masks, separation of space between the driver and commuters are the other norms outlined. Notably, the authorities have been asked to promote QR code based payments, and other methods of e- payments like PayTM, Google Pay and Jio Pay for ticketing purposes. The SOP is for the post lockdown times and the current third nationwide shutdown phase -which includes a ban on public transport- is scheduled to end on May 17. Only special trains for the benefit of stranded guest workers are currently operated in Tamil Nadu and other parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-below-50-occupancy-in-buses-post-lockdown-tamil-nadu-govt-834757.html
07-05-2020||National||Need more data, says ICMR on proposals to undertake study of Ganga water for treating COVID-19||The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has decided not to go ahead with the proposals forwarded by the Jal Shakti Ministry to undertake clinical studies for treatment of COVID-19 patients with Ganga water, saying it needs more scientific data. Dr Y K Gupta, who chairs the committee for Evaluation of Research Proposals at ICMR, said the evidence and data available at the moment are not strong enough to start the clinical studies by different routes/forms of Ganga water for treatment of coronavirus. The National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG), an arm of the Jal Shakti Ministry that deals with the rejuvenation programme for the river, had received a number of proposals, including from people and NGOs working on Ganga, to undertake clinical studies for treatment of coronavirus patients with the river water, officials said.      The proposals were accordingly sent to the ICMR on April 28. Gupta, who is also a former dean of the AIIMS, said, "At present the proposals need much scientific data, proof of concept and a strong background hypothesis. This has been conveyed to them (NMCG)."  NMCG officials said the proposals were discussed with the scientists of the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), which had earlier conducted a study 'Assessment of Water Quality and Sediment to understand the special properties of River Ganga'. According to the NEERI study, Ganga water has a higher number of bacteriophages as against pathogenic bacteria. During consultations that were held between the NMCG and NEERI, the scientists also said there was still no proof that Ganga water or sediment had anti-viral properties. "We forwarded the proposals to the ICMR as received," said a senior official of the NMCG.  One of the proposals received by NMCG claimed that the waters of Ganga have "ninja virus" which scientists call bacteriophages.   Another proposal claimed that pure Ganga water boosts immunity which helps fight the virus. The third proposal, a detailed one, sought more research on Ganga water's anti-viral properties and its ability to boost immunity in fighting diseases. It also suggested this study can be conducted upstream of Tehri on the Bhagirathi river and upstream of Srinagar on the Alaknanda river. NMCG officials said they have not received any official communication on the status of their proposals from the ICMR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-more-data-says-icmr-on-proposals-to-undertake-study-of-ganga-water-for-treating-covid-19-834758.html
07-05-2020||National||ICMR partners India Post for delivery of COVID-19 testing kits to labs||India Post has entered into a tie-up with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for delivery of its COVID-19 testing kits to 200 additional labs designated for coronavirus testing across the country, an official statement said on Thursday. Nodal officers have been identified from both the agencies -- Department of Post and ICMR for each regional depot to ensure smooth operations. "Indian Council of Medical Research has set a target of carrying out around 1 lakh tests across the country per day. For this crucial work, India Post with its vast network of 1,56,000 post offices has once again turned into a COVID warrior," the statement said. Delivery of kits to all parts of India has become a top priority, it said, adding that government is taking all measures to ensure timely delivery of the testing kits. While continuing to reach money to people's doorsteps through Aadhaar enabled Payment System, India Post has entered into a tie-up with ICMR for delivery of its COVID-19 testing kits from its 16 regional depots to the 200 additional labs designated for COVID testing across the country, it said. Once the kits are received at these 16 depots (located in 14 postal circles/states), they have to be distributed to different labs in the same or neighbouring states. The circles have made necessary arrangements with timelines for the priority transportation of the consignments to the concerned laboratories either as per the existing system or new arrangements depending on the requirement and have communicated the same to the ICMR nodal officers. The delivery information is shared with the labs on daily basis through WhatsApp. "A Google spreadsheet has been shared with all nodal officers to update the details of booking and delivery of the testing kits to flag any operational glitches," it added. India Post has delivered consignments in Kolkata, Ranchi, Patna, Jodhpur, Ajmer, Jaipur, Imphal and Aizawl, amongst others. These kits are being delivered packed in dry ice, the statement said. Communications and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, "I appreciate this renewed commitment and partnership between ICMR and Department of Post. India Post has been delivering mails, medicines, financial assistance at doorsteps and even distribution of food and ration to needy during lockdown." He added the postman of India Post has risen to the occasion and stood shoulder-to-shoulder with the nation during these challenging times. Prasad also called upon the department to leave no stone unturned in making timely delivery of medicines, testing kits and other medical equipment. The release further noted that the staff of India Post is working round the clock to ensure timely deliveries. "In fact, rising to the call of duty, deliveries are being made even at 11:30 pm. India Post is committed to ensure that the delivery of kits is made as per requirements even in far flung areas like Zoram Medical College, Meghalaya," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-partners-india-post-for-delivery-of-covid-19-testing-kits-to-labs-834759.html
07-05-2020||National||Indian tigers find lockdown great, come out to play as humans hunker down||With the humans of West Bengal under virus lockdown, tigers in the Sundarbans mangrove forest in the eastern Indian state are coming out to play, with park rangers Thursday reporting a jump in sightings of the big cats. The Sundarbans, straddling West Bengal and neighbouring Bangladesh, is the world's biggest mangrove forest and home to the majestic and endangered Royal Bengal tiger. "Sighting of tigers has gone up... after the lockdown," said Sudhir Das, director of the Sundarbans tiger reserve, referring to the nationwide restrictions in place since late March. In normal times, forest officials catch a glimpse of the big cats no more than twice a week, Das said. But with the lockdown ending tourist traffic and grounding the noisy motorboats and launches that usually ply the region's waterways, they are now sighting tigers "up to six times" a week, he added. The number of the big cats at the UNESCO World Heritage site has also gone up to 96 in the Indian part of the territory, up from 88 in 2018, according to the West Bengal state forest department which unveiled the latest headcount on Wednesday night. Officials counted as many as 43 female tigers and 11 cubs using over 700 pairs of all-weather night-vision camera traps. The Sundarbans is spread over 10,000 square kilometres (around 4,000 square miles) and derives its name from Sundari trees found abundantly in the region. India is home to around 70 percent of the world's tigers. Last year, the government said the tiger population had risen from 2,226 in 2014 to 2,967 in 2018. The government credited the increase in numbers to a strict ban on hunting and awareness drives in villages. Despite the uptick, the increasing number of human-tiger conflicts due to shrinking habitats remains an area of concern for conservationists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-tigers-find-lockdown-great-come-out-to-play-as-humans-hunker-down-834761.html
07-05-2020||National||New chemical accident rules soon to prevent Vizag-like accidents||With several industrial accidents in recent past highlighting gaps, the government is in the last leg of finalising the amendment to chemical accident rules to minimise disasters such as the one that happened at Visakhapatnam polymer factory on Thursday, killing at least 11 and hospitalising hundreds. Following the 1984 Bhopal gas disaster, the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF) notified two sets of rules - Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals (MSIHC) Rules, 1989 and Chemical Accidents (Emergency Planning, Preparedness, and Response), (CAEPPR) Rules, 1996 - to regulate the manufacturing, use, and handling of hazardous chemicals. The objective of MSIHC Rules is to prevent major chemical accidents arising from industrial activities and limit the effects of chemical (industrial) accidents. The CAEPPR Rules provide the statutory back-up for Crisis Management. In 2016, MoEF proposed to upgrade the rules to keep pace with the time. A draft amendment to rules that sought effective enforcement of regulations in the chemical industry, was floated for stakeholder consultation. But the rules could not be finalised, officials with direct knowledge of the development said. The amendment was referred to a committee that took a "lot of time" in finalising its recommendations, an official said. In the meanwhile, the Department of Chemicals and Petrochemicals (DCPC) wanted some kind of power to regulate the usage of all chemicals incorporating best practices around the globe. DCPC was keen on pre-use registration and inventory management, they said adding it is a kind of licensing. MoEF, on the other hand, continued to be a nodal authority on the handling of hazardous chemicals. The difference was resolved by allowing DCPC to frame regulations for chemicals, and hazardous chemicals would be one sub-set for which MoEF will assist in framing regulations. A draft Cabinet note has been circulated and regulation would be in place after inter-ministerial discussion, they said. "The rules should be out in a short time," an official said. Gas leaked from a chemical plant owned by a subsidiary of South Korea's LG Chem in Visakhapatnam in the early hours of Thursday and quickly spread to villages in a five-kilometer radius, killing at least 11 people and impacting about 1,000, many collapsing to the ground as they tried to escape the toxic vapours. The main objectives of the MSIHC Rules are to prevent major chemical accidents arising from industrial activities and limit the effects of chemical (industrial) accidents. Similarly, the CAEPPR Rules, 1996 provide the statutory backup for crisis management set-up and prescribe criteria for identification of Major Accident Hazard (MAH) installations. All districts with such installations are required to establish crisis management groups, it said. In addition, as prescribed by the MSIHC Rules, 1989, the occupiers of the MAH units are responsible for the preparation of on-site Emergency Plans while the Chief Inspector of Factories (CIFs) in consultation with district authorities are required to prepare off-site emergency plans as well. India witnessed its worst industrial accident due to an accidental leakage of nearly 42 tonnes of toxic gas, Methyl Iso Cyanate (MIC), in the intervening night of December 2-3, 1984 in Bhopal. Official estimates put the toll at 5,000, though activists who have long been fighting for both justice and compensation for the victims put the figure at 25,000. Besides the deaths, the accident led to physical disabilities in people of the area, and thousands of children born to parents, who had been exposed to the gas, in subsequent years suffered from birth defects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-chemical-accident-rules-soon-to-prevent-vizag-like-accidents-834764.html
07-05-2020||National||No new COVID-19 case reported from 13 states, UTs in last 24 hours: Harsh Vardhan||Thirteen states and Union Territories, including Kerala, Odisha and Jammu and Kashmir, have not reported any new case of COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday. Informing reporters that 3,561 new coronavirus cases have been reported and 1,084 patients have recovered in 24 hours since Wednesday morning, he asserted that "in comparison with other countries, India is in a better state as the fatality rate is 3.3 per cent and recovery rate is 28.83 per cent." Of the total 35,902 active cases, 4.8 per cent patients are in ICU, 1.1 per cent on ventilators and 3.3 per cent are on oxygen support. Vardhan reviewed the preparedness and containment measures for the management of COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal, and said 180 districts across the country have not reported any new instance of the respiratory infection in less than seven days. Another 180 districts had no fresh case in the last seven to 13 days. As many as 164 districts have not registered any new case in 14-20 days, while 136 districts have not reported any case of coronavirus infection in the last 21 to 28 days, he was quoted as saying in a health ministry statement. The 13 states and Union Territories which have not reported any new case in the last 24 hours are Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Mizoram, Manipur, Goa, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Odisha and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Daman and Diu, Sikkim, Nagaland and the Lakshadweep Islands have not reported a single case till date, he said. "COVID-19 testing capacity has increased. As many as 95,000 tests are being conducted daily in 327 government and 118 private laboratories. Cumulatively, 13,57,442 tests have been done so far," the minister said. Elaborating on the country's preparedness in terms of health infrastructure, Vardhan said as of now there are 821 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals with 1,50,059 beds (1,32,219 isolation and 17,840 ICU beds) and 1,898 dedicated health centres with 1,19,109 beds (1,09,286 isolation and 9,823 ICU beds) along with 7,569 quarantine centres. The Union health minister also said that 29.06 lakh personal protective equipment (PPEs) and 62.77 lakh N-95 masks have been distributed to states, Union Territories and central institutions. After a brief presentation on the status of COVID-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal, Vardhan said the states need to focus on effective surveillance, contact tracing and early diagnosis to the COVID-19 fatality rate low. "Surveillance for Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI) and Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) should be intensified in unaffected districts and in areas which have not reported cases for the last 14 days and more through the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) network in collaboration with medical college hospitals.  "Such measures will help in indicating the presence of any possible hidden infection at an early stage and in turn timely containment," he said. Vardhan asked the states to ensure adoption of infection prevention and control practices in all healthcare facilities to reduce and avoid chances of infections among healthcare workers. He advised them to implement all central guidelines and advisories in the field level. The states have been informed about the measures taken to partner with private hospitals for COVID-19 management. Uttar Pradesh has stated that it has identified private hospitals as dedicated COVID-19 health facilities on payment basis. In view of the surge in the number of stranded migrant labourers expected to reach their native states in the coming days, Vardhan stressed on drawing up a robust strategy and mechanism for their testing, quarantine, and treatment of positive cases. "Some states shall people returning from abroad too. An effective strategy needs to be put in place for their testing, institutional quarantine and treatment if needed," he said. It was reiterated to the states to ensure provisioning of non-coronavirus essential health services such as immunisation drives, tuberculosis case finding and treatment, blood transfusion for patients requiring dialysis, treatment of cancer patients and antenatal care of pregnant women among others, the health ministry statement said. "It was also stated that the Ayushman Bharat - Health and Wellness Centres could be used for screening for hypertension, diabetes and three types of cancers. Telemedicine and tele-counselling could be used for a larger population in view of the lockdown. States were also advised to keep adequate stock of essential medicines.  "They were also informed that helpline number 104 in addition to 1075 can be used for grievance redressal for non-COVID essential services, and for informing availability of these services etc," it said. The COVID-19 death toll rose to 1,783 and the number of cases climbed to 52,952 on Thursday, registering an increase of 89 fatalities and 3,561 cases in 24 hours since Wednesday morning, according to the Union Health Ministry. PTI PLB NSD NSD||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-new-covid-19-case-reported-from-13-states-uts-in-last-24-hours-harsh-vardhan-834766.html
07-05-2020||National||Maha nets Rs 150 cr revenue through liquor sale in four days||The Maharashtra government has collected a revenue of around Rs 150 crore through the sale of liquor since Monday when such outlets were allowed to reopen in parts of the state, an official said on Thursday. The amount was collected in four days till Thursday evening, the senior official of the state excise department said. Liquor shops were shut for almost 40 days due to the lockdown to curb the coronavirus outbreak. But even as the lockdown was extended till May 17, standalone liquor shops have been given permission to operate as part of the relaxations granted by the state government. "Revenue of around Rs 150 crore was collected by the excise department till Thursday evening through the sale of liquor. There are 10,822 licensed liquor shops in the state, of which 3,261 have re-opened," the official said. "The state had received over Rs 100 crore revenue through this till Wednesday evening, which increased further by Rs 48.14 crore," the official said. An estimated 13.82 lakh litres of bottled Indian-Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), beer, wine and country liquor were sold on Thursday alone, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maha-nets-rs-150-cr-revenue-through-liquor-sale-in-four-days-834767.html
07-05-2020||National||Lawyers move SC for NALSA COVID-19 Relief Scheme||A group of advocates has approached the Supreme Court for taking an initiative as 'NALSA COVID-19 Relief Scheme 2020' to contain the pandemic and restore normal life in the country by coordinating efforts of NGOs, corporates, and other Indian citizens, living in India and abroad. Advocate Deepak Prakash and others contended that in view of the alarming rate of increase of coronavirus cases, there was an apprehension of further extension of lockdown with some relaxation, creating hardships to the people including loss of livelihood.  A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai would consider the plea on Friday, May 8.  The petitioners sought a direction to National Legal Services Authority to provide active and answering helpline numbers to enable common people to address their grievances -- legal and otherwise-- pertaining their lives and livelihood in coordination with district and state authorities. They also wanted to set up a special purpose fund to help struggling and needy lawyers, facing unprecedented hardships, owing to pandemic and national lockdown for providing temporary shelter, cooked food, medicine, health care and other essential items.  The petitioners said the tax exemption granted to donation to PM Cares Fund should be increased from 100 to 200 % under the Income Tax Act to ensure more donations for use of research and development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-move-sc-for-nalsa-covid-19-relief-scheme-834771.html
07-05-2020||National||Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli express anguish over Vizag tragedy||Famous personalities from cricket icon Sachin Tendulkar and India captain Virat Kohli to those from the film world expressed their anguish over the gas leak incident here that killed 11 people and left hundreds ill on Thursday, through their respective twitter accounts. "Visuals coming out of Vizag are heartbreaking. Praying for the quick recovery of the people who have been impacted by the gas leak and my deepest condolences with the families who have lost their loved ones," batting great Sachin Tendulkar tweeted. Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli tweeted: "My condolences to the families who lost their loved ones in the #VizagGasLeak. Praying for everyone affected and recovering in the hospital." 'Baahubali' maker SS Rajamouli said he was deeply disturbed by the visuals from the gas leak. "Praying for the recovery of those admitted to the hospital.Heartfelt condolences to those who lost their near and dear ones," he tweeted. Condoling the deaths,actor Anupam Kher said he was praying for the people affected by the tragedy. "Heart breaking visuals from Vizag. Heartfelt condolences to the families who lost their loved ones and lets pray for everyone affected and recovering in the hospital. 2020 what a horrible year this is becoming!!" actress Nayanthara tweeted. Ace shuttler P V Sindhu said it was heart breaking to see the visuals of the gas leak. "MY thoughts and prayers are with the people of Vizag," she tweeted. 'Chennai Super Kings' said "What to do when staying home isn't safe either? Heartbreaking news from the City of Destiny. All our thoughts with the lost souls and prayers with the families affected." 'Mumbai Indians' tweeted "Thoughts go out to the city of Vizag and all the families affected. Stay strong."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sachin-tendulkar-virat-kohli-express-anguish-over-vizag-tragedy-834772.html
07-05-2020||National||Indian Railways to operate special train for Karnataka people stranded in Delhi||The Karnataka Government is likely to organise a special train to send stranded people from Karnataka in Delhi and neighboring states to their native place in a couple of days. After intervention by Union Fertiliser Minister D V Sadananda Gowda on Thursday,  Railway Minister Piyush Goyal agreed to arrange a  special train even if little less than 90 % occupancy. "I have requested Goyal to arrange a special train even if total passengers are less then 90 % of capacity. He agreed for that," Gowda told Deccan Herald. "Since only 680 people from Karantaka registered -sevasinduKarnataka- website from Delhi, I have requested officials in Karnataka Bhavan in Delhi to bring Karnataka people stranded in Haryana, Noida  Punjab, and Chandigarh. If these people came, the number will be more, " said Gowda. Officials are speaking to neighbouring states to make arrangements to issue passes to bring them to Delhi. Most probably a special train will leave Bengaluru by Sunday, he said. Earlier, Karnataka officials were in quandary on whether to send them to their natives in a special train or buses.  With only 680 people including stranded tourists, pilgrims, and some people who are preparing civil service examination registered in -sevasindukarnataka- website, the state government authorities in Delhi struggling to make arrangements for them for the past few days. If people stranded in Haryana, Punjab, Noida and Chandigarh came, then the number will be more than 90 %, said an official. Since the Indian Railways made mandatory 90% of passenger capacity to operate one special train, the state government officials have been scrambling to mobilise passengers to reach the target.  The railways,  which operate  24  coaches special train, allowing only  54 passengers instead of 72 passengers in each coach to ensure social distancing norms. As per 90 % norms, railways want at least 1000 passengers per train. Since railways is operating second class sleeper trains,  it is bearing 85 % cost while the receiving state has to bear 25 % of the cost. To avoid unwanted burden on its, the railways made mandatory of 90 % capacity of passengers, said an official.  Even the Karnataka Government plans to send some people in buses also not feasible for such a long journey as several ladies and senior citizens also there. If they sent in buses,  the issue of where they would get food and place for fresh up for 600 people in midway since hotels and restaurants have shut due to lockdown, said an official. Besides, some passengers have refused to travel in the bus as they were not finding it comfortable and insisting only on trains, said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-operate-special-train-for-karnataka-people-stranded-in-delhi-834777.html
07-05-2020||National||Rajnath Singh approves abolition of 9,304 posts in Military Engineering Service||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday approved abolition of 9,304 posts in the Military Engineering Service as part of a mega reform process aimed at enhancing combat capability of the armed forces and re-balance military expenditure, officials said. There will be no job losses in view of the decision as the posts identified for abolition are lying vacant for last three years, they said. The Military Engineer Services (MES) is a premier construction agency which operates under the Corps of Engineers of the Indian Army. It is one of the largest construction agencies in India with a total annual budget of around Rs 13,000 crore. The decision is in sync with recommendations made by a committee headed by Lt Gen DB Shekatkar (retd) to carry out mega reform in the three armed forces. "The proposal to abolish 9,304 posts in MES out of the total 13,157 vacancies of the basic and industrial staff has been approved by the defence minister," a defence ministry spokesperson said. He said the decision is in line with the recommendations made by the Shekatkar Committee as well as based on the proposal of the Engineer-in-Chief of the MES. "One of the recommendations made by the committee was to restructure the civilian workforce in a manner that the work of MES could be partly done by departmentally employed staff and other works could be outsourced," the official said. The recommendation by the high-level committee was aimed at making MES an effective organisation with a leaner workforce, well equipped to handle complex issues in the emerging scenario in an efficient and cost effective manner. In August 2017, the defence ministry approved 65 reform measures for the Indian Army, which included redeployment of nearly 57,000 officers and personnel of other ranks, based on the recommendations of the Shekatkar Committee. The reform measures included optimisation of signal establishments, closure of military farms and army postal wing in peace locations, as well as restructuring of repair echelons, including base workshops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-approves-abolition-of-9304-posts-in-military-engineering-service-834781.html
07-05-2020||National||Jitendra Singh cautions against laxity, says haste may adversely affect gains achieved in lockdown||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Thursday said any laxity or haste on the part of people may adversely affect the advantage gained in the six weeks of the lockdown enforced to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. In a two-hour long video conference with public activists from different districts of Jammu and Kashmir, Singh also said there is no prohibition in people's return to the Union Territory but caution has to be taken as per the home ministry guidelines to avoid COVID-19 risk to anyone. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. The first and second phase of lockdown in India was from March 25 to April 14 and April 15 to May 3, respectively. The third phase began from May 4 and would end on May 17. Any laxity or haste at this stage could adversely affect the advantage gained in the last six weeks of the lockdown enforced to check the coronavirus endemic, he said at the video conference. Assuring those returning to Jammu and Kashmir from outside to have patience and bear with authorities, Singh said even though the movement of people is continuing uninterrupted but it has to be carried out with caution and in keeping with the guidelines to avoid risk to others. The Union minister in the Prime Minister’s Office appreciated public activists and the civil society for coordinating with the administration in perfect harmony to fight the pandemic Singh said the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir has been doing better than many other states and UTs in the fight against the coronavirus. He said the administration and other agencies, particularly at the entry point of Lakhanpur (Jammu and Kashmir-Punjab border) were under tremendous pressure and were trying to accommodate all. However, the minister said, preference was given to "hard-pressed" labourers, who had gone out for work and then got held up because of the lockdown. During the interaction, participants from Kathua, Anantnag, Udhampur, Doda, Bhaderwah, Reasi, Rajouri, Poonch district, among other places, were by and large, appreciative of the proactive measures taken by the administration, a statement said. The participants thanked Singh for being in regular touch with them during this period of the crisis and for enabling coordination between the administration and the civil society, it said The public activists assured that in the future also they would continue to offer all cooperation from their side.  The minister requested the district representatives and other participants to keep providing their inputs so that the follow up of all current issues can be done effectively on day-to-day basis. He said a mechanism has been developed whereby the inputs are received round-the-clock and, if required, contact is established with the respective district administration in any part of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jitendra-singh-cautions-against-laxity-says-haste-may-adversely-affect-gains-achieved-in-lockdown-834789.html
07-05-2020||National||After Vizag gas leak, Centre asks chemical firms to exercise caution when reopening plants||After deadly styrene gas leak in Visakhapatnam, Union Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister D V Sadananda Gowda on Thursday urged all public and private chemical makers to exercise caution and care while reopening their plants. Union Environment Ministry and State Pollution Control Boards have also issued separate directives to all companies to take extreme precaution while restarting their units that remained suspended due to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the country, he said. There was a gas leak from LG Polymers plant at Visakhapatnam in the early hours on Thursday, causing 10 deaths and hundreds of people getting hospitalised. "LG Polymers does not come under direct control of our ministry. However, we have asked all public and private chemicals manufacturers to exercise caution and care while reopening their plants," Gowda told PTI. The minister said his officers are coordinating with the Andhra Pradesh government. He further said LG Polymers, a multinational chemical company, had kept its unit ready for reopening after one and half month of lockdown. The unit started leaking at around 3.40 am on Thursday due to pressure. "The toxic gas leak has affected both people and animals. Around 850 people have been hospitalised," Gowda said, adding that measures have been taken to control the situation at the plant site and final updates are awaited. At present, Indian chemicals market size is about USD 163 billion, which is only three per cent of the global chemical industry of USD 5 trillion, as per the official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-vizag-gas-leak-centre-asks-chemical-firms-to-exercise-caution-when-reopening-plants-834798.html
07-05-2020||National||Not informed of father's death due to COVID-19, alleges man; hospital denies||Family members of an elderly man who tested positive for COVID-19 and died last week in a Kolkata hospital on Thursday alleged that they were not informed of his demise even three days after his body was cremated by the local administration. Authorities of the MR Bangur Hospital where he was undergoing treatment, however, claimed that the family members, who were on institutional quarantine, have been informed. A health department official said the matter would be investigated.  The septuagenarian from Keshab Chandra Sen Street in central Kolkata was admitted to the male isolation ward of the MR Bangur Hospital on April 29 and he died on May 2. The body was cremated on the same day, sources in the hospital said. The man's wife, two sons and a daughter-in-law were sent for quarantine in Rajarhat. Neither they nor his another son staying in Barrackpore were contacted by the hospital after his death, alleged his youngest son Arijit Sen. "Since we are in the quarantine centre and could not go to the hospital, we tried to keep in contact with the hospital via phone. The last time we managed to talk to anybody there was on May 1. Since then, there was not a single call from them," Sen told PTI. The call record in his phone can prove that none from the hospital contacted them, Sen said adding that he got the bad news from someone from an insurance company on May 5.  It was, however, not clear why the man from the insurance company had called him up as his father did not have any such policy, private or government, Sen said. "The man had called up to enquire whether or not my father had enrolled for any life insurance policy. He informed me that my father died on May 2," he said. The family members then started calling the number of the ward master at the isolation ward for COVID-19 patients at the MR Bangur hospital. "After at least four to five calls, someone answered it and said my father died around 4 PM on May 2 and his body was cremated by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on that very day," the man's eldest son Abhijit Sen, who stays in Barrackpore, told PTI. "This is absolutely inhuman. We know the protocol of cremating a COVID-19 patient but at least the hospital authorities or the state health department could have informed us about my father's death. We have at least that right," Arijit Sen said. When contacted, MR Bangur Hospital superintendent Sisir Naskar said he came to know about the familys allegation from a social media post. "When I asked our nodal officer about it, he told me that he had informed them about the death. The state health department was also informed. The department, in turn, told KMC officials who took the body for the last rites," Naskar told PTI. A senior official of the state health department said a proper enquiry will be initiated into the matter. "This matter will definitely be looked into. There must have been some miscommunication," he said on condition of anonymity. Incidentally, two family members of the deceased tested positive for the virus on Thursday and were shifted from the quarantine centre to a hospital in Rajarhat. Till Wednesday, West Bengal has recorded 72 deaths directly due to COVID-19 while another 72 succumbed because of comorbidity conditions, where coronavirus was incidental. At the moment there are at least 1,047 active cases of COVID-19 in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-informed-of-fathers-death-due-to-covid-19-alleges-man-hospital-denies-834804.html
07-05-2020||National||Jharkhand BJP chief suffers heart attack; undergoes angioplasty||Jharkhand BJP president Deepak Prakash suffered a heart attack on Thursday, following which he underwent angioplasty at a state-run hospital here, a party spokesperson said. "He is recovering fast after undergoing angioplasty," BJP spokesperson Shiv Pujan Pathak said in a statement. Angioplasty is a medical procedure used to widen narrowed or obstructed arteries or veins. Chief Minister Hemant Soren visited the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) and enquired about Prakash's condition from the doctors, a CMO release said. BJP national president J P Nadda also called up RIMS Director Dr D K Singh to enquire about the condition of Prakash. "After getting the details of treatment provided (to Prakash) and (told about) stable condition of Prakash Ji, he (J P Nadda) expressed appreciation for quick and timely treatment to the Jharkhand BJP president amid the COVID-19 outbreak," Dr Singh said. State Finance Minister Rameshwar Oraon and Health Minister Banna Gupta also visited the RIMS and spoke with Dr Singh and other medical practitioners treating Prakash. Union Tribal Affairs Minister Arjun Munda, former chief ministers Raghubar Das and Babulal Marandi, BJP's organisational secretary Dharampal and a host of other leaders wished speedy recovery of Prakash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-bjp-chief-suffers-heart-attack-undergoes-angioplasty-834805.html
07-05-2020||National||RPF jawan contracts COVID-19 in Chennai, 21 contacts quarantined in his native Shamli||A Railway Protection Force (RPF) jawan has tested positive for COVID-19 while 21 people who he came in contact with have been quarantined in Shamli, an official said on Thursday. The RPF jawan, a resident of Khodsama village in Shamli district, had left for Chennai on May 2 where he is currently posted, District Magistrate Jasjit Kaur said. Out of the 21 people who have been quarantined, 13 are RPF jawans while eight others are his family members, including his parents and wife. DM Kaur told reporters here that the infected man's contacts were traced and isolated on receiving information that he had tested positive in Chennai. The affected man had come on leave to his native village just before the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25. On the directives of the higher authorities, he joined the nearest RPF police station in Shamli. Later, he left for Chennai to join duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rpf-jawan-contracts-covid-19-in-chennai-21-contacts-quarantined-in-his-native-shamli-834810.html
07-05-2020||National||PM Modi, European Council president discuss COVID-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President of the European Council Charles Michel discussed on Thursday the situation arising out of  the coronavirus outbreak and recognised the importance of regional and global coordination to effectively address the health and economic impact of the pandemic. The two leaders also discussed the situation of and responses to the COVID-19 pandemic in India and the European Union. They appreciated mutual cooperation extended in the face of the pandemic, including for ensuring supplies of essential pharmaceutical products, according to an official statement said.  "The leaders recognised the importance of regional and global coordination to effectively address the health and economic impact of COVID-19," it said.  They reaffirmed their commitment to strengthening the India-EU strategic partnership. The two leaders agreed that their officials would work together to prepare a substantive agenda for the next India-EU Summit meeting. The 15th annual India-EU Summit, planned for March in Brussels, was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The leaders decided to remain in touch on the evolving dimensions of the crisis as well as the post-coronavirus context, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-european-council-president-discuss-covid-19-pandemic-834814.html
07-05-2020||National||CRPF moots Rs 50L special grant to paramilitary personnel who die while on COVID-19 duty||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has proposed to the government a special grant of Rs 50 lakh to those central paramilitary personnel who die while on COVID-19 duty, officials said on Thursday. They said the force has sent a proposal in this context to the Union Home ministry on the lines of a similar ex-gratia being accorded recently to municipal and health workers. The CRPF is the country's largest paramilitary or Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) with about 3.25 lakh personnel and is deployed in huge numbers in various states for law and order upkeep duties. "A proposal for special grant of Rs 50 lakh to CAPF personnel has been sent by force chief A P Maheshwari to the Union Home ministry. The final call will be taken by the MHA," a senior official said. CRPF is deployed to assist several state police units in operational and law and order grid and the forces' duty is such that it is often deployed in hotspots and high-risk areas, he said. Whether this special grant will be over and above the special amount granted to personnel who are killed in incidents of violence while being on duty, will be decided by the central government, he said. Five personnel from various forces under the command of the Union Home ministry have succumbed to coronavirus till now. This includes 2 personnel from the Border Security Force and one each from CRPF, Central Industrial Security Force and the Delhi Police. Meanwhile, CRPF Director General  A P Maheshwari sent a message to his personnel and asked them to take all precautions to check the infection and "not hesitate" to consult the doctor in case they feel sick. "We are fully concerned about you. Recently force witnessed a sudden spurt of coronavirus cases in one of the battalions in Delhi and some parts of the directorate." "We have now contained it," the DG said while talking about the 31st battalion in Delhi where the maximum of about 136 infections have taken place. I reiterate and request you, he said, to please ensure all protocols on sanitisation, use of mask, boosting immunity through nutrient diet and exercise, including yoga should be followed.   "Most important are the life style changes of social distancing and adopting options that are nature friendly." "And finally, quarantine to break the chain as moral responsibility and for self safety if the need arises like on return from leave, on return from long hour deployment at hotspots or on experiencing any symptom," he told his troops.   "Do not hesitate to consult your doctor. Wish you ever best. You matter to the CRPF family," the DG said in the message. A senior officer of the force said adequate protective gear is being provided to the personnel and special standard operating procedures for fighting COVID-19 are being implemented by the commanders "religiously due to which the number of positive cases have come down commendably in last three days." The force has 159 active cases with the addition of one infected personnel over the last 24 hours. A 55-year-old Sub-Inspector had succumbed to the disease last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-moots-rs-50l-special-grant-to-paramilitary-personnel-who-die-while-on-covid-19-duty-834815.html
07-05-2020||National||Operation Samudra Setu: INS Jalashwa reaches Male to evacuate about 750 Indians||The Indian Navy said its ship INS Jalashwa reached Male on Thursday morning to evacuate around 750 Indians stranded in Maldives amid the coronavirus pandemic. "This ship is part of Operation Samudra Setu launched by the Indian Navy to bring Indian citizens home from foreign shores," the Navy said in a statement. The ship has been provided relief material, COVID-19 protection material along with medical and administrative support staff, it noted. Indian citizens stranded in Maldives begin the journey back home onboard INS Jalashwa of the Indian Navy tomorrow. We wish them Bon Voyage! "It is planned to evacuate about 750 persons," the Navy mentioned, adding that the INS Jalashwa has the capacity to generate 3MW of electrical power and 212 tonnes of fresh water per day. The Navy said the ship has extensive medical facilities and is ideally suited to undertake humanitarian assistance and disaster relief missions. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of coronavirus, which has infected more than 52,900 people and killed around 1,780 people in the country till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/operation-samudra-setu-ins-jalashwa-reaches-male-to-evacuate-about-750-indians-834821.html
07-05-2020||National||NGT to take up Vizag gas leak case on Friday||The National Green Tribunal on Thursday took cognisance on its own about the Visakhapatnam gas leak incident killing at least 11 people and impacting about 1,000, many collapsing to the ground as they tried to escape the toxic vapours. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel will take up on Friday the matter titled "In re: Gas Leak at LG Polymers Chemical Plant in RR Venkatapuram Village Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh". Earlier in the day, a plea was filed seeking constitution of a high-level committee to investigate the gas leak incident.   The NGO, Centre for Wildlife and Environmental Litigation Foundation, has sought constitution of a high-level committee, comprising of judges and officers, not below the rank of Joint Secretary, to probe the incident. It has also sought direction to the state government to ensure the protection and security of the residents of the surrounding area and imposing exemplary costs on violators. Hours after the styrene gas leak around 2.30 am from the multinational L G Polymers Plant at R R Venkatapuram village near here, scores of people could be seen lying unconscious on sidewalks, near ditches and on the road, raising fears of a major industrial disaster. The leak was noticed by company staff who were reportedly inspecting machines to restart the factory and raised an alarm. A major early morning chemical leak from a polymer plant near Visakhapatnam impacted villages in a five-km radius, leaving many people dead and scores of citizens suffering from breathlessness and other problems, as the AP government ordered a probe into the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-to-take-up-vizag-gas-leak-case-on-friday-834822.html
07-05-2020||National||MHA says Odisha govt to decide on Rath Yatra; allows chariot construction||The Union Home Ministry on Thursday made it clear that the decision of holding the Rath Yatra in Puri would be taken by the Odisha government keeping in mind the prevailing COVID-19 situation, but allowed construction of the chariot for the religious procession. In a letter to the Odisha government, the Home Ministry said the activity of chariot construction was allowed to be undertaken in the 'Ratha Khala', which is situated on both sides of the Grand Road in front of the Jagannath temple office and the Sri Nahar palace, subject to fulfilling conditions. No religious congregation should take place in the 'Ratha Khala' and complete segregation of it should be ensured, the ministry said. However, the decision of holding the Rath Yatra, which is scheduled for June 23, would be taken by the state government, keeping in view the conditions prevailing at that point of time, the letter said. According to the guidelines issued for the ongoing lockdown, religious congregation is strictly prohibited. The ministry said the managing committee of the Shri Jagannath Temple, following a meeting on Monday, urged for allowing construction of the chariot in the 'Ratha Khala'. The committee said no religious congregation takes place in the 'Ratha Khala' as it is a workplace and not a public place accessible to the general public. However, for effective COVID-19 management, complete segregation of the 'Ratha Khala' will be done from the adjoining Grand Road and adjoining properties by erecting a cloth partition wall so that public can be effectively prohibited, the temple committee said. The committed added that the national directives for COVID-19 management would be fully implemented, the home ministry letter said. PTI ACB HMB||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-says-odisha-govt-to-decide-on-rath-yatra-allows-chariot-construction-834823.html
07-05-2020||National||114 new coronavirus cases in MP, tally 3,252, eight deaths||With 114 people testing positive since previous night, 47 of them in Bhopal, the number of coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh rose to 3,252 on Thursday, health officials said. As the virus claimed eight more lives in the state since Wednesday night, the death toll of COVID-19 patients went up to 193, they added. Two deaths each were reported in Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain and one each in Jabalpur and Khargone. Of the total deaths due to the pandemic in the state, Indore, the worst-affected district, accounts for 83. It has 1,699 confirmed cases with 18 new COVID-19 positive persons found since Wednesday night, officials said. 47 new patients were detected in Bhopal, followed by 17 in Ujjain, six in Jabalpur, five each in Morena and Gwalior and one each in Khargone, Dhar, Raisen and Jhabua. Jhabua recorded its first coronavirus case on Thursday. The state capital Bhopal now has 652 cases, Ujjain 201, Jabalpur 115, Khargone 80, Dhar 77, Raisen 64, Gwalior 12, Morena 22 and Mandsaur 52. The number of cases in other districts is: Hoshangabad 36, Burhanpur 38, Barwani 26, Dewas 30, Ratlam 20, Vidisha 13, Agar Malwa 13, Shajapur eight,five each in Chhindwara and Sagar, four each in Sheopur and Neemuch, three each in Alirajpur, Harda,Anuppur, Tikamgarh, Shivpuriand Shahdol, two in Rewa and one each in Ashok Nagar, Betul, Dindori, Panna and Satna. Overall, COVID-19 cases have been reported from 36 of 52 districts of the state so far. Apart from Indore (83) and Bhopal (22), 42 COVID-19 patients have died in Ujjain, eight in Khargone, seven each in Khandwa and Dewas, four each in Burhanpur, Mandsaur and Jabalpur, three each inHoshangabad and Raisen and one each in Dhar, Shajapur, Agar Malwa, Chhindwara, Satna and Ashok Nagar districts. The condition of 1,589 patients is stable while that of 239 was serious. 1,231 people have recovered. The coronavirus figures from MP, thus, are as follows: Total cases 3,252, active cases 1,828, new cases 114, death toll 193, recovered 1,231, total number of tested people is 61,020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/114-new-coronavirus-cases-in-mp-tally-3252-eight-deaths-834826.html
07-05-2020||National||Trump urges China, Russia, US arms control in Putin call: White House||US President Donald Trump called Thursday for involving China in new arms control talks with Russia, telling his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin that they need to avoid a "costly arms race," the White House said. "President Trump reaffirmed that the United States is committed to effective arms control that includes not only Russia, but also China, and looks forward to future discussions to avoid a costly arms race," a statement said. Trump and Putin spoke by phone, also discussing the global coronavirus pandemic, the White House said. "President Trump reiterated that the United States is working hard to care for Americans at home and is also ready to provide assistance to any country in need, including Russia," the statement said. Russia and the United States -- rivals during the four decades of the Cold War -- ripped up the 1987 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) treaty this year, blaming one another for its demise. That deal was seen as a cornerstone of global security and its burial sparked fears of a new arms race. Washington is threatening to quit the 2010 New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, or "New START", when it expires next year. New START -- which obliged them to halve the number of missile launchers and set up a new verification regime -- is seen as the last major deal keeping their arsenals below the Cold War peak. However, Trump has been pushing for China to be brought into a future deal, arguing that Beijing's missile and nuclear capability is rapidly expanding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trump-urges-china-russia-us-arms-control-in-putin-call-white-house-834827.html
07-05-2020||National||SCBA calls emergent meeting to discuss removal of Dave as president||Months after a Supreme Court judge, Justice Arun Mishra commended Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a "versatile genius" it has resulted in an all-out war within the bar association of the top court. An emergent meeting of the Supreme Court Bar Association has been convened on May 11 to "remove" senior advocate Dushyant Dave from its primary membership as well as from the office of President and to condemn the use of office for "political agendas". Dave called the move "illegal, improper and unfortunate". A notice was issued by the SCBA secretary Ashok Arora on Thursday for the emergent general meeting to consider a resolution signed by 410 members. The agenda of the meeting also included removal of Dave from the primary membership of the SCBA for "working against the interest of the bar". The meeting is also intended to pass a resolution "not to use the office of the SCBA for political agendas". It would also consider a resolution to "condemn the unauthorised resolution of February 25 purportedly passed by the executive committee (through circulation) and to immediately withdraw the same". The February 25 resolution related to "condemnation" of the statement of Justice Arun Mishra when he hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi as "versatile genius", "who think globally and act locally" in his vote of thanks in International Judicial Conference.  In view of the lockdown, the meeting has been called on a webinar, said SCBA secretary Arora.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scba-calls-emergent-meeting-to-discuss-removal-of-dave-as-president-834830.html
07-05-2020||National||Indian Railways identifies 215 stations to deploy isolation coaches||Bracing for a possible increase in COVID-19 cases, the Centre has identified 215 railway stations in 23 states and Union Territories for deploying trains with the new isolation coaches. The Indian Railways converted its 5,231 coaches as Covid Care Centers i.e isolation coaches to treat COVID-19 patients as supplementary to hospital isolation wards. "These coaches can be used in areas where State has exhausted the facilities and needs to augment capacities for isolation of both suspect and confirmed COVID-19 cases," said railways in a statement. Identified stations are spread across the country including major hotspots and orange and green zones as well. The railways will deploy these trains at stations based on states request. Once deployed, each train will be linked to the nearest COVID hospital, said the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare says. The coaches will be used for cases suspected/confirmed, and categorized into very mild/mild, said the guidelines.  Separate coaches should be used for suspected and confirmed cases. Individual cabins may be given to patients and at the most, two patients may be accommodated there, says the guidelines. The list of stations also includes all the major cities —Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Chennai  — and more cities in other states. Out of 215 stations, railways will provide healthcare facilities in 85 stations. In the rest of 130 stations, the coaches will be deployed if respective states are able to provide staff and essential medicines, a railway official said.  After allocation by Indian Railways, the train will be placed, at the required station with necessary infrastructure, and handed over to District Collector/Magistrate or one of their authorised persons.   Wherever the train is placed, watering, electricity, repairs required, catering arrangements, the security shall be taken care of by Indian Railways said the guidelines. Apart from this,  the railways ready to deploy more than 2,500 doctors and 35,000 paramedic staff to fight against the pandemic. Doctors and paramedics being recruited on a temporary basis by various zones. Around 5,000 beds in 17 dedicated hospitals and 33 hospital blocks in Railway Hospitals identified for treatment of COVID-19 patients getting ready any contingency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-identifies-215-stations-to-deploy-isolation-coaches-834836.html
07-05-2020||National||Pakistan goes ahead with CPEC amid mounting debts, further economic fallout due to COVID-19||Debt-ridden Pakistan is going ahead with its strategic USD 60 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor project, despite the country's further economic downturn due to the coronavirus crisis. Foreign Office spokesperson Aisha Farooqui on Thursday told a regular media briefing that the CPEC comprised long-term projects whose completion, in many cases, was spread over many years. "We are quite confident that we will be able to complete CPEC projects in time and, going forward, the short-term impact of the coronavirus will be counterbalanced by effective and swift mobilisation of resources for timely completion of the CPEC,” she said. The work for the completion of the project is in progress on a fast pace, CPEC Authority Chairman Lt-Gen (retd) Asim Saleem Bajwa told a group of journalists on Wednesday. "There is no political hindrance in its way. The project is Pakistan's future as well as a tangible reality and no compromise will be made on it," Bajwa said. Pakistan takes decisions in its interest and there should be no doubt that the CPEC project "is in the best interest of the country" and "no external pressure will be accepted", the Express Tribune quoted Bajwa as saying. India has objected to the CPEC -- a planned network of roads, railways and energy projects linking China's Xinjiang province with Pakistan's Gwadar Port -- as it is being laid through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). The US has also been critical of the ambitious infrastructure project for being non-transparent. It has said that firms blacklisted by the World Bank have got contracts, which will increase Pakistan's debt burden. Cash-strapped Pakistan, which is grappling with the economic fallout triggered by the coronavirus crisis, has approached several multilateral donors for additional funds to fight the pandemic and its economic implications. The COVID-19 cases in the country have crossed 24,000, while the death toll has jumped to 564. Last month, Pakistan received an emergency loan of USD 1.39 billion from the International Monetary Fund to boost its foreign exchange reserves. This fund was in addition to the USD 6 billion bailout package that Islamabad had signed with the global money lender in July last year to stave off a balance of payment crisis. The World Bank has earlier approved USD 1 billion and the Asian Development Bank USD 1.5 billion for Pakistan to keep its economy afloat. During his interaction with the journalists, Bajwa said the working plan of both the routes from Khunjrab to Gwadar has been completed and the remaining link routes will be added into the plan in the next few months. "The second phase of this multibillion-dollar project is crucial for the development of the country and construction work will soon be started," said Bajwa, who is also the Special Assistant to Prime Minister on Information. Gwadar's development projects have been included in the second phase. Describing the projects in the second phase of the CPEC, Bajwa said, "Special emphasis is on agriculture, industries, trade, and science and technology sectors." He said the highest priority was to make functional the economic zones in four provinces -- Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab, Sindh and Balochistan. Bajwa served as the head of the army's media wing when General Raheel Sharif was the army chief. He was appointed as head of the CPEC Authority last year and given additional portfolio of Special Assistant to Prime Minister on Information last month to help improve government ties with media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-goes-ahead-with-cpec-amid-mounting-debts-further-economic-fallout-due-to-covid-19-834837.html
07-05-2020||National||India stands strongly with those in need in these difficult times, says PM Modi on COVID fight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that while India is making every effort to save the life of every citizen from coronavirus, it is also taking its global obligations during the pandemic very seriously. Speaking at a virtual global Buddha Purnima event, Modi said, "People world over working selflessly for others in these difficult times are praiseworthy." "While India is making every effort to save the life of every Indian today, it is also taking its global obligations equally seriously. India is standing strong and selflessly in these difficult times with those facing trouble in India or abroad," he said. The prime minister also asserted that India's growth will always be aiding global growth. Buddha Purnima celebrations this year are being held virtually due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The event has been organised in the honour of coronavirus victims and frontline warriors. "For us, this time of crisis is the time for extending help to those that need it. That is why countries across the world have looked towards India for help during this crisis and we too have reached out to them," he said.  The prime minister further said that the teachings of Buddha stated that human beings should constantly strive to overcome difficult situations and urged everyone to work together during this pandemic. "The goals and standards of our success change with time, but we need to keep in mind is that our work should be done with a sense of compassion and service for mankind," he said. The Ministry of Culture, in collaboration with the International Buddhist Confederation (IBC), a global Buddhist umbrella organisation, organised the virtual prayer event with the participation of all the supreme heads of the Buddhist Sanghas from around the world. On the occasion, prayer ceremonies were streamed live from the Sacred Garden Lumbini (Nepal), Mahabodhi Temple (Bodhgaya, India); Mulgandha Kuti Vihara, Sarnath; Parinirvana Stupa, Kushinagar; Pirith Chanting from Ruwanweli Maha Seya in the sacred and historic Anuradhapura stupa premises, Sri Lanka; Boudhanath, Swayambhu, Namo Stupa, Nepal, apart from other popular Buddhist sites. "Times have changed, conditions have changed, systems of society have changed, but the message of Lord Buddha has been constantly flowing in our lives. This is possible only because Buddha is not just a name but also a sacred thought. An idea that beats in the heart of every human being, guides humanity," he said. The PM also said that the online streaming of worship programs being held everywhere is in itself is an amazing experience. He also congratulated the organisers of the event for holding this year's program with a prayer for those fighting the coronavirus crisis. ¨Buddha is the one who is devoted to perseverance, self-sacrificing, and spreading joy all over the world. And look at the good fortune of all of us, at this time we are seeing many people around us, who serve others, treat a patient, feed a poor person, clean a hospital, to maintain law and order on a road, they all working round the clock. In India, outside India, every such person deserves a salute, a tribute," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-stands-strongly-with-those-in-need-in-these-difficult-times-says-pm-modi-on-covid-fight-834839.html
07-05-2020||National||Doubling rate of coronavirus cases in Delhi is 11 days at present: Satyendar Jain||The doubling rate of coronavirus cases in the national capital at present is 11 days, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. In a statement issued by the Delhi government, he was also quoted as saying that "compared to the western countries, the situation in India is much better". "In Delhi, right now we have 3,925 active cases (till Wednesday) and only 84 patients are in ICU. We should not look into the cases in terms of absolute numbers but we should calculate the rate of growth with respect to the base value," he said. "The rate of growth of COVID-19 cases in Delhi was around 8 per cent yesterday, earlier the rate was 20 per cent, then it became 15 per cent and now it has become 12 per cent," Jain said. The health minister also said that the doubling rate of coronavirus cases in Delhi is 11 days at present.  There are 5,532 positive COVID-19 cases in Delhi and 12 patients are currently on ventilators. On Wednesday, 428 fresh cases were reported in Delhi. However, the Delhi health minister said the situation is under control here. "We have to be very careful as we may have to live with coronavirus for a certain period as it may stay for a longer period of time. We have to follow all rules, use masks and maintain social distancing all the time," he said. The Delhi government is monitoring the situation round-the-clock to ensure that the virus does not spread further. Also, for the people belonging to Tablighi Jamaat, whoever has recovered and spent the designated time in quarantine, can go to their respective states as per the guidelines. If any police investigation is going on against anyone then the police will take care of such issues, Jain said. He said liquor shops have been opened as per rules and the situation will be under control in two-three days. "Also, we are in constant touch with all the states regarding sending the migrant labourers and stranded people to their respective states, and certain states have also taken a number of steps to bring back their labourers. We have shared the list of people with respective states and today a train with stranded people will leave for Madhya Pradesh," he said. The Delhi government is working proactively to make sure all the beneficiaries across the city get their ration regularly, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doubling-rate-of-coronavirus-cases-in-delhi-is-11-days-at-present-satyendar-jain-834841.html
07-05-2020||National||India wants peace-process to ensure rights of Sikhs, Hindus in Afghanistan||India on Thursday conveyed to the United States that it wanted the ongoing peace initiative in Afghanistan to ensure the protection of rights of all sections of Afghans, including the Hindus and Sikhs. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a meeting with the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, who arrived in New Delhi on Thursday. Khalilzad was accompanied by Lisa Curtis, Senior Director in the US National Security Council, and the US Ambassador to India, Ken Juster. He also had a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval. Jaishankar and Doval conveyed to Khalilzad India's “continued support for strengthening peace, security, unity, democratic and inclusive polity and protection of rights of all sections of the Afghan society, including Afghan Hindus and Sikhs”, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Khalilzad provided Jaishankar and Doval an update on the US peace and reconciliation efforts in Afghanistan. “The US side recognized India's constructive contribution in economic development, reconstruction, and humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan. They laid importance to India's crucial and continuing role in sustainable peace, security and stability in Afghanistan,” the MEA stated. External Affairs Minister and National Security Advisor conveyed India’s “deep concern” at the upsurge in violence and its support to call for an immediate ceasefire and need to assist the people of Afghanistan in dealing with coronavirus pandemic. India remains engaged in extending humanitarian food and medical supplies to Afghanistan to deal with the situation created by a coronavirus, according to the MEA. Jaishankar and Doval also tacitly warned Khalilzad about the role of Pakistan and emphasized that putting an end to terrorist safe havens and sanctuaries was necessary for enduring and sustainable peace and stability in Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-wants-peace-process-to-ensure-rights-of-sikhs-hindus-in-afghanistan-834847.html
07-05-2020||National||COVID-19: IIM-Shillong turns in to Corona care centre in Meghalaya||The premier Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Shillong has been turned into one of the Corona care centres in Meghalaya as the Northeastern state gears up for quarantine of those coming back from rest of the country. Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma opened the centre on Thursday, where 250 people requiring institutional care could be housed. "In this new corona care centre, 250 persons of category A and B (mild) of COVID-19 (if we report any) will be housed for necessary care and medical support. Due to the support by IIM authorities, we managed to renovate it as per our requirement to take care of the COVID-19 patients. At least 70 support staffs belonging to different departments have been engaged to provide all necessary support and care," Sangma said. The hostel rooms have been refurbished to house the positive persons in separate beds. One floor has been kept for the doctors, nurses, support staff and other officials while the patients will be kept in separate floors. A police unit has also been stationed for 24 hours duty at the Corona Care Centre, said a statement. Set up in 2007, IIM Shillong offers post-graduate, doctoral and executive programmes in management in education and management development programmes. It is the seventh IIM in the country.  Meghalaya has reported 12 COVID-19 positive cases so far. One of them died and 10 others have been discharged after recovery. But the state fears that the number could go up after those living in rest of the country returns after the relaxation of the lockdown norms or withdrawal of the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-iim-shillong-turns-in-to-corona-care-centre-in-meghalaya-834849.html
07-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Two Air India Express flights from UAE carrying 354 Indian nationals take off||Two special flights from the UAE carrying a total of 354 Indian nationals, including nine infants, left for Kerala on Thursday, as India began its biggest ever repatriation exercise to bring back its citizens stranded abroad amidst the coronavirus-induced travel restrictions. The first Air India Express flight carrying 177 passengers from Abu Dhabi to Kochi took off at 5.07 pm (local time). Few minutes later, the Dubai-Kozhikode flight took off at 5.46 pm (local time) as part of the massive repatriation exercise named 'Vande Bharat Mission.' "#VandeBharatMission begins! The first flight with 177 passengers takes off from Abu Dhabi to Kochi. #TeamIndia will continue with its tireless efforts to bring Indians home," Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava tweeted. Passengers slected by the Indian missions started arriving at the Abu Dhabi and Dubai airports as early as 9.30 am on Thursday. Indian Ambassador to the UAE Pavan Kapoor was seen enquiring about their wellbeing from some of the passengers undergoing medical screening at the Abu Dhabi airport. "Great to see the #VandeBharatMission Abu Dhabi Kochi special flight IX452 taking off from the @AUH. Thanks all for cooperation and support for making it possible," the Indian Embassy in Abu Dhabi tweeted. "Kudos to all the passengers for waiting patiently for their turn for medical screening and many thanks to all the frontline health workers and airport staff for extending full support," it said earlier. Captain Rizvin Nasser, 26, an alumnus of the Sharjah Indian School, is the co-pilot of flight IX452 to Kochi. Minutes after the departure of the first flight, India’s second repatriation flight from the UAE to Kozhikode also took off. "Air India Express Flight left for Kozhikode with 177 passengers on boardwith last passenger Ajith was added to attend final rites of her mother after one passenger dropped out due to immigration issue. A big satisfaction to serve all," the Consulate General of India in Dubai tweeted. Ajith Pullanikotti, an IT professional, made it to the flight at the last minute to be able to attend the last rites of his mother who died two days ago. He was the only son. "I have been trying to go for weeks so that I could be by my mother's side. Unfortunately, she had to breathe her last without me being next to her. I really hope I can make it today,” Ajith told Khaleej Times. There are no suspected COVID-19 cases among the first batch of passengers being repatriated on Thursday. "All of them have cleared the tests,” Consul General of India in Dubai Vipul was quoted as saying by the Gulf News. He said the criteria of passengers' selection included medical cases, loss of jobs, pregnant women and senior citizens. Those with complications and financial issues were also picked for the first flight. The last two rows of seats in both the flights are not occupied. In case of any health issues, passengers can use them. On Monday, the Indian government announced plans to begin a phased repatriation of its citizens stranded abroad from May 7. The government also said that Air India will operate 64 flights from May 7 to May 13 to bring back around 15,000 Indian nationals stranded abroad due to the lockdown. Short-listing the first passengers from among a database of more than 200,000 applicants, who include around 6,500 pregnant women, has been a mammoth task which posed several challenges for the missions, Neeraj Agrawal, Consul, Press, Information and Culture at the Indian Consulate in Dubai told the Gulf News. The Indian missions in the UAE finalised the list of passengers, who were chosen based on the compelling reasons they submitted while registering their names. The Indian Consulate had appealed to passengers not to overcrowd the airport, maintain social distancing and follow all necessary precautions stipulated by the authorities. The passengers included 18 pregnant women, five infants and 12 senior citizens and three people including identical twin brothers Jackson and Benson Andrews who have been stranded at the Dubai Airport for 50 days. The tired and homesick, the 30-year-old brothers, Jackson and Benson Andrews, have been stranded inside the Dubai International Airport's terminal 3 since March 19 while they were returning from Lisbon, Portugal. They were among the 19 Indians who were stuck inside the airport for over a month. Suresh Kandampully Bhaskaran came to see off his eight-month pregnant wife and two-year-old daughter. "My wife will be back after few months. This is just a temporary phase just like the UAE is seeing. My family will be back here with new bundle of joy. I am working here for 14 years now. I have a stable job...," Suresh said. From the UAE, at least 200,000 Indians have registered on the web portal collecting data of persons wishing to return home. The Air India crew members on board the repatriation flights were donning the full range of personal protective equipment. The Indian expatriate community of approximately 3.42 million is reportedly the largest ethnic community in the UAE constituting roughly about 30 per cent of the country's population, according to information available on the Indian Embassy website. India imposed a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus in the country, grounding all international flights since mid-March. Under the repatriation plan, the government will be facilitating the return of Indian nationals stranded abroad on compelling grounds in a phased manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-two-air-india-express-flights-from-uae-carrying-354-indian-nationals-take-off-834850.html
07-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Assam start tests of suspected cases in 25,000 villages||Assam has started a drive to collect samples of all having fever and respiratory problems in 25,000 villages as part of its efforts to contain the community-level spread of coronavirus.  The state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday said a team comprising a doctor, nurses, paramedics and laboratory technicians will visit every village in the next 25-days and collect samples for the test of all suffering from any influenza-like disease and respiratory problems. "They will screen all such people at the community level--be it for Malaria, Japanese Encephalitis or any other respiratory problem. They will also collect swab samples of those showing preliminary symptoms of COVID-19. This will help us increase the number of tests and thereby check further spread of Coronavirus," Sarma said. Assam reported 45 COVID-19 positive cases so far of which three were reported in the last two days. So far 34 such persons have been discharged after recovery and 11 are still in the hospital. One person succumbed to COVID-19. The state has tested 14,000 samples so far.  Sarma said the state government also decided to keep all those coming back from 'Red Zones' in rest of the country in institutional quarantine even if they are asymptomatic as one such person tested COVID-19 positive on Wednesday. The person had returned in a bus along with 44 others from Ajmer in Rajasthan, a COVID-19 'Red Zone.' Rs. 500 fine for not wearing mask Sarma said the state police would impose a fine of Rs. 500 from all found not wearing a mask or not properly using a mask in public places. "It is not necessary that you have to buy a mask. Even they can use the towel and cover their nose and mouth while moving out of their home. We will issue a notification for fines under the Epidemic Disease Act but people must understand and assist in our fight against Coronavirus," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-assam-start-tests-of-suspected-cases-in-25000-villages-834851.html
07-05-2020||National||Vizag chemical plant licence may get revoked if it is found flouting environmental norms: Official||The licence of the Vishakhapatnam chemical plant may get revoked if it is found flouting environmental norms, an environment ministry official said on Thursday on the gas leak incident that claimed 11 lives and impacted about 1000 people. The official said the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) is looking into the matter and will soon come out with a report. "The NDMA is investigating the matter. The report should be out soon. If the plant is found flouting environment safety norms, we will cancel its licence. It is premature to say anything else right now," the official told PTI. Gas leaked from the chemical plant in Visakhapatnam in the early hours of Thursday and quickly spread to villages in a five-kilometre radius. Many collapsed to the ground as they tried to escape the toxic vapours. Hours after the styrene gas leak around 2.30 am from the multinational L G Polymers Plant at R R Venkatapuram village near here, scores of people could be seen lying unconscious on sidewalks, near ditches and on the road, raising fears of a major industrial disaster.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vizag-chemical-plant-licence-may-get-revoked-if-it-is-found-flouting-environmental-norms-official-834855.html
07-05-2020||National||Kejriwal announces Rs 1 crore ex-gratia for constable who died of COVID-19||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday condoled the death of a Delhi Police constable due to coronavirus and said his family will be provided with an ex-gratia of Rs one crore. "Amit ji did not care for his life and kept serving us Delhi people. He got infected with corona and passed away. I pay homage to his sacrifice on behalf of all Delhi people. An ex-gratia of Rs one crore will be given to his family," Kejriwal said in a tweet. Delhi government has declared an ex-gratia of Rs one crore in case of death of any of its employees discharging duties at the frontline of fight against COVID-19.  Family of the deceased constable will be the first to receive the honorarium of the government scheme during the pandemic. Delhi BJP MP from East Delhi Gautam Gambhir said he will take care of the constable's minor son as his own. The Gautam Gambhir Foundation will take care of complete education of Amit's son, he said. "The administration failed him. The system failed him. Delhi failed him. We can't bring Constable Amit back, but I assure that I will look after his child like my own. GGF will take care of his complete education," Gambhir said in a tweet.  The 31-year-old constable, who hailed from Sonipat, was posted at Bharat Nagar Police Station in northwest Delhi, police said. On Tuesday evening, when the constable reported that he was feeling uncomfortable, he was immediately taken to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital where he was declared brought dead, said a senior Delhi police officer. The report from RML hospital is awaited but the result from the test facility in Ashok Vihar confirmed that he was coronavirus positive, he said. The constable is survived by his wife and a three-year-old son, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kejriwal-announces-rs-1-crore-ex-gratia-for-constable-who-died-of-covid-19-834868.html
07-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Pregnant women, senior citizens, ailing, jobless fly back from UAE to Kerala||M S Sanila had a mask covering her face, yet the glint in her eyes was unmissable as the pregnant lady was waiting for her turn at the Dubai International Airport to board the Air India Express aircraft and return to Kozhikode on Thursday. She is in the advanced stage of her pregnancy and has been stranded in Dubai. She would not have been allowed to fly home if just one more week had passed. “Thank you so much,” Sanila says in a video clip the Consulate General of India (CGI) in Dubai posted on Twitter — just before the Air India Express aircraft with her and 176 others took off for Kozhikode. Another aircraft of the national carrier with almost an equal number of returnees onboard also departed from Abu Dhabi for Kochi around the same time. The departure of the flights from the two cities in the UAE on Thursday marked the commencement of the “Vande Bharat Mission”, which the Centre embarked upon to facilitate the repatriation of the citizens stranded abroad due to travel and transport curbs enforced around the world in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The first week of the “Vande Bharat Mission” will see nearly 14800 Indians being repatriated from 12 countries, including United States, United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Singapore, onboard 64 special flights operated by Air India and Air India Express till May 13. As many as 10 flights are planned to bring back home nearly 2000 Indians stranded in the UAE alone during the first week and they will arrive not only to Kochi and Kozhikode, but also to Chennai, Lucknow, Hyderabad, Delhi and Amritsar. Nearly 200,000 Indians living in the UAE registered with the CGI Dubai and the Embassy of India in Abu Dhabi expressing keenness to return to India.  The launch of the repatriation mission came just in the nick of time for Sanila. But many others like her will have to wait for their turn. “Please help me. Even I am 7 months pregnant and I have 2 (two) weeks left. I can’t travel after May 20. Please. I want to go back to Mumbai. Please,” tweeted Krishna, one of nearly 6500 pregnant women currently stranded in the UAE and keen to return to India. The government is prioritizing the ones who need to return urgently for compelling reasons, like deportation from the foreign countries, job loss, expiry of short-term visas, old age, medical emergency, pregnancy and death in the family. A number of blue-collar workers, who lost jobs in Dubai and Abu Dhabi in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, were among the returnees on Thursday, although shelling out Rs 14000 for the airfare was difficult for many of them. Yet, the ones, who are yet to get calls from Air India to book tickets, poured out their desperation on Twitter. “Please help me, evacuate me to Srinagar, India. My family is suffering there without me. Please help me, evacuate me. I am in depression, facing anxiety. Please help me, evacuate me please,” Muzaffar Ahmed Bhat exhorted in a tweet to India’s envoy to UAE, Pawan Kapoor, who, himself, was present at the Abu Dhabi airport to see off the first batch of returnees.  “What about us? We have also lost our jobs and want to go back to India from Dubai. (We) also register on the link provided (by the CGI Dubai), but still no response,” Lokesh Singh Bais posted on Twitter. “I have also lost the job since more than a month now, I am texting you here and through email, nobody is listening,” Ubaid Reyaj posted, replying to a tweet by CGI Dubai. The UAE health authorities conducted rapid antibody tests on all returnees at the airports and only the ones found Covid-19 negative were allowed to board the aircraft. All of them will be quarantined for at least 14 days immediately after arrival at Kozhikode and Kochi airports. Apart from airfare, they all will have to pay for accommodation at the quarantine facilities too.   Ajith was the last to board the flight from Dubai to Kozhikode on Thursday, as a seat was vacated at the last moment. He couldn’t be with his mother when she breathed his last recently, but can at least now hope to return home after a fortnight at the quarantine facility and finally perform her last rites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-pregnant-women-senior-citizens-ailing-jobless-fly-back-from-uae-to-kerala-834873.html
07-05-2020||National||Happy faces as over 1,000 migrant labourers leave for Madhya Pradesh in first special train from Delhi||Carrying their belongings in bags of all shapes and sizes, over 1,000 migrant workers left for their homes in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday in the first Shramik Special train to leave the national capital, their happiness visible even through the face masks they wore to protect themselves from the coronavirus. Clapping and waiving goodbyes to the railway and security personnel at the platform, many of the migrant workers, who were ferried to the railway station in over 70 buses arranged by the Delhi government, said they would be back when things got back to normal. "I was staying at a shelter home in Roopnagar for the last eight days. I polish marble slabs for a living. I will come back when things get back to normal," said Balram Kumar, one of the outbound migrants. Hours before the arrival of the migrants, the road leading to the New Delhi Railway Station was barricaded. After they alighted from the buses, their names were cross-checked by officials. One of them was not allowed to board the train as he did not come in any of the buses, but walked 20 kms from South Delhi to reach the station. Each bus, which picked up the migrants from shelter homes, carried not more than 20 people each, keeping in mind the social-distancing measures in place due to the coronavirus crisis. After alighting from the buses, the passengers stood in circular rings some feet apart from each other outside the station in accordance with social-distancing norms. They were allowed in the station in batches and railway officials guided them to the train. "They were very happy and they waived us goodbye and we clapped for them," an official said. On the platform also, authorities had marked white circular rings for the passengers to stand at a safe distance from each other. "First train carrying 1050 migrants from Delhi left for Chattarpur, MP, today at 8 pm. A series of such trains would be carrying migrants to different parts of India in the coming days," Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot tweeted, with a video of the train leaving the station. The video shows passengers and security personnel waiving at each other and clapping. Thousands of migrant labourers across the country were stranded after the nationwide lockdown was announced due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Railways started the migrant special services from May 1 and has since then operated 171 such trains. However, for 32-year-old Hazari Lal Patel, the wait to meet his three-year-old son has now become longer. "I wanted to go to Khajurao in Madhya Pradesh. I have a valid ticket but the police didn't allow me to go inside. I live in Chhatarpur in south Delhi from last five to six years and working as a data entry man in a private organisation. Police said that I didn't come by the buses and asked me go back. Now, I am going back to my home in Chhatarpur," said Patel, who has lost his job and has no money left. He had walked from South Delhi to the station which is around 20 km.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/happy-faces-as-over-1000-migrant-labourers-leave-for-madhya-pradesh-in-first-special-train-from-delhi-834878.html
07-05-2020||National||Aarogya Setu app to be available on JioPhones soon: Sources||A version of Aarogya Setu will soon be available to 10 crore users of JioPhone, and testing of the solution is currently underway, a senior government official said. Aarogya Setu is currently available on iOS and Android, and nearly 9 crore users have already downloaded the app, which has now been made mandatory for government and private sector employees, as part of nationwide efforts to combat the spread of coronavirus. The mobile application helps users identify whether they are at risk of COVID-19. It also provides people with important information, including ways to avoid coronavirus and its symptoms.  The new solution in the making will work on JioPhone, which supports KaiOS operating system, the official said. The official further said the integration is on, and tests are being conducted. "Soon, Aarogya Setu will be available on 10 crore JioPhones too...This will be available on Jio store and JioPhone users will be able to download the same," the official said. An e-mail sent to Reliance Jio did not elicit a response. The mobile application, Aarogya Setu, is used by the government for contact-tracing and disseminating medical advisories to users in order to contain the spread of COVID-19. The Union home ministry has also said the mobile app will be a must for people living in COVID-19 containment zones.  On Wednesday, Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said Aarogya Setu is "secure" and there was no privacy breach in it, rejecting charges that it was a "sophisticated surveillance system" that was leveraged to track citizens without their consent. The 'Aarogy Setu Interactive Voice Response System' has now also been implemented to include citizens with feature phones and landline connections under the ambit of the 'Aarogya Setu' mobile application. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been urging people to download the Aarogya Setu app, saying it is a fantastic use of technology to combat coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aarogya-setu-app-to-be-available-on-jiophones-soon-sources-834888.html
07-05-2020||National||PM Modi, European Council president discuss COVID-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President of the European Council Charles Michel discussed on Thursday the situation arising out of the coronavirus outbreak and recognised the importance of regional and global coordination to effectively address the health and economic impact of the pandemic. The two leaders also discussed the situation of and responses to the COVID-19 pandemic in India and the European Union. "The India-EU partnership has tremendous potential in many areas, including scientific research and innovation," the prime minister wrote on Twitter. According to an official statement, they appreciated mutual cooperation extended in the face of the pandemic, including for ensuring supplies of essential pharmaceutical products. "The leaders recognised the importance of regional and global coordination to effectively address the health and economic impact of COVID-19," it said. They reaffirmed their commitment to strengthening the India-EU strategic partnership. The two leaders agreed that their officials would work together to prepare a substantive agenda for the next India-EU Summit meeting. The 15th annual India-EU Summit, planned for March in Brussels, was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The leaders decided to remain in touch on the evolving dimensions of the crisis as well as the post-coronavirus context, the statement said. "Had an excellent discussion with @eucopresident H.E. Charles Michel on how India and Europe can cooperate during the COVID-19 crisis for protecting global health and contributing to global economic recovery," Modi said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-european-council-president-discuss-covid-19-pandemic-834898.html
07-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus lockdown: Chidambaram questions govt on migrants' plight||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday asked the government why stranded migrant workers continued to walk on highways from one state to another and also about its promise of transporting them to their homes in buses or trains. He also alleged that the pandemic has made every minister and official unaccountable. "I see images on TV of people walking on the highways from one state to another state. Why is government totally oblivious to and uncaring of their plight?  "What happened to the promise that the migrant workers will be transported by bus and train? Why are these people still walking to their home states," he asked in a series of tweets. The former Union minister also said that no one in the government answered any questions asked by the opposition or by the people. "The pandemic has made every minister and official unaccountable," he said. His tweets referred to groups of migrants including pregnant women and children walking for many kilometres on highways to reach their homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-chidambaram-questions-govt-on-migrants-plight-834500.html
07-05-2020||National Politics||Congress dismisses speculation about some of its leaders looking to join BJP||The Congress on Thursday dismissed speculation that some of its leaders were in touch with the BJP and would join the saffron outfit soon. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, while rejecting such reports, said they are aimed at spreading canards to tarnish reputations. "These sources of information aimed at spreading canards to tarnish reputations. We reject them with the contempt they deserve," he said on Twitter. He was responding to a report about a senior Congress leader and a noted lawyer, besides some young leaders switching sides. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi put out a message on his Twitter handle that read, "For all those who GOSSIP about me: Thanks for making me the centre of your world (sic)". "Gossip is the Devil's Radio, so don't be his DJ (sic)", another message put out by him read. Singhvi also retweeted Surjewala's tweet rejecting speculation about some Congress leaders quitting the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-dismisses-speculation-about-some-of-its-leaders-looking-to-join-bjp-834864.html
07-05-2020||National Politics||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu speaks to spiritual leaders||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday reached out to prominent spiritual leaders and social workers to enquire about their well-being amid the coronavirus lockdown. He also discussed about the important role spiritual leaders can play in guiding and motivating people in these challenging times, a tweet from the Vice President Secretariat said. The Vice President said the leaders can also encourage people to help the needy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-speaks-to-spiritual-leaders-834866.html
07-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown: Parliament exploring whether virtual meetings of committees possible||Amid demands for convening Parliamentary Standing Committees through video conference during Covid-19 lockdown, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday asked Secretaries General of both the Lower and Upper Houses to submit a report on the possibilities of virtual meetings and time needed to enable secure technology platforms. Naidu and Birla held a meeting during which this decision was taken. Several chairmen of Parliamentary Standing Committees had been demanding that the meetings should be held through video conference but it was not allowed so far, following concerns over maintaining the confidentiality of the proceedings. During the meeting, both Naidu and Birla discussed the feasibility of holding meetings of various Committees of Parliament at the earliest in the prevailing situation and in the context of restrictions on travel across the country.   They felt that if the situation does not allow regular conventional meetings of the Committees in the near future, alternative means of enabling such meetings may be explored, officials said. Both directed the Secretaries General of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha to examine in detail the pros and cons of Parliamentary Committees holding meetings by video conferencing by taking into considerations the present Rules of Business of both the Houses of Parliament, the practices and experiences of various countries in respect of such virtual meetings and the time required to enable secure technology platforms required for such mode of meetings. The report of the two top officials of Parliament will form the basis for a considered decision by both the Presiding Officers in the matter, officials said. Earlier, Standing Committee Chairmen Anand Sharma (Home), Shashi Tharoor (Information Technology) and Bhartruhari Mahtab (Labour) have sought meetings of committees through video conference but both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha Secretariats have rejected their demand. In a recent letter, Mahtab told the Lok Sabha Speaker that at least Parliaments in 23 countries have been conducting virtual meetings despite being under Covid-19 lockdown. Naidu too has earlier indicated that he would take a decision on holding meetings of Standing Committees only after May 17, when the current lockdown is scheduled to end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-parliament-exploring-whether-virtual-meetings-of-committees-possible-834895.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police Constable dies due to COVID-19, first death in force||A 31-year-old Constable, who died after falling sick, has become the first victim of COVID-19 in Delhi Police. Amit Kumar, who hailed from Sonepat in Haryana, was posted in north-west Delhi's Bharat Nagar Police Station and was taken to a nearby hospital after he fell sick on Tuesday. He was first taken to Deep Chand Bandhu hospital and given medication. Later Tuesday evening, he again felt uncomfortable and taken to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital where he was declared brought dead.  Officials said Kumar had showed no symptoms till Monday evening but later he developed fever and breathing trouble. His sample, which was taken before his death, was sent for testing and the results confirmed the virus infection. He is survived by his wife and a three-year-old son. "The sudden demise of Constable Amit Kumar from PS Bharat Nagar has saddened the police fraternity. We stand by his family in this hour of grief and pray to the Almighty to provide strength to bear this loss. All assistance to his family will be provided," Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava said on Twitter. Police personnel who came in contact with the constable have been home quarantined. With this, at least 65 people have died in the national capital due to COVID-19 and this is the first death in Delhi Police. Around 25 personnel in Delhi Police has so far tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-constable-dies-due-to-covid-19-first-death-in-force-834445.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi records 428 COVID-19 cases, highest for a single day||Delhi on Wednesday recorded 428 COVID-19 cases, the highest for a single day, on Wednesday as the total number rose to 5,532. This month alone, the capital has reported 2,017 cases, which is 36.46% of the total cases. The first case in Delhi was reported on March 2. The previous record for the highest number of cases for a single day was on May 3 when the capital recorded 427 cases.  On May 1, Delhi had reported 223 cases which saw an increase to 386 on May 2. The capital reported 349 cases on May 4 and 206 cases on May 5. One death was recorded during the day, taking the toll to 65 while 74 were discharged with the total rising to 1542. According to medical bulletin, 3925 people are still in hospitals undergoing treatment. It also said Delhi has tested 71,934 samples for COVID-19 till May 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-428-covid-19-cases-highest-for-a-single-day-834453.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Can travel for treatment but can't return, cancer patient told; Rajasthan CMO intervenes||A cancer patient in Rajasthan’s Jalore was left frustrated after being issued a permit that allowed him to travel to Ahmedabad for treatment while stating that he “cannot come back”. The matter was sorted out after the patient’s family approached the Chief Minister’s Office. The patient needed to travel amid the coronavirus lockdown from Jalore’s Bhinmal to Ahmedabad, a distance of about 250 km, for chemotherapy. Bhinmal SDM Avdhesh Meena later said the patient was initially given a one-way pass since the local administration was following a “standard format”. The one-way permit issued by the SDM was valid for nine hours, from 5 am to 2 pm, on May 5. The patient’s family had applied for the permission with treatment documents. The SDM issued the pass on a format having an instruction at the bottom of the letter that “the permission is to go only and the traveller cannot come back. A case shall be registered under Section 188 of the IPC if the order is violated". The reason of travel was mentioned by hand as “for regular treatment and check-up of cancer”. After the matter reached Chief Minister's Office in Jaipur, the district collector was directed to get the pass revised immediately, after which the required rectifications were made and a note was added that the travellers will have to go under 28-day home quarantine after they come back. The earlier condition was waived and the patient was allowed to return with a revised pass validity of two days. The SDM said, “The pass was revised on the same day. Since it was on a standard format, the instruction was there.”  Meanwhile, Jalore's Pravasi Rajasthani Friends Foundation president Shrawan Singh Rathore, who raised the issue with the CMO on behalf of the patient's family, demanded action against the officer on humanitarian grounds. “The family was already suffering and the officer showed insensitivity in dealing with the matter. They were very much anguished over the matter. I apprised the Chief Minister's Office and after the intervention of senior officers, the pass was revised,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-can-travel-for-treatment-but-cant-return-cancer-patient-told-rajasthan-cmo-intervenes-834482.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Reyaz Naikoo: From a maths teacher to a calculative Hizbul militant||From a maths teacher to a calculative militant, Reyaz Naikoo had a charmed existence as a terrorist for eight years before he was killed by security forces on Wednesday in a gunbattle lasting five hours. Life came to full circle for the 35-year-old bespectacled chief of the banned Hizbul Mujahideen terror outfit as he was gunned down at the same village from where he had scripted his journey in militancy in 2012. Naikoo escaped the security dragnet several times before he lost the battle in his native village Beighpora, 40 kms from here, on Wednesday afternoon. His first 'daily diary' entry in police records at Awantipora, which is part of Pulwama district of South Kashmir, dates back to June 6, 2012, two weeks after he had disappeared from his home at Beighpora village. From teaching maths, a subject he loved, at a private school to joining the militancy, Naikoo, who had 11 cases against him and carried a cash reward of Rs 12 lakh, was a loner as he seldom trusted anyone within his outfit, says a senior police officer. Naikoo, who was tech savvy, kept himself away from limelight and allowed Burhan Wani to take the centre stage after 2014. Post Wani's elimination, he kept himself away from the internal politics of the terror group and allowed Sabzar Ahmed and later Zakir Musa to take over the reigns of the outfit. While Sabzar was neutralised within few weeks after Wani's death in July 2016, Musa split from the Hizbul Mujahideen group and formed his own Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind, an affiliate of Al-Qaeda, in 2017, leaving a vacuum in the terror group which was filled by Naikoo. Naikoo was calculative in his operation and his next move was only known to him. Being tech savvy, he never left any electronic trail about his movement, said the police official who had been tracking him for many months. The son of a farmer, Naikoo, completed his graduation from Government Degree College in Pulwama and started teaching in a private school before he was detained by security forces during the unrest of 2010 and released in 2012. Naikoo was a changed man and after his release and in third week of May 2012, he left his home and never returned there, till he shot into prominence in 2016 when he made a dramatic appearance at the funeral of a terrorist in Shopian carrying a Kalashnikov rifles. There, he had fired several shots in the air, thus starting a trend of giving gun salute to militants who were killed in encounters with security forces. His movements were generally noticed in Dogripora, Brawbandia, Banderpora, Litter, Chakoora and Chandgam, Renzipora along the axis of Awantipora to Shopian in South Kashmir. Naikoo gave anxious moments to police in September 2018 when he picked up 11 relatives of police officers after his father was detained by the police. He was subsequently released and so were the hostages, leaving the police officials red faced. Naikoo has been often been involved in promoting Pakistani propaganda and has released many videos and audios threatening policemen, asking them to stay away from anti-militancy operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/reyaz-naikoo-from-a-maths-teacher-to-a-calculative-hizbul-militant-834486.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Scrapping Darbar Move would increase gab between Jammu, Kashmir: National Conference||The National Conference on Wednesday cautioned the government against scrapping the biannual Darbar Move, shifting of the administrative capital between Jammu and Srinagar, saying it would increase the gap between the two culturally diverse regions. "The practice of moving the secretariat to and fro between Jammu and Srinagar is a testimony to our complex history and tradition. Seeing it through the prism of only financial implications is erroneous," NC spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said in a statement here. He said it is needless to mention how the practice has done a great service towards fostering the lasting relationship between the people of Jammu and Kashmir divisions. "The dynamic concept behind the move has been to help make strong cultural contacts among various sections of the people of J-K," he said. The Jammu and Kashmir High Court on Tuesday said the practice requires to be rationalised by minimising the movement of employees and physical assets. In a 93-page judgement, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal directed the Centre and the UT administration to place the issues raised in the judgement before the competent authorities for consideration. "Keeping in view the public interest and to enable continuous efficient governance, it is essential that the movement of employees and physical assets be minimized. Rationalisation of the Darbar Move is urgently required," the bench said. The court said "the Darbar Move results in wastage of tremendous amount of time, efforts and energy on an inefficient and unnecessary activity like packing of records". The NC spokesperson said J&K is not the only exception to have two capitals. "Recently, Andhra Pradesh has proposed to have three capital cities. Similarly, there are other places which have a multi-capital system in place. Capitals of any state or a country are not chosen whimsically. They are the nerve centres of any region which owing to their centrality, history and topography grow into centres of business, commerce and industry. So, by any yardstick, cities of Jammu and Srinagar are best suited for the job," he said. Referring to the financial implications of the move, the party said the expenditure involved in the practice can be curtailed. "At a time when digital revolution has become the order of the day and has overtaken our way of working, the excuse of difficulty in moving files from one place to another holds no ground. In the age of cloud computing and other internet technologies, the expenditure involved in the practice can be curtailed. The use of ICT can help us cut on the annual expenditure exponentially,” he said. The NC said it has a positive psychological impact on the people. "Having families to travel from Jammu to Srinagar and vice versa leaves a positive impact on people to people relation divided by geographical barriers. The ritual of moving offices has more implicit connotation to it which if overlooked can prove disastrous," he said. "The need of the hour is therefore to augment the intra-regional connections and make them stronger. Doing away with this practice will inevitably increase the gap between two regions," the NC spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scrapping-darbar-move-would-increase-gab-between-jammu-kashmir-national-conference-834492.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||After corona cess, Delhi govt earns Rs 7.65 cr from liquor sale||The Delhi government mopped up Rs 7.65 crore in revenue from liquor sale on the first day after imposition of corona cess, government officials said. The government had imposed the corona cess of 70 per cent on maximum retail price of liquor that came into effect from Tuesday. The sale of liquor was allowed by Delhi government during lockdown from Monday. "The revenue from sale of liquor was Rs 4.5 crore on Tuesday. An additional amount of Rs 3.15 crore was earned through the cess," said an official of Excise department.  Also, in view of the long queues and crowds outside liquor vends, the department has directed four government corporations to take steps like use of coupons, barricading and deployment of marshals to ensure social distancing. The department in an order to the four corporations of Delhi government-DSIIDC, DTTDC, DSCSC, DCCWS- said that it was noticed that social distancing norms were not strictly followed at some liquor shops. The Delhi government has allowed opening of 150 liquor shops operated by the four corporations.  The option of sale of liquor through home delivery is also under consideration of the government, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-corona-cess-delhi-govt-earns-rs-765-cr-from-liquor-sale-834502.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Despite coronavirus lockdown, Chhattigarh's rural economy strong, says Govt||Despite the lockdown, the rural economy of Chhattisgarh remains strong due to extensive works started under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) across the state, a government official has said. Labourers have been taking all precautions against coronavirus by wearing face masks or covering their faces with scarves, maintaining physical distance and regularly washing their hands while working on the field, he said. Chhattisgarh has so far recorded 59 COVID-19 cases. These cases have been reported from seven out of the total 28 districts of the state. "In April alone, 10.24 lakh MGNREGA job-card holder families were provided employment of 1.23 crore man-days. Wages worth Rs 548.41 crore have been paid to labourers in April for the ongoing and previous works," a state public relations official said. As per statistics released by the Union Rural Development Ministry on April 29, Chhattisgarh is leading in the country in terms of providing employment to villagers under MGNREGA during the lockdown, he said. State Panchayat and Rural Development Minister T S Singh Deo had instructed to start works extensively under MGNREGA in a bid to save the rural economy and protect livelihood of rural people while complying with precautionary protocols to check the spread of COVID-19, he said. Due to the activeness of field staff and village sarpanchs (village heads), the number of workers employed under MGNREGA increased from 57,536 on April 1 to 19,85,166 on April 30, the official said, adding that the process of payment of wages was being done immediately. "MGNREGA is not only providing wages to villagers, but also making them free of employment concerns during this period of crisis," he added. Some migrant labourers who recently returned to their native villages in the state from different parts of the country tested positive for COVID-19. Therefore, all workers under MGNREGA have been advised to strictly follow the safety protocols to protect themselves from contracting the infection, the official said. Besides, officials are regularly inspecting the workplaces to ensure protocols are strictly followed, he said. Chhattisgarh has so far reported 59 COVID-19 cases. No death due to the disease has been reported in the state. Till now, 36 patients have been discharged after recovery, according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/despite-coronavirus-lockdown-chhattigarhs-rural-economy-strong-says-govt-834557.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||App to help monitor asymptomatic COVID-19 patients at home in Madhya Pradesh||In a bid to keep an eye on asymptomatic coronavirus patients, the city civic body has improvised its already existing mobile app 'Indore 311' and added some new features to it which will also facilitate treatment of such patients at their homes, an official said. An eight-member team of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) engaged in the fight against COVID-19 here is helping the city administration in fine-tuning the app, and the new features have been added on its suggestions. Indore, which is one the worst hit by COVID-19 in the country, has so far reported a total of 1,681 cases of the disease and 81 deaths, as per official figures. "The app is already being used by lakhs of people in Indore since quite some time, but the new features added to it will be available only to the asymptomatic COVID-19 patients who have been advised by the health department to get treatment while remaining home isolation," IMA team member Dr Subodh Chaturvedi told PTI. Such patients are being provided a pulse oximeter which would help in monitoring their oxygen level and pulse rate at home, he said.   Based on a pre-loaded questionnaire on the app, the patient or his caregiver will have to daily upload information, like if he has fever over 101 degree Fahrenheit and breathing problems. The patient will also have to answer certain other questions based on common symptoms of COVID-19," Chaturvedi said. Doctors deputed at the IMA control room while constantly monitor the information provided by the patient and provide consultation accordingly. If required, the rapid response teams will shift the patient to hospital, he said. A patient or his caregiver can also press the red button available on the app to seek medical help in case of an emergency, he said. "If a patient does not follow the medical advice and steps out 100 metres away from his house, an alarm would ring at the IMA control room and the patient would be tracked through GPS and sent back home," the official said. Indore's chief medical and health officer Praveen Jadia said as per the government's new guidelines, the asymptomatic COVID-19 patients are being advised to stay in home isolation. A caregiver is also being deputed for such patient to get medicines for them. The caregiver would also monitor the health of a patient regularly and inform the health department about his condition. Based on the information, authorities would decide whether the patient needs to be hospitalised, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/app-to-help-monitor-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients-at-home-in-madhya-pradesh-834563.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Two more die of coronavirus in Rajasthan, death toll rises to 95||Rajasthan recorded two more coronavirus deaths on Thursday, while 38 people tested positive for the virus, an official said. The death toll in the state has climbed to 95. The state has 1,521 active cases now, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. The deaths were reported from Jaipur and Ajmer districts. Jaipur alone has reported 52 deaths. As many as 38 new cases, including 16 in Chittorgarh, nine in Jaipur, six in Pali, four in Dholpur, two in Kota and one in Udaipur have been reported, the health department official said. The state now has 3,355 confirmed cases of COVID-19, out of which 1,275 have been discharged from hospitals, Singh said.  Jaipur has reported the highest number of cases with 1,099 infections, followed by 812 in Jodhpur. The state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-die-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-death-toll-rises-to-95-834598.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Sporadic incidents of stonepelting in Pulwama due to Reyaz Naikoo encounter||Sporadic incidents of stone-pelting took place in Awantipora area of Pulwama district, the hometown of slain Hizbul Mujahideen chief Reyaz Naikoo, even as curfew-like restrictions were imposed in many parts of Kashmir on Thursday as a precautionary measure, officials said. Naikoo and his aide were killed in an encounter with security forces in Beighpora area of Awantipora on Wednesday, prompting authorities to snap mobile telephone and Internet services in the valley. Restrictions were also imposed in most parts of the valley, including Srinagar city, soon after the news about Naikoo's killing spread. Although the Kashmir is under the third phase of coronavirus lockdown, additional security forces have been deployed in many sensitive and vulnerable areas of the valley for ensuring peace, the officials said. However, incidents of stone-pelting by groups of youths have been reported from the areas around Naikoo's native village in Awanitpora since early morning on Thursday, the officials said. They said similar incidents of stone-pelting had taken place on Wednesday also, resulting in injuries to 16 people. Four of the injured persons had bullet injuries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sporadic-incidents-of-stonepelting-in-pulwama-due-to-reyaz-naikoo-encounter-834600.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Over one-third of total coronavirus cases in Delhi recorded from May 1-6||Of the total 5,532 coronavirus cases reported in Delhi till Wednesday, more than one-third of those have been recorded from May 1 to 6. On Wednesday, 428 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in the national capital, the largest number in a single day. The previous largest spike in a day was 427 on May 3. In the last six days (May 1-6), as many as 2,017 cases have been recorded -- May 1 (223), May 2 (384), May 3 (427), May 4 (349), May 5 (206) and May 6 (428). The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Wednesday mounted to 5,532, with 428 new cases and one fresh death being reported, according to the Delhi government authorities. No fresh death was reported from May 3 to 5. Of the total 65 fatalities reported till date, 33 of the deceased were aged 60 and above, making over 50 per cent of the total death cases, the authorities said. Twenty-one of them were aged between 50 and 59 years , and 11 were aged less than 50 years, officials said.  By Tuesday night, the number of cases of the deadly virus in the city stood at 5,104, including 64 deaths. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain told reporters on Wednesday that, in the city, coronavirus cases are now doubling in 11 days, which was earlier 13 days. "It is so because a lot of pending reports were there whose results have now come out," he said. Dr Manoj Kumar Goel from Fortis Memorial Research Institute in Gurgaon said more cases have come in the last few days as the "virus is still multiplying".  "Also, asymptomatic cases before being traced have spread infection to others, which are being reported now, so we are seeing spikes in cases in May,” he said. The national capital had reported its first coronavirus infection case on March 1 when a businessman living in east Delhi was diagnosed with COVID-19 after his return from Italy. On April 11, the number of cases had crossed the 1,000-mark, totalling 1,069. The death toll on April 11 was 19. The cases crossed the 2,000-mark on April 19. The total cases stood at 2,003 and the death toll was 45, the doubling of cases from 1,000-mark happening in eight days. On April 27, the total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital went up by 190 cases to 3,108, according to the Delhi government authorities. The number of cases crossed 4,000-mark on May 2 and the death toll stood at 64. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on May 5 crossed the 5,000-mark, with 206 fresh cases being reported in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-one-third-of-total-coronavirus-cases-in-delhi-recorded-from-may-1-6-834608.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Fresh case of coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh||Himachal Pradesh reported a fresh case of coronavirus on Thursday, taking the total number of virus cases in the state to 47, officials said. A woman, whose 21-year-old son died of coronavirus on Tuesday, has tested positive for the virus, Mandi Chief Medical Officer Jeevanand Chauhan said. The woman was kept in quarantine at the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla. The woman's son was also suffering from renal problems and died at IGMC on Tuesday. However, in a lapse, the man was taken to IGMC Shimla from Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College (SLBSGMC) Nerchowk in Mandi in a normal ambulance instead of the ambulance earmarked for carrying suspected or confirmed COVID-19 patients. The CMO said a lapse had occurred. However, he attributed the lapse to wrong information provided by the youth regarding his travel history. The youth had told the medical staff that he had returned from Delhi on March 23, he added.  The man needed dialysis urgently and was shifted to IGMC. The CMO said 44 of his contacts including medical staff at Nerchowk and Sarkaghat in Mandi district and driver of the ambulance have been quarantined and their samples would be taken after a week. Of the total 47 patients in the state, HP now has six active cases with two in Chamba and Mandi and one each in Sirmaur and Kangra districts. A total of 34 people have recovered while three persons have died. The fatalities include a 70-year-old Delhi resident who had stayed at a guest house of a factory in Solan's Baddi and died at PGIMER, Chandigarh, on April 2. Four people were shifted to other states for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fresh-case-of-coronavirus-in-himachal-pradesh-834620.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Two die of COVID-19 in Indore; tally reaches 1,699||Two COVID-19 patients succumbed to the deadly infection in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city, taking the toll to 83 in the district, which is the worst-hit region in the state, a senior official said on Thursday. Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia said with 18 more people testing positive for the virus, the count has reached 1,699 in the district. Two men in their 50s succumbed to coronavirus, the CMHO said, adding that one of them had co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and kidney ailment, while the other suffered from sepsis. Of the 1,699 cases reported in the district, 595 patients have recovered, while 83 have died. According to the latest data, the mortality rate stands at 4.8 per cent in the district, which has been classified as a red zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-two-die-of-covid-19-in-indore-tally-reaches-1699-834625.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Man suffering from mental illness vulnerable to infection, says Delhi HC; releases him from jail||A convict, suffering from a serious mental illness, has been directed to be released from jail for 45 days by the Delhi High Court which observed he would be more vulnerable to infection in prison during the COVID-19 pandemic as he would not be able to take precautions and maintain the required hygiene. The court, which was informed that the convict is not in a position to find his way back home, asked the jail superintendent to call his sister when the man is scheduled to be released and she will take him home safely. Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, suspended the man's sentence for 45 days saying it would be in the interest of the health and safety, not only of this convict, but also other jail inmates if he is released to decongest an overcrowded prison and thereby to prevent unwarranted exposure. The man was serving seven years imprisonment in a criminal case and as per the nominal roll provided to the court by the jail authorities, he has undergone over nine months of the sentence awarded to him and his conduct in jail is stated to be satisfactory.  The man's counsel sought suspension of sentence on the ground that he was undergoing treatment at the jail dispensary and Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IHBAS) for mental illness, schizophrenia, which requires regular medication and follow up at the hospital. Schizophrenia is a disorder that affects a person's ability to think, feel and behave clearly and the affected one interprets reality abnormally. The advocate said that in his medical condition, nothing would be more beneficial than the company and care of the man's family since no one in prison can give him the required attention, especially in the present times of a public health emergency. The judge, while granting the relief to the man, directed him not to leave Delhi without prior permission of the court and he shall also make a video call to the investigating officer every Saturday to mark his presence. The court also directed him to 'drop-a-pin' on Google Maps, so that the investigating officer of the concerned SHO can verify his presence and location. “The submissions made on behalf of the appellant (man) are somewhat sweeping in that the appellant may not be entitled to suspension of sentence merely because of his mental illness and need for family company, since that condition may obtain for a long time and also appears to be under control through medication and follow-up. “However, it does appear that since the appellant suffers from a serious mental illness, he would be more vulnerable to disease in prison during the prevalent pandemic since he may not be able to take precautions and maintain the hygiene required for prevention,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-man-suffering-from-mental-illness-vulnerable-to-infection-says-delhi-hc-releases-him-from-jail-834630.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Nearly 3,500 migrants workers reach Uttar Pradesh by trains||Over 3,400 migrant workers arrived in Uttar Pradesh from different parts of the country by Shramik special trains on Thursday, officials said, As many as 1,220 migrants arrived in Banda district by from Surat in Gujarat, 1,192 arrived in Lucknow from Bengaluru and 1,079 arrived in Barabanki from Hyderabad. According to Additional District Magistrate (ADM), Banda, Santosh Bahadur Singh, "The Shramik special train from Surat arrived in Banda at 6.40 am.” “All the 1,220 labourers after undergoing thermal scanning, are being sent by roadways buses," he said. Of these migrant labourers, 1,070 are from Banda and the rest from Fatehpur, Chitrakoot, Mahoba and Hamirpur, the ADM said, adding that they will be kept in 14 days of quarantine before being sent to their home. In Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC), managing director, Rajshekhar, said that a bus from Jalandhar arrived in Lucknow on Wednesday at 11.45 pm with migrant labourers. For them 38 buses were deployed and 1,164 passengers were sent to Bahraich, he said. Another train from Bengaluru arrived in Lucknow at 6.40 am on Thursday with 1,192 passengers, who were sent in 43 buses to Sonbhadra, Ghazipur, Gonda, Balrampur, Pratapgarh, Amroha, Ambedkar Nagar, Moradabad, Gorakhpur, Khushinagar and Deoria, the managing director said. Another train from Hyderabad reached Barabanki on Thursday at 6.30 am with 1,079 passengers. They were sent in 40 buses to their destinations, including Barabanki, Hardoi, Lucknow, Sitapur, and Lakhimpur, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nearly-3500-migrants-workers-reach-uttar-pradesh-by-trains-834636.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||NGT grants time to committee to submit Yamuna report||The National Green Tribunal has granted more time to Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC) for submitting its report on cleaning of the river as the stakeholders were unable to submit their response due to corona virus lockdown. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel noted that in view of lock-down due to COVID-19, the parties including the Delhi Development Authority and the Chief Secretaries of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have not been able to give their respective response to the committee. The Yamuna monitoring committee, which comprises retired NGT expert member B S Sajwan and former Delhi chief secretary Shailaja Chandra, sought more time to submit report. "We are of the opinion that time needs to be extended. The concerned parties may now furnish their response to the YMC expeditiously but positively on or before May 31, 2020. The Committee may give its report thereafter at the earliest and but latest by June 30, 2020 by e-mail even if response of concerned parties is not received as expected. The report may indicate in tabular form the progress achieved, the issues which still remain pending and the roadmap for further course of action with timelines," the bench said. The water quality in the Yamuna here has "improved significantly" during the lockdown due to an increase in fresh water availability and absence of industrial effluent, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) had earlier said. The YMC had earlier this month asked the CPCB and the DPCC to conduct tests to ascertain if the water quality in the river had improved due to the lockdown. The committee had said there was a significant increase (5 to 6 fold) in fresh water availability downstream of Wazirabad during April which helped in the dilution of the pollution caused due to waste water from major drains like Najafgarh and Shahdara. The CPCB report also pointed out that the fresh water availability in the Yamuna, which was less than 1,000 cusecs prior to the lockdown, increased more than fivefold downstream of Wazirabad during the lockdown. The DPCC report -- based on samples collected at nine stations along the river and at 20 stations on the drains -- said the BOD (Bio-Chemical Oxygen demand) concentrations improved from 20 to 33 per cent at ITO, Nizamuddin, Agra canal Jaitpur, Okhla barrage (upstream) and Okhla.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-grants-time-to-committee-to-submit-yamuna-report-834649.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Riyaz Naikoo’s killing will help to contain militancy in Kashmir: J&K police||While terming the killing of Hizb-ul-Mujahedeen chief Riyaz Naikoo as big jolt for the largest militant outfit in the Valley, Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar Thursday claimed it would help to contain militancy in the Valley to a large extent. “I will not hesitate in saying that Naikoo was a very influential militant, who would release videos almost every month to lure youth towards militancy and to pass directions to his cadre to execute civilian and police killing,” Kumar said while addressing a presser, here. “His (Naikoo’s) killing is a big success for us and major jolt for Hizbul and entering militancy in Kashmir. The killing will help contain overall militancy in Valley,” he said and revealed that the Hizbul commander was on the radar for past six months. “The day before yesterday (Tuesday) we tracked his movement and finally got him in at Beighpora Awantipora along with his aide,” the valley police chief said. Asked whether top brass of the Hizbul stands wiped out with the killing of Naikoo, he said there will be some other leader, but “we will go after him too". On recent Handwara encounter in which a commanding officer, a major and a police officer were killed while battling with a group of militants, Kumar said Lashkar-e-Toiba commander Haider’s killing was also a big jolt for the Pakistan based terror outfit. “As for as second incident at Handwara in which three CRPF men were killed, we have identified two Lashkar militants involved in the act,” he said. Asked about the emergence of a new militant organization, ‘The Resistance Front’ (TRF), the Kashmir police chief said it is a new outfit but a “shadow of the Lashkar.” “Post-August 5 last year, there was international pressure on Pakistan to stop militancy, so the Lashkar floated TRF,” he added. The Kashmir police chief added that this year so for 64 militants have been killed in 27 operations while 125 over-ground-workers (OGWs) of militants have been arrested. On communication blockade imposed in Kashmir since the killing of Naikoo on Wednesday morning, he said that it was necessary to prevent ‘rumor-mongering’ and to ‘maintain law and order’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/riyaz-naikoo-s-killing-will-help-to-contain-militancy-in-kashmir-jk-police-834687.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Curfew-like restrictions in Kashmir day after Hizb-ul-Mujahideen chief Riyaz Naikoo's killing||Amid sporadic incidents of stone-pelting in some areas and curfew-like restrictions, tense situation prevailed in Kashmir on Thursday, a day after Hizb-ul-Mujahideen operations chief Riyaz Naikoo was killed in an encounter with security forces in southern Pulwama district. Although Kashmir is under the third phase of coronavirus lockdown, curfew-like restrictions were also imposed in most parts of the valley, including Srinagar city, soon after the news about Naikoo's killing spread on Wednesday afternoon and continued throughout Thursday. Naikoo was among four militants killed in two separate encounters with security forces in Pulwama on Wednesday. Additional security forces were deployed across sensitive and vulnerable areas of the valley for ensuring peace. News of the killing of 35-year-old Naikoo, who carried a reward of Rs 12 lakh on his head and had escaped the police dragnet thrice, led to some incidents of people pelting stones at security forces on Wednesday also in which 16 civilians were injured. Four among the injured had reportedly bullet injuries and unconfirmed reports on Thursday said one the injured civilian died in a hospital. However, the police didn’t confirm the death.Anticipating a law and order problem following the killing of Naikoo, authorities suspended mobile telephone services of private operators and mobile internet services across the Valley since Wednesday morning. Fearing more protests on Friday, a police official said that restrictions will continue due to the prevailing situation in the sensitive areas of Kashmir. He said mobile and internet services will also remain snapped till further orders. The bodies of Naikoo and his aide were not handed over to the families and instead buried at Sonamarg in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district. In a new development, authorities are quietly burying the bodies of local militants at faraway places to avoid huge funerals. In the recent few years, ‘glamorized funerals’ of militants had acted as fertile ground for militants to mobilise opinion in their favour and asking youths to join the militancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/curfew-like-restrictions-in-kashmir-day-after-hizb-ul-mujahideen-chief-riyaz-naikoos-killing-834699.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||31-year-old Delhi Police constable who died due to COVID-19 cremated||The cremation of 31-year-old Delhi Police constable Amit Kumar who died due to COVID-19 was held here on Thursday, police said. Kumar, the first policeman in the national capital to die due to coronavirus, was posted at the Bharat Nagar Police Station in northwest Delhi, they said. After his condition deteriorated on Tuesday evening, he was taken to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, where he was declared brought dead by doctors. Kumar's sample was sent for COVID-19 test and the reports came as positive on Wednesday, police said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal condoled the demise of the constable and said his family would be provided with an ex-gratia of Rs 1 crore. Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) Manish Agrawal, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Northwest) Vijayanta Arya and other officers of the district paid their last respects to the deceased at Punjabi Bagh crematorium. The joint commissioner of police interacted with the family members of Kumar and conveyed his condolences in this hour of grief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/31-year-old-delhi-police-constable-who-died-due-to-covid-19-cremated-834716.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Hizb-ul-Mujahideen chief Riyaz Naikoo buried quietly, body not handed over to family||Continuing with its strategy to avoid huge funerals of local militants killed in encounters with security forces, authorities in Kashmir buried Hizb-ul-Mujahideen chief Riyaz Naikoo and three other slain ultras quietly at an isolated place in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district. A local news gathering agency GNS reported that the bodies of four militants, including Naikoo, were not handed over to their families but buried in Sonamarg, Ganderbal, in presence of a magistrate. Since mid-April, amid COVID-19 lockdown, bodies of local militants are buried discreetly at faraway places and not handed over to families for the last rites. This is for the first time in the three-decade-old armed-insurgency in Kashmir that bodies of local militants are not being handed over to their families for the last rites. While officials say it is to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, large militant funerals have long been a source of worry for the authorities in Kashmir. Earlier, local militants killed in gunfights would be identified immediately and their bodies handed over to families so that they could be buried in their native villages. In the past, thousands gathered for the funerals of militants, chanting pro-freedom slogans. “If we allow for identification at encounter sites and permit burial at their native places, huge gatherings might spread infection of COVID-19,” Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said. “As per several orders of the government of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir in view of the Disaster Management Act, we have to ensure strict lockdown even during burial. To avoid such situations we are doing burial at safer and isolated places. Being police chief of Kashmir, it’s my legal duty to ensure the safety and security of people,” he added.However, sources said, the new policy has been implemented to stop ‘glamorized funerals’ of militants which had acted as fertile ground for militants to mobilise opinion in their favour and asking youths to join the militancy. “Imagine if Naikoo’s body would have been handed over to his family for the last rites. Thousands of people would have gathered and there would have been gun salutes by his accomplices. It attracts young minds towards militancy,” they said. 35-year-old Naikoo, who was the most wanted commander in Kashmir, had joined militant ranks in May 2012. The former mathematics teacher at a private school was one of the close aides of the Hizbul commander, Burhan Wani, who was killed in Kokernag area of south Kashmir on 8 July 2016. In 2018, Naikoo-led Hizb militants kidnapped 11 family members of policemen prompting the police to release his father Asadullah Naikoo from their custody. The police had picked Naikoo’s father from his Awantipora home in south Kashmir, a day after militants had killed four policemen in Shopian. Later, in an audio message, Naikoo had warned the police of dangerous consequences if the relatives of militants were not released.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hizb-ul-mujahideen-chief-riyaz-naikoo-buried-quietly-body-not-handed-over-to-family-834733.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Clash over migrants' return leaves 9 injured in Uttar Pradesh||Some residents of Hata Revaliya village had returned from Mumbai without informing the health department and the district administration, but a villager, Wakil Ahmed, informed authorities, following which a health department team reached the village, SP Vipin Mishra said on Thursday.  This infuriated Zainuddin and Abdul Kadir who along with 10 others attacked Ahmed on Wednesday, leaving nine people injured. Cross FIRs have been lodged and the main accused, Abdul Kadir, has been arrested, the SP said, adding that the matter is being investigated and more arrests will be made soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-clash-over-migrants-return-leaves-9-injured-in-uttar-pradesh-834773.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Brothers roaming without mask in lockdown beat up policeman, HC refuses to quash FIR||The Delhi High Court has refused to quash an FIR against two men accused of assaulting a policeman on being stopped for loitering without masks during the lockdown, saying the breach of restrictions to contain the coronavirus pandemic might result in loss of millions of lives. The court said the charges against the two men are unquestionably serious and their acts, if found true, are inherently inimical to public and societal interest as a whole. “Breach of the lockdown restrictions, imposed by the Government, which, if permitted unchecked, may result in loss of lives of millions, and cannot be tolerated for an instance,” Justice C Hari Shankar said, conducting the hearing through video conferencing.  While the two brothers alleged atrocities by the police, the FIR showed that they were roaming around without face masks and had beaten up the official on the evening of April 20. When the police official stopped one of the brothers and queried him on the reason for roaming outside, he retorted that the policeman had no right to stop him from walking in the area without a mask. On the official's attempt to control the man, he kicked him and his brother joined in kicking and hitting the policeman. An FIR was lodged against them for the alleged offences of disobedience of the order duly promulgated by a public servant, negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life, obstructing and assaulting public servant in discharging duty and criminal intimidation under the IPC.  However, the two men claimed in their plea that on the evening of April 20, they were forcibly taken from their residence to a police booth in Basai Darapur in West Delhi by the police officials and were beaten up and illegally detained. They said a false case was later on registered against them. The court, while dismissing the plea to quash criminal proceedings against the two brothers, also noted that the allegations levelled against them in the FIR are supported by the medical check up of the complainant police official who was allegedly beaten up by them. The court after perusing the material on record, said no case for quashing of the FIR at the nascent stage is made out. “Acts, often innocuous, may have catastrophic consequences and courts, in cases such as these, cannot permit themselves to be carried away by the physical nature of the act as committed, unmindful of the results that would ensue, were such acts to be tolerated. "While this sole factor may, even by itself, be sufficient to have merited dismissal of this petition, the status report further states that the allegations in the FIR are supported by the MLC of the complainant,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/brothers-roaming-without-mask-in-lockdown-beat-up-policeman-hc-refuses-to-quash-fir-834776.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Former Punjab DGP, six others booked in 29-year-old abduction case||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and six others have been booked in a case related to the disappearance of a man after a terrorist attack here in 1991. The case was registered against the former director general of police (DGP) and the other persons at the Mataur police station in Mohali on Wednesday evening, according to the first investigation report (FIR). They have been booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections pertaining to abduction, causing disappearance of evidence of offence and criminal conspiracy, among others. Hours after the case was registered, Saini was stopped by Himachal Pradesh Police after he tried to enter the hill state at 4 am on Thursday without a curfew pass amid the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The former Punjab DGP has been booked in connection with the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, who was a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation, according to the FIR. Balwant Multani, who was a resident of Mohali, was picked up by police after the terrorist attack on Saini, who was then the senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh, in 1991, it said. Saini and the six others have been booked on the complaint of Balwant Multani's brother Palwinder Singh Multani, who is a resident of Jalandhar, according to the FIR. Six others who have been booked include former UT deputy superintendent of police Baldev Singh Saini, sub-inspectors Satbir Singh and Harsahai Sharma. The case has been registered against them under sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. The complainant alleged that his brother was booked under sections of TADA, IPC and the Arms Act. Balwant Multani was declared a proclaim offender after he reportedly escaped from police custody in Gurdaspur, his brother said in the complaint. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said there was no political motivation in the registration of an FIR against Saini in this case. "There was no question of political interference," he said, asserting that the law will take its own course in the matter. Police in Himachal Pradesh said Saini, who was along with two other persons in a car, tried to enter the state through the Khaira Mora check post at 4 am, but he was not allowed. Former DGP Saini and the others were in a car with registration number CH-01-BW 0820 and they were coming from the Punjab side of the border, Bilaspur Superintendent of Police (SP) Devakar Sharma said. Sharma said the two other persons accompanying the former DGP identified themselves as an inspector and an assistant sub-inspector to the personnel at the check post on the Punjab-Himachal Pradesh border near Swarghat in Bilaspur district. "On their insistence, the staff called the Naina Devi deputy superintendent of police who in turn called me and I directed him not to allow their entry into the hill state without a curfew pass,” he said. Sharma said the former DGP called him after about half-an-hour insisting entry into Himahcal Pradesh stating that he had a property at Karsog in Mandi district. Saini was refused entry without a curfew pass, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-punjab-dgp-six-others-booked-in-29-year-old-abduction-case-834778.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Govt buys 216 lakh tonnes wheat from farmers at MSP so far; more than half of target||The government has procured 216 lakh tonnes of wheat till Wednesday, as against the target to buy 400 lakh tonnes from farmers in the ongoing harvesting season of rabi (winter-sown) crops, an official statement said.  "The procurement of wheat and rice (second crop) during the ongoing Rabi season has picked up pace despite severe logistical constraints posed due to countrywide lockdown," the food ministry said in a statement.  Against the target of 400 lakh tonnes of wheat, procurement for the central pool (buffer stock) has touched 216 lakh tonnes till May 6.  The procurement in major wheat producing states like Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh had started only after April 15.  Punjab is leading in wheat procurement with 104.28 lakh tonnes purchased so far, followed by Haryana (50.56 lakh tonnes) and Madhya Pradesh (48.64 lakh tonnes).  Food Corporation of India (FCI) is the government's nodal agency for procurement and distribution of foodgrains. The foodgrains are procured from farmers at the minimum support price (MSP).  Similarly, paddy procurement is also going on smoothly with 44.9 lakh tonnes procured so far by the government agencies. Due to unseasonal rains, some of the wheat stocks in producing states were affected. The Centre has already relaxed the specifications for procurement which has greatly aided the process and saved farmers from any distress. Regarding paddy, the maximum procurement has happened in Telangana. Out of the total paddy procurement of about 45 lakh tonnes, the contribution of Telangana alone is 30 lakh tonnes, followed by Andhra Pradesh with about 10 lakh tonnes.  The lifting of foodgrains by state governments under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY) has crossed 70 lakh tonnes, which is about 58 per cent of the total allocation for three months. Under this scheme, 5 kg foodgrain is being distributed per month free of cost to about 80 crore beneficiaries across the country. Free grains will be supplied for three months.  "Every state has completed lifting of stocks against April 2020 quota and 5 Union Territories have completed lifting of the entire 3 month's quota," the statement said.  The Centre is ensuring that availability of foodgrains is not a cause of concern for anyone in the country by providing sufficient stocks to every state/UT, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-buys-216-lakh-tonnes-wheat-from-farmers-at-msp-so-far-more-than-half-of-target-834788.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||India not prepared for communal disharmony in COVID-19 crisis, says Delhi court||The nation is not prepared for communal disharmony during the ongoing coronavirus crisis, a Delhi court said while directing the police to lodge an FIR against two women who allegedly made communally sensitive remarks and violated lockdown rules in central Delhi’s Lal Kuan area.  The court's order came on an application filed by a local Waiz Islam who alleged that on April 16, in the Rogran locality of Lal Kuan, two unknown women attempted to disrupt harmony by imputing communally sensitive remarks. They were carrying rods and roaming in the locality freely in complete disregard of the lockdown, he alleged and claimed that he reported the incident to the police, but no action has been taken till date. Metropolitan Magistrate Rishabh Kapoor directed the Station House Officer of Police Station Hauz Qazi to register the FIR for offences under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language), 295A (malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) IPC and conduct the investigation of the case accordingly. “The area of occurrence is a sensitive area which has already witnessed communal tension on previous occasion. Therefore, if the incidents like the one in question are not taken to law, it will lead to communal disharmony and disturbance in public peace and tranquillity, for which the nation is not prepared in the present time of on-going COVID crisis.”  It further said that once a commission of cognisable offence is disclosed to the police, it is duty bound to register the case.  Islam claimed in the application that the ladies allegedly caused public annoyance by smashing the doors of residences and shops in the vicinity and the alleged incident was captured on camera and uploaded on YouTube.  He further claimed that the area was a sensitive area as it has already witnessed a communal dispute regarding some parking issue.  The matter was reported to the SHO, Hauz Qazi Police Station on the same day but no FIR was registered, he claimed. Following this, Islam said he informed the SHO on WhatsApp and to the concerned DCP through e-mail, but no action has been taken till date.   The police told the court that the two women had been traced and it was found that they were feeding stray dogs on the streets as they worked with an NGO.  The police further said that one of them was carrying a stick in her hand and the people of the locality had a heated exchange with them, but no religious comments were passed by the women.  During inquiry no cognizable offence was found to have been committed, police said in the action taken report.  The court noted that as per the allegations, the incident had occurred on April 16 when the nationwide lockdown was continuing in the country and the women were out in an area which was at a distance of 450 to 750 metres from their houses and they did not have any movement pass.  “It prima facie emerges that due to the alleged incident, offences under sections 188, 153-A and 295 A of the IPC have occurred, and such offences are cognisable in nature. Therefore, the investigation of the case deserves to be conducted by the police,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-not-prepared-for-communal-disharmony-in-covid-19-crisis-says-delhi-court-834802.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||32-year-old becomes youngest coronavirus victim in Kashmir||A 32-year-old man from Srinagar died of COVID-19 at a hospital on Thursday taking the death tally due to the virus to nine in Jammu and Kashmir. The youngest victim of COVID-19 hailed from old city Alamgiri Bazar in Srinagar. Confirming the death, Nodal officer Government Medical College (GMC) Srinagar, Dr Saleem Khan said the deceased was attending to his father admitted at the Oncology department at Super Speciality Hospital Shireen Bagh. The deceased had no travel history to any affected place outside Jammu and Kashmir, an official said. However, he was attending to his father who was admitted to the hospital, where a 55-year-old woman, a plastic surgery patient, from Sangam, Anantnag, and her 19-year-old attendant who hails from Surankote Poonch had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier. Nine persons have died due to the disease so far, eight of them in Kashmir and one in Jammu. On Wednesday, J&K reported 35 new positives of COVID-19 while on Thursday 14 confirmed cases of viral illness were reported taking the toll to 792. Three evacuated travellers were among the new cases on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/32-year-old-becomes-youngest-coronavirus-victim-in-kashmir-834838.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Petrol, diesel to cost more in Rajasthan with hike in VAT rates||Petrol and diesel will be costlier in Rajasthan from Friday as the state government has increased the value added tax (VAT) on the two fuels in its third hike in the midst of the COVID-19 lockdown. The state government on Thursday increased the VAT on petrol to 38 per cent from 36 per cent earlier while on diesel to 28 per cent from 27 per cent earlier. Before the lockdown, the VAT rate on petrol was 30 per cent and on diesel was 22 per cent. In the last week of March, the state government increased VAT by 4 percentage points on petrol and diesel and then in April-mid, it increased the rate by 2 percentage points on petrol and 1 percentage point on diesel. Rajasthan Petroleum Dealers Association President Suneet Bagai said that state government has revised the VAT rate third time in the last three months. The increased rate will burden the dealers as well as consumers. "Cash strapped government has again increased VAT rate on fuel. It will burden dealers as well as consumers. Petrol and diesel pumps located in the border areas of neighbouring districts are on the verge of shutdown due to increased VAT. Demand is continuously decreasing," said Bagai. He said prices of petrol and diesel in the state are higher than that in neighbouring states. He said that revenue loss is due decreasing sales and it is not wise to put burden on common people, adding that the government should rather focus on generating non-tax revenue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/petrol-diesel-to-cost-more-in-rajasthan-with-hike-in-vat-rates-834861.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi's coronavirus tally inches close to 6000-mark, reports 443 new cases on May 7||COVID-19 woes are surging in Delhi with the national capital on Thursday recording the highest number of cases for a single day so far at 448. With this, the number of cases has risen to 5,980 while one death was reported during the day, taking the total toll to 66. On Wednesday, Delhi had reported 428 cases while on May 3, it was 427, the previous highest number of cases for a single day. On a positive note, 389 people were discharged from hospital, the highest for a day, as the total number of recovered patients rose to 1,931. There are 3,983 patients still undergoing treatment. This month alone, Delhi has 2,465 cases, which is 41.22% of the total cases. The first case in Delhi was reported on March 2. On May 1, Delhi had reported 223 cases which saw an increase to 386 on May 2. The capital reported 349 cases on May 4 and 206 cases on May 5. It also said Delhi has tested 77,234 samples so far, which includes 5,300 tests on Thursday.  Of the total cases, 69.7% (4,168) of the patients were below 50 years while the deaths among this group was just 16.67% of the 66 dead or 11 people. In contrast, the number of patients above 60 years was the lowest at 14.95% or 894 but the fatality was the highest among them with 33 or half of those who lost the battle with Covid-19. Among 50-59 years, there were 918 people (15.35%) but among the dead, their proportion was 33.33% or 22 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-coronavirus-tally-inches-close-to-6000-mark-reports-443-new-cases-on-may-7-834885.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Liquor makers urges Delhi government to withdraw 70% additional tax||Liquor makers have urged the Delhi government to withdraw 70 per cent additional tax imposed on liquor in the city, calling the move 'counterproductive'. The price increase, after the demand surge is over, would lead to decline in sales and also encourage illegal supply from neighbouring states, having lower price, the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) said in a letter to Delhi government. "In our understanding this decision may perhaps have either or both of two objectives – one to raise more revenues for the government and two, to manage crowd at liquor outlets," CIABC Director General Vinod Giri said.  "It is our humble view that this decision may prove to be counterproductive and suboptimal for both objectives as explained below," he added. Once the initial surge of panic purchase is over, this kind of price increase will have strong adverse effect on sales in Delhi, he said. "It will be further compounded by free flow of unlawful liquor from neighbouring states which have much lower prices. Such drastic price increase cannot sustain demand in Delhi, especially with cheaper options available across the border, and will actually be counterproductive," the association said. It asked that the 70 per cent tax be "treated, at best, as a very short term measure". "We, therefore, request you to kindly withdraw 70 per cent cess as early as possible," CIABC said.  The Delhi government had imposed a 70 per cent special coronavirus fees on sale of liquor on the maximum retail price from May 5. According to the association, barely 50 of the 800 liquor retail outlets in the city were fully operational on the first two days after sale of liquor was allowed during the lockdown. Besides, all the bars in the cities are shut due to the coronavirus pandemic. CIABC suggested increasing the number of liquor shops immediately by allowing opening of all shops outside containment zones on the basis of self verification and those in malls which have independent entrances. Besides, it has asked to allow bars to sell liquor as they have unsold stock which will help in improving product availability. It has also suggested to allow online sales to keep crowd away from shops and to reduce human contact during the lockdown period. "Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Punjab have already passed orders for such systems. Based on experiences elsewhere in the world, this can take 15-20 per cent customers away from shops. This is also more robust process where product can be traced from warehouse to the customer electronically," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/liquor-makers-urges-delhi-government-to-withdraw-70-additional-tax-834886.html
07-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi University staffer tests positive for coronavirus||A staffer of the Delhi University's School of Open Learning has tested positive for coronavirus, according to an official at the educational institute. The man, who works as a junior assistant-cum-typist, tested positive for COVID-19 two days ago, the official said. He stays in the staff quarters in Dhaka in northwest Delhi and is currently at a quarantine centre in Narela, he said. It is suspected that the staffer contracted the virus when he had gone to the RML Hospital for a check-up, the official said. After he developed mild breathing problems, he got himself tested at a private facility and his report came positive. The man informed authorities and was taken to the Narela quarantine centre, the official said. The staffer was living with his aged parents, while his wife and children were away. He informed university officials and the local bodies about his condition, the official said, adding that the area where he stays was sanitised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-staffer-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-834897.html
07-05-2020||South||Kerala initiates reverse quarantine, massive isolation facilities to avert further COVID-19 spike||As the huge inflow of Keralites from other states and countries pose a high risk of a spike in coronavirus cases, the state government is now chalking out initiatives like reverse quarantining and providing isolation facilities to those who don’t have adequate facilities at home. Keeping the vulnerable sections isolated from the possible sources of infection is the key aim of reverse quarantining. The state has already initiated reverse quarantine measures with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan himself repeatedly urging people aged above 65 and children below the age of 10 to remain indoors. Health workers at the grassroots level and many local bodies in the state are constantly monitoring the vulnerable sections. As part of the reverse quarantining, counselling among the aged is also being enhanced as the chances of the aged people developing conditions like depressions due to prolonged lockdown is high. The state has been carrying out counselling services ever since the lockdown began and over 1.93 lakh aged people have benefitted. Another proactive measure of the government is to provide accommodation to those who do not have adequate facilities at home to remain in quarantine. All local bodies were directed by the government to identify vacant homes that could be used to provide accommodation to those who require quarantining. A total of 2.5 lakh quarantine beds are being readied.  State health department nodal officer Dr Amar Fettle said instead of prolonging lockdown, the best way to contain the disease is to keep the virus at bay. Ensuring personal hygiene measures and protecting the vulnerable sections from infection were the best measures. Kerala Health Department also conducted training to cabin crew of the flights to be operated from Kerala on Thursday to bring back Malayalis from abroad. Training were given on using personal protection suits and handling health emergency. As many as 207 government hospitals and 125 private hospitals in the state were kept ready for COVID care.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-initiates-reverse-quarantine-massive-isolation-facilities-to-avert-further-covid-19-spike-834444.html
07-05-2020||South||Chennai Koyambedu market cluster expands further; Tamil Nadu’s tally at 4,829||The Koyambedu market cluster expanded further with Tamil Nadu registering 771 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 4,829. Besides Chennai, at least half a dozen districts in north Tamil Nadu reported a massive spike in their Coronavirus numbers as the cluster expands further. The cluster is growing bigger day by day with more than 800 cases, including contacts of primary patients, and the worst-affected are labourers working at the wholesale market, one of the largest in Asia. Tamil Nadu tested 13,413 samples, highest so far, on Wednesday taking the total samples tested to 1,88,241. All 771 who tested positive on Wednesday are listed as contacts, in what could mean that contact tracing is happening at a fast pace. Ariyalur, a backward district in north Tamil Nadu, registered 188 cases, while its neighbouring Cuddalore had 95 fresh patients on Wednesday. Both these districts send thousands of people to cities like Chennai for jobs of all kinds. The magnitude of the spread of the virus from the cluster was visible on Wednesday with almost all districts in the northern region reporting positive cases. Chennai’s neighbouring districts Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur recorded 45 and 34 cases respectively, while Vellore had 6, Tiruvannamalai (17), Chengalpattu (9) and Villupuram (5). The cluster has also spread to far-away districts like Dindigul and Madurai which reported 9 and 20 fresh cases on Wednesday, respectively. “It is emerging as the biggest cluster and we have now gone into targeted testing. We are testing people who have shops in Koyambedu and also people who come forward saying they went to the market. We hope testing of all the contacts will end in the next few days,” a Health Department official said. Koyambedu is the biggest wholesale vegetable market in Tamil Nadu and receives at least 15,000 visitors a day. The market which has both wholesale traders and retailers reported its first case on April 24, though it was closed completely only after 10 days. Hundreds of vegetable dealers come from across the state, especially from northern districts, to buy and sell vegetables. The Koyambedu cluster is emerging as the biggest after the religious congregation in Delhi and might even surpass the numbers registered by the latter. And contact tracing is also proving to be difficult in Chennai city as hundreds of people had visited the retail vegetable market inside the complex for the first one month of the lockdown period. “Tracing contacts in districts are a little easy since some of them were identified and lodged in quarantine centers. And the government also had a list of labourers who are being traced. But in Chennai, you cannot collect details of those who visited the market,” a district collector said. Meanwhile, the state’s death toll went up to 35 with two people -- a 68- year-old man with comorbidities and a 59-year-old man – passing away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-koyambedu-market-cluster-expands-further-tamil-nadu-s-tally-at-4829-834460.html
07-05-2020||South||Kerala gears up for expats from Gulf, other nations||As the biggest evacuation exercise to repatriate Indians stranded overseas due to COVID-19 lockdown begins, the Kerala government has put in place all arrangements for receiving the expatriates who will arrive at four airports in the state beginning Thursday. The international airports at Kannur, Kozhikode, Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram will handle the arrivals, a large number of them from the Gulf region, with the first two Air India Express (AIE) flights from Abu Dhabi and Dubai set to land on Thursday the night, carrying around 340 passengers totally. Around 2,000 people are expected to reach the state in the first five days onboard 13 flights, official sources said adding arrangements, including accommodation for quarantine and thermal screening at airports, have been made. In addition to the air evacuation, three naval ships, left for Maldives and UAE on Tuesdayto bring back the Indian citizens. All arrangements are in place. We have got the operating procedure from the Civil Aviation Ministry and the Defence Ministry who are coordinating the flights and the naval ships. Two planes from Abu Dhabi and Dubai are expected to arrive tomorrow at Kochi and Kozhikode airports respectively," Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Jishnu, a passenger from Abu Dhabi, who got his ticket, was elated that he would be able to return to his home state. "I am very happy to have got the ticket. I was informed yesterday that I could travel", he told a television channel. More than four lakh expatriates from Kerala have registered for returning to the state, but as per the Centre's list, only 80,000 are in the priority list for being brought back to the state. The government is keen that there is no big spike in the COVID-19 cases with the return of the expatriates to the state, which has so far made good progress in containing the spread of the disease and effective treatment of patients. Vijayan had earlier urged the Centre to ensure that the expatriates undergo COVID-19 test before emplaning for their respective states, saying otherwise it might lead to spreading of the infection. The Centre has made arrangements to operate 64 flights from May 7 to May 13 from the Gulf countries, Singapore, US, and UK among others to bring back stranded Indian nationals. Low cost airline AIE sources said eight flights have been readied for the evacuation operations and a crew list of 60 pilots and 120 cabin crew drawn up for the first phase of the operation lasting 47 days. Doctors and nurses of a government hospital in Kochi imparted training to 12 airline staff, including four pilots,on the steps to be taken while donning and doffingof personal protective equipment(PPE) suits, infection control practices to be followed inflight and also the management of anticipated health emergencies during the flight. Two masks, 100ml sanitiser, a snack box and half litre of water will be ready in the seats of the passengersbefore take off, the sources told PTI. AIE has tied up with Central Warehousing Corporation to disinfectthe aircraft before and after each trip. The corporation has the core competency in these kind of operations and special passes to enter the airport were being given to their staff, the sources said. The Abu Dhabi-Kochi and Dubai-Kozhikodeflights would be operated with 170 odd passengers on Thursday and are expected to arrive at their destinations at around 9.40 pm. Though there is a seating capacity for 189 passengers in the AIE flight, only 170 passengers would be allowed to maintain the social distancing norms, the sources said. On Wednesday, Vijayansaid those travelling must take all safety precautions and be very cautious right from leaving their residence to the airport till arrival. DIG-level police officers have been assigned to look after the security at the four airports and the Kochi Port where the expatriates would be arriving, he told reporters. When asked about the confusion with regard to quarantine period stipulated by the state and the Centre, Vijayan said it was the state's responsibilityand reiterated that the passengers would have to undergo institutional quarantine for seven days after reaching the state. On the seventh day, they would have to undergo COVID-19 test.  Those found negative can go home and complete another seven days quarantine. The Centre has stated that passengers would have to follow 14 days institutional quarantine on returning. However, Pregnant women and small children can undergo the quarantine at their homes,Vijayan said.   Over 9,000 pregnant women had registered with the Non- Resident Keralites Affairs (NORKA) department website for returning to the state. Air India has rescheduled its Riyadh-Kozhikode flight to Friday. On May 12, a flight from Dubai will take off for Kannur. Besides the four destinations in Kerala, AIE would beoperating services to airports in Chennai, Delhi, Bengaluru, lucknow and Tiruchirapalli. Two flights are expected to land at Thiruvananthapuram on May 9 and May 10 from Doha in Qatar with 200 passengers each, Thiruvananthapuram Airport Director C V Raveedranath told PTI. For those arriving here, quarantine facilities have been arrangedin six taluks to accommodateover 11,200 people and government will bear the expenses. Hotel rooms have been arranged for another 6,400 people for which they will have to pay, a government release said. In Ernakulam district, a total of 4,000 houses with water, electricity and bath attached facilities have been arranged. Among the 4.27 lakh NRKs registered in the NORKA portal, about 1.69 lakh people constitute the most vulnerable sections -- those who have lost their jobs, those released from prisons and awaiting deportation, pregnant women,students who have completed courses and whose visa had expired, officials said. 61,000 people who have lost their jobs are among those registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gears-up-for-expats-from-gulf-other-nations-834467.html
07-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: J Jayalalithaa’s Poes Garden residence to be acquired for memorial||Veda Nilayam, the residence of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, will be acquired by the state government which has begun the process formally, over two years after it announced that the sprawling bungalow in upscale Poes Garden in Chennai will be converted into a memorial for her. Chennai District Collector R Seethalakshmi issued a notification to acquire the sprawling property under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. "This project does not involve the displacement of any families or relocation. There are no project affected families and hence no question of relocation, resettlement and rehabilitation of the affected families," the Chennai Collector said in the public notice. The Tamil Nadu government had on August 17, 2017, announced that the Poes Garden residence of Jayalalithaa will be converted into a memorial for her. However, there was little movement on the decision even as Deepa and Deepak – the children of Jayalalithaa’s only brother Jayakumar – went to the court opposing the decision. The sprawling mansion will be converted into a memorial of its high-profile owner who ruled Tamil Nadu’s political arena for nearly three decades. The bungalow, whose value is nearly Rs 90 crore as on date, was purchased by Jayalalithaa’s mother Sandhya for a mere Rs 1.32 lakh in 1967 when both were in the glamorous film world. Though Deepa and Deepak are entitled to inherit the property since they are the only surviving legal heirs of the late leader, the Tamil Nadu Government said the legal heir is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-j-jayalalithaa-s-poes-garden-residence-to-be-acquired-for-memorial-834472.html
07-05-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: First Air India Express flight from Abu Dhabi to land in Kochi||An Air India Express flight from Abu Dhabi is expected to land at Cochin International Airport in Kerala at 9.40 pm on Thursday with nearly 175 passengers onboard, marking the beginning of the Centre’s repatriation exercise, Vande Bharat Mission, to bring home citizens stranded abroad.  The flight from Abu Dhabi to Kochi will be followed by another from Dubai landing at Kozhikode at 10.30 pm. It will also have nearly 175 Indians onboard. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla on Wednesday reviewed the arrangements for receiving the returnees and quarantining them. He had a video-conference with the Chief Secretaries of the States, where the special flights operated by the Air India and Air India Express would land during the first week of the mission the Union Government would launch to bring home the citizens stranded in the foreign countries due to the travel and transport curbs enforced around the world to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. The first week of the “Vande Bharat Mission” will see 3150 people arriving in Kerala onboard 15 flights from seven countries, 3100 people landing at Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi onboard 11 flights from nine countries and 2150 people reaching Tamil Nadu onboard 11 flights from nine countries. Besides, Maharashtra, Telangana and Gujarat will receive 1900, 1750 and 1100 returnees, while Punjab and Uttar Pradesh will receive 200 people each. Nearly 600 people will return to Jammu and Kashmir. Nearly 650 Indian citizens currently stranded in the United Kingdom, United States and Singapore are expected to arrive in Bengaluru by May 13 next.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-first-air-india-express-flight-from-abu-dhabi-to-land-in-kochi-834475.html
07-05-2020||South||11 killed, hundreds hospitalised after chemical gas leak at LG Polymers in Andhra Pradesh's Vizag||A poisonous gas leak from the LG Polymers unit on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam has killed 11 people while scores of affected locals are rushed to hospitals where they are undergoing treatment. Some of them are reportedly in critical condition. The hazardous chemicals unit is located at Venkatapuram and at least five-six surrounding villages are severely affected. Dozens of men, women and children fell unconscious inhaling the gas in their sleep; some died falling into wells, ditches while fleeing the area in the dark. According to the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation Commissioner Srijana Gummalla, the gas leak took place at around 2:30 am (Thursday wee hours). Many families residing near or around Gopalapatnam moved away in panic to safer places. The gas smell could be felt at the busy NAD junction, near the Vizag airport, a few KMs away, a family told DH.   My condolences to the families of 5 people who passed away due to gas leak at a Pvt firm in Vizag, AP early hours today.Spoke to the CS& DGP of AP to take stock of the situation. Instructed NDRF teams to provide necessary relief measures. I'm continuously monitoring the situation "Primary report is that polyvinyl chloride gas (or maybe Styrene) {subject to correction} leaked from LG Polymers, Vepagunta near Gopalapatnam in Visakhapatnam. Because of the leakage of the said compound gas hundreds of people have inhaled it and either fell unconscious or have breathing issues,” Gummalla said. Several disaster relief teams are pressed into service. “GVMC is trying to subside the effect by blowing water through blowers and public address systems have been pressed into service asking locals to use masks after wetting them in water." Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy is closely monitoring the situation and has instructed the district machinery to take immediate steps to contain the situation and provide all help. Reddy would be visiting the King George Hospital where the affected are being treated. According to Mekapati Goutham Reddy, state industries minister, the disastrous incident occurred when the company officials were trying to reinitiate the production process after the lockdown. Any negligence on part of the company officials would be probed, the minister indicated. “We are in touch with the district collectorate and management of LG polymers. Sources say it is not an LPG leak, and the situation is being brought under control. Villages’ evacuation is underway. Request citizens not to panic and cooperate with authorities,” Mekapati said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/11-killed-hundreds-hospitalised-after-chemical-gas-leak-at-lg-polymers-in-andhra-pradeshs-vizag-834519.html
07-05-2020||South||Vizag gas leak: Civic body tells residents to stay indoors, use wet cloth as mask||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation on Thursday asked people staying near the chemical plant where a gas leak took place in the wee hours to stay indoors and use a wet cloth to cover their nose and mouth. At least six people, including an 8-year-old child, have been killed and over 100 hospitalised due to the gas leak which took place at LG Polymers chemical plant in Gopalapatnam. "There is (a) gas leakage identified at LG Polymers in Gopalpatnam. Requesting citizens around these locations not to come out of houses for the sake of safety precautions," the GVMC said in a tweet. "Please use wet cloth as mask to cover your nose and mouth," it added. The GVMC said its officials are trying to reduce the impact of the gas leak by spraying water and public address systems are being used to ask people to use masks. Ambulances, fire engines and policemen have reached the spot, officials said. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked district officials to take every possible step to save lives and bring the situation under control. South Korean company LG Polymers makes polystyrene and expandable polystyrene, a versatile plastic used to make a wide variety of consumer products like toys and appliances. It has been in operation since 1961.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-leak-civic-body-tells-residents-to-stay-indoors-use-wet-cloth-as-mask-834570.html
07-05-2020||South||Vizag Gas leak: PM Narendra Modi convenes meeting of NDMA||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has convened a meeting of the National Disaster Management Authority in the wake of the situation in Visakhapatnam following a gas leak incident, the Prime Minister's Office said. The meet has been convened at 11.00 am, the PMO tweeted. At least six people died and nearly 100 were hospitalised after gas leaked from a chemical plant in  Visakhapatnam in the early hours of Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-leak-pm-narendra-modi-convenes-meeting-of-ndma-834574.html
07-05-2020||South||TDP chief expresses shock over Vizag gas leak incident||TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday expressed shock over the gas leak incident in Visakhapatnam and urged residents of the city to take necessary precautions. At least six people have died and around 100 hospitalised after gas leaked from a chemical plant in Visakhapatnam. In a tweet, Naidu said leaders and cadre must be readily available to help people in distress. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) said in a tweet, "There is gas leakage identified at LG  Polymers in Gopalapatnam. Requesting Citizens around these locations not to come out of houses for the sake of safety precautions".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-chief-expresses-shock-over-vizag-gas-leak-incident-834577.html
07-05-2020||South||Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy closely monitoring Vizag gas leak incident||Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is closely monitoring the gas leak incident in Visakhapatnam and has directed district officials to take steps to bring the situation under control. At least six people have died and around 100 hospitalised after gas leaked from a chemical plant in Visakhapatnam. The chief minister will be visiting the King George Hospital in Visakhapatnam where the injured are being treated. "Hon'ble CM @ysjagan  will leave for Vizag to visit the hospital where the affected are being treated," his office tweeted. The chief minister is closely monitoring the situation and has directed the district officials to take every possible step to save lives and bring the situation under control, it added. The toxic gas leaked from a plant of LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam in the early hours on Thursday. The plant had reopened after being shut due to the COVID-19 lockdown. In a series of tweets, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has asked people of colonies and villages around the plant to leave for safe locations and use wet cloth as a mask to cover their nose and mouth. South Korean company LG Polymers makes polystyrene and expandable polystyrene, a versatile plastic used to make a wide variety of consumer products like toys and appliances and has been in operation since 1961.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/y-s-jagan-mohan-reddy-closely-monitoring-vizag-gas-leak-incident-834578.html
07-05-2020||South||Vizag gas leak took place as plastic factory was being prepared for resumption of work: NDRF||The gas leak incident in Vishakhapatnam took place as a plastic factory, that was closed during lockdown, was being prepared for resumption of operations, the NDRF chief said on Thursday. About 80-100 people have been hospitalised after a gas, Styrene, leaked in the area at about 2:30 am, NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said. He said a special gas leakage team of the force is on the spot and checking on people who are feeling uneasy. This is Styrene gas that affects the central nervous system, throat, skin, eyes and some other parts of the body, he said. "I think what we understand is that this plastic factory was being re-started for operations and the gas leaked after an accident occurred," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-leak-took-place-as-plastic-factory-was-being-prepared-for-resumption-of-work-ndrf-834579.html
07-05-2020||South||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao expresses shock over over gas leak incident in Vizag||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday expressed shock over the gas leak incident at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and offered condolences to the families of the deceased. Describing the incident as very unfortunate, Rao wished for the speedy recovery of those who fell ill due to the gas leak, an official release said here. At least six people have died and around 100 hospitalized after gas leaked from a chemical plant in Visakhapatnam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-k-chandrasekhar-rao-expresses-shock-over-over-gas-leak-incident-in-vizag-834588.html
07-05-2020||South||TDP demands probe into Vizag gas leak incident, asks Centre to shut polymer unit||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) chief N Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday demanded a probe into the gas leak incident in Visakhapatnam and asked the Centre to immediately shut down the chemical plant from where styrene vapour leaked. Six people, including a child, died and over 100 others were hospitalised due to the gas leakage early Thursday. The plant had reopened on Thursday after COVID-19 lockdown rules were eased. Naidu urged the Centre to immediately send medical experts to the district as it may not have the required expertise to treat people affected with styrene gas. In a letter to Union Commerce and Industries Minister Piyush Goyal, Naidu also asked the Centre to deploy veterinary experts to treat animals affected by the toxic gas. "Further, COVID-19 infects the lungs and reduces the immunity of the person. Hence, it is essential that the medical aid should be two pronged keeping in mind Styrene Gas and COVID-19," Naidu said in the letter. "It is also essential to immediately close down the LG Polymers Unit and initiate a thorough enquiry into the gas leakage," he said. The former chief minister suggested that the entire unit should be shifted to a Special Economic Zone (SEZ) that has no population in the vicinity. Expressing grief over the tragedy, Naidu said as of now few people have died, while around 2000 people have fallen sick due to the leakage. He said that the central government should provide necessary equipment for analysing the radius affected by styrene gas. "It is important to focus on mitigating further loss of lives and in the long run to minimise the adverse health effects on the people of Visakhapatnam," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-demands-probe-into-vizag-gas-leak-incident-asks-centre-to-shut-polymer-unit-834589.html
07-05-2020||South||First aircraft to evacuate Indian citizens stranded in UAE leaves Kochi||The first Air India Express flight to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to evacuate Indians citizens stranded there due to the COVID-19 pandemic left here on Thursday. The first flight for evacuating Indians, mostly Keralites, stranded in Abu Dhabi departed from Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) at 12.30 pm on Thursday, official sources said here. The flight is expected to reach Abu Dhabi airport at 3.15 pm. The scheduled take off the flight from Abu Dhabi at 4. 15 pm. It will return to Kochi carrying 177 adults and four infants, the sources told P T I. The first evacuation flight from Abu Dhabi is expected to land at Cochin International Airport at 9.40 pm, the sources said. Another Air India Express (AIE) flight to Dubai is scheduled from Kozhikode interantional airport at 1.20 pm. The flight, carrying 177 passengers and five infants, is expected to take off from Dubai airport at 5 pm. The flight is expected to land at Kozhikode airport at 10.30 pm on Thursday night, officials said. Around 2,000 people are expected to reach the state in the first five days onboard 13 flights, official sources said adding arrangements, including accommodation for quarantine and thermal screening at airports, have been made. In addition to the air evacuation, two naval ships have left for Maldives on Tuesday to bring back the Indian citizens. The Centre has made arrangements to operate 64 flights from May 7 to May 13 from the Gulf countries, Singapore, US, and UK among others to bring back stranded Indian nationals. Doctors and nurses of a government hospital in Kochi imparted training to 12 airline staff, including four pilots, on the steps to be taken while donning and doffing of personal protective equipment(PPE) suits, infection control practices to be followed in-flight and also the management of anticipated health emergencies during the flight. Two masks, 100ml sanitiser, a snack box and half litre of water will be ready in the seats of the passengers before take off. AIE has tied up with Central Warehousing Corporation to disinfect the aircraft before and after each trip.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-aircraft-to-evacuate-indian-citizens-stranded-in-uae-leaves-kochi-834605.html
07-05-2020||South||Vizag gas leak: How it happened||A poisonous gas leak from the LG Polymers unit on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam has killed at least seven people while scores of affected locals are rushed to hospitals where they are undergoing treatment. Some of them are reportedly in critical condition. The hazardous chemicals unit is located at Venkatapuram and at least five to six surrounding villages are severely affected. Dozens of men, women and children fell unconscious inhaling the gas in their sleep; some died falling into wells and ditches while fleeing the area in the dark. According to the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation Commissioner Srijana Gummalla, the gas leak took place at around 2.30 am (in the wee hours of Thursday). South Korean company LG Polymers makes polystyrene and expandable polystyrene, a versatile plastic used to make a wide variety of consumer products like toys and appliances. The company was established in 1961 as 'Hindustan Polymers' for manufacturing Polystyrene and its Co-polymers at Visakhapatnam. It merged with Mc Dowell & Co Ltd. of UB Group in 1978. LG Chemical considered India as an important market and in its global growth plan identified Hindustan Polymers as a suitable company for entering the Indian market through a 100% takeover. Taken over by LG Chem (South Korea), Hindustan Polymers was renamed as LG Polymers India Private Limited (LGPI) in July 1997. The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation on Thursday asked people staying near the chemical plant to stay indoors and use a wet cloth to cover their nose and mouth. The plant had reopened after being shut due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The gas leak incident in Visakhapatnam took place as a plastic factory that was closed during the lockdown, was being prepared for resumption of operations, NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said. He added that the leaked gas Styrene affects the central nervous system, throat, skin, eyes and some other parts of the body. "I think what we understand is that this plastic factory was being re-started for operations and the gas leaked after an accident occurred," he said. Andhra Pradesh DGP Damodar Goutam Sawang said, "Right now gas has been neutralised. One of the antidotes is drinking a lot of water. Around 800 were shifted to hospital, many have been discharged. An investigation will be carried out to see how this happened." He added that the situation is under control and the leakage has been taken care of. The GVMC said its officials are trying to reduce the impact of the gas leak by spraying water and public address systems are being used to ask people to use masks.Ambulances, fire engines and policemen have reached the spot, officials said. Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is closely monitoring the incident and has directed district officials to take steps to bring the situation under control. Andhra Pradesh Industries Minister MG Reddy said, "The company managing this has to be responsible for the gas leak. They will have to come and explain to us exactly what all protocols were followed, and what all were not followed. Accordingly, criminal action will be taken against them."  TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu has expressed shock over the incident and urged residents of the city to take necessary precautions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote on Twitter that he spoke with Union Home Ministry officials and National Disaster Management Authority regarding the situation "which is being monitored closely." Union Home Minister Amit Shah described the incident as "disturbing" and said the central government is closely monitoring the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-leak-how-it-happened-834606.html
07-05-2020||South||NHRC issues notices to Centre, Andhra Pradesh govt over deaths due to gas leak in Visakhapatnam||The NHRC did not prima facie observe any human error or negligence but felt that the fact that citizens have lost their lives and several fallen sick, is indeed a serious issue of violation of human rights. "Right to life of the victims has been grossly violated...The leakage of the gas has reportedly affected people within a radius of about three km. Many people could be seen lying on roads while some complained of difficulty in breathing and rashes on their bodies," the NHRC said. The NHRC asked the Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary asking for a detailed report on the status of the rescue operation, medical treatment provided to the people fallen sick and relief and rehabilitation provided by the state authorities to the affected families. The Andhra Director General of Police has been also been asked to submit a report about the registration of FIRs in the matter and status of the investigation being conducted. Besides, the NHRC directed the Union Ministry of Corporate Affairs to examine whether the norms laid down under relevant provisions of the law are being implemented at the particular industrial unit and to submit a report to the Commission. Responses from all these authorities are expected within four weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nhrc-issues-notices-to-centre-andhra-pradesh-govt-over-deaths-due-to-gas-leak-in-visakhapatnam-834631.html
07-05-2020||South||Kamal Haasan under fire for comments on Saint Thyagaraja||Tamil film icon Kamal Haasan is under attack from the Carnatic musicians for his controversial comments on Saint Sri Thyagaraja, considered one of the doyens of the Carnatic music world. During an interaction with popular Tamil actor Vijay Sethupathi on May 4 via Instagram, Kamal Haasan said Thyagaraja was “begging in praise of Lord Rama” which has irked many Carnatic singers. Well-known vocalist Palghat Ramprasad has launched an online petition seeking an apology from Kamal Haasan for his comments on Saint Thyagaraja. The petition launched on Change.Org has so far received 13,000 signatures and is growing. Also, a few popular Carnatic singers have also come out openly against Kamal Haasan for his statement on the doyen of one of the popular music forms in the country. “We strongly condemn your reference to him (Thyagaraja) ‘begging in praise of Lord Rama’. Every Carnatic musician, regardless of how they exhibit their affiliation to the outside world, deep within themselves know that they owe every bit of their basic livelihood and professional success, to Sri Thyagaraja’s contribution to Carnatic music,” the petition read. The specific reference to Thyagaraja and Lord Rama, also suggests the negatively pointed target “on a specific religion/caste, which is indeed an insult to the followers of this faith,” Ramprasad said in his petition. “Also, the Unchvrithi he did was owing to his Bhakthi, and not agendas outside of that,” Ramprasad said and pointed out that artists from the Carnatic music fraternity strongly object to the pointed reference of a holy saint. “We demand an apology for your malignant and despicable remarks against him carried out intentionally or otherwise,” he said. Popular Carnatic singer, Mahathi also took to Facebook to condemn Kamal Hassan’s statement. “I am an ardent fan of Shri Kamal Hassan’s artistic works, but his recent comment definitely irks. It is so important that an artist of his stature ensures that he chooses the right words and presents his points clearly,” she said. Mahathi also said none should hurt the feelings of others and try to change them to suit their own thoughts and ideologies. “Thus said, nothing/none can belittle the greatest Composer Saint Thyagaraja and his works,” she wrote. Saint Thyagaraja was born on May 4, 1767, in Tiruvarur in the then Thanjavur district. He is considered the doyen of the Carnatic music for his immense contributions to the music form. An annual music festival is held in Thiruvaiyaru, the town where Thyagaraja attained samadhi, in Thanjavur district every year in the month of January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-under-fire-for-comments-on-saint-thyagaraja-834633.html
07-05-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy announces Rs 1 crore relief to kin of people killed in Vizag gas leak||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday announced an ex- gratia payment of Rs one crore each to the kin of those killed in the styrene gas leak incident at LG Polymers Limited near here. The NDRF had put the death toll from the leak at 11. The chief minister announced a committee to probe into the mishap and also said the government would talk to the LG Polymers management seeking job for the kin of the deceased in any of its businesses. Speaking to reporters after conducting a review meeting, Reddy also announced Rs 10 lakh each to those undergoing treatment on ventilator support and Rs 25,000 to those who took treatment as out-patients after developing health complications due to inhalation of the styrene vapour. Earlier, he held a review meeting at the Andhra Medical College with District Collector Vinay Chand and others. The gas leak victims undergoing treatment in various hospitals would be paid Rs one lakh each. The 15,000-odd population in the five villages that were affected by the gas leak would be paid Rs 10,000 each, the chief minister added. Reddy further announced constitution of a high-level committee, headed by the Special Chief Secretary (Environment and Forests), to probe into the mishap and make recommendations to prevent such tragedies in the future. Earlier, he visited the King George Hospital and consoled the victims of the gas leak. Accompanied by his Deputy holding the health portfolio A K K Srinivas and Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Reddy flew down to the port city and went straight to the KGH. He met the gas leak victims undergoing treatment and enquired about their well-being. At the review meeting, the Collector informed the Chief Minister that the gas spread was limited to a 1.5 to 2 km area from the epicentre of the leak and that the locals were evacuated to safety. Of the two styrene tanks in the plant, the leak occurred from one that was holding about 1,800 kilo litres of the chemical.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-mohan-reddy-announces-rs-1-crore-relief-to-kin-of-people-killed-in-vizag-gas-leak-834647.html
07-05-2020||South||Lockdown: Visakhapatnam gas leak affects movement of at least 9 Shramik Special trains||The gas leak incident in Andhra Pradesh's Visakhapatnam on Thursday has affected movement of trains from the Simhachalam North railway station, including at least nine Shramik Special Trains ferrying stranded migrant workers to their home states, the railways said. Eleven people have died and 1,000 others exposed to styrene vapour that leaked from a chemical plant in Vishakhapatnam in the early hours of Thursday and quickly spread to villages in a five-kilometre radius. Staff at the Simhachalam north railway station, which is near the chemical plant LG Polymers started feeling suffocated and burning sensation in the eyes soon after the leak. Trains crossing the railway station stopped from 8:35 am to 12 noon. This affected movement of a number of trains, including 24 goods trains in 'Up' direction and 12 trains in the 'Down' direction. In railway parlance, 'Up' refers a train travelling towards its base, and a 'down' to a train travelling away from its base. Shramik Special trains which have been affected include the Abu Road-Visakhpatnam migrant special. Other Shramik Special rakes, controlled by the Visakhapatnam-headquartered Waltair division, whose movement have been affected are Darbhanga-Thrissur, Hatia -Eranakulam, Saharsa-Chintakunta, Palakkad-Jagannathpur. Some Shramik Special Trains have also been diverted via Vijayawada Railway station and Balharshah Railway Station. These include Ghatkesar-Katihar, Katpadi-Hatia, Lingampalli-Bhagalpur and Kozhikode-Katihar migrant specials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-visakhapatnam-gas-leak-affects-movement-of-at-least-9-shramik-special-trains-834652.html
07-05-2020||South||Liquor outlets open to boisterous welcome by consumers in Tamil Nadu, opposition sees red||After a dry spell of 43 days, liquor sale resumed at State-run outlets in Tamil Nadu except Chennai amid bursting of crackers and distribution of cakes by some boisterous booze lovers as zealous consumers lined up in front of the stores since early morning to get their quota. Opposing the move to reopen the liquor stores, DMK president M K Stalin, clad in black, held a placard and a black flag in front of his house here against restart of sale at booze shops. Slogans were raised briefly by DMK workers demanding the government to close down the outlets. Stalin had claimed that opening of liquor shops would lead to further increase in the spread of coronavirus. His party's allies including the MDMK and Left parties too opposed the move. Even before the shops were opened at 10 am in non- containment zones, the queue extended upto a few kilometers in several localities including those that fall under Cuddalore, Villupuram, Kancheepuram, Chengelpet and Tiruvallur districts. In all districts, since a chunk of shops fell either in the containment or buffer zones, these were not opened. Some youngmen burst crackers and distributed cakes in Tirupur and in Madurai district consumers performed the traditional 'aarti' to usher in the opening of liquor shops. Store workers sported masks and gloves while dispensing alcoholic beverages. People in Tirupur were seen in front of liquor stores with umbrellas as per a directive of the district administration to maintain social distance. Liquor outlets were shut on March 24 at 6 pm in Tamil Nadu and the stores are open from today between 10 am and 5 pm. The resumption of sale witnessed implementation of new rules to prevent crowding, and ensure that only people from the local areas bought liquor within the set daily ceiling (750 ml). Tokens were issued by authorities after checking Aadhar and other kinds of government issued cards for age / residential proof. Based on the token, consumers were sold liquor bottles. Wearing of masks and maintaining social distance were among the norms stipulated by the authorities. Barricades were put on the roadsides -ahead of the liquor stores- to ensure that people did not spill over into the roads. Police personnel used megaphones and public address system to regulate crowd and there were no reports of any untoward incidents. Fixing time slot for specific age groups, the police set 10 am to 1 pm for people aged over 50 years, from 1 pm to 3 pm for those between 40-50 years and to those below 40, 3 pm to 5 pm was the set time. Police had warned that tough action will be taken against those who ventured out from Chennai to outlets in neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur, Chengelpet and Kancheepuram to buy booze. Chennai Police Commissioner A K Viswanathan inspected several checkpoints in the fringes of the city as part of measures to ensure that people do not violate norms by travelling to far away places from the State capital areas to buy booze. Each and every store has been making brisk business which is expected to bring a good revenue for the Tamil Nadu government, which raised liquor prices to a maximum of Rs 20 from today. The government has not allowed liquor sale in Chennai city and those on the periphery including Tambaram (Chengelpet district), Poonamalle (Tiruvallur district) and Ayyappanthangal (Kancheepuram district). Though such areas fall under different districts, these come under the jurisdiction of Chennai police. Such areas under city police limits are disallowed from opening outlets while other areas in these districts have opened their outlets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/liquor-outlets-open-to-boisterous-welcome-by-consumers-in-tamil-nadu-opposition-sees-red-834669.html
07-05-2020||South||Vizag gas leak: Plant produced stuff used to make disposable plastic cutlery||LG Polymers India, the company behind the deadly styrene gas leak in Visakhapatnam that left at least nine dead and hundreds hospitalised, is a subsidiary of leading South Korean chemical firm LG Chem that had entered India in 1997 through the acquisition of a local company. The Vizag plant manufactures polystyrene (PS) that finds wide utility in the food-service industry as rigid trays and containers, disposable utensils, and foamed cups, plates and bowls. The company, according to its website, was established in 1961 as 'Hindustan Polymers' by the Shriram Group for manufacturing PS and its co-polymers at Visakhapatnam. It got merged with MC Dowell & Co Ltd of UB Group in 1978. Considering India as an important market for its aggressive global growth plans, LG Chem in July 1997 acquired Hindustan Polymers and renamed it as LG Polymers India Pvt Ltd (LGPI) in July 1997. The factory recorded 222.8 billion won (USD 181.8 million) in revenue and 6.3 billion won in net profit last year. In terms of sales, the parent company LG Chem was the 10th largest chemical company in the world in 2017. LGPI's Visakhapatnam factory was being prepared to reopen on Thursday after the lockdown when the accident took place. Company workers were preparing to restart the operation when the gas started to leak in the early hours. As much as 1,800 tonnes of styrene is said to have been in the storage tank when the leakage happened. Due to stagnation and changes in temperature, styrene could have resulted in auto polymerisation that could have caused vapourisation. Styrene gas is a flammable liquid that is used to make polystyrene plastics, fiberglass, rubber, and latex. The accident at the Visakhapatnam factory raised questions on the improper maintenance of chemicals in the industry and reminded of the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy, the world's worst industrial disasters. "LG Chemical has a very strong presence in Styrenics business in South Korea and has plans to establish an equally strong presence in the Indian market by the current product range of PS and EPS," the company says on its website. "Presently, LGPI is one of the leading manufacturers of polystyrene and expandable polystyrene in India. LGPI in true LG tradition is committed to excellence in product quality, service, and enriching customers through added value."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-leak-plant-produced-stuff-used-to-make-disposable-plastic-cutlery-834696.html
07-05-2020||South||Vizag gas leak: Company would be asked to explain, says AP Industries Minister M Goutham Reddy||Andhra Pradesh Industries Minister M Goutham Reddy on Thursday said the state government is airlifting 500 tons of inhibitors, as a foolproof safety measure, to neutralize the chemical substances in the Visakhapatnam gas leak incident and that the company would be asked to explain what went wrong. The leak was contained within an hour, he said. Maintaining that the administration was taking all precautionary steps, the minister said the factory was not being operated, but personnel were trying to get it to readiness. The substance in one of the storage tanks became vapours due to heat and got leaked and not because they were running the plant, he said. "Immediately after the leak what we have done is, we have neutralized that compound at that time itself. We applied inhibitors and neutralized that liquid compound," Reddy, who was in Hyderabad, told PTI, when asked about the government's response. The liquid compound converted into vapours and leaked through one of thechimneys, he said. The administration responded immediately after receiving information about the incident, he said. "We had 1500 tons of inhibitors.We pumped it and neutralized it.But, to make it foolproof further more, we are airlifting 500 tons.. We will fill the whole factory with this inhibitors," Reddy said. The administration is taking precautionary measures like watering the entire area. Such industries which fall under 'red' category have to maintain safety protocols 24x7 as they deal with hazardous chemicals and materials, he said. The government has laid out norms for such industries to be doubly careful against contamination of air, soil and towards value of life and environment, according to him. The management should have been proactive in ensuring that incidents do not happen and the company will be asked to explain to the government about the incident, he said. The state government is also in touch with the Korean embassy, he added. The LG Polymers unit was supposed to reopen post-lockdown on Thursday. "We are trying to reach out to the top management of the (South Korean) company...our immediate priority is to arrest the leak and ensure proper medicare to the affected people," the minister earlier said. "The officials are using inhibitors to neutralise the vapours. Slowly the vapours are reducing. It was not arrested fully. They are using neutralisers such as TBC (4-tert- Butylcatechol (TBC)," Joint Chief Inspector of Factories, Visakhapatnam, J Siva Sankar Reddy earlier told PTI. A major early morning chemical leak from a polymer plant near Visakhapatnam impacted villages in a five-km radius, leaving eight people dead and scores of citizens suffering from breathlessness and other problems, as the AP government ordered a probe into the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-leak-company-would-be-asked-to-explain-says-ap-industries-minister-m-goutham-reddy-834709.html
07-05-2020||South||Israel expresses 'deepest sympathies' to families of victims of Vizag gas leak||Israel on Thursday expressed its "deepest sympathies" to the families of the victims of the gas leak tragedy in Visakhapatnam and prayed for the early recovery of those affected. "I send my deepest sympathies to the families of the victims of the #VizaGasLeak and wish a speedy recovery to those injured," Israeli Foreign Minister Israel Katz said in a tweet. "The thoughts and prayers of the people of Israel are with the people of #Visakhapatnam as well as @DrSJaishankar and @AdhraPradeshCM at this time," Katz added. The styrene gas leaked from a chemical plant in Visakhapatnam in the early hours of Thursday, killing at least 11 people and impacting about 1,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/israel-expresses-deepest-sympathies-to-families-of-victims-of-vizag-gas-leak-834714.html
07-05-2020||South||All arrangements in place at Cochin port to receive evacuated Indian citizens||All arrangements as per government guidelines are in place at Cochin Port to facilitate the arrival of those who are being evacuated by the Indian government via sea route. The first Naval ship with around 750 Indian citizens from Male is expected to arrive Cochin Port on May 10, Port Trust officials said here. Few more are expected in the next few weeks, they said. Defence sources said here that INS Jalashwa participating in Indian Navy's "Operation Samudra Setu" has entered Male on Thursday morning for evacuating Indian citizens stranded there. The embarkation of citizens would commence from Friday, the sources said. Kochi city police commissioner Vijay Sakhare and Fort Kochi Sub Collector Snehil Kumar Singh visited the Samudrika Cruise Terminal on Thursday and reviewed the arrangements. They also held discussion with the officials from the District Administration, Police, Cochin Port Trust, CISF, Port Health Organisation, Immigration and the Indian Navy. Cochin Port Trust Chairperson M Beena also reviewed the operational preparedness and infrastructural arrangements with senior port officials in order to ensure hassle free evacuation of repatriates through the port. The disembarkation exercise, including the movement of passengers from the vessel to the Terminal area, will be carried out under the administrative control of the officer representing District Administration, Ernakulam and the Medical protocols as per the directions of the officer representing District Medical Authority, the Port Trust said. Before arrival at Cochin, on board the vessel, the Navy will get the self e-declaration data filled by all passengers and also identify the passengers symptomatic of COVID-19. The symptomatic passengers will be disembarked first, followed by other passengers (district wise) in batches of 50 persons, the Port Trust said in a statement here. Ambulance for transport of symptomatic passengers to quarantine centres will be arranged by District Medical Officer and District Administration. Separate zone has been earmarked for the symptomatic patients. The passengers disembarked will undergo further statutory verifications for clearances inside the Samudrika Cruise Terminal where Port Health Organisation will verify the self declaration form. BSNL will issue SIM cards to the passengers. Passengers will install Arogyasetu app in their mobiles while inside the Terminal. District Administration and District Police will provide basic guidance to the passengers. This will be followed by immigration and Customs checks, baggage scanning etc. The passengers, once cleared by all statutory organisations, will be transported to different districts in KSRTC buses (30 per bus) arranged by the Regional Transport Officer. Private vehicles with proper separations will be made available for certain category of passengers, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/all-arrangements-in-place-at-cochin-port-to-receive-evacuated-indian-citizens-834745.html
07-05-2020||South||Kerala tribal girl complains on Facebook against a 'false message' over reservation||Sreedhanya Suresh, the girl from Kurichiya tribal community in Wayanad district in Kerala who cleared the Civil Services and got appointed as an assistant collector in her home state itself, has approached the Facebook against a post doing the rounds that she cleared the Civil Services without opting reservation. A message quoting Sreedhanya that she opted to clear the Civil Services in the general category only as she was confident of her calibre was doing the rounds in the social media. The message with her picture also said that many used to tell her that since she would get reservation benefits she need not put in much efforts in studies. Sreedhanya told DH that it was a false statement and she approached the social media authorities to remove it. "I was wrongly quoted in the message. It is a false one. I already complained to the FB authorities and they were expected to remove it shortly," she said. With the message doing the rounds in the social media, discussions on reservation also got triggered. Many maintained that reservation to backward communities was initiated to ensure social justice and hence there was not need for social stigma over it. Sreedhanya, who secured 410th rank, got appointed as assistant collector on training in Kozhikode and will be joining soon. She grabbed much attention for her achievement and is more happy about her fresh posting. The present Kozhikode district collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao had motivated her to chase her dream to get into the civil services. After her post-graduation, Sreedhanaya used to work with the Wayanad district administration on contract basis. Seeram was then sub-collector at Wayanad and she was much impressed by his work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-tribal-girl-complains-on-facebook-against-a-false-message-over-reservation-834752.html
07-05-2020||South||Vizag gas leak: Glitch in refrigeration unit led to gas leak, says an official||A technical glitch in the refrigeration unit attached to the two styrene tanks at a chemical plant near here caused the vapour leak that killed 11 people and affected around 1,000 on Thursday, a senior district official said quoting a preliminary report. The leak at the LG Polymers Limited was so intense that a "only around 9.30 am could we understand what exactly it was as the thick fog that formed in the area cleared," District Collector V Vinay Chand said. "Styrene monomer is normally in a liquid state and is safe below a temperature of 20 degrees Celsius. But, because of the malfunctioning of the refrigeration unit, the chemical started gasifying," he said, quoting the preliminary report submitted by the Factories Department. The technical glitch caused the temperature in the chemical storage tank to rise above the safety level of 20 degrees, leading to gasification and consequent evaporation of styrene, he told reporters here. As many as 11 people, including children, were killed in the early morning gas leak, that raised fears of a serious industrial disaster.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-leak-glitch-in-refrigeration-unit-led-to-gas-leak-says-an-official-834753.html
07-05-2020||South||Chennai's Koyambedu Wholesale Complex: A sprawling market that is now in news for wrong reasons||Over 6,000 vendors who procure vegetables, fruits, and flowers from across India and sell them. Nearly 3,200 shops. 15,000 labourers. A footfall of more than 50,000 and movement of 1,000 lorries every day. This in nutshell is the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex built in an area of nearly 65 acres in the heart of Chennai – the unbuilt area is much larger with the entire area earmarked for the purpose spreading across 295 acres. The market comprises of 1,889 vegetable shops, 828 that sell fruits 470 flower shops. The market complex, huge in size with 18 entry and exit points, was inaugurated in 1996 after which all wholesale vendors shifted here from the over-crowded market in the narrow lanes of Kothavalasavadi in the city. Since then, Koyambedu is the go-to place for any vegetable wholesale vendor in Tamil Nadu. It will not be an exaggeration to say that the market never sleeps as it is abuzz with some activity or the other round-the-clock. Koyambedu is one of the largest perishable markets in Asia, generating crores of rupees in revenue every day, with vegetables, fruits, and flowers being sold in tons. Supplies for the wholesale market come from across Tamil Nadu, neighbouring states like Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, and Telangana and even from far-away Maharashtra and West Bengal. Lorries from various places arrive at the market a little after midnight to unload vegetables and other supplies after which the wholesale market comes to life at about 4 am. The supplies from here are not sent just to various parts of Tamil Nadu, but to Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, while specific items are transported to cities like Bengaluru. After wholesale business ends, vendors also get into retail business from 7 am as thousands of people come to the market to buy “fresh vegetables and fruits.” Besides, people also come in good numbers to purchase vegetables for marriages, family functions, temple festivals and other mass gatherings as it will be cost-effective to buy from the wholesale market rather than retail outlets in their own towns and cities. Though there are only 3,200 shops, the vendors could be easily more than 6,000 as many outlets are shared by at least two people who make business separately. “Around 4,000 vendors sell vegetables alone. And we get supplies from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, and other states, while supplies from here go to almost every district in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Puducherry. Sometimes, we also sell vegetables to vendors from Karnataka when they do not have the supply in abundance,” Abdul Khader, secretary of Koyambedu Vegetable Wholesale Merchants’ Association, told DH. The market complex is maintained by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) and managed by the Market Management Committee constituted as per the Tamil Nadu Specified Commodities (Regulation of location) Act 1996. The KWMC administration has legal protection and the MMC is an autonomous body that oversees the functions of the market. The MMC has a total of 18 members, including six representatives from vendors and meets regularly. The lanes of the market are also home to hundreds of migrant workers who earn through loading and unloading of goods. Koyambedu is located in proximity to the by-pass road that connects Chennai with Bengaluru and vehicles carrying vegetables need not enter the city while coming to or going from the market. And soon, the mofussil bus terminus came close to the market as well as the Maduravoyal by-pass that connects the Grand Southern Trunk (GST) Road (Chennai-Kanyakumari) with the Grand Northern Trunk (GNT) Road (Chennai-Kolkata), turning Koyambedu into a landmark in the city.  In 2012, the market was declared a green complex leading to the planting of 1,000 trees in the premises, which also houses a bio-methanation plant set up in 2006 at a cost of Rs 55 million to generate power from vegetable and fruit waste collected from the wholesale market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennais-koyambedu-wholesale-complex-a-sprawling-market-that-is-now-in-news-for-wrong-reasons-834763.html
07-05-2020||South||Boiler explodes at thermal plant in Tamil Nadu, 8 sustain burn injuries||A boiler at an NLC India thermal power plant exploded here on Thursday leading to a brief spurt of blaze causing serious burn injuries to two contract workers and comparatively milder wounds to six others, who have been hospitalised, an official said here. The mishap occured at the sixth unit of the Thermal Power Station-II, in the evening and two workers sustained serious burn injuries, an NLC official told PTI. "Due to pressure, there was an explosion in the boiler and it led to a flash fire injuring six workers and two technicians," he said when asked on the accident. The boiler is 84-meter high and when the accident occured, the workers and technicians were at a height of about 32 meters, the official added. Following the accident, the power generation was halted and the injured were rushed to a private hospital in Tiruchirappalli (about 147 km from here) after first aid and treatment at an in-house health facility. On preliminary assessment at the health facility, doctors said two contract workers sustained serious burn injuries while the wounds of others were comparatively minor. The TPS-II is a 1,470 MW facility and has seven 210 MW units currently generating 450 MW power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/boiler-explodes-at-thermal-plant-in-tamil-nadu-8-sustain-burn-injuries-834770.html
07-05-2020||South||MHA issues advisory on Visakhapatnam gas leak||The Union Home Ministry on Thursday gave a detailed account about the chemical which was leaked at a factory in Andhra Pradesh's Vishakhapatnam, claiming 11 lives so far. The ministry also issued an advisory for the general public about the things to be done and not be done following the gas leak. Styrene is a colourless, flammable liquid which is used to prepare polystyrene plastics, rubber and fiberglass. It is used in pipes, insulation, automobile parts, etc. According to the advisory, the exposure of styrene is through ingestion, inhalation or contact (skin). Common symptoms of styrene exposure include irritation to eyes, nose and skin; gastrointestinal and respiratory effects. Its long term exposure may cause central nervous system and kidney-related problems, depression, headache, etc. The Department of Health and Human Services USA has listed styrene as reasonably anticipated to be human carcinogen. If someone accidentally swallows styrene, give large quantities of water and do not induce vomiting, the advisory said. In case of contact with styrene, immediately flush eyes or skin with plenty of water for at least 15 minutes while removing contaminated clothing and shoes, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mha-issues-advisory-on-visakhapatnam-gas-leak-834775.html
07-05-2020||South||Vizag Gas Leak: From 'Hindustan Polymers' to LG Chem - three ownerships in six decades||Polystyrene, the material produced at LG Chem, Visakhapatnam is used everywhere – in home appliances like refrigerators, washing machines, air conditioners, televisions, computers, car parts and also medical applications. On Thursday morning, people, especially those residing in the unit’s adjacent villages, realised the dangers of Polystyrene’s base material – styrene monomer –  if not handled properly, as toxic vapours billowed out after a major chemical gas leak. The company, which is running at the same spot in R R Venkatapuram, on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam for about six decades has changed hands twice and is now managed by the South Korean home appliances major – LG. The plant was established in 1961 as "Hindustan Polymers" for manufacturing polystyrene and its copolymers. In 1978, it merged with Mc Dowell & Co. Limited of the UB Group. The ownership again shifted in 1997. Taken over by LG Chem (South Korea), Hindustan Polymers was renamed as LG Polymers India Private Limited (LGPI). “LG Chemical considered India as an important market and in its aggressive global growth plan identified Hindustan Polymers as a suitable company for entering the Indian market through 100 percent takeover,” the company says on its website.   LG Polymers India Private Limited’s Vizag unit, its sole production facility in India, is on 213 acres near to the famous Simhachalam temple from which it bought most of the land then. The unit which was far away from the city then is now surrounded by dense human habitation. On Thursday, hundreds of people from at least five villages around were gravely affected by the vapours that emanated from LG Chem.   A senior LG Chem official told DH that they follow the highest safety standards and are baffled by the mishap. “However, the primary cause is suspected to be the accumulation of styrene monomer vapours in the empty space of a 2500 MT silo, because of the over 40-days lockdown,” the official said. The management was preparing for restarting production from Friday and passes were issued for 45 employees. No casualties were reported from inside. Many of our around 500 workers are from neighbouring villages, the source said. “There is human loss around which is tragic. Being a company of global reputation, we are worried more than anyone else. We follow the highest safety standards but as of now, we are not in a position to comment on how this has happened,” the source said. LG Chem has 35-40 percent share in India’s Polystyrene business. LG Chemical has a very strong presence in Styrenics business in South Korea and has plans to establish an equally strong presence in Indian market by current product range of PS and EPS.  Presently LGPI is one of the leading manufacturers of Polystyrene and Expandable Polystyrene in India, according to their website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-leak-from-hindustan-polymers-to-lg-chem-three-ownerships-in-six-decades-834787.html
07-05-2020||South||Vizag Gas Leak: Foul toxic vapours from LG Chem chase locals to farther places||Residents of Gopalapatnam area, a densely populated Visakhapatnam suburb 3 kms from where LG Chem unit is located, woke up on Thursday to a nasty smell of chemical substances and severe burning in their eyes, nostrils, and throats. The situation worsened as one moved towards the chemical unit at R R Venkatapuram, where the Styrene vapours leak caused about 11 deaths and hospitalised over 300 locals. Several people dropped to the ground unconscious and children especially were badly affected after inhaling the toxic substance. Panicky Gopalapatnam residents left their homes towards the city, to their friends and relatives’ houses understandably unmindful of the COVID-19 restrictions. The mishap occurred at 3.30 am and the vapours spread to the NAD Junction, a busy intersection near to the Vizag airport and about 5 km away from LG Chem, by around 7 am. “My brother’s family in Gopalapatnam felt the strong foul smell at around 6 am and immediately rushed to our house in NAD. Later we too experienced bad odour and reactions including nausea. The impact continued till 3 pm,” Bhaskar Rao, a resident of an apartment complex opposite the Naval Science and Technological Laboratory, told DH. "Some families in our complex left the building to farther locations."   Vizag, a port city, and the Eastern Naval Command are heavily industrialised with many PSUs like the Vizag Steel Plant, Hindustan Shipyard, HPCL, NTPC, BHEL. There are many manufacturing units in the private sector too like the Pharma production units in the Paravada area. Despite the focus on safety standards and compliances, the city is not new to industrial mishaps, which claim many lives every year. A blast in August 2013 inside the HPCL Visakh refinery had killed 28 workers. “But I think this is the first time that an industrial mishap in Vizag has killed people outside while no fatalities are reported from inside,” says U S Sharma, former chief manager, public relations at HPCL Visakh and VP (South), Public Relations Society of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-leak-foul-toxic-vapours-from-lg-chem-chase-locals-to-farther-places-834807.html
07-05-2020||South||COVID-19: Tamil Nadu breaches 5,000-mark; 2 dead||Two women succumbed to COVID-19 as Tamil Nadu reported 580 fresh cases, a large number of which are linked to the Koyambedu hotspot here, pushing the tally to 5,409 in the state. Following the death of the two persons, the number of fatalities in the state climbed to 37. Of the 580 cases, 316 were from Chennai and the aggregate number of those infected in the state capital stood at 2,644 as on date, a health department bulletin said. After seeing an all-time single day high of 771 additions on May 6, the number of cases today slid to 580 even asthe number of samples being tested is steadily on the riseand totally 14,195 samples were tested today alone, the highest so far in a day. Cuddalore and Ariyalur as on date have 356 and 246 cases respectively, while Chengelpet near here has 158. Krishnagiri, which till recently had no cases has eight infected people as of now. "A large number of today's (Thursday) cases are linked to Koyambedu market," the bulletin said addingthat totally, 3,822 are active cases and the tally till date is 5,409. As many as 1,547 people have been discharged from various hospitals in the State following recovery today. A 56-year-old woman with co-morbid conditions from Tiruvallur and admitted to the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital succumbed to the illness on Wednesday and a 48-year- old woman treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Government hospital died of the contagion, it said. In a span of about three days (between May 4 and 7), Tamil Nadu has added 1,859 new cases and a vast majority of them are contacts linked to the Koyambedu market here, which has emerged as a big source for the spread of the contagion. On Monday, Tamil Nadu had 3,550 cumulative cases and today the aggregate number is 5,409. As seen in recent days, there were several children among the newly infected today also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tamil-nadu-breaches-5000-mark-2-dead-834829.html
07-05-2020||South||11 killed in gas leak from LG chemical plant in Vizag kills 11; over 350 hospitalised||A leak of chemical vapour from LG Polymers on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam on Thursday killed 11 people and hospitalised over 350 who inhaled the toxic substance. The incident took place in the wee hours when most of the residents in the surrounding villages were asleep. People in the state woke up to shocking visuals on TVs of men, women and children lying unconscious along roadsides. At least two locals died as they fell into ditches while trying to run away in the dark. The styrene monomer vapours from the plant owned by the South Korean industrial giant caused severe burning in the eyes, nostrils and throats, knocking unconscious dozens who were exposed to it in proximity. According to Vinay Chand, Visakhapatnam Collector, the disaster occurred at 3:45 am on Thursday due to safety standards failure. “The leakage was from a 2,500-mt tank of styrene monomer and the vapours spread in the surrounding areas. Venkatapuram village is the worst affected, with styrene concentration in the air high till 5.45 am,” he said. The gases also caused the death of 22 cattle and six dogs. Thousands of residents from the four villages close to the factory were evacuated. Doors of several houses had to be broken open to evacuate those sleeping inside. About 350 people were hospitalised, the CMO said. Andhra Pradesh police have reportedly booked cases on the LG Polymers management under various IPC sections like 304, 337, 338 at the Gopalapatnam Police Station. “The concentration of the chemical in the air will wither in a couple of days. Till then, the evacuees sheltered at various places in the city will not be allowed back into the villages,” officials said. Poorna Chandra Mohan Rao, director-operations, LG Chem, pointed at the lockdown for the mishap. “Not to put the blame on anyone, but the lockdown has become a bane for our industry. The styrene monomer has to be in continuous movement. We were maintaining refrigeration below 20 degrees, with 15 operating staff. But unfortunately, in one tank, the temperature in the upper part was higher and vapours thus formed stuck to the tank’s roof creating polymers which dropped into the liquid monomer below causing auto-polymerisation (causing vapour concentration and leakage).” “We are fighting the leakage using inhibitors (in the 2,500-tonne tank) with 1,800 tonnes of styrene monomer. We will give clearance for villager’s return once the danger fully subsides,” the LG official said. Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy visited Vizag and met the victims undergoing treatment at the King George Hospital. Reddy announced a compensation of Rs 1 crore for each of the families which suffered loss of life. An ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh will be given to those treated with ventilator support and Rs 1 lakh to those who are hospitalised for two or more days. Those given primary treatment will get Rs 25,000. Livestock loss will also be compensated, and Rs 10,000 each will be given to those living in the most affected areas, the chief minister said. A job to one family member will also be looked into. “Unfortunate that such a disaster happened at a globally reputed company. Not even an alarm was sounded by the company officials (to warn the public around),” Reddy said. The CM also announced a high-level committee headed by Special Chief Secretary of Environment and Forests, industries and pollution control board secretaries and collector and police commissioner of Visakhapatnam district to probe the incident and recommend measures to avoid such incidents in the future. Reddy also indicated that the LG Polymers unit might have to shift away from the area surrounded by large human habitations, based on the committee’s findings. Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Kishan Reddy said LG Polymers India Pvt Ltd has requested for airlifting of 500 kg of a chemical 4-Tertiary Butylcatechol (PTBC) from Daman airport to Visakhapatnam to be used in avoiding any further unforeseen reaction due to the leakage of styrene gas. He added that the chemical has been dispatched to Vizag along with handling experts from NDRF’s Pune unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/11-killed-in-gas-leak-from-lg-chemical-plant-in-vizag-kills-11-over-350-hospitalised-834882.html
07-05-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Two flights with NRIs from UAE reach Kerala||The first two flights under the Vande Bharat Mission for evacuating NRIs reached Kerala from UAE on Thursday night. While the first flight from Abu Dhabi reached Nedumbassery airport in Kochi with 181 passengers, including 49 pregnant women and four kids, by around 10:15 pm, the second flight from Dubai reached Kozhikode international airport in North Kerala with 182 passengers, including 19 pregnant women and five kids, by around 10:35 pm. Air India Express operated both the flights. All passengers were allowed to board the flights after preliminary COVID-19 screening. Natives of several districts came by both the flights. The passengers were being subjected to thermal scanning and other medical screenings at the airport. Those having any symptoms of coronavirus would be shifted to COVID-19 care centres, while others would be shifted to quarantine facilities in their respective districts. Pregnant women, aged persons and children with no symptoms would be allowed to go home on the assurance that they would remain in quarantine for 14 days. Local health workers would be monitoring them. Kerala government has made elaborate transportation arrangements at both the airports to various districts. Buses, taxis and ambulances were kept ready at the airport. Earlier, the Kerala Government informed the High Court that 1.15 lakh quarantine rooms were kept ready and 9,000 hotel rooms for those who wish to avail the facility by making payments were also kept ready.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-two-flights-with-nris-from-uae-reach-kerala-834887.html
07-05-2020||State||'Datta Meshtru' returns, now on Facebook with SSLC lessons||What is the relevance of arithmetic progression in daily life? "It may help one understand how an auto meter adds up the fare by the end of your commute," explains 'Datta Meshtru' during a Facebook Live session, teaching mathematics.   ‘Datta Meshtru’ is how senior JD(S) leader Y S V Datta is known popularly and he has taken to social media to help SSLC students awaiting exams amid the pandemic. To ensure that students get adequate revision before the exams, he began Mathematics and Physics classes on Facebook from Tuesday. On the first day, his Mathematics class on Arithmetic Progression attracted 4 lakh viewers, the senior JD(S) leader told DH. Beginning from 7 pm, over the next week, he planned to cover various topics in Physics and Mathematics, he said. What made the politician don the teacher’s hat on social media? "Schools have been shut and SSLC students are awaiting the exams without knowing when it will be rescheduled. I wanted to do my bit to help them revise till then," he explained. The teaching career of the 67-year-old former MLA from Kadur goes back to the 1970s. His tutorials in Rajajinagar attracted thousands of students. He has taught Mathematics to SSLC, PUC, BSc and engineering students over the past five decades. Some of his students include Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar, Food & Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah and former minister Goolihatti Shekar. According to Datta, he has taught 40,000 students over the years. Getting nostalgic, Datta remembered his journey as a teacher: "I joined PUC in National College, Basavanagudi in 1969 and began teaching part time to earn a living. Once I completed BSc in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics, I began tutorials. There used to be a thousand students per batch. My highest fee was Rs 20 for PUC and degree students. I used to waive fees of those who couldn't afford it. It was only in 1995 that I shut the tutorials to get into active politics. I resumed teaching students in my constituency, once I became an MLC in 2005. I have continued training students in my constituency, ever since." Based on feedback from his students, Datta Meshtru is also considering starting a YouTube channel in the coming months, to reach out to more students. But for now, he wants to help SSLC student tackle the impending exam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/datta-meshtru-returns-now-on-facebook-with-sslc-lessons-834447.html
07-05-2020||State||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Karnataka revises SOP for international passengers, scraps category C||Karnataka revised its standard operating procedure (SOP) for international passengers on Wednesday. The first group of passengers will arrive in the state on May 8. The number of categories has been reduced to two from three. Category A includes passengers symptomatic on arrival while Category B passengers are those asymptomatic on arrival. These are passengers who are either healthy or those having co-morbidities.  As per the revised SOP, the passenger will be released on the seventh day, if tested negative, to strict home quarantine for another seven days with stamping.  This norm is in contradiction to the Ministry of Home Affairs’ SOP for international passengers. As per the MHA’s SOP, the passengers (asymptomatic) will be under institutional quarantine for 14 days. Testing negative after 14 days, they will be allowed to go home and will undertake self-monitoring of their health for 14 more days. On the contradiction, Pandey said, "We don't take chances as we rely on tests instead of just quarantining. Other states may be depending on just 14-day institutional quarantine." "GOI SOP doesn't talk about Covid tests on international passengers. We have put an additional safety layer of three Covid tests on returnees -- one on arrival, second from 5-7 days and last on 12th day. This will ensure definite identification of positive cases even if they are asymptomatic and their subsequent treatment. We should look at the spirit behind the order," he added. On the 14-day additional reporting period for category B, he said, "It is implied as category B patients should report to us for 14 days after their first 14-day quarantine period is over." Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that the State would follow the Centre’s norms. Till Tuesday, Karnataka’s SOP had three categories. Under Category A (symptomatic), 14-day institutional quarantine at COVID-19 Health Care Centre was mandatory followed by 14-day reporting period. Under Category B (asymptomatic above 60 years with co-morbidities), seven-day institutional quarantine at hotel/hostel followed by seven-day home quarantine and 14-day reporting period had been recommended. The 14-day home quarantine and 14-day reporting period was mandatory for Category C (asymptomatic).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-30-karnataka-revises-sop-for-international-passengers-scraps-category-c-834541.html
07-05-2020||State||COVID-19: Death toll increases to 30 in Karnataka; total cases cross 700-mark||A 55-year old woman from Davanagere became the 30th COVID-19 related fatality in Karnataka, where a total number of infections has crossed 700-mark, with eight new positive cases being confirmed, the health department said on Thursday. The deceased woman was a known case of diabetes and hypertension, she was admitted with a complaint of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and was on a ventilator, the department said in its mid-day situation update. She died today at a designated hospital in Davanagere, it said. "Eight new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon... Till date 701 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 30 deaths and 363 discharges," the update said. The eight new cases reported include three from Davangere, indulging the deceased patient; also three from Kalaburagi, and one each from Hirebagewadi in Belagavi district and Bengaluru urban.  While four cases are contacts of patients earlier tested positive, three are with the history of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and one is a SARI case. Five among eight new cases are women and three are men.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-death-toll-increases-to-30-in-karnataka-total-cases-cross-700-mark-834602.html
07-05-2020||State||Vizag gas leak: Yediyurappa expresses grief, asks industries in Karnataka to take precautions||Citing the gas leak tragedy in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday asked managements of industries in the state restarting operations after COVID-19 lockdown to ensure all safety measures are in place. Expressing grief over the incident, which left eight people dead and over 100 hospitalised after styrene gas leaked at a polymer plant in Visakhapatnam early Thursday, he said it was unfortunate and such mishaps should not recur anywhere. In series of tweets, he said in the backdrop of the accident in Vishkhapatnam, managements restarting their industries in Karnataka after two months have to take this as a lesson of caution. "I appeal that production be started after ensuring all safety precautionary measures," the Chief Minister said. The state government has recently announced relaxations in the lockdown curbs in green and organge zones in the state and allowed several activities, including industrial operations. In another tweet, Yediyurappa said: "Extremely saddened by the incident in Visakhapatnam. My thoughts and prayers are with the families affected.@AndhraPradeshCM." The gas leak impacted villages within a five kilometer radius of the plant, according to officials. Former prime minister and JDS supremo H D Deve Gowda expressed shock over the incident and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend all required assistance to Andhra Pradesh. "I am shocked and deeply pained by the #VizagGasLeakage tragedy. My prayers are with those affected. @AndhraPradeshCM @ysjagan @ncbn I request @PMOIndia to extend all needed assistance," he tweeted. Former union minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas M Veerappa Moily and Leader of the Opposition in Karnataka Assembly and former chief minister Siddaramaiah were among others who expressed grief over the mishap. "...we find from the report that not much rescue operation has been taken. Emergent measures will have to be taken on a war footing to bring the situation under control. I pray that situation comes under control and all the affected are taken care," Moily said. Siddaramaiah in a tweet said: "Sad to know about the tragic gas leak in Visakhapatnam which has taken many lives. We stand in support with the people of Andra Pradesh in this hour of grief."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vizag-gas-leak-yediyurappa-expresses-grief-asks-industries-in-karnataka-to-take-precautions-834629.html
07-05-2020||State||Coronavirus Lockdown: Karnataka to resume inter-state train services for migrant workers||Receiving flak from all quarters for cancelling trains for transporting migrant workers, the Karnataka government on Friday wrote to nine states, including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand, seeking their coordination in receiving the labourers. The first train is likely to depart to Bihar on Friday afternoon. Following a meeting with realtors on Tuesday, the state government cancelled the arrangement of migrant workers. Activists, labour leaders and trade unions had criticised the government for the unilateral decision which violated the autonomy of labourers. State Revenue Department Principal Secretary N Manjunath Prasad has written to the nodal officers appointed in each of the nine states seeking to receive the migrant labourers.  "Consent has been received to run one special train (to Bihar) everyday from 08.05.2020 to 15.05.2020," the document said. The trains, however, will not be enough to carry more than 2.3 lakh workers who have registered in the Seva Sindhu web portal seeking inter-state transport services. Even the receiving states do not seem to be ready for the rush of workers. For instance, while the Karnataka had planned to send 16 trains (two trains per day for eight days) to Bihar to send the 53,000 migrant workers who want to go home, officials from Bihar have agreed to receive one train per day.  Due to the social distancing measures, a train is not allowed to carry more than 1200 persons. In that light, at least 44 trains need to be run to clear the rush of migrants. Thousands of workers have not even registered on the web portal due to the limits in accessing the police and BBMP workers over the last two days. Many have begun walking on the highways with a determination to reach their home towns on foot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-to-resume-inter-state-train-services-for-migrant-workers-834662.html
07-05-2020||State||All merchants, including liquor outlets, may open from today||Barring containment areas, all shops in the city, including liquor shops, are allowed to open from Friday. But the conditions are that social distancing norms have to be adhered to, and masks have to be mandatorily worn. Crowding has to be avoided and the shop owners themselves are responsible for their security.  The decision to relax lockdown norms was taken during a meeting chaired by Law and District In-charge Minister J C Madhuswamy on Thursday.  As per new guidelines, MSIL and liquor outlets are allowed to remain open from 9 am to 7 pm. The CCTV in these outlets needs to be turned on 24/7. Excise officials are tasked with the job of ensuring this, the minister said.  All other merchants, barring those in containment areas are allowed to open their shops from 10 am to 7 pm. They should install CCTV cameras and hand out sanitizers to their customers before entering the store. They have to follow social distancing norms while letting customers into shops.  All connecting roads into the city have to be mandatorily checked and check-posts have to be erected wherever necessary. Prohibitory Orders (Sec 144 CrPC) will be in force across the district till May 17 as per government orders said Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/all-merchants-including-liquor-outlets-may-open-from-today-834792.html
07-05-2020||State||MLA slams CM B S Yediyurappa for not announcing relief for farmers||MLA D C Gowishankar has flayed Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for announcing a special package for flower growers, washermen, Savitha Samaja, auto and taxi drivers; but not for farmers.  Speaking to reporters in the city on Thursday, he said that farmers had suffered losses from the day the lockdown was announced and their produce had not fetched them the right price. Many have suffered losses because there was no market for their produce. "By not coming to the aid of farmers, the government has let them down," he flayed.  He urged the CM to waive farm loans the way H D Kumaraswamy had done during his term as CM. "The DC should have called a meeting of all MLAs in the district and discussed the measures taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19. But he has not done any such thing so far," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mla-slams-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-for-not-announcing-relief-for-farmers-834793.html
07-05-2020||State||Lockdown won’t continue if people make it work: Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai||Lockdown 3.0 need not continue beyond May 17 if people cooperate and make it a success, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Thursday.  “The government has effectively implemented the first and second lockdowns. But the success of the third lockdown is crucial. Relaxation has been given for agriculture, industries, shops and other establishments; the onus is on people to make the lockdown a success while carrying out economic activities,” Bommai told reporters. “If Lockdown 3.0 doesn’t yield expected results, then it’ll be inevitable for the Centre and state governments to take other measures,” he warned, while urging people to comply with the government’s orders on wearing masks, strict quarantines, social distancing, reporting those who are ill and regulation of interstate travel.  Bommai, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, Tourism Minister CT Ravi and Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan have emerged out of home quarantine after they came in contact with a journalist who tested positive for COVID-19. “We tested negative and still went into home quarantine as a precaution. We did a second test and all of us are negative,” Bommai said. The minister accused the Opposition Congress of spreading false information on the issue of migrant workers. “The government has not stopped migrant workers from returning to their native states. We haven’t stopped the trains,” he said. “Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal didn’t want us to send their workers back. Train services can be made available only if the other states agree. But the states are wary because they’ll have to arrange for quarantine and other facilities,” he said.  Sudhakar cautioned that relaxation provided under Lockdown 3.0 did not mean that the covid-19 theat was gone. “Some think so, but it’s wrong. Coronavirus hasn’t gone.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lockdown-won-t-continue-if-people-make-it-work-karnataka-home-minister-basavaraj-bommai-834808.html
07-05-2020||State||Government will back farmers completely, says Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said his government is clear in its stand on extending every possible help to the farmers. The Chief Minister spoke to the farmer-leaders of the state, who wanted their concerns to be heard and addressed, with regard to the problems the agrarian community has been facing in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown. "We will soon make our position clear on supporting the farmers. We will not allow any hindrance to come in the way of agriculture activities," Yediyurappa told the farmer- leaders. The Chief Minister told the delegation that the pre-monsoon activities are in full swing in the state. The government has also set up help centres and been providing agriculture equipment on rent, the Chief Minister said. In most of the places, at least 80 per cent of the standing crops have been harvested. Arrangements have been made to bring equipment from neighbouring states to harvest the standing crop, he said. Yediyurappa said fertilisers and seeds are available in abundance in the state. He informed the farmer-leaders about the arrangements made to transport flowers, vegetables and fruits to other states. Similarly, the market has been developed for the farmers to sell their products, said the Chief Minister. He said the government is working out a compensation for farmers who lost their crops due to hailstorm in Raichur, Koppal and Ballari. Agriculture Minister B C Patil, Horticulture Minister Narayana Gowda, Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar and Development Commissioner Vandita Sharma were also present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/government-will-back-farmers-completely-says-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-834831.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Karnataka gives Rs 1,610-cr balm to distressed sections||To assuage the humanitarian crisis caused due to the COVID-19 lockdown, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday announced a Rs 1,610-crore special package that promises direct cash benefits to farmers, labourers, drivers, wavers and barbers. "No state has tried to provide such a measure," Yediyurappa told a news conference. "We have announced these measures despite financial constraints. All developmental works will be put on hold to implement this package," he said.  Flower growers will get Rs 25,000 per hectare as compensation for the losses they have suffered during the lockdown. "Since all temples are closed and there are no festivals or other events, there is no demand for flowers," Yediyurappa said. "It is estimated that farmers cultivated flowers on about 11,687 hectares."  Yediyurappa also promised benefits to farmers who have grown vegetables and fruits. "Due to the lockdown, they were not able to market their produce. The government has decided to announce a relief package for these farmers, but we are studying this."  Washermen (dhobis) and barbers who were deprived of earnings during the lockdown will get a one-time relief of Rs 5,000. "This will benefit about 60,000 washermen and 2.30 lakh barbers," Yediyurappa said.  A similar compensation will be given to autorickshaw and taxi drivers. "There are an estimated 7.75 lakh auto and taxi drivers who will get Rs 5,000 each." To prevent migration, Yediyurappa announced an additional Rs 3,000 financial assistance for construction labourers. The government has already paid Rs 2,000 to 11.80 lakh construction workers out of the total 15.80 lakh who are registered. "The remaining 4 lakh construction workers will get Rs 2,000 as soon as their bank account details are verified. With the additional Rs 3,000, all construction workers will totally get Rs 5,000," he said.  The government also announced a new scheme for weavers. Under the Nekarara Sammana Yojane, the government will deposit Rs 2,000 directly into the bank accounts of 54,000 handloom weavers, Yediyurappa said.  The COVID-19 situation, Yediyurappa said, is not yet over. "With everybody’s support, we have been successful in tackling the crisis. We also need to keep the economy going. Ultimately, it is the responsibility of citizens to keep the virus from spreading," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-gives-rs-1610-cr-balm-to-distressed-sections-834446.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: HCG Cancer Hospital gets permission for clinical trials in humans||Bengaluru-based HCG Cancer Hospital has received permission to conduct clinical trials in humans for Cytokine therapy for treating COVID-19 patients. The hospital completed studies in animals recently. "Our team of doctors at HCG, along with iCrest, have been working to develop the cytokine mediated anti-COVID therapy," a statement from the hospital read. This work was started in the immunology lab at HCG hospital to create a treatment for COVID-19 with assistance from Lancet Resource Centre. The team working on this are Dr Gururaj Rao, Dr Jyothsna and Dr Vishal Rao. This is the same team of doctors who have started Phase-I clinical trials in convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients and recently extracted plasma from two COVID-19 patients who h1ad recovered from the disease. "We have made a concoction of cytokines which are released by our immune system against a virus which are known to be effective against COVID-19 too. Unfortunately, patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 are unable to produce them. What we have done is using cytokines of healthy donors," said the statement. "We will hopefully create the first set of injections soon for Phase 1 clinical trials as we have received clearance from the Drug Controller General of India now," the statement further added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-hcg-cancer-hospital-gets-permission-for-clinical-trials-in-humans-834572.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kodava family hockey tournament pioneer no more||Pandanda Kuttappa, who had conceived the Kodava family hockey tournament, passed away at his residence in Basaveshwara Nagara in Bengaluru on Thursday. He was 86. The tournament, being played from 1997, has gone bigger with each passing year and over 300 teams participating in the event every year. He is survived by two daughters and a son. He was serving in the State Bank of India and had keen interest in sports. The Kodava family hockey tournament has attracted the attention of all sports lovers over the years and had even entered the Limca Book of Records. Kuttappa used to oversee the tournament for the last 22 years and was taking part in the inaugural ceremony every year. As per the wish of Kuttappa, the family hockey tournament was cancelled in 2019 due to the floods that had ravaged Kodagu. This year too, the tournament was cancelled following the coronavirus pandemic. Through the tournament, he wanted to bring Kodava families together and wanted to harness the latent passion for hockey among the community members. Several players who played in the family hockey tournament have played in state and national level hockey tournaments. Over the years, the tournament had turned into a festival during April/ May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kodava-family-hockey-tournament-pioneer-no-more-834604.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Jharkhand labourer dies in Chikkodi||A labourer on his way from Khanapur in the district to Jharkhand by walk died in the premises of General Hospital at Chikkodi on Thursday. Team of 12 labourers from Jharkhand who had been stuck up in Khanapur due to lockdown were on their way towards home state by walking, as there was no other alternative to travel and had reached Chikkodi on Thursday. Babalal Singh (42) resident of Garhwa in Jharkhand who had become fragile due to walk and not getting proper food for the last few days died in the premises of General Hospital at Chikkodi. Chikkodi Tahsildar Subhash Sampgavi informed DH that 12 labourers from Jharkhand had left Khanapur on Tuesday night by walk. They had meals at the village on Wednesday night. Police detained them near Ankali cross on Thursday and were provided breakfast and all were taken to the hospital for medical tests. Singh died in the hospital premises and it could be due to cardiac arrest. Labourers did not starve and had got food on the way to Chikkodi including breakfast made available by police on Thursday, he said.  Team of labourers were working for a company involved in the construction of bridges. Due to lockdown, they did not have work, hence were on their way home, Sampgavi stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jharkhand-labourer-dies-in-chikkodi-834673.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa directs officials to check tax leakages||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday directed commercial tax department officials to adopt strict measures to control tax leakages, with economic activities restarting in the state after easing of COVID-19 lockdown. He asked officials to initiate action against those using fake E-Way bill, misuse of time given for movement of freight, CMO in a release said. Yediyurappa reviewed the progress made by Commercial Tax department during the meeting with officials here. Naturally, due to the COVID-19 lockdown, tax collection have come down, the Chief Minister said and directed officials to take measures to compensate this in the days to come. He also advised officials to ensure that no businessman was harassed as the economic activities have just restarted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-directs-officials-to-check-tax-leakages-834694.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karantaka to have two Gulf evacuation flight: Sadananda Gowda||The Centre has arranged two flights from Gulf countries to Karnataka to bring stranded people from the state immediately, said Union Minister for Fertilizer D V Sadananda Gowda on Thursday. The first flight from Dubai to Mangaluru will arrive on May 12, Gowda told Deccan Herald. Another flight from Doha to Bengaluru will be arranged soon and the exact date is yet to be decided, Gowda said.  These two flights are immediate arrangements and there are few more flights in the second stage of evacuation, Union Minister added  After complaints from Karantaka that no flights were arranged for Karnataka from Gulf under the Centre's massive evacuation plan, Gowda spoke to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on the issue. " Jaishankar has agreed to arrange special flights for exclusively for Karnataka passengers," Gowda said. Around 1903 people from Karnataka residing in Gulf countries have registered themselves to return to the state in evacuation flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karantaka-to-have-two-gulf-evacuation-flight-sadananda-gowda-834832.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Relief package: Kateel flays ex-CM||BJP state president and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel lashed out at former chief minister Siddaramaiah for criticising the economic relief package announced by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. He said that the package, announced by the government, provides relief to different sections of the society. It is not right on the part of Siddaramaiah, who has served as a chief minister in the past, to criticise without any basis, he remarked.  “It is surprising that the former chief minister has no knowledge as to how much a farmer spends to cultivate flowers. Siddaramaiah’s statement that farmers spendRs 50 lakh per acre shows his lack of knowledge,” Kateel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/relief-package-kateel-flays-ex-cm-834852.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Davangere records fourth COVID-19 death; infections jump to 47 ||A 55-year-old woman (P-694) from Jalinagar in Davangere, with complaints of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and diabetes, lost her battle against Covid-19 at Chigateri District Hospital on Thursday. With this, the number of Covid-19 fatalities in the district has reached 4. The woman’s throat swab sample had returned positive for novel coronavirus hours after her death.  Patient-694, a diabetic, was admitted to Bapuji Hospital on May 1 after she developed cough and fever. On May 3, she was shifted to Chigateri district hospital following a complaint of breathlessness. Her throat swab sample was sent to the lab for examination.  On Thursday, Davangere saw two more women test positive for Covid-19. The district had recorded just three cases till April 28. But it saw a flurry of cases in the last five to six cases. As on May 7, Davangere has 41 active cases. Meanwhile, Dhanakshirur in Badami taluk, Bagalkot district, witnessed three more women, including an 80-year-old woman and a teenage girl, contract virus. The village now has 16 Covid-19 cases - all reported in two days.  All cases are said to be the contacts of a pregnant woman who tested positive for the virus, last week. More than 80 primary and secondary contacts from Dhanashirur have been quarantined at a residential school at Chikkamuchchalagudda.  3 new cases in Kalaburagi   A 35-year-old man from Kareem Nagar, a lorry driver who used to transport onion to Hyderabad, believed to have contracted virus from Patient 642, a native of Kodli village in Kalagi taluk, during one of the trips. A couple - a 41-year-old man and his 35-year-old wife, from Islamabad Colony in the city, both contacts of Patient 641, have tested positive for the virus. These three cases have taken the district Covid-19 cases count to 67. Of which, 29 patients have been cured and discharged. The number of deaths has remained six. Hirebagewadi in Belagavi taluk on Thursday reported a fresh case after a lull of four days.  A 13-year-old girl (Patient 700), a primary contact of Patient 364, tested positive for Covid-19. The district’s tally of confirmed cases has reached 74.Two patients (P-284 and P-300) were discharged from BIMS Hospital post-recovery on Thursday. With this the number of recoveries has increased to 36, said Dr Vinay Dastikoppa, BIMS Director. Deputy Commissioner S B Bommanahalli told reporters that the swab samples of all 37 media persons in the district have returned negative. Infections continue to mount in Kalaburagi. The district saw three fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday. 12th case in Dharwad The days also saw a 35-year-old man from Hosayellapur in Dharwad test positive for Covid-19. This is the 12th case in Dharwad district and 705th in the state||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/davangere-records-fourth-covid-19-death-infections-jump-to-47-834853.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Include tailors, cobblers in special package'||A BJP delegation met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday and urged him to include several other communities that got “left out” out of the Rs 1,610 crore special package.  Yediyurappa was told by the delegation that the Vishwakarmas, Purohits, Archakas, tailors, cobblers, pot makers, those involved in flower-business and making of jute products, handicraft artisans and cooks need to be included in the special package.  “These categories of people are also in distress on account of lockdown. We need to take care of their interests also,” the delegation said in a memorandum to the CM. The delegation consisted of BJP general secretary N Ravi Kumar, MLAs Narasimha Nayak (Raju Gowda), Shivaraj Patil, B C Nagesh and ex-MLA Prathapgouda Patil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/include-tailors-cobblers-in-special-package-834854.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||16 primary contacts of B’luru constable test negative||Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi on Thursday clarified that there is no need to panic as all the 16 primary contacts of Belathuru in Hanur taluk, family members of Bengaluru-based police constable have tested negative for Covid-19. It may be mentioned that Chamarajanagar district has maintained the 'green zone' tag with no Covid cases so far. It had returned to normalcy a few days ago and economic activities resumed. However, after the police constable from Bengaluru, suspected of Covid-19, visited his in-laws house in Belathuru on Monday, there was  panic. The DC said, in all, 16 primary contacts of the constable and 22 secondary contacts were shifted to a quarantine facility in Chamarajanagar immediately, after the constable's results claimed that he was positive for Covid. However, on Wednesday, the reports claimed that the constable tested negative, citing confusion over another police personnel with the same name. However, the constable's samples have been sent to the Institute of Virology in Pune for retest, the DC said. Meanwhile, all 16 primary contacts, who have tested negative, would be sent back to their homes, and would continue in home quarantine for 14 days. The results of the secondary contacts are awaited, the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/16-primary-contacts-of-b-luru-constable-test-negative-834857.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmer woman with 3 tonne ash gourd appeals for help||A farmer woman in Balkunje in Mangaluru taluk is seeking help to market the ash gourd harvested by her. After availing loan from the bank, Teresa D’Souza had taken up farming and had harvested three tonnes of ash gourd. Owing to the lockdown, she was unable to sell theproduce. She has appealed to the authorities, to help her in selling the harvest. A kg of ash gourd fetches Rs 30 in the market. She is ready to sell for a lesser price aswell. Manohar Shetty N, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Hasiru Sene organising secretary of Dakshina Kannada unit has urged District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary to intervene and help the woman who is in distress. The district administration and state government should come to the rescue of the farmers who are in distress, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmer-woman-with-3-tonne-ash-gourd-appeals-for-help-834858.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Nearly 33% of ophthalmologists suffering from depression: Survey ||A survey done among 2,355 ophthalmologists across the country, including 255 from Karnataka, by the All India Ophthalmological Society, has revealed that nearly one-third of the respondents were suffering from mild to severe depression.  According to the survey, as many as 504 have mild depression while 153 and 101 have moderate and severe depression, respectively. A total of 23 respondents have daily suicidal thoughts. Akin to dentists who had to shut shop following government orders as their profession was risky in the wake of Covid-19, ophthalmologists also shut clinics and private practices, with only emergencies like eye injuries and eye infections being tended to. All these doctors were connected with psychologists and psychiatrists for mental health interventions. Dr Rohit Khanna from LV Prasad Eye Hospital, and primary author of the study said, “In Karnataka, nine doctors have severe depression. These are among the ophthalmologists who responded. A total of 22 have moderate depression while 53 have mild depression. The questionnaire we sent out is a standard test used to assess depression. Among the doctors whose specialties have the highest risk are those of dentists, eye doctors and pulmonologists.” The questionnaire sent out to the eye doctors had 50 questions like: What kind of support do you have? What kind of support is your employer providing you? Has your income been affected during the lockdown? How long can you sustain if the lockdown continues? Are you able to meet your monthly expenses? It has also a section pertaining to mental health.The nine mental health questions had to be answered by the doctors with one of four answers - Not at all, several days, more than half the days, and everyday. The questions ranged from: Little interest or pleasure in doing activities? Feeling down or depressed or hopeless? Trouble falling asleep or sleeping too much? Feeling tired or lack of energy? Eating too much or loss of appetite? Feeling bad about yourself? Trouble concentrating in reading newspaper or watching TV?Feeling like hurting yourself or thought that you were better off dead? “Currently, we are providing the doctors diagnosed with depression with a contact number that connects them to a group at Tata Institute of Social Sciences, which in turn connects them to psychologists and psychiatrists. This is our way of helping them. The numbers may be higher as this is based only on the responses we have received,” Khanna said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nearly-33-of-ophthalmologists-suffering-from-depression-survey-834869.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Strict action against tax fraud, says CM||In order to prevent leakage of GST revenue, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa directed authorities Thursday to initiate strict action against those involved in tax frauds. Noting that there were cases of fake e-way bills and misuse of various provisions while transporting goods, Yediyurappa said that the government would treat such violations in a stern manner. He also directed officials of the Commercial Tax department to initiate measures to bridge the revenue loss suffered during the lockdown. According to sources, against a target of Rs 8,000 crore for March, Commercial Tax department could collect only Rs 2,500 crore due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/strict-action-against-tax-fraud-says-cm-834870.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||‘Lockdown won’t continue if people make it work’||Lockdown 3.0 need not continue beyond May 17, if people cooperate and make it a success, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday. “The government has effectively implemented the first and second lockdowns. But the success of the third lockdown is crucial. Relaxation has been given for agriculture, industries, shops and other establishments. The onus is on people to make the lockdown a success while carrying out economic activities,” Bommai told reporters. “If lockdown 3.0 doesn’t yield expected results, then it’ll be inevitable for the Centre and state governments to take other measures,” he warned. The home minister urged the people to comply with the government’s orders on wearing masks, strict quarantine, social distancing, reporting those who are ill and regulation of inter-state travel. Bommai, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, Tourism Minister C T Ravi and Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan have emerged out of home quarantine after they came in contact with a journalist who tested positive for Covid-19. “We tested negative and still went into home quarantine as a precaution. We did a second test and all of us are negative,” Bommai said. The minister accused the Opposition Congress of spreading false information on the issue of migrant workers. “The government has not stopped migrant workers from returning to their native states. We haven’t stopped the trains,” he said. “Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal didn’t want us to send their people back. Train services can be made available only if the other states agree. But the states are wary because they’ll have to arrange for quarantine and other facilities,” he said. Sudhakar cautioned that relaxation provided under lockdown 3.0 did not mean that the Covid-19 threat was gone. “Some think so, but it’s wrong. Coronavirus hasn’t gone.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-won-t-continue-if-people-make-it-work-834874.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Firms forcing migrant workers to stay, say trade unions||There is a reason why Karnataka saw a 47% increase in migrant workers since 2011. They came here in search of employment opportunities.  However, the government’s decision to cancel trains meant to ferry them back to their native states and the subsequent U-turn has thrown thousands of lives out of gear. According to data, Karnataka is home to 65.45 lakh migrant labourers, most of whom are blue-collared workers severely hit by the lockdown. Their number has grown by over 21 lakh since 2011, as a large number of them flocked the southern states looking for jobs. ‘Not aware of transport’ Even as many migrant labourers struggled to return home, trade unions allege that some firms were forcefully retaining employees and preventing them from leaving, while many were still kept in the dark about any transport arrangements made. According to data compiled by the Labour Department, the population of migrant labourers was 44.3 lakh in 2011, against the state’s population of 6.1 crore. As of 2019, while the state’s population increased to 6.83 crore, the population of migrant labourers grew to 65.45 lakh. A demand to transport even 20% of them - around 13 lakh labourers - is expected to cause a logistical nightmare for authorities. Social activist Vinay Sreenivasa told DH that a majority of the migrant labourers were blue-collar workers, who were among the worst-hit during the lockdown. “Many of them are still awaiting salaries for the month of March. Many of them did not have access to ration kits distributed by the government and civic groups,” he said. Despite the government’s decision to resume train services, he said that migrant labourers were already moving to their native states from different parts of the state in their hundreds. S Varalakshmi, state president, Centre of India Trade Unions, said the government did not create awareness among migrant labourers on train services to different states. “There is a conscious effort to prevent their move over fears of economic activity coming to a standstill,” she said, adding that efforts are being made by the government to convince the labourers to stay back. She alleged that a few firms have used force to retain employees and prevent them from travelling back, alleging that it was ‘bonded labour’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-firms-forcing-migrant-workers-to-stay-say-trade-unions-834876.html
07-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Helpline that’s an umbilical cord to med care for expectant mothers, newborns||In an unprecedented scenario, the coronavirus pandemic has led to even hospitals shutting down non-emergency services. As a result, both expecting and lactating mothers are now placed in a difficult situation. As pregnancy and postnatal period need support and care, Bangalore Birth Network (BBN), an NGO, launched the Covid-19 MotherChild Helpline on April 3. The Helpline consists of a team of counsellors who are trained in guidelines from the Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India, Indian Academy of Paediatrics and World Health Organisation to help women and families with authentic information regarding Covid-19 care. For any mother or child-related information or help, one has to give a missed call to 7412900045. An SMS link to a short survey is immediately sent to the caller. The link contains questions such as the month of pregnancy or age of the infant, preferred language, hospital, doctor, etc. A trained counsellor returns the call within 24 hours. The free, phone-based counselling service is available to anyone throughout India in eight languages i.e., English, Kannada, Hindi, Marathi, Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam and Punjabi. “We launched the MotherChild Helpline to help families with the information they are looking for or even connect them to medical professionals who are still providing their service during the lockdown,” says Asha Kilaru, co-founder, BBN. They have received over 30,000 queries on Facebook and other social media platforms. The helpline has received over a hundred calls so far on pregnancy issues, planning for birth without a family member and postnatal care. “The queries include concerns about check-ups, scanning, ensuring the safety of the mother and the baby, and how to breastfeed if tested positive for coronavirus. There is also a worry around missing the child’s vaccinations,” says Dr Madhavi Latha, a childbirth educator at BBN. “With the conflicting information available on the internet, most callers are confused and worried. The worry turns into panic when they are not able to gain access to their doctors for various reasons. The counsellor addresses their initial query and then follows up with callers on a regular basis to ensure they are receiving continuous support from their doctor. If there are updates on vaccinations, previous callers are sent an SMS about the same,” says Sapna Krishnan, a counsellor at BBN.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/helpline-that-s-an-umbilical-cord-to-med-care-for-expectant-mothers-newborns-834883.html
07-05-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||One minor tests positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi||A minor tested positive for the novel coronavirus. A 13-year-old girl from Hirebagewadi village in Belagavi taluk identified as P700 tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. She is a contact of P364 and has been admitted at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/one-minor-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-belagavi-834671.html
07-05-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Labourers allege being abused by MLA in Belagavi||A section of labourers from Bailhongal town in the Belagavi district in Karnataka alleged that they were abused by MLA Mahantesh Koujalagi when they approached him for food kits. The incident that is said to have taken place on Wednesday came to the fore on Thursday. Labourers mostly women had approached Koujalagi for help when he was on his way back home from morning stroll on Wednesday. It is alleged that the enraged lawmaker asked them to work and meet their needs as all shops were open. A video of Koujalgi asking the people to work instead of seeking help went viral on social media. Koujalgi, when contacted, was not available for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/coronavirus-lockdown-30-labourers-allege-being-abused-by-mla-in-belagavi-834678.html
07-05-2020||West||380 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat, tally 6,625, 28 deaths||Gujarat reported 380 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, 291 of them in Ahmedabad, taking the number of COVID-19 cases in the state to 6,625, while the death toll due to the pandemic rose to 396 with 28 patients dying. Ahmedabad reported 291 fresh coronavirus cases and 25 deaths during the day, said Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi. The number of COVID-19 cases in Ahmedabad rose to 4,735 and the death toll reached 298, she said. "Fatality rate in Gujarat is around 5.8 per cent, and those who are dying are mostly elderly and have underlying diseases," Ravi said, adding that 13 out of 28patients who died on Wednesday also suffered from other diseases. The state government is also implementing the suggestions of top specialist doctors as well as doctors from Gujarat who are working abroad, and this has improved the recovery rate, she said. The number of patients getting discharged from hospitals will improve in days to come, she said. Of the 14 districts which reported fresh cases on Wednesday, Surat reported 31, Vadodara 16 and Banaskantha 15. Gandhinagar, Sabarkantha and Vadodara also reported a death each of coronavirus patients on Wednesday. On the other hand, 119 patients were discharged during the day, taking the number of recovered patients in Gujarat to 1,500. Ahmedabad reported the highest number of recovered patients at 74, while Surat reported recovery of 32 patients on Wednesday. The number of active cases in Gujarat now stands at 4,729, with 26 patients on ventilator and the condition of 4,703 others being stable, Ravi said. District-wise, Surat has reported second highest number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat at 662, followed by Vadodara at 421. Among other districts that have reported high number of cases in Gujarat are Bhavnagar (82), Rajkot (62), Anand (76), Panchmahal (51), Banaskantha (64), Botad (48). Gujarat COVID-19 figures: Positive cases: 6,625, new cases: 380, deaths: 396, discharged: 1,500, active cases: 4,729; people tested so far: 95,191.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/380-new-coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-tally-6625-28-deaths-834442.html
07-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Ahmedabad private hospitals to be told to open or lose licence||The Ahmedabad civic body will issue notices to private hospitals, clinics and nursing homes, asking them to open facilities within 48 hours or lose licence, an official said on Wednesday. The Ahmdabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) also decided to designate nine private hospitals with aggregate capacity of 1,000 beds as COVID hospitals under the Epidemic Diseases Act, an official said. "Private clinics/nursing homes/hospitals to be issued notices to open their clinics within 48 hours and be notified that they will lose their licences otherwise," said Additional Chief Secretary Rajiv Kumar Gupta, who has been appointed to monitor works related to coronavirus in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-ahmedabad-private-hospitals-to-be-told-to-open-or-lose-licence-834450.html
07-05-2020||West||FIR against four men for opposing burial of COVID-19 victim||An FIR was registered at Bandra police station here on Wednesday against four persons for allegedly opposing the burial of a coronavirus patient at the Konkani Kabrastan (cemetery). On Tuesday evening, family members of a 45 year-old man who died while undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at a private hospital took his body to the cemetery in Bandra for burial, said a police official. Sanjay Naik, Muzaffar Khan, Yunus Khan and Akbar Khan allegedly called others in the nearby locality and opposed the burial of COVID-19 victims and there was a brawl, he added.  Ejaz Sheikh, one of the trustees of the Kabrastan, said the accused had opposed the burial of coronavirus victims earlier too even when the civic body had allowed burial of such persons. The body of the 45-year-old deceased man was finally buried at the cemetery, after which a police complaint was lodged against the four accused, the officer said. No arrests have been made. A case under IPC sections 341 (Punishment for wrongful restraint), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger ous to life), 188 (Disobeying the order of public servant) was registered and further probe was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fir-against-four-men-for-opposing-burial-of-covid-19-victim-834458.html
07-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: After Karnataka, Goa CM Pramod Sawant too wants migrant workers to reconsider exodus||A day after the Karnataka government cancelled several Shramik Special trains fearing labour shortage, Goa CM Pramod Sawant on Wednesday urged trade and business bodies to convince the migrant workers against leaving the state amid the COVID-19 pandemic.  Sawant said, that the departure of the migrant workforce from Goa in large numbers, would impact construction and other labour-intensive sectors.  "We are convincing those who have work on our end to not leave," Sawant told Deccan Herald on Wednesday.  He also urged the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, as well as other trade bodies to engage with the migrant workforce keen on leaving Goa, in a bid to urge them not to return back to their home states.  "If so many mirgant labour leaves Goa, then construction and other major works will be affected. I request contractors, GCCI and other bodies should also try and convince labourers not to leave. Labourers need to be told that Goa is Covid-19 free," Sawant also said.  More than 80,000 migrant workers have registered with the Goa government to seek passage back to their home-states. Migrant workers from Karnataka tops the list of migrant workforce who want a return to their home states, followed by Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.  In a letter to the Chief Minister on Tuesday, Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Manoj Caculo had said that giving migrant workers a "free ride" to their respective home states, would leave their employers in Goa high and dry.  "In fact, it has been brought to our notice that many of these migrant workers were provided with shelter and food and wages during the entire period of lockdown and they were not really stranded in the true sense of the word. However, now that they are getting a free ride to their home states, many of these workers have left their employers high and dry and are making their way to their home states,” Caculo said in his letter to Sawant.  The letter also urges the Chief Minister to form a screening committee and a counselling process to try and convince those migrant workers who still have jobs to stay back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-after-karnataka-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-too-wants-migrant-workers-to-reconsider-exodus-834463.html
07-05-2020||West||Marathi youth in Maharashtra can take advantage of migrants' return: NCP MLA Rohit Pawar||The return of migrant workers to their native states could lead to difficulties in resumption of industrial activities in Maharashtra and the Marathi youth can take advantage of the opportunity, NCP MLA Rohit Pawar said on Wednesday. The Marathi youth should not underestimate work of any kind during the present crisis, Rohit Pawar, who is the grandnephew of NCP patriarch Sharad Pawar, said on Twitter. Several workers/labourers are returning to their home as the lockdown is beingrelaxed. There could be difficulty in resuming industries-business activities due to the absence of the workers from other states," he said. But the Marathi youth can take advantage of the opportunity created after the return of workers and not underestimate any work during the present crisis, the MLA from Karjat-Jamkhed constituency tweeted. The government has cancelled job recruitment due to the economic crisis triggered by the novel coronavirus. This, will lead to several youths missing out on opportunities due to the age bar, he said. Hence, the government should not cancel the recruitment and give minimum pay, the MLA said. Such a step will ensure jobs for the youth and manpower for the government and the youth will support the move, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/marathi-youth-in-maharashtra-can-take-advantage-of-migrants-return-ncp-mla-rohit-pawar-834490.html
07-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Mumbai allows reopening of single electronics, hardware shops||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday night amended its previous order and allowed reopening of standalone electronics and hardware shops in the city during the coronavirus-enforced lockdown. Civic commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said there was an urgent need to keep such shops open to some extent. "It has been observed that many essential and life- saving medical equipment, IT systems related to health systems and machines,vehicles are in a state of disrepair due to closing down of electronics and hardware shops.  "Hence, there was an urgent need to keep such shops open to some extent," read the BMC's amended order signed by Pardeshi. Pardeshi directed all assistant commissioners of wards to permit one standalone electronic and hardware shop on each road to remain open during the lockdown. According to BMC officials, in view of the order some electronics and hardware shops could be opened from Thursday. On Tuesday night, Pardeshi, in an order, had directed closure of all non-essential services, including liquor shops, in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-mumbai-allows-reopening-of-single-electronics-hardware-shops-834504.html
07-05-2020||West||Buddha's teachings inspiration to tackle prevailing crisis: Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said teachings of Lord Buddha for the welfare of mankind are an inspiration to overcome the "current crisis". Extending greetings to people on the occasion of Buddha Purnima, Thackeray said Lord Buddha showed the path of peace, non-violence and equality of mankind. "He earned the knowledge of going into the root of problems faced by people and eradicating them. The world needs this knowledge as this is an inspiration to overcome the prevailing crisis," the chief minister said in a message while referring to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/buddhas-teachings-inspiration-to-tackle-prevailing-crisis-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-834562.html
07-05-2020||West||Temperature soars in Maharashtra||The mercury is soaring in Maharashtra with several cities and districts recording over 40 degree Celsius. The highest temperature of 44.8 degree Celsius recorded in Malegaon in Nashik district, while Chandrapur recorded 44 degree Celsius. On Wednesday, more than a dozen places recorded 40 degree Celsius-plus temperatures. India's financial capital Mumbai recorded a maximum temperature between 34 and 35 degree Celsius, while minimum was between 26 and 27 degree Celsius. The relative humidity recorded at Colaba and Santacruz observatories was 88 per cent and 75 per cent, respectively. "Other than Konkan, it is most of the places its 40+. Highest max temp recorded at Malegaon 44.8 followed by Chandrapur 44.0 Trends to continue (sic)," tweeted KS Hosalikar, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, IMD. The Vidarbha region districts of Akola and Amravati recorded 44.2 degree and 42.2 degree Celsius, respectively. Solapur and Jalgaon recorded 43.6 degree Celsius. Sangli recorded 41.3 degree Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/temperature-soars-in-maharashtra-834581.html
07-05-2020||West||Mumbai: Video of bodies lying near COVID-19 patients goes viral||Shocking videos purportedly showing bodies of COVID-19 victims lying unattended near coronavirus patients at a civic-run hospital in Sion have surfaced on social media. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Thursday, ordered a probe into the incident. The video has been shot secretly at the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital at Sion, one of the biggest civic hospitals of Mumbai. It was posted on social media by BJP MLA Nitesh Rane, the son of former Maharashtra Chief Minister and Rajya Sabha member. The video from Twitter has reached several social media platforms including the fast-circulating WhatsApp. "In Sion hospital..patients are sleeping next to dead bodies!!!  This is extreme..what kind of administration is this! Very very shameful!" Rane tweeted. Mumbai Mayor Kishori herself visited the Sion Hospital and sought an explanation from LTMG Hospital Dean Dr Pramod Ingle. "We don't know where it is shot...but such a thing has happened,  we have ordered a probe and those found guilty will face repercussions," she said. Rane is the son of former Chief Minister and BJP Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane. On Thursday morning,  Mayor Kishori Pednekar visited the Sion Hospital and sought an explanation from LTMG Hospital Dean Dr Pramod Ingle."We don't know where it is shot...but such a thing has happened,  we have ordered a probe and those found guilty will face repercussions," she said. Dr Ingle said on May 2, a meeting was held in which it was decided that bodies would be handed over to relatives. He also said that a probe panel has been appointed to check into the authenticity of the video and it would table its report in 24 hours. "But, in many cases relatives are not available to take dead bodies,  and in some cases reluctant also. They do not come even after repeated calls. In such cases we have to send the bodies to morgue for further procedures," he said in a statement released through BMC headquarters. He said that strict instructions have been issued to ensure that such incidents are not repeated in future. Sources also pointed out that mortuaries of civic hospitals are full to its capacity and if all COVID-19 bodies are shifted to mortuaries,  there would not be any space to keep bodies of people who have died of other causes. However, senior BJP leader Dr Kirit Somaiya said, "I talked with the person who has recorded the video..he says its ward no 5, ground floor, emergency or COVID-19 section of Sion Hospital.. pathetic condition of dead bodies along with patients." Senior Congress leader Milind Deora said he was outraged to see corpses laid beside the sick at Sion Hospital. "Why isn’t BMC following WHO-prescribed protocols when disposing of COVID-19 corpses? Public hospital staff are doing their best with limited resources at hand. Mumbai’s administration needs to step up now," he said. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the incident is serious. "The Sion Hospital incident is extremely serious and shocking. Patients who are being treated are lying beside dead bodies. This is utterly inhuman. Is there no one to care for Mumbai?" he said. He urged the government and administration to ensure that such things are not repeated in future. The statement of Fadnavis comes just before Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray meets opposition leaders to discuss the COVID crisis.  Meanwhile, senior BJP leader Dr Kirit Somaiya said: "I talked with the person who has recorded the video..he says its ward no 5, ground floor, emergency/COVID19 section of Sion Hospital.. pathetic condition of dead bodies along with patients".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-video-of-bodies-lying-near-covid-19-patients-goes-viral-834599.html
07-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Maharashtra Congress bears travel expenses of 4,627 migrant workers||The Maharashtra Congress said it has borne the travel expenses of 4,627 migrant labourers who wished to return to their home states amid the COVID-19 lockdown. Congress president Sonia Gandhi announced that the party's state unit had borne the travel cost of 4,627 migrant labourers, who wished to go to their home states from different parts of Maharashtra in the last two days, a release issued here on Thursday stated. The party bought tickets for 2,019 migrant workers travelling by trains from Nagpur to Muzaffarpur in Bihar and Wardha to Patna, it was stated. The Chandrapur city and rural district Congress committee paid for the transportation of 239 labourers who were heading to Patna.  Apart from this, the Congress also ensured health check-ups for migrant workers, helped them fill travel forms and provided water, food, sanitisers and masks for the journey, the statement read. Moreover, the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee has also set up a helpline for migrants in each district, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-congress-bears-travel-expenses-of-4627-migrant-workers-834609.html
07-05-2020||West||487 Maharashtra cops found COVID-19 positive since coronavirus lockdown, says Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday said that 487 policemen have tested COVID-19 positive in the state ever since the nationwide lockdown came into force. The lockdown was imposed on March 24 and has been extended till May 17 to contain the spread of coronavirus. Taking to Twitter, Deshmukh said, "487 police personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 since the lockdown." In a series of tweets, he also said that there is a steady rise in the number of calls regarding COVID-19 on the police helpline number 100. The minister added as many as 85,309 calls have been received on the number so far. The NCP leader also said that 3,10,694 passes have been issued for essential service providers and those caught in emergencies till now. The minister said that 2,24,219 people have been isolated in the state for possible exposure to the coronavirus and 649 were found to be violating the quarantine. "The state govt's running 4,738 relief camps where 4,35,030 migrant labourers have been given refuge with food & necessities. 1,281 offences have been registered for illegal transport," he said on the micro-blogging site. The minister added that as many as 96,231 offences have been registered under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code since the lockdown was imposed, leading to 18,858 arrests and seizure of 53,330 vehicles. "Cumulatively Rs 3,56,81,994 have been collected in fines from offenders. There've been 189 instances of assaults on policemen," Deshmukh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/487-maharashtra-cops-found-covid-19-positive-since-coronavirus-lockdown-says-anil-deshmukh-834628.html
07-05-2020||West||'Nirbhaya Squad' of Jaipur police distributing sanitary pads in COVID-19 containment zones||The all-women 'Nirbhaya Squad' of the Jaipur police has been distributing sanitary pads in COVID-19 containment zones in the city during the ongoing lockdown. The Nirbhaya Squad, in collaboration with 'Jaipur Padman', assessed the problems of women living in curfew-hit areas due to the novel coronavirus and joined hands to distribute sanitary pads free of cost. The joint team has so far distributed 3,000 packets of sanitary pads to the needy women living in containment zones of the walled city area. The bike-borne squad was formed last year with women trained in martial arts for warding off any threat faced by women in school, colleges, malls or at bus stops. The team of 80 women constables has been taking out flag marches in the curfew-hit areas to give message of social distancing and staying home. "We came to know about the problem that women were facing due to the lockdown which is in force from last over a month. A few social workers also joined the movement. Distribution of sanitary pads was difficult in curfew-hit areas so we took help of the Nirbhaya Squad,” a member of Jaipur Padman group, Ashish Parashar, said.  He said that it came to the fore that men were reluctant to buy sanitary pads from medical shops for women members of their families in slum areas. He said that Additional Superintendent of Police of Nirbhaya Squad Sunita Meena immediately came in support to distribute sanitary pads. “The team has already been distributing essential items in the containment zones. Health of women is equally important so the team is helping the group of social activists in the cause,” Meena said.  Rajasthan has reported 95 deaths due to the novel coronavirus so far with total 3,400 positive cases in the state. Curfew has been imposed in the walled city area of Jaipur. The entire state has been under lockdown since March 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nirbhaya-squad-of-jaipur-police-distributing-sanitary-pads-in-covid-19-containment-zones-834641.html
07-05-2020||West||Liquor not a vaccine for COVID-19: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Thursday took a dim view of large crowds outside liquor shops in Mumbai earlier this week, and said people should understand that liquor is "not a vaccine" for COVID-19. It is "not worth buying 65,000 COVID-19 infection cases" for earning a revenue of Rs 65 crore through liquor sale, a editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said, noting that people defied physical distancing norms while gathering at wine shops. After the Maharashtra government on Sunday announced to open standalone shops, including of liquor, in COVID-19 non-containment zones, long queues were seen outside shops on Monday and Tuesday. Mumbai civic commissioner issued an order on Tuesday night directing closure of all non-essential services, including liquor shops, in the city. "Their (people's) joy of liquor shops being opened was short-lived. The administration had to order closure of wine shops. In Mumbai alone, the revenue earned through liquor sale in two days was Rs 65 crore. But on Tuesday, the city saw single day spike of 635 new COVID-19 cases and nearly 30 deaths," the Sena said. The "side-effect" of opening liquor shops was seen in 24 hours, it said. "For a revenue of Rs 65 crore, we cannot afford to buy (have) 65,000 coronavirus infection cases...people have to understand that liquor is not a vaccinefor COVID-19," the Marathi publication said. The administration and police had to bear the additional strain due to opening of liquor shops where physical distancing rules were not followed, it noted. The Sena justified the government's decision to close the liquor shops and allow only groceries and medical shops to remain open.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/liquor-not-a-vaccine-for-covid-19-shiv-sena-834645.html
07-05-2020||West||Vizag gas leak: Gujarat govt to send chemical used as neutraliser||A specialised chemical called PTBC, made only in Vapi town of Gujarat, will be sent to Visakhapatnam on an urgent basis to help in neutralising the effects of gas leak at a polymer plant there, a Gujarat government official said on Thursday. A major leak from a chemical plant of LG Polymers near Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh in the wee hours of Thursday impacted villages within a five-km radius, leaving eight people dead and scores of citizens complaining of breathlessness, nausea and other problems. Para-tertiary butyl catechol or PTBC is currently being used in Visakhapatnam to neutralise the effect of the gas leak, said Ashwani Kumar, secretary in the Gujarat chief minister's office. "This chemical, used for reducing the effects of gas in the air after a leak, is manufactured only in Vapi. The Andhra Pradesh government requested Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani to facilitate airlifting of the chemical from Vapi to be sent there as soon as possible," Kumar said. As instructed by Rupani, senior officials have asked Valsad district collector to make necessary arrangements to procure 500 kg of the chemical. The stock will soon be airlifted from Daman where it will be taken by road from Vapi, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vizag-gas-leak-gujarat-govt-to-send-chemical-used-as-neutraliser-834672.html
07-05-2020||West||Police force will win war against coronavirus: Mumbai top cop||Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Thursday said the police were fighting an invisible enemy and he was confident that they will win the war against COVID-19. The top cop visited J J Marg police station in south Mumbai, which is the most affected police precinct in Maharashtra, with 26 policemen, including 12 officers, testing positive for COVID-19. As many as 233 policemen in Mumbai have contracted the deadly infection so far, of which three have died. While interacting with his officers, Singh said, "The morale of the police force is high. The police have won the battles against underworld, mafia and terrorists during the 26/11 attacks. Similarly, we will win our battle against this invisible enemy." Additional police commissioner Nishith Mishra, deputy commissioner of police Sangramsingh Nishandar and other officers were present during the visit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-force-will-win-war-against-coronavirus-mumbai-top-cop-834682.html
07-05-2020||West||CISF official posted at Mumbai airport succumbs to coronavirus||A 55-year-old CISF head constable posted at the Mumbai international airport has succumbed to novel coronavirus, a senior official said Thursday. The 1.62-lakh-personnel strong force, tasked primarily to guard civil airports and vital infrastructure in the aerospace and nuclear domain, has reported 32 active COVID-19 cases so far, the official said. The head constable was admitted to a Mumbai hospital on Wednesday and he later succumbed to the infection, they said, adding he was posted at the Mumbai international airport. This is the fourth death among paramilitary forces with two being in the Border Security Force and one in the Central Reserve Police Force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cisf-official-posted-at-mumbai-airport-succumbs-to-coronavirus-834732.html
07-05-2020||West||Over 80,000 migrants sent back home from Gujarat in 67 trains||Over 80,000 migrant workers from different states, who were stuck in Gujarat due to the lockdown, have been sent back to their native places in 67 special trains in the last five days, an official said on Thursday. The trains carrying these migrants left for different destinations from various cities and towns in Gujarat, the official said. "As many as 80,408 migrant workers hailing from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha were ferried back to their native places in 67 special trains from May 2 till Wednesday night," Secretary in the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), Ashwani Kumar, said. He added that each train transports around 1,200 passengers. "On Thursday, another 34 trains would leave Gujarat for UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. We will be shifting around 1.20 lakh migrants by Thursday night," Kumar added. Twenty of these trains are for UP, five for Odisha, four for Bihar, two trains each for Jharkhand and MP, and one for Chhattisgarh. These trains would leave from major stations like Ahmedabad, Surat, Bharuch, Mehsana, Nadiad, Jamnagar, Vadodara and Palanpur, he said. "We are also helping stranded Gujarat residents in coming back home from other states. Till now, as many as 29,540 stranded students, businessmen and other travellers have returned from other states," Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-80000-migrants-sent-back-home-from-gujarat-in-67-trains-834737.html
07-05-2020||West||531 Maha cops infected by COVID-19 so far, of which 39 have recovered||As many as 531 Maharashtra police personnel, including 51 officers, have tested positive for COVID-19 so far, an official said on Thursday. Among these infected police personnel, 480 are constables, who are being treated at various hospitals in the state, the official said. Out of the 531 coronavirus positive police personnel, 39, including eight officers, have recovered from the disease, he said. So far, five policemen have died due to the virus, the offical said.  Earlier in the day, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said that 487 policemen have tested COVID-19 positive in the state ever since the nationwide lockdown came into force. The lockdown was imposed on March 24 and has been extended till May 17 to contain the spread of coronavirus. Taking to Twitter, Deshmukh said, "487 police personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 since the lockdown." Meanwhile, the official said the Maharashtra Police have registered at least 96,231 offences so far under section 188 of the IPC for violation of lockdown-related norms and arrested 18,858 people. The IPC section 188 deals with disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant.  Since the lockdown, there had been 189 incidents of assault on policemen (till May 7) in which 73 personnel and a home guard sustained injuries, the official said, adding at least 683 persons had been arrested for these attacks. Around 30 health professionals had been also attacked during this period, the official said. Police have traced at least 649 people, who violated quarantine norms in the state, excluding the financial capital, the official said. At least 85,309 phone calls were handled by various police control rooms across the state in connection with the virus, he said. Police have registered 1,281 offences of illegal transport and seized 53,330 vehicles which had come on roads in violation of lockdown rules, the officail said. A fine of Rs 3.56 crore has been collected from violators by the police for various offences during this period, he said. Earlier, in a series of tweets, Deshmukh said 3,10,694 passes have been issued for essential service providers and those caught in emergencies till now. The minister said that 2,24,219 people have been isolated in the state for possible exposure to the coronavirus and 649 were found to be violating quarantine norms. "The state govt's running 4,738 relief camps where 4,35,030 migrant labourers have been given refuge with food & necessities. 1,281 offences have been registered for illegal transport," he said on the micro-blogging site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/531-maha-cops-infected-by-covid-19-so-far-of-which-39-have-recovered-834742.html
07-05-2020||West||12 more BSF ‘praharis’ test coronavirus positive in Jodhpur||Twelve more jawans of a BSF company, which had been deployed earlier in the Walled City area of the national capital on internal security duty, tested positive for coronavirus infection on Thursday. The tewelve BSF ‘praharis’ were found infected a day after their 30 other colleagues tested positive for the infection, taking the total number of Delhi-returned infected BSF personnel in Jodhpur to 42, said an official. Test reports of the samples of these jawans were released by the state’s Medical and Health Department on Thursday afternoon.  According to a BSF official, all these jawans were the part of a BSF company comprising 57 jawans, which had been sent to Delhi from Jaipur on internal security duty and had been put up at the Jama Masjid in the national capital. The entire company was air-lifted to Jodhpur on Monday and was quarantined at the BSF’s Subsidiary Training Center (STC) here after some of the jawans of the company deployed in the walled city area in New Delhi tested corona positive. A BSF official said samples of all the 57 jawans had been taken after the battalion was shifted to STC quarantine center of BSF in Jodhpur. “Thirty out of 44 were tested positive on Wednesday while the report of the remaining 13 jawans' samples was due.  Twelve more have been tested positive out of the remaining 13 samples,” a Medical and Health Department official said, adding “15 of them are negative”. All of them have been admitted to the Jodhpur AIIMS here for treatment while those, who tested negative, will remain in quarantine center for 14 days. This BSF battalion had been deputed at the Jama Masjid during the Tablighi Jamat chaos in Delhi, where some of them had tested positive. After this, the entire battalion was shifted to Jodhpur, considering the better and adequate facilities at its STC quarantine centre. On the other hand, with regard to officials and jawans at local level, BSF Rajasthan frontier IG Amit Lodha, however, said no other jawan at the local level in Jodhpur has been found infected so far and every possible measure has been taken to ensure that local BSF praharis remain insulated and shielded from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/12-more-bsf-praharis-test-coronavirus-positive-in-jodhpur-834782.html
07-05-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray discusses coronavirus situation with opposition||Interacting with opposition leaders, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday expressed confidence that the coronavirus pandemic in the state will be curbed by the end of this month. The Union government was cooperating with the state and Prime Minister Narendra Modi was easily available for discussion and guidance, he said in the meeting which he addressed through video conference. "I have been talking to you over telephone and seeking your views. I am also reading what you say in the media. If they are good suggestions, I ask the administration to look into them," he said. "The Centre is also cooperating. The prime minister is easily available for guidance on critical issues," Thackeray said. "Due to lockdown, the number of patients did not rise (drastically) in April. We need to take care in May. The number of patients is growing in Mumbai and the government has created adequate isolation centers," he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office. "The pandemic shall be curbed by the end of this month," he said. The opposition leaders who attended the meeting assured that they were with the government during this crisis, the CMO statement said. The chief minister appealed to people living in containment zones in Malegaon and Aurangabad cities, which are emerging as infection hotspots, to follow rules, and added that local elected representatives should cooperate with the administration. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said opposition leaders should help the farmers who haven't got benefit of the farm loan waiver to get crop loans. The CMO statement said that Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis stressed the need to focus on the situation in Mumbai and to improve the hospital management. There should be a planning to ensure the safety of medical workers, he said.  The former chief minister also said the state government should demand more trains for ferrying migrant workers to their home states.   Fadnavis also said that steps should be taken to boost the morale of the police force, and recommended formation of zone-wise expert groups for revival of industries. PWP leader Jayant Patil demanded protection for agriculture-based industries, while Bahujan Vikas Aghadi leader Hitendra thakur said local train services in Mumbai area should be resumed for few hours a day. VBA leader Prakash Ambedkar said cotton procurement in the state should not stop, while AIMIM leader Imtiaz Jaleel said that hospitals should not neglect non-coronavirus patients. MNS leader Raj Thackeray said the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) should be deployed in containment zones to assist the police who have been working non-stop for two months. Migrant workers should be registered when they return to the state, he said, and demanded that the government declare its lockdown exit plan in advance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-discusses-coronavirus-situation-with-opposition-834783.html
07-05-2020||West||Maharastra govt to fill up 17,000 vacant posts in health department||As Maharashtra battles a rising number of coronavirus cases, the government is considering filling up 17,000 vacant posts in the public health department across the state and is mulling how to start the appointment process during the lockdown. Health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said the government will find a way out in the next two days to fill up the vacant posts in the key department, whose functioning has become crucial in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. He also announced setting up a mega quarantine facility for residents of Dharavi, a slum-dominated COVID-19 hotspot in Mumbai.  In a televised message, Tope said, In the next two days, I, along with chief minister and chief secretary, will find out how to fill up the 17,000 vacant posts in the public health department across the state." "The lockdown is on but we will try to find out a solution to recruit qualified people, he said. There are some pending promotions in state-run establishments that come under the public health ministry, said Tope. The minister said the New Delhi-based Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has asked the state government to put more number of people from Dharavi under institutional quarantine. The ICMR has asked the state to increase the number of people in institutional quarantine in Mumbais Dharavi area. Social distancing norms could not be strictly followed in (densely populated) areas like Dharavi. "Hence, we have decided to create space to put some 2,000 people under institutional quarantine, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharastra-govt-to-fill-up-17000-vacant-posts-in-health-department-834820.html
07-05-2020||West||Maharashtra crosses 2 lakh tests; CM Uddhav Thackeray holds meeting with leaders of various political parties||"We can say the English proverb - hope for the best, prepare for the worst," Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said.  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with leaders of various political parties including Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar, MNS President Raj Thackeray among others to discuss the emerging situation. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Public Works Minister Ashok Chavan and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat were also present. "There is no doubt that patients are increasing but at the same time, the number of patients being treated and going home too is increasing. We also would like to share that Maharashtra has crossed two lakh tests," said Tope.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-crosses-2-lakh-tests-cm-uddhav-thackeray-holds-meeting-with-leaders-of-various-political-parties-834828.html
07-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Death toll crosses 400-mark in Gujarat amidst chaos of migrant workers, lockdown||While the state reels under the migrant worker issue and fresh curfew-like situations in several cities, the COVID-19 death toll in Gujarat crossed 400-mark on Thursday with fresh 29 deaths reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 425. The rising number has kept Gujarat in the second position among worst-affected states. Principal secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi said state also reported 387 new positive cases since Wednesday evening, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 7,012, second highest in the country after Maharashtra. By Thursday, Ravi said, the state had tested 1,00,553 samples. She said that 209 patients were also discharged from various hospitals that mounted the number of total cured persons to 1709. Ahmedabad with 4,991 confirmed cases and 321 deaths is the worst affected city in the state. Ravi said there is no need to panic as the number of deaths is increasing mainly because of co-morbidity in the patients who were also infected with the virus. She said panic will only lead to the weakening of immunity. However, the increasing number of deaths, with a mortality rate of over 6%, has made the state government worried and has compelled it to devise new strategies.   Meanwhile, thousands of workers in Surat hit streets on Thursday again while another group clashed with police in Vapi town. In the past three days, at least 300 workers have been apprehended for violent agitation. The Vijay Rupani led state government has sought central's intervention in containing the deadly virus which has infected 32 of 33 districts. The chief minister also brought senior IAS officers and changed commissioner of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, apparently after he met people who tested positive. The new commissioner Mukesh Kumar has brought stringent lockdown rules in Ahmedabad and placed the city under curfew-like situation till May 15 in order to control the spread. Surat municipal corporation is also following the suit. The government has deployed paramilitary forces in these two cities and shut down all shops except milk and medicine stores for the coming week.  The condition of migrant workers has also created chaos in Ahmedabad and Surat with violent protests demanding permission to travel back home. Thousands of workers in Surat hit streets against on Thursday again while another group clashed with police in neighbouring Vapi town. In the last three days, at least 300 workers have been apprehended for violent agitation. The state government, on the other hand, claimed that in the past five days over 1.25 lakh migrant labourers were sent to their native states like Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand in as many as 67 special trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-death-toll-crosses-400-mark-in-gujarat-amidst-chaos-of-migrant-workers-lockdown-834856.html
07-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Fire breaks out at pharma packaging factory||A fire broke out at a factory in Nashik on Thursday evening, police said. The fire broke out at a pharmaceutical packaging factory at Satpur near Nashik, a police official at the Satpur police station told PTI over phone. The fire was extinguished with the help of two fire tankers, he said. There are no reports of loss of life but efforts are on to assess the financial damage, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-fire-breaks-out-at-pharma-packaging-factory-834859.html
07-05-2020||West||26 pharma firm employees test positive for COVID-19 in Gujarat||As many as 26 employees of Cadila Pharmaceuticals have tested positive for coronavirus in Gujarat's Ahmedabad district, a district official said on Thursday. At least 26 employees of the company's manufacturing unit at Dholka town in the district tested positive for the virus on Wednesday, district development officer Arun Mahesh Babu said. Following the development, 95 employees of that unit, who may have come in contact with the infected personnel, have been put under home quarantine, he said. Both the manufacturing unit and the entire Dholka town have been sanitised, the official added. Meanwhile, in a release issued on Thursday, Cadila Pharmaceuticals confirmed the reports and said the manufacturing unit has been shut and sanitation process has been initiated. "Recently, 26 employees from our Dholka facility tested positive for Covid-19. Following this, we have closed our operations, and are undertaking deep sanitisation of the plant and its surroundings," company's statement read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/26-pharma-firm-employees-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-gujarat-834862.html
07-05-2020||West||BMC books 3,343 hotel rooms to quarantine overseas Indians||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said it has reserved 3,343 rooms across 88 hotels in Mumbai to quarantine Indian nationals stranded in other countries once they are evacuated. Around 1,900 stranded Indians are expected to be brought back to the city by seven flights, the BMC said in a statement. Indian nationals from Britain, USA, Bangladesh, the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia are expected to be flown back to Mumbai starting from May 7, the civic body said. It has reserved rooms in two-, three-, four- and five- star hotels along withapartment hotels and OYO hotels, it said. "On landing in Mumbai, the Indians returning will be quarantined in hotels, and they will be admitted in hospitals, if found infected with coronavirus on completion of quarantine period," said Vijay Khanake, BMC spokesperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-books-3343-hotel-rooms-to-quarantine-overseas-indians-834875.html
07-05-2020||West||Maharashtra records highest number of COVID-19 deaths on May 7||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 43 coronavirus deaths, the highest so far. The total progressive death toll now stands at 694.  Out of these 43 deaths,  24 deaths were recorded in Mumbai, 7 in Pune, 5 in Vasai-Virar, 2 in Solapur city, 1 in Akola city, 1 in Palghar and 1 in Aurangabad city. Additionally, 1 resident of Manipur and 1 of Bihar died in Mumbai. The total number of positive cases has now shot to 17,974 with the addition of 1,216 patients. A total of 207 patients were treated and discharged taking the total to 3,301 of those back home. Out of 2,02,105 laboratory samples, 1,83,880 were negative and 17,974 have been tested positive for coronavirus until Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-highest-number-of-covid-19-deaths-on-may-7-834877.html
07-05-2020||West||SBI hikes home loan rates by up to 30 basis points||The country's largest lender SBI has increased its home loan rates that are linked to repo rate by up to 30 basis points amid market indications of increased credit risk for borrowers and realty firms in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, according to a senior official. The lender has also hiked interest rates on personal loans against property by 30 basis points. With market leader SBI making the move, other lenders are also likely to follow suit. On Thursday, SBI slashed benchmark lending rate by 15 basis points. Subsequently, rates on home loans linked to Marginal Cost of Funds-based Lending Rate (MCLR) have also come down. Most of the home loans are given on the basis of repo rate or MCLR. While SBI has kept the external benchmark-linked lending rate constant at 7.05 per cent, the increase in home loan rates has been done by raising margins by up to 30 basis points across various home loan products. The new rates came into effect from May 1, as per information available on its website. In the wake of the pandemic and subsequent nationwide lockdown, there has been disruption in economic activities as well as in income for many individuals and companies. The senior official at the State Bank of India (SBI) said spread is the credit risk premium and an increase in spread reflects stress due to COVID-19 impact in the market. The financial market indicates that there is some increase in risk perception for borrowers and the real estate firms which is getting reflected in the credit risk premium charged by the bank, the official said. Despite the increase in the spread, SBI continues to provide home loan at the most competitive rate. The revision by SBI comes just a month after it had reduced home loan rates by 75 basis points. The bank had last revised its External Benchmark Linked Lending Rate (EBR) and Repo Linked Lending Rate (RLLR) on April 1, 2020, immediately after the RBI announced reduction in repo rate by 75 basis points. For home loans up to Rs 75 lakh, SBI has increased the spread by 20 basis points. For home loans up to Rs 30 lakh, the effective rate, which is EBR plus spread, now stands at 7.40 per cent as against 7.20 per cent on April 1, 2020. The effective rate for home loans above Rs 30 lakh and up to Rs 75 lakh has been increased to 7.65 per cent from earlier rate of 7.45 per cent. For home loans above Rs 75 lakh, the new rate stands at 7.75 per cent as against 7.55 per cent earlier. The spread under the Maxgain home loan category has been increased by 30 basis points. The effective rate for Maxgain home loans up to Rs 30 lakh has been hiked to 7.75 per cent from 7.45 per cent. The bank has also increased the spread for its Personal Loan Against Property (P-LAP) by 30 basis points. The effective rate for P-LAP up to Rs 1 crore has been raised to 9.20 per cent as against 8.90 per cent as on April 1, 2020. For loans above Rs 1 crore and up to 2 crore, the effective rate stands at 9.70 per cent as against 9.40 per cent earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sbi-hikes-home-loan-rates-by-up-to-30-basis-points-834881.html
07-05-2020||West||Palghar Mob Lynching: Superintendent of Police sent on forced leave, says Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||Nearly 20 days after the Palghar mob lynching incident in which two sadhus of Varanasi-based Juna Akhada and their driver were killed, Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh has been sent on forced leave. This was announced by Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh after holding a review meeting in Palghar district. Two sadhus, Kalpavriksha Giri Maharaj (70 years), Sushil Giri Maharaj (35) and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30), were brutally lynched to death on the night of 16 April in the Gadchinchale village in Dahanu tehsil of Palghar district,  nearly 120 kms from downtown Mumbai. Meanwhile,  nearly a fortnight after the incident,  35 policemen have been transferred. All these policemen were attached to the Kasa police station. Earlier,  the government has suspended two inspectors and have ordered a probe by State-CID into the incident - after drawing flak that the cops were mute spectators.The police has arrested 110 persons including 9 juveniles. For four days before the incident, there were rumours that robbers had come to the village to steal kidneys particularly of children and sell them in the black market. This led to the villagers mounting a round-the-clock vigil.  The sadhus and their driver was attacked by villagers suspecting to be kidnappers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-mob-lynching-superintendent-of-police-sent-on-forced-leave-says-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-834892.html
