08-05-2020||Comment||Recalling Rabindranath Tagore: The poet in a prosaic world||It is not easy to walk with a poet like Rabindranath Tagore, particularly when our prosaic intellect breeds cynicism, and drives us towards temporal pleasures. Yet, in a deep moment of contemplation we realize that a poet like Tagore — with his prayers and spiritual longing, communion with the spirit of nature, and penetrating reflections on the human consciousness amid the flow of a civilisation — ought to be invoked time and again to remind us of our potential sanity and divinity. Yes, while the Upanishadic longing for the universal and the transcendental can be seen in the sublime prayers of Gitanjali, his essays on the discontents of the ideology of bounded nationalism would reveal his quest for the creative flow of the human spirit. Likewise, his short stories, songs and novels make us pass through the peaks and valleys of existence — life and death, love and pain, and temporal and eternal. On his birth anniversary, as I recall the poet with a deep sense of gratitude, what immediately strikes my mind is that he sought to give us the psychic/political strength to see the limits to the discourse of modern nationalism. Even if the ‘nation’, as Benedict Anderson said, is an ‘imagined community’, it does have tremendous impact on people’s consciousness. War, genocide, colonialism: every act of violence is legitimised in the name of what Tagore would have regarded as ‘idolatry of the Nation’. Its inherent narcissism, its borders and boundaries, and its drive towards homogenisation of consciousness cause violence, and transform human subjects into soulless cogs of a hyper-masculine machine. Tagore repeatedly reminded us of this ‘spectre of barbarity’; and his pain or anguish was quite visible in Crisis in Civilization — the last convocation speech he delivered at Santiniketan in 1941. Possibly, as social psychologist Ashis Nandy has argued brilliantly in Illegitimacy of Nationalism, some of the female characters Tagore portrayed —Anandamayee in Gora, Nandini in Red Oleanders, and Ela in Four Chapters — reveal the life-affirming power of the feminine that help us to see the hollowness of hyper-masculine nationalism. Tagore’s celebration of the rhythmic thread of connectedness amid plurality and heterogeneity, patriotism and universalism, and finite and infinite made him uneasy with all sorts of limiting identities. And his creatively nuanced critical engagement with Mahatma Gandhi makes it clear why, despite his admiration for the Mahatma, Tagore could not give his consent to ‘non-cooperation’ and ‘swadeshi’. And despite these occasional differences, Gandhi trusted Tagore as his Gurudev; and his song Ekla Cholo Re gave Gandhi the spiritual strength to walk through the villages of turbulent Noakhali in 1946. It is sad that in our times, characterised by majoritarian mighty nationalism and simultaneous stigmatisation of the religious minorities, we have almost forgotten what the creative interplay of Tagore and Gandhi could offer to us.   Religion, as contemporary social reality indicates, has become merely an identity-marker; orthodox priests or clergy and militant nationalists have killed the spiritual flavour of religiosity -- our finest prayers, or, to use Tagore’s phrase, our ‘surplus’, our non-utilitarian urge to break all walls of separation, and feel the touch of the infinite even in the finite domain. ‘A poet’s religion’ seeks to arouse the feeling of gratitude; we overcome the anguish of disenchantment, and with deep aesthetics a river becomes a river, a tree becomes a tree, or a bird becomes a bird. We relate. We communicate. We see ourselves in the play of creation. We feel what Francis Bacon’s empiricism or Rene Descartes’s rationalism could not grasp. Only then is it possible to sing in tune with Tagore: I feel the tenderness of the grass in my forest walk, The wayside flowers startle me. That the gifts of the infinite are strewn in the dust Wakens my song in wonder. Is it that we have missed this song at a time when religion has been degenerated into the cacophony of Jai Shri Ram, or the death wish of a ‘suicide bomber’? Everything seems to have become its opposite. Noise is music; violence is religion; and the divine is the burden of dead ritualism. In a world of this kind, is it possible to understand the poet? Yes, Tagore was a poet of an altogether different kind. He was a visionary, an artist, and above all, an educationist. His experiments at Santiniketan — possibly, a modern tapovan filled with aesthetic sensibilities and vibrations of universalism — generated a possibility of redefining education. True, in modern times, schools look like cages or prisons dissociated from what is natural to the child: her spontaneity, her abundance, and her affinity with birds, trees and monsoon clouds. Tagore felt the pain of burdened childhood oppressed by bookish knowledge and the dead weight of information. In a way, like Rousseau, Tagore too saw nature as a great educator. Hence, relatedness with nature, unity of ‘work’ and ‘play’, and education as an aesthetic articulation of the inner quest characterised the poet’s school. Its appeal was tremendous; it nurtured artists like Nandalal Bose; and Gandhi, despite his busy schedule, managed to find time to come to this ashram, and get Tagore’s blessings. It was a project that aimed at creating a new being: not a violent conqueror or an ‘exam warrior’, but a wanderer with prayers and in communion with the spirit of the infinite. It is, however, a different story that we failed to learn anything significant from this experiment. At a time when Kota — a notorious town in Rajasthan known for the lucrative business of all sorts of coaching centres — emerges as an educational site, the message that we convey is clear: a poet has no place in a world that sees nothing beyond the market-driven ideology of ‘success’. Yet, even amid the culture of socio-political decadence, the poet whispers in our ears, and urges us to see what ought to be seen. (The writer is Professor of Sociology, JNU)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/recalling-rabindranath-tagore-the-poet-in-a-prosaic-world-835082.html
08-05-2020||Comment||Is our paradise lost?  ||This is not about politicians or their parties. Politicians come and go. You only have to look back at recent events in Maharashtra. The fanatic rushed and tied the knot with the secular. They abandon their gods and change their ideologies as easily as they change their saffron robes and white caps, and hop into each other's bed. This is about nostalgia, our hearts and their longing for the joy and bonhomie and togetherness that seem elusive today. There was a time, till not long ago, despite all our travails and tribulations and sorrows and strife, our land yet seemed “apparelled in celestial light”. Can we regain that paradise? Let me recount a short story. My village, picturesque Gorur, lies on the bank of the river Hemavathy, a tributary to the Cauvery. Like many villages of rural old Mysore State, it is a composite village comprising of many castes -- carpenters, blacksmiths, fishermen, barbers, potters, weavers and others, but the Harijan, as always, lived in a satellite colony outside the village -- a blemish from our ancient past, a stain no amount of chanting of mantras and bathing in the holy river can wash clean.   The Harijan ate beef, like the Muslims. They carried the dead cows from the village, skinned it and stripped it of all flesh and took them to the local Muslim who cured the leather and sent it to the tannery and crushed the bones and sent that to the factory. The village and its people lived in perfect symbiosis and happy harmony. But it was easy to see that the Harijan had a special kinship with the Muslims -- their life was more entwined with the latter, unlike the uneasy, unequal relationship with the rest of the Hindu community.  Aji Saheb, the Muslim who purchased the cattle skin and bones from the Dalits in our village, was also a rice merchant. I remember vividly, he often came home to buy harvested paddy. A big man who sported a huge white kurta and baggy pyjamas, he was highly regarded for his ethical business dealings, was amiable, and had a good sense of humour and poked fun at Brahmins and their orthodox and austere lifestyle. And my father and uncles would chaff and laugh. His father was nicknamed 'Shawl Saheb’. In a famous eponymous story by Gorur Ramaswamy Iyengar, he narrates an incident. Once, Iyengar’s father, a priest, was in deep meditation and chanting mantras in the back garden of his house. Aji Saheb's father, not very well to do, came home to meet him just then and sat down on a stone bench opposite the priest. As the chanting went on interminably, Saheb Senior spied a lovely embroidered shawl on the 'tulasi katte'. It was monsoon, raining heavily and there was a chill in the air. Saheb Senior, emboldened by the knowledge that the priest wouldn’t open his eyes while in deep meditation, picked up the shawl, wrapped himself up cozily and walked out confidently even as the priest’s wife watched dumbfounded. Next day, when Saheb Senior came, brazenly wearing the same shawl, the priest -- my great grandfather -- asked him why he hadn’t at least asked him before taking it. Saheb Senior replied nonchalantly that it was cold and he needed the shawl, but he was too scared to disturb a Brahmin in prayer and incur his wrath! My father would often remind Aji Saheb of this story and demand that the shawl be returned, and both of them would break into hearty laughter.   Ah, how far we have come from that idyll, from that simplicity of rural identities, and the lost world I'm homesick about. We all have such stories and reminiscences. The villages still preserve much of the past, but the urban centres are becoming cesspools of hatred, overcome by senseless violence and festering wounds, with an uneasy calm between communities. We are unthinkingly lapping up false narratives and distorted histories that are woven and fed to us about Muslim kings and Hindu kings. Many Hindu kings had Muslim commanders, and vice versa. Hindu kings allied with Muslim kings to defeat other Hindu chieftains or Muslim rulers. Shivaji's father Shahaji captured Bengaluru from Kempegowda II by allying himself with the Bijapur ruler Ranadulla Khan. It was common. Girish Karnad's historical plays explored existential issues of intrigue, power play, and despair of those times, and blended the past with the present to make it relevant to our times. As Karnad said with reference to his last play, Rakshasa Tangadi, which captured the details of a battle and its machinations during the rule of Aliya Rama Raya of Vijayanagar Empire, it was to dispel the “mainstream narrative that whitewashed it as Hindu-Muslim conflict.”  Why has our urban, smug, consuming middle class become so gross? Why does he feed himself on hatred? He does not love, does not read, listen to good music or lose himself in nature, which ennobles and uplifts. He gorges on television news and social media in all his waking hours. Can our civilisation flower when “fire-breathing” mullahs sympathise with jihadis who murder and the “Trishul-wielding Hindu” justifies killing through lynching. If you scorn all faiths but appease one faith at the expense of another or embrace a moribund ideology and justify violence or abandon all the cherished ideals of your scriptures and teachings of Meera and Kabir, and Ghalib and Gandhi, can your children blossom in such a feuding land? Can we be true Christians or Muslims or 'true Vaishnavs' if we hate and hurt another soul, as the 15th century Gujarati Saint Narsi Mehta sang, in ‘Vaishnava Janato’, Gandhi’s favourite hymn.  Can we reclaim that lost paradise where we heard the soul-stirring Shehnai of Ustad Bismillah Khan in Kashi Viswanath Temple; Pundit Jasraj singing ‘Allah ho meherban’ after singing ‘Bhagavate Hey Vasudeva’ at the Ram Navami festival in “full throated ease”; Bade Ghulam Ali Khan rendering a glorious ‘Hari Om Tatsat’ Bhajan; or MS Subbulakshmi singing a Kabir song followed by a Meera Bhajan, with equal aplomb and devotion?  Can we prosper by "returning to our ghosts and demons which reason had exorcised?" Our faiths, whatever they be, must be to an overarching fealty to love, to fraternity and solidarity and to all creation under an abode of comingling faiths so that we rejoice together, as in our former days.  As Tagore said, "While God waits for his temple to be built of love, men bring stones." And we are busy building barriers.  (The writer pioneered low-cost airlines in India and is a serial entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/is-our-paradise-lost-835242.html
08-05-2020||First Edit||CAA: Free those arrested, end the harassment||There have been disquieting reports of arrests and harassment of a number of people who participated in or were associated with the countrywide protests which were held last year and early this year against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Most of those who have been arrested are members of the minority community and many of them are women. Condemnations of these arrests and protests against them have come from many quarters. Some days ago, over 300 academics, researchers and journalists issued a statement drawing attention to these arrests and the “harassment, interrogation and, in many instances, torture’’ of anti-CAA protesters. In another statement about 1,100 women from different walks of life, including teachers, activists and others, have also highlighted the arrests of Muslim women, students and protesters in the last few weeks and demanded an end to the harassment.  According to the activists, the Delhi police have targeted those who protested against the CAA at Shaheen Bagh and other places when the attention of the nation and the media was on the Covid-19 pandemic. According to reports, over 800 protesters have been arrested and charges under the draconian Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and sedition laws have been levelled against them. Family members of many of them have no information about them after they were picked up. Legal counsel and support are not available to those who are in custody. Both the statements have named a number of persons who have been arrested or detained. Some of them are student leaders from Jawaharlal Nehru University or Jamia Milia, many are women and most are Muslim. Many are also said to be victims of the communal violence witnessed in some parts of Delhi in February.  The police have claimed that the arrests were made as part of the investigation into the communal violence. But those who actually instigated violence, including BJP leaders and central ministers, and perpetrated the attacks on minorities have been left out and the victims are being rounded up and harassed. The women's memorandum says that the anti-CAA protests are being presented as the cause of the violence and the protesters are dubbed as the aggressors. The partisan conduct of Delhi Police was clear during the protests and even more so during the riots, and the charges made in the statements have confirmed it. The reports paint the picture of an authoritarian and unaccountable State acting against hapless citizens out of prejudice and vengeance under the cover of a lockdown at a time of national distress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/caa-free-those-arrested-end-the-harassment-835240.html
08-05-2020||In Perspective||A mask won’t hide the truth, nor save us from viruses||Recently, India’s Environment Secretary CK Mishra sent a letter to the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MoCA) to urge corporates to invest their Social Responsibility (CSR) funds in biodiversity protection in the country. To buttress his point, he cited the consensus among scientists that a rise in zoonotic diseases like Nipah, Avian Influenza, Zika and Coronavirus is linked to the loss of forests and biodiversity.  While reading the above news report, I recalled that the same central government set up a high-level committee of bureaucrats and judges under the chairmanship of former cabinet secretary TSR Subramanian on 29 August 2014. The committee was supposed to amend the existing environmental regulations to pave the way for India to achieve rapid economic growth. Subsequently, the National Green Tribunal was reduced to an administrative body and the National Board for Wildlife was reconstituted, the Forest Rights Act was diluted, highways were allowed on forest land, the social impact assessment requirement for new development projects was removed and several green norms and clear rules for the industry were eased. The standing committee of the NBWL considered 31 proposals in all, 16 of which related to highways, transmission lines and railway lines through national parks, sanctuaries and tiger corridors. And all 16 proposals were approved. Several other projects concerning nearly 3,000 acres of land located in eco-sensitive areas were also approved. The minister subsequently tweeted that the approvals will help develop tourism, infrastructure, employment and economic growth. India’s environment minister, who is also its industry minister, thus announced his commitment to developing the country, dismantling all ‘roadblocks’ in the way. Further, the Union environment ministry’s Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) is deliberating granting forest clearance to the Etalin Hydro Project that will involve diversion of 1150.08 hectares of forest land and the devastation of an estimated 270,000 trees in the Dibang Valley of Arunachal Pradesh.   On March 12, the MoEFCC put in the public domain a draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification 2020, which is to replace the EIA notification 2006, and has sought views and comments from all stakeholders on it within 60 days. EIA regulates the environment clearance given by the national government for projects such as dams, mining, thermal power plants, infrastructure projects like highways, ports, airports and big construction projects.  The predominant thrust of the draft EIA notification 2020 is completely contrary to the principles of environment protection. It proposes to ease processes for businesses, does away with the need for public hearings for many projects, eases rules for expansion of projects, and so on. Environmentalists and researchers who analysed the draft point out that the draft EIA 2020 legitimises violations by those who start projects without environmental clearance, weakens the public consultation process and gives a lot of discretionary powers to authorities.  While the environment secretary is asking for financial assistance from corporates for biodiversity conservation, his minister is busy clearing projects at the cost of existing forests and biodiversity. But this is just one part of the contradictions that abound. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in the 63rd episode of his 'Mann Ki Baat', claimed that India is contributing towards creating a healthier planet. But is it possible to make the planet healthy by replacing our protected areas with industries, dams and roads? We hear distressing stories of people getting stranded or dying on the streets in their attempt to reach hometowns during the coronavirus lockdown. One such is the story of a 12-year-old tribal girl, Jamalo Madkam, who died on April 18 due to electrolyte imbalance and exhaustion having walked over 100 kilometres as she made her way home in Aded in Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh from a chilli farm in Telangana. Poor, innocent people in remote corners are humiliated and beaten up if they step out occasionally to breathe some fresh air. Villagers, tribals and many other vulnerable groups who scarcely have an opportunity to indulge in life are locked down due to some virus unknown to them. Germ-free air and water are their birthright, but are being destroyed wantonly in the name of development. Knee-jerk reactions and temporary solutions may bring fame for leaders. The prime minister’s advice to people to make wearing masks a part of their lifestyle is not an easy option. Provide the country with clean drinking water, fresh air and balanced diet which are the basic requirements for immunity. On a healthy planet, why would people have to wear masks? Far-sighted leaders should strive to unfasten the mask and allow people to breathe in clean air and live on serene earth. Let people take pride in the nation’s natural wealth. Don't destroy our forests and invite new viruses in the name of development and economic growth.  (The writer is the initiator of Green Army, a student forum for conservation and adventure and the founder-director of Forest Watch, a watchdog for the wilderness of Wayanad)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-mask-won-t-hide-the-truth-nor-save-us-from-viruses-835081.html
08-05-2020||In Perspective||The very Indian phenomenon of power and privilege||A memorable novel about the French Revolution by Charles Dickens opens with a striking scene that tells us why an insurgency had to happen in 18th century France. An aristocrat is driving in his carriage drawn by four horses in the crowded lanes of Paris where children are playing. A child is killed. The carriage comes to a halt. Its aristocratic occupant looks out casually and inquires why the rabble cannot look after their children and flings a coin at the dead child’s father. This scene is re-enacted in 21st century India when another aristocrat, this time it’s a popular cinema star, drives his plush limousine onto a crowded pavement in Mumbai, killing a homeless citizen of that great metropolis. This time, he did not even throw a coin. He was a superstar beyond reproach. Both these incidents speak of entitlement which the wealthy and the privileged wear as a badge of their special status in society. It may be a cinema star. It may be a millionaire businessman. Or, as it often is the case, it may be a politician. These are people who wear their status on their sleeves and get away with murder. You see them in airports where planes with hundreds of passengers don’t take off until they arrive. You see them in events that keep the audiences waiting for the chief guest to arrive at least an hour late. You see them in cricket matches being ushered into the best seats when hundreds of others were turned away after waiting for hours to buy a ticket. In India, privilege comes with money, clout or connections. The last is the commonest and most misused.   In our country, a minister, an MP or MLA wears his entitlement like a badge of honour. He breaks traffic rules without fear of being penalised or breaks queue systems without being reprimanded. If he occupies a higher position in the pecking order, he can stop all traffic on the roads while his car and his outriders go whizzing by. The little red light on his vehicle proclaims his entitlement in no uncertain terms. What a contrast to countries where even the prime minister obeys traffic rules like anybody else. We have heard that story of a British prime minister who, when informed that his son was booked for a traffic offence, observed that the law should take its course. He did not send an aide to rescue the offender. Again, it is not uncommon to find an American president jogging in the mornings along with other joggers without any fuss or fanfare. His security guards may be following him, but the public is not disturbed. Children of VVIPs attend schools in America just like other children, with no special advantages. The notion of getting freebies and extra benefits seems a very typical Indian syndrome. The Gandhian ideal of travelling third class “because there is no fourth class” is forgotten in today’s political milieu. Prime ministers like Morarji Desai who announced that his family members should be subject to all the laws of the country if found flouting any rules are few and far between. Ramakrishna Hegde, the former chief minister, was an example in our own state of a VIP who did not expect special treatment. He was once seen buying a ticket for a play in a local theatre and occupying his seat after checking the number. When the organisers offered a front-row seat for the CM, he politely refused. A far cry from his successors.   Our elected representatives use their status as a right to enjoy privileges that are not even legal. Whether it is getting a site allotted out of turn, a permit to build a house flouting all norms, or getting recognition for a bogus professional college – they claim this licence as a matter of right. They trespass into private clubs, demand seats in professional colleges for their wards, use public spaces for their private functions without a qualm. The latest in this misuse of power is shocking, to say the least. When the whole country -- why, even the world – is reeling under a terrible viral infection that has already killed over 270,000 and threatens to kill tens of thousands more, our politicians are merrily celebrating festivals and functions at great risk to themselves and others. When the prime minister ordered a lockdown with social distancing in all the states and union territories, many chief ministers welcomed the move as the only way to prevent the coronavirus from spreading. Strangely, the chief minister of Karnataka failed to understand the gravity of the situation when he ordered a festival where thousands of participants would throng the streets and temples. He himself attended a colleague’s private function, mingling with other guests, none of whom wore the prescribed mask and gloves. The latest in this wilful and irresponsible behaviour was the green signal given for the celebration of a former chief minister’s son, who also happens to be a former prime minister’s grandson. It was a shocking celebration flouting all the rules prescribed by doctors, posing a risk of the coronavirus spreading. This incident also reveals a sense of entitlement resulting from high office, money and power. In India, privilege also comes from education, especially English education. It may be the remnants of snobbery associated with colonial rule. But, a knowledge of English does bestow a false sense of superiority, just as wealth breeds arrogance. If these two are combined with political clout, the result can be disastrous as we are witnessing today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-very-indian-phenomenon-of-power-and-privilege-835243.html
08-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fetus of coronavirus patient removed to save the mother||With a heavy heart the medical team at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences in Hubballi on Friday terminated the fetus of 23-year-old COVID-19 patient (P-607) from Dhanakashirur in Badami taluk of Bagalkot district, as her health was deteriorating. The doctors at KIMS after consulting with Critical Care Support Unit, a group of private and government doctors constituted by State government to address critically-ill patients, decided to abort the baby as the mother’s body was weak, and there was lot of fluctuation in her heath parameters. She was five-month-old pregnant. As per the suggestion provided by the expert panel, the doctors at the KIMS decided not to perform surgery to remove the baby, and instead abort it by giving effective tablets. "The sodium content in the woman's body was very low. She is often feeling nervousness. Besides, she is suffering from ulcer in the mouth. Therefore, she can't eat properly. Apart from this, there is nobody to take care of her. Presently, the hospital staff are looking after her, and they are bringing gruel (Ganji) from their home to feed the pregnant woman," said KIMS Superintendent Arun Kumar. He said, the haemoglobin-level in her body was also less and her blood-pressure is also fluctuating. Sources also informed DH that the concentration of Coronavirus in her body is very high.   Dr Arun said, the top priority of the medical team was to save the mother, and we are doing every thing for it. Most of the relatives, including her husband, are in quarantine as they are the primary contacts. We had also consulted her family members too over phone with regard to the issue, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fetus-of-coronavirus-patient-removed-to-save-the-mother-835223.html
08-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Jagadish Shettar seeks special package for industries||Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industries Jagadish Shettar said that the state has submitted a proposal to the Union government seeking a special package to small scale industries. Addressing the officials and industrialists here on Friday, Shettar said that he has urged the Union Minister of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Nitin Gadkari about the special package and has also brought this to the notice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The government has waived the electricity bill of medium and small scale industries for the month of April and May. “We are thinking to waive the bills of large scale industries too. It will be decided soon,” the minister said. There are several problems related to the industries following the lockdown and the government is committed to resolving them. Though the industries were locked in April and May, the owners should pay the salary of the employees, he said. Shettar said that he has directed the officials concerned to take all precautionary measures to prevent Vishakhapatnam gas leak tragedy like incidents in the state. District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that the government is in favour of the industrialists. Shettar has visited Mysuru to resolve the issues faced by the industry sector in the district.  General Secretary of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Council, Mysuru Suresh Kumar Jain explained about the loss to the industry sector in the district due to lockdown. He said, “The district has a total of 26,000 industries and 20,000 small scale industries. As many as three lakh people, including 50,000 migrant workers, are dependent on the industries. The district is suffering 18 crore loss a day.” MP Pratap Simha, MLAs S A Ramdas, L Nagendra, G T Devegowda, B Harshvardhan, MLC Sandesh Nagaraj, R Dharmasena, Zilla Panchayat president Parimala Shyam, Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, SP C B Ryshyanth, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Council president Vasu and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jagadish-shettar-seeks-special-package-for-industries-835227.html
08-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Newly-wed couple drowns in Hemavathi river while taking selfie||A newly-wed couple slipped and drowned in Hemavathy river, while taking a selfie near Henneli village in the taluk on Thursday evening. The deceased are Kritika (23), daughter of Krishnamurty of the same village and Artheesh (27), son of M R Rudrappagowda of Marehalli, Belur taluk. The couple got married on March 20. Both are working in Bengaluru and were in the village due to the lockdown. DySP Gopi said that the couple had gone for a ride on their motorbike on Thursday evening. According to the primary reports, the couple may have stopped to take a selfie near a check dam. The soil had turned slippery due to heavy rains that lashed the taluk on Thursday. There are possibilities of them slipping while taking the picture and drowned, he said. The jewels worn by the couple were intact and the motorbike was found parked near the dam. The couple were happy and did not have any misunderstanding between them. It might not be a suicide, said family members. When they did not return home even after it turned dark, the family members searched for them and found the motorbike near the river bank. Kritika’s body was found floating in the river and Artheesh body was found on Friday morning. Post mortem was conducted and bodies handed over to the family. The relatives claimed that both knew swimming and could have swam to safety, even if they had slipped into the river. But, a fish net tied in the water hindered their movement, and they could not save themselves. A case has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/newly-wed-couple-drowns-in-hemavathi-river-while-taking-selfie-835228.html
08-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru Zoo gets additional Rs 1.05 cr donation||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar raised an additional Rs 1.05 crore for the Mysuru Zoo. With this, the zoo has received Rs 2.32 crore from the minister in three phases. The minister handed over a cheque for Rs 21.14 lakh to Zoo Director Ajit Kulkarni. In addition, following the request from Somashekar, Urban Development Minister B A Basavaraj donated Rs 84 lakh. Earlier, Somashekar had raised Rs 45.30 lakh and Rs 73.60 lakh for the zoo. The minister had promised of raising funds for the zoo, as there is no revenue due to lockdown. Somashekar appreciated Basavaraju for his support to the zoo and said Basavaraj raised the funds from his supporters and it shows his concern for the zoo. Somashekar said that he has urged the Association of Kannada Kootas of America (Akka) president Amarnath to support the zoo. The president has responded positively, he said. Basavaraj said, "Somashekar had urged him to support the Zzo. BJP leaders and my supporter raised funds for the zoo." Food and Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah, who visited the zoo with Somashekar donated Rs 8 lakh and also distributed 25 kg of rice each to 300 employees of the zoo, recently. According to Zoo Director Kulkarni, the zoo is a self-sustained organisation as it is not receiving any funds from the state government since 2002. This time, the zoo needs financial support from the government, as there is no income. The funds from selling tickets and funds from the animal adoption scheme are the major sources of income for the zoo, he said. The zoo has 152 species of birds and houses more than 1,450 specimens belonging to 168 species, representing more than 30 countries. The director said, "The people can adopt animals under the adoption scheme, online. All details are available on the zoo website. The people can pay the charges online."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-zoo-gets-additional-rs-105-cr-donation-835230.html
08-05-2020||Main Article||Gas leak a warning as factories restart||A horrific chemical disaster is unfolding in Andhra Pradesh. Leakage of styrene gas from the LG Polymers plant near Visakhapatnam in the early hours of Thursday has claimed the lives of around 13 people, including a child and two senior citizens, so far. The death toll could rise in the coming days as many hundreds are sick after inhaling the toxic gas and being treated in hospitals. Scenes from the disaster are distressing; people were seen falling unconscious on roads and many were breathless and nauseous. Although the LG plant is in a relatively less populated area, the impact is being felt in at least five surrounding villages. Preliminary information indicates that human negligence may have contributed to the disaster. The plant was probably shut down in a hurry when the central government declared the nationwide lockdown with a four-hour notice. According to police officials, storage tanks were lying unattended for weeks. This could have set off a chemical reaction that produced enormous heat, in turn causing the gas to leak. Authorities at LG Chemicals, the South Korean company that operates the facility at Visakhapatnam, say that maintenance of storage tanks was being done even during the lockdown. A probe must establish responsibility for the disaster. The gas leakage at Visakhapatnam should alert other factories to the importance of safety issues as they begin to re-open. With an economic crisis looming, factory owners will be looking to cut costs, but they must not cut corners on matters of safety. The gas leak at Visakhapatnam may not be comparable to the Bhopal gas disaster of 1984 in terms of its magnitude. Still, the suffering of each individual victim will be as searing. India must ensure that mistakes made in the months and years following the Bhopal disaster are not repeated. Accountability for the gas leak at the LG Polymers plant must be fixed and the guilty, whether Indian or foreigner, should be brought to justice. LG authorities in South Korea have said that the situation at their Visakhapatnam plant is “under control.” Indeed, the leaking of gas at the facility has been halted. However, its impact on the people who inhaled the gas has only begun to unfold. Styrene gas is known to have long-term implications for the central nervous system. Decades after the Bhopal disaster, its victims still give birth to babies with severe abnormalities. LG Chemicals must work with the Indian government and locals to ensure that long-term financial and medical support for the victims of the disaster is put in place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/gas-leak-a-warning-as-factories-restart-835077.html
08-05-2020||National||Maharashtra: 77 inmates in Mumbai's Arthur Road jail test COVID-19 positive||As many as 77 undertrial prisoners and 26 personnel from the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai have been tested COVID-19 positive.  They have been shifted to the St George Hospital for treatment and quarantine.  Home Minister Anil Deshmukh confirmed the development.  The Arthur Road jail in Mahalaxmi is the biggest prison of  Mumbai and more than 2,600 undertrials are lodged there.  A couple of days ago,  one inmate in a barrack was found positive.  "Later tests were conducted and total 103 persons including 77 undertrials and 26 jail staff and personnel were found coronavirus positive," Deshmukh said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-77-inmates-in-mumbais-arthur-road-jail-test-covid-19-positive-834899.html
08-05-2020||National||Public health experts favour easing of coronavirus lockdown in India for the benefit of the poor||Five weeks of lockdown has not only failed to protect India’s poorest from the rampaging coronavirus pandemic but made them even more vulnerable by taking away their livelihood means and cutting their access to healthcare, top public health experts have pointed out. “Countries must let people get on with their lives — to work, earn money, and put food on the table. Livelihoods are imperative for saving lives. The policies of widespread lockdowns and a focus on high-technology health care might unintentionally lead to even more sickness and death, disproportionately affecting the poor,” two professors from the Harvard University - T H Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts - wrote in an opinion piece in the Lancet. Data from India’s National Health Mission indicate there was a 69% reduction in measles, mumps, and rubella vaccination in children, a 21% reduction in institutional deliveries, a 50% reduction in clinic attendance for acute cardiac events and, surprisingly, a 32% fall in inpatient care for pulmonary conditions in March 2020, compared with March 2019. “There are now emerging very worrying data, for example from Malegaon, of significant surges of mortality in April, compared with March and the previous year, which cannot be accounted for by unrecognised COVID-19 deaths,” Vikram Patel, one of the two authors of the Lancet article and Pershing Square Professor of Global Health and Wellcome Trust Principal Research Fellow, told DH. “What’s more worrying and mystifying, is that despite five weeks of lockdown, India’s COVID-19 death tolls are still rising to record levels. How do we interpret this - that the lockdown period was not used effectively to either contain the epidemic and our poorest wasn’t protected from its effects; a double whammy!” he said. Patel and his fellow professor Richard Cash argued to return to a society where the emphasis is on personal hygiene and protection rather than locking down the economy.  The catastrophe of hunger fuelled by the lockdown, they observed, would lead to a famine-like situation with many more deaths in the coming weeks not only in India but in other resource the poor nations too, unless there is a change in the policy measures. Hunger is an immediate threat both due to the loss of daily wages and the disruption of the food supply chains.  The UN has estimated that over 300 million children who rely on school meals for most of their nutritional needs (such as India’s Mid Day Meal programme) may now risk acute hunger that could reverse the progress made in the past 2–3 years in reducing infant mortality within a year. In addition to being aligned with the founding principles of global health such as social justice and equity, the government policies would adhere to the Hippocratic Oath’s principle "primum non nocere"—"first do no harm", they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/public-health-experts-favour-easing-of-coronavirus-lockdown-in-india-for-the-benefit-of-the-poor-834902.html
08-05-2020||National||Step up random sampling for early detection of COVID-19: Centre||As India witnessed a sharp spike in COVID-19 cases, the Centre on Thursday asked states to step up random testing among persons suffering from severe respiratory and influenza-like illnesses in unaffected districts for early detection of infection. According to the Health Ministry, confirmed cases of coronavirus shot up by 3,561 in a single day to touch 52,952 as of 8 am on Thursday. As many as 89 people succumbed to disease, taking the death toll to 1,783. According to the DH COVID-19 Tracker, the total number of confirmed cases rose to 56,329 at 11 pm on Thursday. Health Minister Harshvardhan on Thursday asked state governments to step up surveillance for Covid-19 among patients with severe acute respiratory illnesses (SARI) and influenza-like illnesses (ILI) to avoid surprises. “At least 250 random tests should be conducted among SARI/ILI cases in unaffected districts,” he told health ministers of Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha and West Bengal during video conferencing meetings. “Such measures will help to indicate the presence of any possible hidden infection at an early stage thus helping in its timely containment,” he said, pointing out that Karnataka had tested 1,500 to 2,000 random samples to check the spread of the disease. Review meetings showed that Centre's directions on managing the outbreak did not trickle down to district magistrates, which was one of the reasons for the recent spikes in cases. During the review meetings, it emerged that the directions issued by the Centre from time to time on management of the outbreak had not percolated down to district magistrates, which was also one of the reasons for the spike in cases over the past few days.  Maharashtra and Gujarat have emerged as the worst-hit states which together account for 23,383 cases, a whopping 44% of the total cases across the country. The Centre has dispatched a team of senior officials and public health experts to 20 worst-hit districts of the country to fine-tune the response to arrest the spread of the disease. The situation in Uttar Pradesh appears to be under control, but 68 out of the 75 districts of the state have reported COVID-19 cases. The state is expected to receive migrant workers over the next few days, prompting Harshvardhan to urge the state minister to ensure proper quarantine arrangements. On the positive side, Harshvardhan noted that the 15,267 patients had recovered from Covid-19, taking the recovery rate to 28.8%, a steady increase over the past few days. He said the fatality rate at 3.3% was among the lowest in the world. The minister also pointed out that only 1.1% of all COVID-19 patients were on ventilators, 3.3% on medical oxygen and 4.8% on ICU beds. India has also ramped up testing capabilities to conduct 95,000 tests every day across its network of 327 state-run and 118 private laboratories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/step-up-random-sampling-for-early-detection-of-covid-19-centre-834906.html
08-05-2020||National||Vizag: Gas fumes leaking again from tanker in LG Chem, say reports||Gas fumes leaking again from the tanker where there was Styrene leakage today. Around 50 fire staffers, with NDRF's support, are carrying out operation. We've ordered evacuation of villages in 2-3 km radius for safe side precautions, said Visakhapatnam Dist Fire Officer Sandeep Anand, according to reports.  10 more fire tenders, including 2 foam tenders, are present at the spot. Ambulances are ready for any emergency, said Visakhapatnam District Fire Officer Sandeep Anand. The govt had indicated that it will take at least a day more to totally fix the leak. More details awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vizag-gas-fumes-leaking-again-from-tanker-in-lg-chem-say-reports-834915.html
08-05-2020||National||Study finds financial uncertainty the key cause for domestic violence during lockdown in Kerala||Financial uncertainty was the key reason for domestic violence during the coronavirus lockdown, while alcoholism, suspected infidelity and denial of sexual intercourse are the other reasons, according to a study conducted by the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA). The random study based on the complaints and inputs received by various NGOs also pointed out that most of the victims of the domestic violence were found to be from middle-class families and most of them were in the 20 to 40 age range. Majority of the perpetrators of the violence were husbands, followed by parents in law. According to the study, even as the government extended support in the form of free ration and community kitchen, those did not address the unemployment scare, especially among the daily wage earners and unorganised sectors. Among various types of complaints received by the NGOs, there was even instance of a woman complaining of husband forcing her to have a sexual relationship with the employer to tide over the loss of employment. KILA director general Joy Elamon said that it was just an isolated case that came across during the study and it was part of violence over financial issues. Joy said that many victims were found to be unable to complain owing to the presence of male members in the house round-the-clock owing to the lockdown. Moreover, weaker sections like tribals and Dalits were found to be having poor access to redressal forums.  The study report, with a set of recommendations like enhancing public awareness on implications of domestic violence and strengthening local level surveillance, was submitted to Kerala Health and Social Justice minister K K Shailaja.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/study-finds-financial-uncertainty-the-key-cause-for-domestic-violence-during-lockdown-in-kerala-834922.html
08-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 8, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-8-2020-edition-834932.html
08-05-2020||National||Phones without Aarogya Setu to invite penalty||A version of Aarogya Setu will soon be available to 10 crore users of JioPhone, and testing of the solution is currently underway, a senior government official said. Not having the 'Aarogya Setu' app on smartphones while out in a public place in Noida or Greater Noida will be considered a violation of the coronavirus-forced lockdown and attract punishment, according to new guidelines issued by the police. Indian Railways has issued a set of guidelines for its zones for running Shramik special trains to ferry stranded people and this also includes passengers being advised to download the Aarogya Setu App.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/phones-without-aarogya-setu-to-invite-penalty-834933.html
08-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 8||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 59,592 as of May 8. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 1,982  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 16,540 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-8-834936.html
08-05-2020||National||PM condoles death of migrant workers in Maharashtra train accident||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed anguish over the death of 14 migrant workers in a train accident in Maharashtra's Aurangabad. He said all possible assistance is being provided. Extremely anguished by the loss of lives due to the rail accident in Aurangabad, Maharashtra. Have spoken to Railway Minister Shri Piyush Goyal and he is closely monitoring the situation. All possible assistance required is being provided. At least 14 migrant workers sleeping on rail tracks were crushed to death by a goods train in Aurangabad district on Friday morning. In a tweet, the prime minister said, "Extremely anguished by the loss of lives due to the rail accident in Aurangabad, Maharashtra. Have spoken to Railway Minister Shri Piyush Goyal and he is closely monitoring the situation". The workers were returning to Madhya Pradesh and  had been walking along the tracks. They later slept on the rail tracks due to exhaustion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-condoles-death-of-migrant-workers-in-maharashtra-train-accident-834961.html
08-05-2020||National||India's lavish weddings go online during coronavirus lockdown||Under lockdown and far apart, Sushen Dang and Keerti Narang went online to say their marriage vows -- and pulled off a spectacular Indian wedding complete with thousands of guests and raucous Bollywood dancing. In a country famous for lavish weddings that last for days, the young couple are among a growing number modifying their marriage ceremonies under a virus lockdown that has limited public gatherings. Eager to go ahead with the arranged marriage on the auspicious date selected for them by a priest, the pair turned to the internet to tie the knot. "We never imagined that even our online wedding would be so grand," Dang, a 26-year-old data analyst who is based in Toronto, told AFP of the April 19 event. "A hundred guests joined in our celebration on the app. We live-streamed the ceremony on Facebook which was watched by another 16,000 people." The nuptials spanned the country. Dang, decked out in a turban and traditional sherwani kurta, logged on from Mumbai on the coast of the Arabian Sea, while Narang -- in her red bridal finery -- joined from Bareilly in northern Uttar Pradesh state that borders Nepal. The priest overseeing proceedings chanted hymns as he sat before a ritual fire at his home in Raipur in the central state of Chhattisgarh, with guests logging in from Delhi, Gurgaon and the southern tech hub of Bangalore. There were minor hiccups -- some elderly family members were accidentally unmuted and pets photo-bombed screens. But the energy levels remained high and the occasion was capped off with a fun Bollywood-style dance performance by their cousins. The wedding video posted on Facebook has so far garnered nearly 260,000 views, making the newly-weds "feel like celebrities".  The spread of the coronavirus and the nationwide lockdown took place as India's wedding season was in full swing. In western Rajasthan state alone some 23,000 weddings meant to coincide with the Hindu Akshaya Tritiya festival on April 26 were called off due to the pandemic. More than 10 million weddings are held annually in the nation of 1.3 billion people, with the marriage industry estimated to be worth some $40-$50 billion, according to advisory firm KPMG. The sector -- like the rest of the economy -- is reeling from the impact of the virus, with planners, caterers and decorators among those who have incurred huge losses. "We thought, 'Why don't we be the flag-bearers and drive weddings online?'," said Adhish Zaveri, marketing director at matrimonial website Shaadi.com which facilitated Dang and Narang's wedding. "A wedding is probably the most important day of somebody's life ... and we thought we have to make it as special and close to a real wedding as possible," he told AFP. Online nuptials are among a string of weddings in India that have gone ahead amid the lockdown -- with some unusual variations. One couple in Uttar Pradesh said "I do" inside a police station after more conventional venues like banquet halls, hotels and temples were all ordered closed during the lockdown. And in Madhya Pradesh in central India, a bride and groom, their faces covered by masks, exchanged garlands -- a key ritual in a Hindu wedding -- with the help of bamboo sticks in a no-contact ceremony. Zaveri said the significantly cheaper online ceremonies could become an option for couples amid the uncertainty about how long the pandemic is going to last. Couples are charged less than 100,000 rupees ($1,300) for the virtual services, Zaveri said, adding 12 more such weddings were in the pipeline. To give the online ceremonies a professional touch, make-up artists and sari-draping experts are hired to help the bride, while a folk singer is engaged to serenade the guests. All participants are sent logins and passwords so that strangers can't gatecrash the event. Kirti Agrawal -- who married her beau Avinash Singh Bagri on April 14 on the balcony of their relative's flat as friends and family watched on a videoconferencing app -- said the digital approach appealed to her. "Their (groom's) family had planned a guest list of 8,000 to 10,000," Agrawal told AFP. "I didn't say that I am not a fan of big, fat weddings. But when I heard about the wedding-from-home idea, I was very happy."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-lavish-weddings-go-online-during-coronavirus-lockdown-834968.html
08-05-2020||National||Now, three apps mandatory for foreign returnees||The state government has made it mandatory for those coming from abroad to download ‘three’ apps. Now, the foreign returnees will have to download the ‘Quarantine Watch’, ‘Apthamitra’ and the Arogya Setu apps. The government has allowed the telecom service providers to open help kiosks at the airport, who will not only sell SIM cards but also will help with the data configuration and other technical issues, facilitating the speedy download of all the three apps. The revised Standard Operation Procedures (SOPs), for the handling of international returnees to Karnataka, published by the Health and Family Welfare Department of Karnataka, states that it is mandatory for all incoming citizens to download all these apps on their cellphones. Of 10,823 Kannadigas, including students, tourists, professionals and ship crew, stranded in different parts of the world, as many as 6,100 people are being brought back to the country under the ‘VandeBharat’ mission. The first batch of such returnees will land at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) on March 8. The revised SOP, a copy of which, is with DH, said: “At the time of screening of the returnees at the entry points, the returnees have to download all the three apps— Arogya Setu, Quarantine Watch and Apthamitra apps on their mobiles.”  In a separate directive, the telecom service providers are directed to ‘pre-activate the mobile numbers’ even before they are handed over to the returnees upon their arrival. While the Arogya Setu helps in self-assessment of the Covid-19 conditions besides providing adequate tips and updates about the virus, the Quarantine Watch app will help in tracking the effectiveness of the quarantine rules followed by the returnee. The Apthamitra helps in connecting with the health workers immediately if they develop any symptoms like fever, cold, cough or breathing problems during the quarantine period either at the institution or at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-three-apps-mandatory-for-foreign-returnees-834974.html
08-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast | Pankaj Advani on the return of Billiards post-lockdown||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-pankaj-advani-on-the-return-of-billiards-post-lockdown-834981.html
08-05-2020||National||Maha seals borders with other states to curb liquor smuggling amid coronavirus lockdown||The move by the excise department has come in the wake of lifting of certain coronavirus-induced curbs, which included allowing reopening of liquor shops. As the demand for alcohol has increased in Maharashtra, there is a possibility of liquor smuggling by inter-state organised syndicates, the official said. Considering the threat from such syndicates, the excise department has deployed its flying squads and vigilance teams in districts located along the borders with neighbouring states, he said. To avoid any smuggling activity during this period, we have increased our vigil on 12 checkposts and sealed borders with adjoining states," he said. This will help in curbing illegal transportation of liquor or spirit, the official said. With the help of local police, the excise department has initiated action against persons involved in smuggling and transportation of liquor, he said. Since the lockdown came into force in late March, at least 4,829 offences have been registered for illegal liquor transportation and 438 vehicles seized, he said. Besides, at least 2,104 persons have been arrested so far in such cases, the official said, adding liquor and other material worth Rs 12.63 crore have been seized since the shutdown. The excise department has started a control room, where people can provide information related to illegal manufacturing or sale of liquor, he said. PTI DC RSY RSY||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maha-seals-borders-with-other-states-to-curb-liquor-smuggling-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-834985.html
08-05-2020||National||Pained beyond words at death of migrants: JP Nadda||Condoling the death of migrant workers after being run over by a goods train in Aurangabad, BJP president J P Nadda said on Friday that he was pained beyond words at the tragedy.  At least 14 migrant workers sleeping on rail tracks were crushed to death by a goods train in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district on Friday morning. I am pained beyond words to learn about the tragic train accident in Aurangabad, Maharashtra. I have asked our karyakartas to join the rescue operation and provide full support to the administration along with adherence to all health protocols. In a tweet, Nadda said, "I am pained beyond words to learn about the tragic train accident in Aurangabad, Maharashtra. I have asked our karyakartas to join the rescue operation and provide full support to the administration along with adherence to all health protocols".  Offering his deepest condolences, he wished for early recovery of those injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pained-beyond-words-at-death-of-migrants-jp-nadda-834988.html
08-05-2020||National||Indian Air Force fighter jet crashes in Punjab||Mig-29 fighter aircraft of the IAF crashed in Chuharpur village in Punjab on Friday after it developed a technical snag, officials said. The pilot ejected safely and has been rescued, they said. An IAF fighter jet crashed into the fields here, Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Vinay Bublani said. The crash took place around 10.30 am, the officials said. An IAF spokesperson said the Mig-29 aircraft was on a training mission from an Air Force base near Jalandhar. "The aircraft had developed a technical snag and the pilot ejected safely as he was unable to control the aircraft," he said. The official said the pilot has been rescued by a helicopter and a court of inquiry has been ordered to investigate the cause of the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-air-force-fighter-jet-crashes-in-punjab-835000.html
08-05-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announces Rs 5 lakh aid for kin of deceased labourers||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday condoled the death of 14 migrant workers from the state in a train accident in Maharashtra and announced a financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to their families. At least 14 migrant labourers from Madhya Pradesh, who were sleeping on rail tracks, were mowed down by a goods train near Karmad station in Aurangabad district in Maharashtra in the early hours of Friday. Two other labourers were injured in the accident. "I have spoken to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and demanded a probe into the accident besides aid to their families," Chouhan said and announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the deceased labourers. A team of officials will be dispatched to Aurangabad to take care of the injured migrants and make necessary arrangements for their treatment, he said. "I am also in touch with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to get updates about the treatment and other arrangement being made for them," he said. The migrant workers were walking along the rail tracks to reach Bhusawal from Jalna, 40km from Karmad, on way to their villages in Madhya Pradesh. They slept off on the tracks due to exhaustion, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-chief-minister-shivraj-singh-chouhan-announces-rs-5-lakh-aid-for-kin-of-deceased-labourers-835003.html
08-05-2020||National||Now, Pok, Gilgit weather information on DD News, AIR||Doordarshan News (DD News) and All India Radio (AIR) will broadcast weather information from Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan in their prime time news bulletin from now on. This comes days after the Weather Office started providing the information in its bulletins. The move comes after Pakistan Supreme Court gave its nod to conduct elections in Gilgit-Baltistan late last month. Gilgit-Baltistan, according to India, is under illegal occupation of Pakistan. Officials in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said the DD News and AIR started broadcasting temperatures and weather reports of cities including Mirpur, Muzzafarabad and Gilgit in their prime time news bulletins. They said private channels showing weather report will follow soon. The IMD had started referring its Sub Division of Jammu and Kashmir as Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad from Tuesday. It provides temperatures of Gilgit, Muzaffarabad, Gilgit and Skardu, which is now occupied by Pakistan. After the Pakistan Supreme Court allowed elections in Gilgit-Baltistan, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) demarched senior Pakistan diplomat and lodged a strong protest against the order on the "so-called Gilgit-Baltistan". "It was clearly conveyed that the entire Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of India by virtue of its fully legal and irrevocable accession. The Government of Pakistan or its judiciary has no locus standi on territories illegally and forcibly occupied by it. India completely rejects such actions and continued attempts to bring material changes in Pakistan occupied areas of the Indian territory of Jammu & Kashmir. Instead, Pakistan should immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation," it had said. The MEA said such actions can neither hide the illegal occupation of parts of Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh by Pakistan nor the grave human rights violations, exploitation and denial of freedom to the people residing in Pakistan occupied territories for the past seven decades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-pok-gilgit-weather-information-on-dd-news-air-835004.html
08-05-2020||National||COVID-19 cases in paramilitary forces cross 500 mark||COVID-19 has struck paramilitary forces with around 540 personnel testing positive for the virus infection and at least five dead so far with Border Security Force (BSF) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) accounting for the largest chunk. There were two deaths in BSF and one each in CRPF, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP)and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) in the past few days. BSF has recorded 225 cases with most of the people testing positive for COVID-19 were deployed in the capital. On Thursday, the BSF announced the death of two personnel while 24 fresh cases reported from Tripura and six from Delhi. At present, BSF has 221 active cases, with two persons recovering from the infection. One of them had a critical kidney ailment and he contracted the infection while at a super-speciality hospital for treatment. The second personnel had died at Safdarjung hospital on May 4 and the result of his Covid-19 test, which was done after his death, received on Wednesday had confirmed that he had contracted the virus infection. CRPF has 162 cases with a bulk (137) coming from a battalion based in east Delhi's Mayur Vihar. Many of the CRPF personnel were deployed along with Delhi Police for law and order duty. A CRPF Assistant Sub Inspector breathed his last in late April while he was on treatment for Covid-19 here.  In ITBP, there are 82 cases and one death while in CISF has 35 cases and one death, which was that of a Constable deployed in Mumbai airport. The Shashastra Seema Bal has 17 cases. With a rise in number of COVID-19 cases in police and paramilitary forces, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had earlier this month issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and suggested to top officials  to consider the option of giving 'work from home' for personnel who are are not deployed on the frontline. It wanted the states to prepare and "effective second line" of defence to make up for the police personnel who may be rendered ineffective due to COVID-19 infection during the pandemic by deploying home guards, civil defence, NCC cadets and student cadets among others wherever feasible to contain the spread of the deadly virus. In his letter to states on May 3, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said the police and paramilitary personnel are among the frontline workers performing duties to implement lockdown orders and government guidelines for containing the spread of the disease and they are more vulnerable to COVID-19 as they have to interact with the public on a daily basis. "Instances have been noticed of police and security personnel getting infected. Hence, it is imperative to make police personnel aware of the precautions to be taken while performing their assigned tasks in order to ensure that the strategy adopted for containing Covid-19 spread remains sustainable," he had said. The MHA said that police stations and other facilities should be sanitised and personnel should be advised to keep themselves safe by practising proper hygiene and physical distancing. They should be provided with hand sanitisers, soaps, masks, face shield, gloves, safe food, etc. and also train the personnel in their proper usage and disposal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-in-paramilitary-forces-cross-500-mark-835025.html
08-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: States should consider home delivery of liquor, says SC||A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai said we would not pass any order as advocate J Sai Deepak asked the court to ensure that people's lives weren't affected due to massive gathering at liquor outlets. Home delivery of spirits and wines have been considered by Punjab, West Bengal and Delhi to deal with huge rush near the shops. The counsel, appearing for petitioner Guruswamy Nataraj contended that the number of shops selling wine and spirits were largely outnumbered by those interested in buying liquor, resulting in violation of social distancing norms. The bench said there was already an ongoing discussion on home delivery of alcohol.  The bench asked the petitioner what he wanted the Court to do in Article 32 petition, to which the petitioner said he only wanted that the life of a common man should not be affected. "The Ministry of Home Affairs should make clarifications and state should abide by it" the petitioner said. The petitioner wanted the court to declare the new COVID-19 guidelines issued, to the extent that those permitted sale of alcoholic liquors for human consumption at liquor vends and shops through direct contact sales during the lockdown period, as unconstitutional, null and void.    He also sought a direction to Union government to issue guidelines or directions for prohibition of sale of alcoholic liquors for human consumption at liquor vends or shops through direct contact sales, during the lockdown period.    The petitioner wanted extension of prohibition beyond May 17, 2020 by National Disaster Management Authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-states-should-consider-home-delivery-of-liquor-says-sc-835028.html
08-05-2020||National||SC refuses to consider plea for rehab package for NRIs||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a PIL by an organisation, 'Kerala Pravasi Sangham' for a direction to the Centre to frame proper guidelines to formulate rehabilitation package to all those who returned from abroad. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai pointed out that the government has already started evacuating people from abroad since May 7. Senior advocate P V Surendranath, appearing for the petitioner, contended that lakhs of people were stranded but the help was reaching to few thousand only. "Let the government decide where to start. Everyone wants his say on COVID-19 situation," the bench said, declining to consider the plea. The PIL sought a direction to the Centre to set up a 'special purpose fund' for utilising approximately 15% of foreign remittances by Indian citizens living abroad for financial aid of the people in view of the exponential increase in the number of COVID-19 patients. The petition filed by advocate Deepak Prakash contended that the Union government should also utilise the Indian Community Welfare Fund at all India missions to meet the expenditure for providing proper welfare and healthcare amenities to all distressed citizens.  Seeking speedy evacuation and repatriation of Indian citizens, the petitioner-organisation through its general secretary K V Abdul Khader pointed out that as per the RBI, a total of Rs 4,47,586 crore has already been pumped in our financial system solely by foreign remittances as foreign remittances. Among this, 19% contribution is by people from Kerala. "For curbing the spread of COVID-19, various countries imposed lockdown in the month of March, rendering temporary suspension of workplaces and employment. This has caused widespread disruption in the lives of Indian citizens at home and abroad," it said. The petitioner also submitted that it was a reasonable expectation of people that their lives and health would be protected by utilising the money they brought into the country.  It also said that the lives of various Indian migrant citizens were in danger in the wake of lockdown in several gulf countries and they were forced to quarantine in labour accommodation camps, which are notoriously overcrowded without adequate water and sanitation facilities, making them susceptible to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-consider-plea-for-rehab-package-for-nris-835030.html
08-05-2020||National||SC agrees to examine plea for protection of employees facing salary cuts, termination||The Supreme Court, on Friday, agreed to examine a PIL for a direction to the Centre and all states to protect all such employees facing salary cuts and termination following the unprecedented lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai decided to tag the plea along with a similar pending matter. The Court, however, asked senior advocate Devadatt Kamat to delete advocate Rajesh Inamdar as one of the petitioners. In their plea, Inamdar and Harpreet Saluja, General Secretary, National Information Technology Employees Sena, wanted the government to ensure that employers in the private sector at least make payment of a subsistence salary to the employees, without terminating them unreasonably and illegally against their rights under Articles 14, 19, and 21 of the Constitution. The senior advocate was assisted by advocates Inamdar, Amit Pai and Aishwarya Rai B. In their plea, the petitioners contended that although the government was taking necessary steps to provide possible assistance to the needy on priority like daily wagers, migrant workers, small businesses, the corporate employers have been reluctant and are acting inhuman in fulfilling their duty towards the nation and assist it by ensuring timely payments of full wages and salaries. They also wanted initiation of action against all such companies under Section 51 and 58 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 which were in breach of orders and advisories issued by the Ministry Labour and Employment on March 29 and the Union government on March 29, 2020. The petitioners said that the economic and social impact of unregulated mass terminations and delayed payment of salaries or pay cuts would be extremely severe and would have a very large and serious human impact particularly on several thousands of people in the middle class bracket. The employees working in various IT/ ITES companies for over several years have been informed over phones calls about their termination without even following the procedure envisaged under various enactments viz Industrial Disputes Act etc. Moreover, such terminations are illegal, unreasonable and based on convenience, they said in their petition. The petitioners claimed no procedure like notice period, intimation to government authorities, payment of retrenchment compensation, payment of gratuity, leave encashment, etc. has been undertaken by the companies. Even though the employees were in no way responsible for the present situation, they were at the receiving end. "Mass termination and the withholding of the salaries of the employees during these severe times is contrary to public policy, and directly affecting the right to livelihood of several persons," they contended. The petitioners also wanted immediate financial assistance to all such employees whose companies have been closed after the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-agrees-to-examine-plea-for-protection-of-employees-facing-salary-cuts-termination-835033.html
08-05-2020||National||Sebi officer tests positive for coronavirus||An officer working with capital markets regulator Sebi has tested positive for COVID-19, prompting the regulatory authority to get its headquarters here completely sanitised as per the necessary protocols while ensuring that all its functions continue uninterrupted, officials said. While most of the staff at Sebi's head office in the Bandra Kurla Complex area have been working from home ever since the lockdown began on March 25, some have been coming to office as per the government guidelines. Necessary arrangements are already in place for the work to continue uninterrupted, officials said. All capital market entities, including stock exchanges and commodities bourses, have been functioning during the lockdown as part of relaxations given for essential services. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has been actually very active during this time, while issuing a number of circulars and notifications including for granting a number of relaxations to market entities and listed companies, as also for greater surveillance during such difficult times to safeguard investors' interest. Sources said that the office premise was completely sanitised this morning and will remain closed for the day as part of abundant precaution after it was found on Thursday evening that one officer has tested positive. "Since lockdown has been announced, Sebi has been taking all precautionary measures including those announced by the central and state governments," an official said. "After one of its officers reportedly tested positive for COVID-19 Thursday evening, Sebi is taking further required action as per the protocol, including sanitisation of its office buildings in BKC. Sebi continues to function uninterruptedly," the official added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sebi-officer-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-835037.html
08-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi remembers Rabindranath Tagore on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday recalled Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore's role in the freedom struggle on his 159th birth anniversary. "Tributes to Gurudev Tagore on his Jayanti. Gifted in several fields, he made a strong contribution towards India's freedom movement," the prime minister wrote on Twitter "His clarity of thought and expression were always outstanding," Modi said. Rabindranath Tagore Jayanti  is celebrated on the 25th day of the Bengali month of Boishakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-remembers-rabindranath-tagore-on-his-birth-anniversary-835038.html
08-05-2020||National||SC refuses to consider plea for NALSA COVID-19 Relief Scheme||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a plea by a group of advocates for taking an initiative as 'NALSA COVID-19 Relief Scheme 2020' to contain the pandemic and restore normal life in the country by coordinating efforts of NGOs, corporates and other Indian citizens, living in India and abroad. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai expressed displeasure with the petition. The bench told senior advocate Krishnan Venugopal, representing the petitioners that he was appearing for the first time through video conferencing but the court daily saw that lawyers were filing the petition to ensure how to mismanage Covid-19 situation. "Legal service authority knows its works and will do that. Why should we issue a writ," the bench asked the counsel. To this, Venugopal said some changes required in the legal service authorities to meet the current situation. The bench, however, asked the petitioner to withdraw the plea.  Advocate Deepak Prakash and others contended that in view of the alarming rate of increase of COVID-19 cases, there was an apprehension of further extension of lockdown with some relaxation, creating hardships to the people including loss of livelihood.  The petitioners sought a direction to National Legal Services Authority to provide active and answering helpline numbers to enable common people to address their grievances -- legal and otherwise-- pertaining their lives and livelihood in coordination with district and state authorities. They also wanted to set up a special purpose fund to help struggling and needy lawyers, facing unprecedented hardships, owing to the pandemic and national lockdown for providing temporary shelter, cooked food, medicine, health care, and other essential items.  The petitioners said the tax exemption granted to donation to PM Cares Fund should be increased from 100 to 200 % under the Income Tax Act to ensure more donations for use of research and development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-consider-plea-for-nalsa-covid-19-relief-scheme-835042.html
08-05-2020||National||Delhi Minorities Commission chief moves HC for anticipatory bail in sedition case||Delhi Minorities Commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan on Friday approached the Delhi High Court seeking anticipatory bail in sedition case lodged against him. The plea was mentioned for an urgent hearing and it has been allowed to be listed on May 12, his advocate Vrinda Grover said. Khan on April 28 published a post having alleged seditious and hateful comments through his official page on social media. Based on a complaint, the Delhi Police Special Cell on May 2 lodged an FIR against Khan under Sections 124A and 153A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for the alleged offences of sedition and promoting feelings of hatred between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence and language. Khan sought anticipatory bail on the ground that he is a public servant and a senior citizen aged 72 years, who suffers from heart disease and hypertension and is highly susceptible to COVID-19 infection which can have fatal consequences for a person of his age and health condition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-minorities-commission-chief-moves-hc-for-anticipatory-bail-in-sedition-case-835045.html
08-05-2020||National||Punjab cop shoots dead kabaddi player, arrested||A Punjab policeman shot dead a 24-year-old international kabaddi player and seriously injured his friend in Kapurthala district, fearing they would attack him for stopping their vehicle during curfew, police said on Friday. Assistant Sub Inspector Paramjit Singh killed Arwinderjit Singh and seriously injured Pardeep Singh on Thursday night in Lakhan Ke Padda village. The ASI was going to the village to drop his friend Mangu in a car when they saw another vehicle coming towards them at 10 pm when a curfew was in force in the area, police said. They followed the car and signalled to stop. When the car stopped, the ASI fired four to five rounds from his service revolver at Arwinderjit and his friend suspecting that they were going to attack him, police said. The kabaddi player died on the spot and his friend was admitted was admitted to a private hospital in Jalandhar but was stated to be out of danger, they said. Police said there was no personal enmity between any of them and it was a case of confusion. They have arrested the ASI and his friend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cop-shoots-dead-kabaddi-player-arrested-835047.html
08-05-2020||National||Maharashtra train accident: It all happened in a flash, says survivor||Survivors of the Aurangabad train accident frantically raised alarm to alert their group members sleeping on tracks about a fast-approaching freight train, but it all went in vain as 16 of them were crushed to death at the crack of dawn on Friday. Chilling details emerged about the tragedy involving a group of migrant workers who were on their way to native places in Madhya Pradesh on foot from Maharashtra and had taken a break to rest on rail tracks out of sheer fatigue. The accident left 16 migrant workers dead and one injured while three others survived. All of them were working in a steel manufacturing in Jalna, a district adjoining Aurangabad in central Maharashtra, and were heading home in the amidst of coronavirus-enforced lockdown, officials said. It all happened in a flash of a second, says Virendra Singh Gaur, one of the survivors of the Aurangabad train run over incident involving migrants.  He worked in a private MSME in Jalna,  that is now shut because of the COVID-19 India lockdown. "I was worried about my wife,  kids and parents back home," says Virendra, who hails form Mamen village in Umaria district of Shadol division of Madhya Pradesh. "We started at 7 pm last evening,  we kept on walking along the road and then tracks," he said,  adding that they wanted to go to Bhusawal and then move towards their home state. "We were tired,  it was around 4 am when we decided to take some rest," he said,  adding that while he and a colleague were a bit behind, others were ahead. "While resting,  we saw the train coming...they were sitting along the rails we shouted to alert them, we ran towards them but the train just passed like a flash," he said. The survivors were identified as Inderlal Dhurve (20 district Mandla), Virendrasingh Gaur (27, district Umaria) and Shivman Singh Gaur (27, district Shahdol) and the injured Sajjan Singh (resident of Khajeri district). A video clip from the scene of the tragedy showed the mutilated bodies of migrant workers lying on the tracks and nearby with their meagre personal belongings scattered around. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader and state minister Sandipan Bhumre and Member of Legislative Assembly Ambadas Danve visited the Government Medical College and Hospital here and met the injured. Danve said, "The state government is making efforts to send migrant workers to their home states. People should have patience." The deceased includeed Dhansingh Gond, Nirlesh Singh Gond, Buddharaj Singh Gond, Rabendra Singh Gond, Rajbohram Paras Singh, Dharmendra Singh Gond, Shreedayal Singh Suresh Singh Kaul, Santosh Napit, Brijesh Bheyadin (all from Shahdol district), Bigendra Singh, Pradeep Singh Gond, Nemshah singh Munim singh (all Umaria district). One of the deceased was identified as Acchelal Singh, but his native district was not yet known, police officials said, adding another vicitm was yet to be identified.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-train-accident-it-all-happened-in-a-flash-says-survivor-835049.html
08-05-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh govt okays ordinance to exempt various industries from labour laws for 3 years||The Uttar Pradesh government has approved an ordinance to exempt various industries in the state from different labour laws for three years to revive the state’s economic activities which have come to a grinding halt amid the coronavirus lockdown. The decision to approve the ordinance was taken on Wednesday in a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. A government spokesperson said on Thursday The step aimed at reviving and boosting various businesses and industries has been taken because they have more or less came to a halt due to the national lockdown, the spokesman said. The ordnance has been sent to Governor Anandi Ben Patel for her assent, said sources. There is a need to give impetus to industrial and economic activities and create more investment opportunities besides bringing back the existing industry back on track, the spokesman said. The state Cabinet chaired by the chief minister had given its nod to the Uttar Pradesh Temporary Exemption from Certain Labour Laws Ordinance, 2020 to exempt factories, businesses, establishments and industries from the purview of all, except three labour laws and one provision of another Act for three years, the spokesman said. Some labour laws, however, would continue to prevail, he said adding the labour laws provisions related to women and child will continue to exist along with the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, 1976, Building and Other Construction Workers Act 1996, Section 5 of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 and Workmen Compensation Act 1923.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-govt-okays-ordinance-to-exempt-various-industries-from-labour-laws-for-3-years-835051.html
08-05-2020||National||Okay with PM's style, but need strong CMs, DMs in COVID-19 fight: Rahul Gandhi||Making a strong pitch for decentralisation of power, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, on Friday, said India could lose the fight against COVID-19 if the decision-making process remained within the Prime Minister’s Office. Rahul, the former Congress President, also wanted the Centre to move in allay fears about COVID-19 being a “deadly disease” if it really wanted to make the transition from the lockdown post May 17. “The disease is dangerous for a few categories of people – those having diabetes, hypertension. But other than those categories, it is not a dangerous disease. Currently, people are very scared. The government, if it wants to open up, will have to turn this fear into a sense of confidence,” he told reporters through a video link. Rahul also wanted the government to announce a financial package for the micro, small and medium enterprises as part of efforts to kick start the economy and transfer cash into the hands of at least bottom 50% of the population to revive demand. Taking objection to the demarcation of red, orange and green zones by the Centre, the Congress leader asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consult chief ministers more often and base such decisions on inputs received from them. “If we speak fairly, the situation we are in today is not a normal situation. So, we can't have a normal solution. We need to decentralise and take it to the district level, we will win. If we keep it in PMO, we will lose the fight. PM should talk to CMs more, not as a boss but as a colleague,” Rahul said. “PM Modi has a style and that's alright. But in such a situation, I would want many strong CMs, strong DMs and a strong PM working together,” he said. He also asked the government to spell out the criteria that would be considered before the decision to lift the lockdown is taken. “We need to understand when they will open, what are the criteria, what are the boxes they need to check off. The government should spell out the criteria,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/okay-with-pms-style-but-need-strong-cms-dms-in-covid-19-fight-rahul-gandhi-835053.html
08-05-2020||National||Gautam Buddh Nagar reports first death due to COVID-19||A 60-year-old man died due to coronavirus in western Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Friday, becoming the first fatality in the district due to COVID-19. The victim was a resident of Noida's Sector 22, officials said. He was admitted in a private hospital in Noida earlier this week and found positive for COVID-19 on Thursday after which he was taken to the Government Institute of Medical Science (GIMS) in Greater Noida, the officials said. In response to a PTI query on whether a patient has died due to coronavirus, GIMS Director Dr. Brig (retd) Rakesh Gupta said: "Yes." The patient was taken to GIMS early on Friday and he died around 3.30 AM, according to official sources. It was yet to be established whether the man died before reaching GIMS. Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 202 positive cases of coronavirus till Thursday evening, and official figures for Friday were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gautam-buddh-nagar-reports-first-death-due-to-covid-19-835062.html
08-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Over 700 Indians stranded in Maldives set to sail back home under 'Operation Samudra Setu'||India on Friday began evacuating over 700 of its citizens by sea from the Maldives who were stranded in the scenic island due to the COVID-19 linked international travel restrictions. The INS Jalashwa, the Indian Navy's amphibious warship, reached Male on Thursday to undertake the massive repatriation mission named 'Operation Samudra Setu', the High Commission of India in Maldives said. The first Naval ship from Male is expected to arrive at the Cochin Port on May 10, Port Trust officials in Kochi said.  The INS Jalashwa is part of the repatriation mission launched by the Indian Navy to bring Indian citizens home from foreign shores, the Indian Navy said in a statement. "It is a very great thing that the High Commission did for us and we did not have any issues till now. We got everything with proper guidelines, all the things done by the High Commission," Pradeep, who hails from Palakkad, said. He works in a resort in Male. "Jamsheed from Kerala thanks Govt of India, Govt of Kerala & @indiannavy for this historic Operation to repatriate #Indian nationals from the #Maldives," the High Commission of India in Maldives tweeted. The INS Jalashwa is properly equipped with relief materials, COVID-19 protection gear along with medical and administrative support staff, it noted. The INS Magar, an amphibious warfare vessel of the Indian Navy, will also join the repatriation mission in Male as part of the efforts to bring back around 1,000 stranded Indian nationals to the Kochi port in Kerala over the next few days. Amidst the coronavirus pandemic, India is conducting its biggest ever repatriation exercise named Vande Bharat Mission to bring back stranded Indians from abroad, including from the US, the UAE, the UK.  The High Commission in Male on its Facebook page said, MVR 600 or an equivalent amount of USD 40 will be charged as the Evacuation Services Charge from each person listed for repatriation by INS Jalashwa. "This amount would be collected at the service fee collection counter after completion of the Immigration process at the Velana International Airport. Kindly carry exact change to avoid delay/ inconvenience," the post said. Meanwhile, all arrangements as per government guidelines are in place at Cochin Port to facilitate the arrival of those who are evacuated from Maldives via the sea route, officials in Kochi said. Before arrival at Cochin, on board the vessel, the Navy will get the self e-declaration data filled by all passengers and also identify the passengers symptomatic of COVID-19. The symptomatic passengers will be disembarked first, followed by other passengers (district wise) in batches of 50 persons, the Port Trust said. Separate zone has been earmarked for the symptomatic patients. The passengers disembarked will undergo further statutory verifications for clearances inside the Samudrika Cruise Terminal where Port Health Organisation will verify the self declaration forms, the trust said. All passengers on arrival in India will be medically screened and would have to download and register on the Aarogya Setu app. The passengers, once cleared by all statutory organisations, will be transported to different districts in buses (30 per bus) arranged by the Regional Transport Officer. On Monday, the Indian government announced plans to begin a phased repatriation of its citizens stranded abroad from May 7. On Thursday, two special flights from the UAE carrying a total of 363 Indian nationals, including nine infants, left for Kerala as India began its biggest ever repatriation exercise to bring back its citizens stranded abroad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-over-700-indians-stranded-in-maldives-set-to-sail-back-home-under-operation-samudra-setu-835063.html
08-05-2020||National||Court extends CBI remand of Kapil Wadhawan , Dheeraj Wadhawan in Yes Bank scam to May 10||A special court here on Friday extended till May 10 the CBI remand of DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan and RKW Developers promoter Dheeraj Wadhawan, arrested in connection with the Yes Bank scam. The duo was arrested last monthfrom a Mahabaleshwar-based quarantine facility, nearly 50 days after the CBI booked them in a case of alleged bribery also involving former Yes Bank CEO Rana Kapoor. The Wadhawans were produced before the special court here on Friday at the end of their previous remand. The centralprobe agency sought an extension of their custody, saying they need to interrogate the duo further. The Wadhawan brothers have been named accused in the CBI FIR pertaining to alleged swindling of money by Kapoor and others, officials said. The agency has alleged that Kapoor, 62, entered into a criminal conspiracy with the Wadhawans for extending financial assistance to DHFL through Yes Bank in return for "substantial undue benefits" to himself and his family members through companies held by them. According to the CBI FIR, the scam started taking shape between April and June 2018 when Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of the scam-hit Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). In return, the Wadhawans allegedly "paid kickback of Rs 600 crore" to Kapoor and family members in the form of loans to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd held by the wife and daughters of Kapoor. Besides the CBI, the duo was also being probed separately by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the Yes Bank scam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-extends-cbi-remand-of-kapil-wadhawan-dheeraj-wadhawan-in-yes-bank-scam-to-may-10-835064.html
08-05-2020||National||PIL in HC seeks free laptop, phones to poor kids for online classes during COVID-19 lockdown||The Delhi High Court Friday asked the Centre and the AAP government to respond to a PIL seeking directions to them to provide free laptops, tablets or mobile phones to poor kids so that they can access classes online during the COVID-19 lockdown. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula issued notices to the Centre, the Delhi government, the municipal corporations and 10 private unaided schools here seeking their stand on the plea by an NGO, Justice for All, by June 10 -- the next date of hearing. Delhi Government standing counsel Ramesh Singh accepted the notice on behalf of the Education Department. In its plea filed through advocate Khagesh Jha, the NGO has contended that the private unaided schools' decision to conduct classes via video conferencing would affect over 50,000 students belonging to the economically weaker sections (EWS) and cannot afford laptops, phones and high-speed internet service to attend the classes. The petition has contended that not providing the laptop, phone and high speed internet, free of cost, to the poor kids would amount to a violation of their fundamental right to education guaranteed under the Constitution. "The children belonging to economically weaker section (EWS) or disadvantaged group (DG) category are protected under Article 21A of Constitution for getting equitable quality education and the state is duty bound to remove all financial barriers coming in the way of getting quality education in the same manner as their counterpart fee paying students are getting in the school," the NGO has contended in its plea. It has claimed that when the private schools started online classes through the video conferencing for fee-paying students, those belonging to EWS category could not join the online classes "due to the financial barriers in purchase of equipment like laptop, android mobile phone, I-Pad and high speed internet connection". It has further contended that problem of EWS children was not considered while taking such a decision and thus, they are sitting at idle at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-hc-seeks-free-laptop-phones-to-poor-kids-for-online-classes-during-covid-19-lockdown-835074.html
08-05-2020||National||Air India unions challenge in HC pay cut due to coronavirus pandemic||Air India employee unions have moved the Bombay High Court against the airline's decision to slash allowances, which form a major part of salary, by ten per cent because of the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. Air India Aircraft Engineers Association, All India Service Engineers Association and Indian Pilots Guild filed a writ petition in the high court earlier this week against the national carrier and its subsidiary Air India Engineering Services Ltd. The petition, filed through advocates Jane Cox and Karishma Rao, said that on March 20, Air India announced 10 per cent deduction for three months from the allowance package of all employees except the cabin crew on account of the impact of coronavirus outbreak. The plea pointed out that on the same day the Union government issued an advisory asking all private and public firms not to reduce salaries or sack employees due to the pandemic. "On March 29, the home secretary issued an advisory under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, directing that all employers pay wages to their employees without making any deductions for the period their establishments remain closed on account of the lockdown," said advocate Jane Cox. The deduction announced by Air India was therefore not only illegal under industrial laws but it also violated the Union government's order, the petition said, demanding that the pay cut be declared as illegal. It also urged the court to direct Air India not to make any further deductions, and reimburse the amount deducted for March pending final disposal of the case. The petitioners had also written to the Ministry of Civil Aviation protesting against the deduction but they were to receive any response, the plea said. "The management has called a skeletal staff on duty on some days each week and has directed all employees to stay at home and remain available on phone in case of any emergency. We are all willing to resume work but are unable to do so because of the pandemic," the petition further said. The deduction of wages for March was "especially unjust" as most employees worked from March 1 to March 24, which was prior to national lockdown coming into effect, it said. Allowances form 50 to 70 per cent of salaries of petitioners while remaining amount includes basic pay and other components, the petition said. The court is likely to hear the matter next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-unions-challenge-in-hc-pay-cut-due-to-coronavirus-pandemic-835088.html
08-05-2020||National||Gas leakage incident: NGT sets up fact finding panel to assess damage, compensation||The National Green Tribunal has set up a fact-finding committee headed by former judge of Andhra Pradesh High Court, Justice B Seshasayana Reddy, into the gas leakage tragedy at Vishakhapatnam's LG Polymer India Pvt Ltd that claimed lives of 11 people and leftover two dozens grievously injured. Taking Suo Motu congnisance of the matter, a bench headed by Tribunal's chairman Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the company to deposit initial amount of Rs 50 crore based on its financial worth for its apparent failure to comply with rules related hazardous substance. The tribunal fixed the amount having considered the prima facie material regarding the extent of damage to life, public health, and environment. The bench, also comprising judicial member Sheo Kumar Singh and expert member Nagin Nanda, issued notice to Andhra Pradesh State Pollution Control Board, District Magistrate, Vishakhapatnam, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) and LG Polymers India Pvt Limited. The green panel acted on the basis of media reports on Thursday's leakage of hazardous gas, Styrene at the plant of South Korean company, which caused the death of 11 persons and hospitalisation of more than 100 people, of which at least 25 people were reported as serious. Noting that Styrene gas is a hazardous chemical, the tribunal said, the rules required on-site and off-site emergency plans to ensure prevention of damage.  "There appears to be a failure to comply with the rules and other statutory provisions. Leakage of hazardous gas at such a scale adversely affecting public health and environment, clearly attracts the principle of ‘Strict Liability’ against the enterprise engaged in a hazardous or inherently dangerous industry," it said.  The tribunal said such an entity is liable to restore the damage caused under the Environment Law, apart from other statutory liability. "The statutory authorities responsible for authorising and regulating such activities may also be accountable for their lapses, if any, in dealing with the matter. It is also necessary to ensure that all necessary steps are taken to prevent recurrence of such an incident," it said, in its order. The tribunal decided to consider relief and compensation to the victims of “environmental damage”, and restitution of damaged property and environment. The panel would include Prof Ch V Rama Chandra Murthy, former Vice-Chancellor, Andhra University, Vizag, Prof Pulipati King, Head of Chemical Engineering  Department, Andhra University, member secretary, CPCB, and Director, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Head, NEERI, Vizag. The committee has been asked to look into sequence of events, causes of failure and persons and authorities responsible, the extent of damage to life, human and non-human, public health, and environment, including, water, soil, air, steps for compensation of victims and restitution of the damaged property and environment, remedial measures to prevent recurrence and any other incidental or allied issues found relevant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gas-leakage-incident-ngt-sets-up-fact-finding-panel-to-assess-damage-compensation-835089.html
08-05-2020||National||Akola villages use WhatsApp to coordinate coronavirus fight||WhatsApp has become the main communication tool for a police station in Akola in Maharashtra in the fight against the coronavirus outbreak as a large number of the 90 villages under its jurisdiction are tribal-dominated, and many are nestled in the Satpura mountain range and difficult to reach. A WhatsApp group comprising the sarpanch of villages, the police patil, gram sevak, important functionaries and health workers is now the driving force behind the efforts to ensure COVID-19 does not spread to these hamlets, said Inspector Dnyanoba Phad of Akot Rural police station, some 50 kilometres from the district headquarters. "Every important message on the outbreak, state and Central government announcements, pleas to adhere to social distancing and lockdown norms are being disseminated through this WhatsApp group," Phad told PTI on Friday. "It is having the desired impact as the recipients and subsequently the villagers know the source of information is authentic. All 90 villages, even those in the Satpura range, in our police station limits are connected to this group. Even complaints about lockdown violations are relayed on this group by alert citizens quickly," he added. Savra village police patil Shilpa Sapakal was all praise for the group and said it kept even far-flung villages in Akot connected to the authorities in these distressing times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akola-villages-use-whatsapp-to-coordinate-coronavirus-fight-835090.html
08-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Healthcare workers face moral injury, financial stress, combative patients||These are extraordinary times brought out by a merciless pandemic, the psychological impacts of which are beginning to show on medical and non-medical health personnel, especially the frontline workers. Their stories voice their stress and anxiety, of moral injury, of dealing with combative patients and financial concerns.  As the workload rises by the day, they hope of not being assaulted, await PPEs, ‘hazard pay’ and clear guidelines. A critical care consultant in a private hospital in the city, who requested anonymity, says, “PPEs are in short supply and working eight hours at a stretch is not easy. The plight of the nursing staff is even worse. They spend the maximum time with isolated COVID -19 suspects in the ICU without food, water and sleep.” “Nurses are usually at the receiving end as they are paid the least. They are having panic attacks, chest pain and anxiety. The most important worry for all of us is spreading infection to our families.”  “That’s not all. Patients sometimes resist and get combative. People have still not accepted the magnitude of the problem,” he avers. He says ‘Hazard Pay’ needs to be given on the lines of what the armed forces are given and the government should also provide proper guidelines so that there is no confusion about where to send the patients. It is quite a cocktail of concerns, some of which do not have easy solutions. While mental wellness is often pushed into the backseat, the pandemic is laying bare the anxieties of a community that is already suffering burnout.      “Overwork burnout, chronic stress fatigue, moral injury trauma and anxiety, feeling of inadequacy and self-doubt has increased ten times now than ever,” says Dr Nilima Kadambi, chairperson, Doctors4Doctors, IMA National Committee for the Emotional Well being of the Doctors. “The anxiety also arises out of the confusion about the illness itself and learning how to manage it on the go even as the data around treatment options is changing constantly,” opines Dr Ashlesha Bagadia, psychiatrist and psychotherapist, Green Oak Initiative. “There is the real anxiety of catching the infection, or worse, passing it on to their family,” she says.Young health care workers are also worried as they anticipate calls in such a situation where there is increased demand. “They are worried about being under skilled and under prepared. There are genuine worries in doctors caring for non-COVID high-risk patients -- in being able to provide adequate care during lockdown,” she adds. The financial stress is not often talked about but it is there, looming large and adding to the emotional exhaustion. “There is a very real financial stress in those on the frontline and those who are not. Frontline workers are worried their limited insurance (if any) will cover their own medical bills if they fall sick,” informs Dr Ashlesha.    She said physicians running small clinics and startups rely on daily footfall to pay their staff and the lockdown is affecting them just as much as other businesses.“Many doctors, who are small hospital owners, are struggling to keep their services open and staff paid. There is also the added expenditure on PPEs,” informs Dr Nilima. Meanwhile an emergency consultant in a private hospital, who did not wish to be named, narrates her experience in the midst of the pandemic. “Most of the time, patients hide the fact that they have travelled, even if it is domestically. This is adding to the anxiety of the frontline workers. Patients deny having fever or cough for fear of being isolated and being branded as a COVID suspect,” she says. “Sometimes, the patients in the general category (who do not have any respiratory issues) come back to us saying that government hospitals are not receiving them and are only treating COVID suspects,” she says. She said nurses were more affected and they have repeated counselling sessions for them. Their hospital, she informed, has planned to reduce the number of people on the floor. So they work for two to three days and take off for 48 hours, to de-stress. “Apart from that there is counselling in the office,” she says. Ever since the pandemic broke out, the healthcare workers are facing extremely high workload, especially the nurses, residents and interns.  “Health care workers are at a significantly increased risk of compassion fatigue and anticipatory grief during these times. Most of them prefer to be self-reliant, rarely asking for help on their own. This leads to a widening of the gap between seeking and availing mental health services.” says Dr Suhas Chandran, Assistant Professor, Department of Psychiatry, St John’s Medical College Hospital. The usual clinical practice routines have changed, he said, and many have been deployed in areas outside their clinical expertise, due to a need for more frontline staff. “In many hospitals, resources are so scarce that patients may have to be triaged, and resources used selectively, which creates a great moral dilemma in health care workers,” he added.There is also the concern of wearing the PPEs the right way. Some of the young health care workers are using the PPEs for the first time.“One of their biggest anxieties is around getting the right kind of PPE which offers sufficient protection, learning how to use it properly and freely work without hesitation,” says Dr Ashlesha.  Dr Nilima said that the need of the hour is to provide adequate PPEs and hands-on training for young doctors, encouraging them to speak up if they are unable to take the pressures or if they see any other colleagues struggling. With the lockdown shutting off the public transport system, the community is also finding it difficult getting to the hospitals. Many of them have had to stay on campus full time. “This is due to the fear of infecting family members as well as non-availability of public transport to travel between hospital and homes. Some have even lost important sources of income, due to loss of jobs of other family members and spouses as a result of the economic crisis the pandemic has produced,” added Dr Suhas. A large section of health care workers are also facing difficulties with child care. “These difficulties increase exponentially if they have children with special care needs. The government should consider providing childcare and community support to health care workers,” Dr Suhas adds. Talking about reducing the heightened anxiety, Dr Ashlesha pointed out how not ostracizing them in the neighbourhood that they live in would be a good start. On April 23, the Centre had promulgated an ordinance to amend the Epidemic Act 1897. At a time when the assaults on health care workers and forceful evictions are increasing, Dr Suhas feels the ordinance to amend the Epidemic Act needs to be taken forward even after the pandemic crisis ends. While the crisis seems to be going for a long haul, the frontline workers are looking for some respite from their stress.  Dr Ashlesha wants frontline workers to have a senior doctor handhold them. She said they should be provided safe transport, accommodation with F&B as well as laundry services, child support and elder care support for their families, adequate health and life insurance as well as additional remuneration as ‘hardship pay’.  By all counts, the pandemic has been highlighting the gaps in public health care. In more ways than one, it has been a clarion call to pay more attention to the health care system and the workers. The government should provide guidelines about which doctors who should not be attending or treating COVID positive cases, Dr Nilima says. “For instance, doctors above 65 years, those with any comorbidities or with immune suppression are at a high risk of succumbing to serious Corona complications. Death of doctors who are colleagues, adds a lot to mental health issues for others,” she says. “Stationing counsellors at every hospital, in non-contaminated staff rest areas, would help frontline workers address mental health concerns in an easier manner. It is going to be important that these measures are sustained even after the pandemic ends,” Dr Suhas advises adding that a dedicated government task force or committee could also be formed to ensure the facilitation of the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-healthcare-workers-face-moral-injury-financial-stress-combative-patients-835091.html
08-05-2020||National||30 more BSF personnel test positive for COVID-19, total cases rise to 223||Thirty more Border Security Force personnel, including two posted at its headquarters in Delhi, have tested positive for COVID-19, taking the overall infections in the force to 223, officials said on Friday. The border guarding force has the maximum confirmed cases of the disease among the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), also known as paramilitary forces. The CAPFs have over 500 active COVID-19 cases at present. "Thirty new cases of COVID-19 (six from Delhi and 24 from Tripura) have been reported from different establishments. All of them are under the best available medical care at AIIMS-Jhajjar and G B Pant Hospital, Agartala," BSF spokesperson Shubhendu Bhardwaj said in a statement. Out of the six fresh cases from Delhi, two were posted at the BSF's headquarters in the national capital and four were posted at other units in the city. One more floor in the eight-storeyed headquarters of the force in CGO complex on the Lodhi Road has been shut, the officials said. Two other floors were sealed earlier after a personal staff of an additional director general (ADG) rank officer and a head constable posted in the personnel affairs wing tested positive for coronavirus, they said. An assistant sub inspector rank officer, also working at the head office, had succumbed to the disease recently. The officials expressed concern over the increasing number of COVID-19 cases at the forces' headquarters, which is functioning on a reduced strength. The total number of cases in the BSF now stands at 223. Two jawans have recovered, while two have died. Among the infected cases, over 80 per cent of the BSF troops of a company deployed in Jamia and Chandni Mahal areas of the national capital have tested positive for the dreaded virus till now. Out of the 94 personnel in that company, more than 75 have contracted the infection, a senior official said. The other major cases are from a single BSF unit based in Tripura. "All instructions and directions of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare are being strictly followed. Frequencies of sanitisation efforts of workplaces/barracks have been increased," the spokesperson said. "In addition to existing apparatus of sanitisation, water cannons are being used for quick disinfection of buildings and establishments, and BSF personnel are being repeatedly sensitized to firmly adhere to preventive measures," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/30-more-bsf-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-total-cases-rise-to-223-835093.html
08-05-2020||National||SC stays Orissa HC order banning entry of people without being COVID-19 negative||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed an order by the Orissa High Court that restricted entry of people from other states until they were tested negative of COVID-19, as the Centre contended it would set a dangerous precedent having far-reaching repercussions. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, and B R Gavai suspended operation of the interim order of the HC passed on May 7 on the petition filed by the Union government. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted that people should be allowed to enter the state as it has been more than 40 days since the lockdown has been imposed.  He also said that various sections of people like workers, students, and others have been facing problems as they were stranded due to lockdown.  "States need to make necessary arrangements if they wish to check the people but they cannot completely ban their entry," he said.  Mehta further contended that such orders would lead to a cascading effect of such restrictions being imposed by other states.  The petition filed by the Centre claimed that the HC's order clearly impinged upon the executive domain and created an unreasonable and impossible to perform pre-condition on part of the governments and the migrant workers who wished to travel back to their native places.  It further pointed out the central government, in conjunction with state governments, was taking all possible precautions at the stage of boarding, during travel, after de-boarding in every state and the subsequent quarantine.  Maintaining that the HC's order was erroneous in law and in fact, the Union government said the COVID-19 pandemic and the migration of stranded persons were national problems and no orders can be passed in absence of the central government being a party.  "Migration of workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons, stranded at different places, is in such pandemic has taken place at their behest after receiving numerous representations from various quarters," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-orissa-hc-order-banning-entry-of-people-without-being-covid-19-negative-835094.html
08-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Amid ‘ghar wapsi’, reverse migration begins in Bihar||While more than 20,000 migrant workers reached Bihar on Friday (May 8) in 20 special trains from different States, the reverse migration too, seems to have started without much hue and cry. A special train from Khagaria in Bihar, carrying 226 migrant workers, left for Telangana on Thursday.  These workers used to work in rice mills in Telangana but had come to Bihar in March during Holi. However, they got stuck up in their home State following lockdown. In the meantime, the rice mill owners spoke to the political leadership in the two States and stressed on the need to bring back these workers from Bihar.   “On the request of the Telangana Government, 226 labourers from Khagaria (in Bihar), who earlier worked in rice mills in Telangana, left for Lingampalli. These workers have been promised enhanced wages,” said Bihar’s Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi, confirming about the departure of 226 workers from Bihar to Telangana in a special train on Thursday. The matter would have gone unnoticed had RJD Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha not tweeted about the reverse migration. “Dear@RailMinIndia can you please clarify whether a train carrying 250-300 new migrants started from Khagaria (Sonepur Division) for Telangana (Sikandarabad Division). If yes, under what order? Dear @NitishKumarji, are you aware of this movement?” tweeted Jha, Rajya Sabha MP from Bihar.  The Leader of the Opposition, Tejashwi Yadav was more scathing. “Mr. Nitish Kumar, are you a manpower agency? While all the State Governments are helping the migrants reach their home State, you are encouraging reverse migration. This exposes your hollow claim that you would provide jobs to lakhs of migrants in Bihar. Such insensitivity is really unfortunate. I fail to understand what was the urgency in sending them back.... I wish you had shown the same eagerness in helping migrants return to Bihar,” tweeted Tejashwi, the former Deputy Chief Minister of Bihar, in Hindi.        Meanwhile, the East Central Railway (ECR) here clarified that the ‘Shramik Special’ train, which earlier carried more than 1200 migrants from Telangana to Khagaria, returned to Lingampalli “ with the stranded workforce of Telangana in Khagaria.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-amid-ghar-wapsi-reverse-migration-begins-in-bihar-835096.html
08-05-2020||National||Indian startup plans to ship COVID-19 ventilator from May-end||IIT Kanpur-incubated start-up Nocca Robotics has developed an ICU-grade ventilator customised for handling coronavirus patients which will cost less than one-tenth of a high-end imported ventilator, the company's co-founder claimed on Friday. The company plans to start shipment of the indigenously-developed ventilator from May-end or by the first week of June, IIT Kanpur incubation centre in-charge Amitabha Bandyopadhyaya, who is also co-founder of Nocca Robotics, told PTI. "IIT Kanpur and Nocca Robotics have signed an agreement with defence public sector company Bharat Dynamics for manufacturing the ventilators on a not-for-profit basis for India initially which is expected to be available for about Rs 1.5 lakh per unit,” Bandyopadhyaya said. The price of imported ventilators starts from Rs 8 lakh and goes up to as high as Rs 25 lakh a unit, he said. Nocca Robotics co-founder Nikhil Kurele said the company has kept safety and security of health workers as a top-most priority while developing a ventilator specially to treat coronavirus patients. "We found that when a virus-infected patient on a ventilator breathes out, he exhales air filled with virus loads. This exhaled air fills the ICU with coronavirus which is hazardous for health workers. In our ventilator we have made ultraviolet filter chambers, which kill viruses, and placed filters thereafter to free the exhaled air from viruses," Kurele said. He said that doctors and medical professionals were taken on board to design the ventilator as per Indian requirements and to understand the challenges around coronavirus. "We analysed 5-6 high-end ventilators that are mostly preferred by big hospitals but did not find filters in them to clear virus load. We found ventilators in use have not been designed to handle virus infection of this scale," Kurele said. He said that the ventilator can be used both in ICU as well as ported out to handle patients in other locations like trains etc. "It is portable. The ventilator can work for 4 hours on battery as well," Kurele said. IIT Kanpur and Nocca Robotics have started testing the ventilators. "From May 12, the testing will start in two Pune hospitals. These ventilators will also go through UL and TUV testings. This is critical medical equipment. Therefore testing and strong standards are of paramount importance. We expect it to be available either by end of May or first week of June. We expect to reach 10,000 units production by the end of July," Bandyopadhyaya said. He said that if more demand comes then the production will be raised up to 30,000 units by August. Nocca Robotics has also onboard Indian medical device makers Avi Healthcare and Polybond for the manufacturing of ventilators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-startup-plans-to-ship-covid-19-ventilator-from-may-end-835097.html
08-05-2020||National||74 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Uttar Pradesh; total stands at 3,145||Uttar Pradesh reported 74 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state to 3,145, an official said. A total of 3,145 cases have been reported from 68 districts, of which nine have no active cases, Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said. So far 63 deaths have been reported in the state, Prasad said, adding that 1,261 people have fully recovered and have been discharged from hospitals while the number of active cases in the state is 1,821. Prasad said a decline in number of active cases has been seen in the state since May 4. He said while the national recovery percentage was 29.35 per cent, that of the state is 40.09 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/74-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-uttar-pradesh-total-stands-at-3145-835098.html
08-05-2020||National||Man casts doubt on co-worker after Rs 200 theft, killed||A factory worker in Vasai in Maharashtra's Palghar district allegedly killed his colleague over the theft of Rs 200, police said on Friday. A sum of Rs 200 was stolen some days ago from Gousi Rafique Shaikh (57), a worker in a metal unit in the district's Sativali village, and he suspected co-worker Vijay Shankar Vishwakarma (42), said Palghar police spokesperson Hemant Katkar. "They would fight over this issue and on Thursday morning, Vishwakarma banged Shaikh's head against the furnace of the factory, killing him on the spot. Vishwakarma was arrested later in the day. A case of murder was registered by Waliv police station," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-casts-doubt-on-co-worker-after-rs-200-theft-killed-835104.html
08-05-2020||National||CBSE Class 10, 12 exams from July 1-15: HRD Minister||CBSE examinations for the remaining papers for Class 10 and Class 12 will be held between July 1 and July 15, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced on Friday. The CBSE Class 10 examinations were pending in parts of North East Delhi, where exams had to be postponed on account of the riots that broke out in the last week of February. For Class 12, examination would be held for 12 subjects in the entire country and 11 subjects in north-east Delhi. Among the subjects for which exams for Class 12 are set to be conducted across India are Business Studies, Geography, Computer Science (old and new), Hindi (elective and core), Home Science, Sociology Information Practice (old and new), Information Technology and Biotechnology. In north-east Delhi, Class 12 examinations will be held for English Elective (N&C), English Core, Mathematics, Economics, Biology, Political Science, History, Physics, Accountancy, and Chemistry. Class 10 students in north-east Delhi will appear for six subjects – Hindi Course (A&B) English Comms, English Language and Literature, Science, Social Science.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-class-10-12-exams-from-july-1-15-hrd-minister-835107.html
08-05-2020||National||Tamil Nadu cop screening people for virus at Karnataka border dies in mishap||A police head constable deployed to screen people for coronavirus at Tamil Nadu's border with Karnataka died in a mishap and Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Friday announced a solatium of Rs 50 lakh to his family. While on duty at the Zuzuvadi checkpost near Hosur, the main inter-state border between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, the policeman, Settu died instantaneously after sustaining serious injuries when a container lorry rammed into a median close to the spot where he was standing to screen people. A native of Krishnagiri district, the constable was on coronavirus screening duty at the checkpostwhen he died on Thursday, an official release here said. Expressing grief over his death, Palaniswami conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family. Also, the Chief Minister announced Rs 50 lakh solatium and a government job to one of the family members of the dead head constable. Palaniswami had last month announced that a financial aid of Rs 50 lakh and a government job will be provided to the kin of frontline workers who die while on anti-COVID-19 duties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-cop-screening-people-for-virus-at-karnataka-border-dies-in-mishap-835110.html
08-05-2020||National||SC gives CBI judge fresh deadline of Aug 31 to finish Babri demolition trial||The Supreme Court on Friday gave the CBI judge in Lucknow a fresh deadline of August 31, 2020 to complete the trial against BJP veterans L K Advani, M M Joshi, and others in the 1992 Babri demolition case. A bench of Justices R F Nariman and Surya Kant asked the trial judge to use video conferencing for recording evidence and ensure the time frame was not breached further. The top court had earlier extended the term of the judge and fixed the deadline of April 2020 for finishing the trial in the case. On a letter received by the Special Judge to further extend the time, the bench said, "the effort must now be to complete the proceedings and deliver judgement latest by August 31, 2020." The top court noted that on July 19, 2019, it had given six months' time to complete the recording of evidence and three more months to deliver the judgement. "Despite nine months having expired, we still find that even the evidence is not yet completed. We may indicate that video conferencing facilities are available and should be used in order to complete all evidence," the bench said. "It is up to the judge to control the proceedings in accordance with the law so that inordinate delay that is beyond the time frame that we now give, is no longer breached," the bench added. On April 19, 2017, the top court had ordered day-to-day proceedings to conclude the trial in the December 6, 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case within two years. It had then dubbed the demolition of the medieval era monument as a "crime" which shook the "secular fabric of the Constitution". Besides Advani, Joshi and Uma Bharti, the accused against whom conspiracy charge was invoked in the case included former BJP MP Vinay Katiar and Sadhvi Ritambara. Former UP Chief Minister Kalyan Singh is also one of the accused in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-gives-cbi-judge-fresh-deadline-of-aug-31-to-finish-babri-demolition-trial-835113.html
08-05-2020||National||Railways ferried over 2.5 lakh people stranded during lockdown in 222 special trains: MHA||The railways has so far run 222 special trains to ferry over 2.5 lakh people, including migrant labourers, stranded in different of parts of the country due to the ongoing lockdown to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said on Friday. Addressing a press conference, MHA Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said the government's efforts have been to give maximum relaxations to people within the lockdown guidelines. As part of this endeavour, the government has started special trains to ferry stranded migrant labourers, students, pilgrims and tourists to their native places, she said, adding that 222 trains have so far carried over 2.5 lakh people. She said the next step is to bring back Indians stranded abroad in a phased manner which started on Thursday using non-scheduled commercial flights and naval ships. The INS Jalashwa will being its journey from Maldives with 700 passengers on Friday and will reach Kochi on May 10 night, she said. A flight from Singapore with over 250 passengers and five more evacuation flights will land on Friday, she said. Flights from Abu Dhabi to Kochi and Dubai to Kozhikode with 354 passengers have reached on Thursday, she said. An Inter Ministerial Coordination Committee comprising officials from the ministries of Health, External Affairs, Home Affairs and Civil Aviation, and Armed Forces and Air India has been constituted to implement the standard operating procedure (SOP) for evacuation of stranded people to and from India, she said. The committee will coordinate with state governments, she said. "All stranded Indians can get registered at respective missions.... The travellers will be screened before boarding and only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed," she said. She said pregnant women, students, those with their visa expiring soon, and people facing medical emergencies will be given preference on these flights. Before embarking on a flight, they will have to give an undertaking that they will be in compulsory institutional quarantine for 14 days on their own expense, she said. The evacuees will have to register on Arogya Setu app and will undergo compulsory medical testing for COVID-19 upon arrival, she said. If found positive for COVID-19, they will be taken to medical quarantine while the rest will undergo compulsory institutional quarantine for 14 days, she said. A COVID-19 test will again be conducted after completion of 14 days institutional quarantine period, and the results will help decide further course of action as per medical protocol, she said. The arrangements for institutional quarantines will be made by respective states and union territories and they will be provided with a list of arriving passengers by the Ministry of External Affairs, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-ferried-over-25-lakh-people-stranded-during-lockdown-in-222-special-trains-mha-835120.html
08-05-2020||National||90, including 72 SRPF men, test COVID-19 positive in Aurangabad||The number of COVID-19 cases in Aurangabad in Maharashtra rose by 90 on Friday, with 72 of them being State Reserve Police Force jawans who served in Nashik district's Malegaon area, a hotspot some 195 kilometres from here, health officials said. With this addition, the number of coronavirus positive cases in Aurangabad has now reached 477, an official said. "The swabs of 93 SRPF personnel who served in Nashik's Malegaon area, and had come back here on May 7, were tested and reports of 72 returned positive today. Five of them were symptomatic and were shifted to a private hospital here," Deputy Commandant Shaikh Illyas told PTI. "The rest 67 are undergoing treatment in a temporary facility set up in an educational institute near the force's centre in Satara area here," he added. He said total number of SRPF personnel in Aurangabad unit is over one thousand, including two teams that are currently serving in the state's Vidarbha region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/90-including-72-srpf-men-test-covid-19-positive-in-aurangabad-835125.html
08-05-2020||National||SC's judicial activism unparalleled in judicial history, says Venugopal||Attorney General K K Venugopal Friday said judicial activism of the Supreme Court of India is unparalleled in the judicial history of any modern democracy due to the introduction of 'Public Interest Litigation'. The top law officer, who was speaking at Prof N R Madhava Menon memorial lecture, organised by RSS- affiliated lawyers wing, Akhil Bhartiya Adhivakta Parishad, said the apex court has done a tremendous amount of good. He said that through judicial activism the “Supreme Court has done a tremendous amount of good. It has practically tried to wipe away every tears of the underprivileged, disadvantaged and illiterate sections of the society. “Though in many cases the judiciary has (used) excess powers which can never be treated as judicial adjudication and even within the normal bounds of judicial activism”. Venugopal said that post the emergency, the Supreme Court witnessed a new era of judicial activism and that “due to the introduction of a new remedy called the 'Public Interest Litigation', the judicial activism through judicial review is unparalleled in the judicial history of any modern democracy.” He, however, said that "it was true that a lot of publicity was attached to PILs and, therefore, many of the PILs which were filed should never have been filed”. Quoting former Chief Justice of India P N Bhagwati, Venugopal said 'judicial activism' makes the apex court the most powerful Supreme Court in the world. “If a retired Chief Justice says this, we should accept it as correct... I would describe the Supreme Court of India as the most powerful branch of governance because it's every judgment is binding on the other two branches (legislature and executive) and it can strike down their actions and strike down their laws,” he said. He said the Supreme Court has an inherent power to review the decisions of other branches of the government, and in particular invalidates the executive and legislative actions as unconstitutional. In a democracy with a written constitution, this is the real power that the superior court of the country should possess, he said. “Constitution has brought into existence the three great departments of the government, which is the legislature, the executive and the judiciary. They were brought into existence as equal and coordinate departments of the government. They cannot encroach upon each others' powers,” he said. While remembering Menon, Venugopal said he was a great giant in the legal field. Senior advocate Sonia Mathur, who was moderating the session, said Menon was a renowned educationalist, scholar and a pioneer spirit behind the modern legal education in India.  “He was the one who conceptualised the five years' integrated LLB program instead of an earlier 3-year ones. Dubbed as the father of modern Indian Legal Education, Menon passed away in May 2019 at the age of 84. He was credited with revolutionising the field of legal education by establishing National Law Schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scs-judicial-activism-unparalleled-in-judicial-history-says-venugopal-835126.html
08-05-2020||National||SC fixes Aug 31 as new deadline for judgement in Babri Masjid demolition case||The Supreme Court Friday extended by three months the time for completion of trial in the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case involving BJP veterans L K Advani, M M Joshi and Uma Bharti and said that judgement should be delivered by August 31. The top court asked special judge S K Yadav to control the proceedings in accordance with law so that inordinate delay that is beyond the time-frame is no longer breached. It indicated to the special judge to avail the facilities of video conferencing to complete recording of evidences and hearing of applications that are filed during the course of trial proceedings. A bench of Justices R F Nariman and Surya Kant, hearing the matter through video conferencing, passed the orders on receiving a letter from the special judge seeking extension of time granted to him for completing the trial in the politically sensitive case. “Having taken the letter dated May 6, 2020, into consideration, we extend the period to complete evidence and deliver judgment till August 31, 2020. We are cognizant of the fact that Shri Yadav is making all efforts in order that the trial reaches a just conclusion. However, given the original time frame and the extended time frame, the effort must now be to complete the proceedings and deliver judgment latest by August 31, 2020,” the bench said in its order. On July 19 last year the top court had asked the special judge to deliver the verdict within nine months, which was to end this April. The bench on Friday said that despite nine months having expired from the aforesaid date (July 19), “we still find, on a perusal of the letter dated May 6, 2020, written by Shri Yadav, Special Judge that even the evidence is not yet completed”. It said, “We may indicate that video conferencing facilities are available and should be used by Shri Yadav in order to complete all evidence as well as applications that may be filed in that behalf. It is up to Shri Yadav to control the proceedings in accordance with law so that inordinate delay that is beyond the time frame that we now give is no longer breached”. The top court had on July 19 last year also extended the tenure of the special judge at Lucknow till the completion of the trial and the delivery of verdict in the case. Besides Advani, Joshi and Uma Bharti, the accused against whom conspiracy charge was invoked in the case by the Supreme Court on April 19, 2017, include former Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh, BJP MP Vinay Katiar and Sadhvi Ritambara. Three other high-profile accused Giriraj Kishore, and Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader Ashok Singhal and Vishnu Hari Dalmia died during trial and the proceedings against them have been abated. Kalyan Singh, during whose tenure as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh the disputed structure was razed, was put on trial in September last year after his tenure as Governor came to an end. The top said last July that recording of evidence in the politically sensitive case should be completed within six months and the judgement in the case should be ready and delivered maximum within a period of nine months. Exercising its plenary powers under Article 142 of the Constitution, the top court had directed the Uttar Pradesh government to pass appropriate orders in consultation with the Allahabad High Court within four weeks to extend the tenure of the special judge, who was set to retire on September 30 last year. The special judge had written a letter on May 25, last year to the apex court, seeking extension of two-year deadline for completion of the case and informed the court that he was set to superannuate on September 30, 2019. On April 19, 2017, the top court had ordered day-to-day trial in the high profile case and directed the special judge to conclude it in two years’ time. While dubbing demolition of the disputed structure as a "crime" which shook the "secular fabric of the Constitution", it had allowed the CBI's plea on restoration of criminal conspiracy charge against the VVIP accused. The court had come down heavily on the CBI for the delay of over 25 years in the trial. Issuing a slew of directions, it had said, "The proceedings (against Advani and others) in the court of the Special Judicial Magistrate at Raebareli will stand transferred to the Court of Additional Sessions Judge (Ayodhya Matters) at Lucknow." "The court of sessions will frame additional charges under Section 120-B (conspiracy) and the other provisions of the penal code mentioned in the joint charge sheet filed by the CBI against Champat Rai Bansal, Satish Pradhan, Dharam Das, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, Mahamadleshwar Jagdish Muni, Ram Bilas Vadanti, Vaikunth Lal Sharma and Satish Chandra Nagar," the apex court had said. The court had termed the Allahabad High Court's February 12, 2001 verdict dropping conspiracy charge against Advani and others as "erroneous". Before the 2017 verdict of the apex court, there were two sets of cases relating to the demolition of the disputed structure on December 6, 1992 going on at Lucknow and Raebareli. The trial of first case involving unnamed 'Karsevaks' was going on in a Lucknow court, while the second set of cases relating to the eight VVIPs were going on in a Raebareli court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-fixes-aug-31-as-new-deadline-for-judgement-in-babri-masjid-demolition-case-835131.html
08-05-2020||National||Denying job extension to pregnant women amounts to penalising for embracing motherhood: Delhi High Court||Denying job extension to a pregnant woman amounts to penalising her for embracing motherhood, observed the Delhi High Court which quashed the decision of a Delhi University college to terminate the ad-hoc appointment of assistant professor, who requested grant of maternity leave with other benefits. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Asha Menon set aside the order of a single judge which had dismissed the woman's plea against Aurobindo College (Evening), where she had been working for five years. The high court allowed the appeal of the woman who was employed on ad-hoc basis as the assistant professor in the English Department and imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 on the college, to be paid to the teacher within four weeks. It also directed the authorities to forthwith appoint the woman to the post of assistant professor in the English Department on an ad-hoc basis till the vacant posts are filled up through regular appointment. The appointment letter shall be sent by email by the authorities within one week and the woman shall report for duty immediately on the lockdown being eased or lifted or through e-mail, it said. The high court also said that an act of an administrative authority has to be pervaded by fairness and can never smack of arbitrariness or whimsicality. The counsel for DU and the college submitted that ad-hoc teachers were not entitled to maternity leave as the rules do not provide for it and there is no vested right in them to claim extension of tenure. The bench, without commenting on the rule position regarding her entitlement to maternity leave, which is the subject matter of a pending writ petition, declined to accept it as a legitimate ground for denying extension of tenure to the woman. “Such a justification offered by the respondents (college and university) for declining to grant an extension to the appellant/petitioner (woman) as she had highlighted her need for leave due to her pregnancy and confinement would tantamount to penalising a woman for electing to become a mother while still employed and thus pushing her into a choice less situation as motherhood would be equated with loss of employment. “This is violative of the basic principle of equality in the eyes of law. It would also tantamount to depriving her of the protection assured under Article 21 of the Constitution of her right to employment and protection of her reproductive rights as a woman. Such a consequence is therefore absolutely unacceptable and goes against the very grain of the equality principles enshrined in Articles 14 and 16,” the high court said. It noted that the woman was working in the college for five years and was granted repeated extensions with a break in service, as found necessary by the authorities, to maintain her appointment as ad-hoc in nature. The court also noted that there has been no complaint regarding her work performance and her proficiency and ability did not form the basis of the authorities' decision to decline extension of her services despite the necessity which is reflected from the fact that they are continuing with the other ad-hoc assistant professors in the English Department and also guest lecturers. The woman, in her plea, said she was expecting her first child in February last year and had in January requested the authorities for maternity leave from January 14, 2019 to May 24, 2019, and other eligible benefits under the Maternity Benefit Act. Despite various requests, she did not receive any response from them and on February 3, 2019, she was blessed with a premature child, the plea said, adding that she was given only 18 days salary after which she approached the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/denying-job-extension-to-pregnant-women-amounts-to-penalising-for-embracing-motherhood-delhi-high-court-835140.html
08-05-2020||National||Railways orders detail probe into Aurangabad accident||Indian Railways has  ordered a probe into the Aurangabad accident in which migrant workers died after run over by a goods train on Friday early morning. "Ram Kripal, Commissioner of Railway Safety, South Central Circle, will hold an independent inquiry into today's labourers runover incident in Parbhani-Manmad section of Nanded Railway division of South Central Railway," the Railway Ministry said in a statement. The probe will also findout whether there was any lapse on the part of patrolmen, who are tasked with keeping trespassers away from tracks. If the patrol team find any trespasser, it has to alert the nearest station for taking  precautionary measures, said an official. It is the patrolling team's duty to ensure everything is fine with tracks so that  trains can pass without any mishaps. Officals in Rail Bhavan said that the incident happened in the mid section strech between Badnapur and Karmad stations. The probe will findout why local patrolling party failed to notice labourers sleeping on tracks, said an official. Though railways did not treat the incident as acciden and used terms such cases as  "trespassing", in  several instances railway announced ex-gratia to the next of kin of a victim on sympathetic grounds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-orders-detail-probe-into-aurangabad-accident-835141.html
08-05-2020||National||Centre fully supporting Rajasthan during COVID-19 crisis: Anurag Thakur||Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur on Friday said the government is fully supporting Rajasthan in this time of crisis but the state is "hiding facts" about the help received from the central government, In April, the Centre provided financial assistance of Rs 4,685 crore to the Congress government in Rajasthan, Thakur said during a video conference with state BJP leaders. Of the total amount, Rs 2,753 crore was transferred under tax transfer, Rs 741 crore under state disaster fund and Rs 503 crore under GST compensation, he added. During the meeting, Thakur also took suggestions from small and medium enterprises, professionals and businessmen for better operation of the economy during COVID-19 crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-fully-supporting-rajasthan-during-covid-19-crisis-anurag-thakur-835145.html
08-05-2020||National||India to expand 'Vande Bharat Mission' beginning May 15||India will expand from next week its mega mission to evacuate stranded Indians from abroad by including countries like Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Russia, Germany, Spain and Thailand, official sources said on Friday. They said stranded Indians in central Asia as well as in various European countries will be brought back home under the second phase of the 'Vande Bharat Mission' beginning May 15.  A total 64 flights carrying approximately 15,000 returnees from 12 countries are expected to land at 14 airports across India from May 7 to 15 as part of phase one of the mission, they said. Sources said Indian Navy ship INS Jalashwa set sail on Friday afternoon from Male to Kochi with approximately 700 returnees on board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-expand-vande-bharat-mission-beginning-may-15-835148.html
08-05-2020||National||Uber offers free rides for healthcare workers in Chennai||Cab aggregator major Uber on Friday announced free rides worth Rs 25 lakhs to the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) for transporting healthcare workers and government officials on COVID-19 related duties through its UberMedic service. All UberMedic drivers are being trained in safety procedures and being provided with personal protective equipment such as masks, gloves, sanitizers, and disinfectants to sanitize the cars between rides. "This is a challenging time when the community must rally together to provide each other with support. In this connection, we are happy that Uber has stepped forward to provide transportation to our frontline health workers while they carry out their important duties in Chennai,” G Prakash, Commissioner, GCC, said here on Friday.  Prabhjeet Singh, Director, Operations, and Head of Cities, Uber India & South Asia, said: “We feel privileged to be supporting them in these challenging times and will help move what matters by leveraging our global experience, technology, and the network of drivers.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uber-offers-free-rides-for-healthcare-workers-in-chennai-835156.html
08-05-2020||National||Naked savagery against working class: Oppn leaders on change in labour laws||Leaders of eight parties, including CPI(M), CPI and RJD, on Friday urged President Ram Nath Kovind to nullify changes being made in labour laws "using the pretext" of COVID-19, saying he should intervene to stop "such naked savagery" against the working class at this crucial juncture when the unity of all people is needed to fight the pandemic. The leaders shot off a letter to Kovind saying “drastic” changes are being made to the existing labour laws, especially at a time the country is witnessing the "most inhuman tragic dimensions of the plight" of the migrant workers since the lockdown was announced. It comes against the backdrop of several state governments "diluting" labour laws allowing an increase in working hours and keeping in abeyance laws that stipulates minimum wages among others. Daily working hours have been increased from eight to 12 hours through executive orders in states like Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Punjab while Uttar Pradesh has suspended all labour laws, except three, for a period of three years. The fundamental right for the workers to organise themselves into unions is also being gravely threatened, it said. Describing these decisions as “anti-Constitutional", they said, diluting labour rights seems to be the logic employed by your government at the Centre and by some state governments, rather than concentrating on fighting the pandemic by augmenting our health facilities and protecting our doctors and health workers and taking care of the people’s requirements. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, his CPI counterpart D Raja, Loktantrik Janata Dal patron Sharad Yadav, senior RJD MP Manoj K Jha, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) president Thol Thirumavalavan, CPI(ML)-L General Secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, Forward Bloc General Secretary Debabrata Biswas and RSP General Secretary Manoj Bhattacharya have signed the letter. Referring to the Aurangabad train incident in which migrant workers were run over, they said today’s conditions are “barbaric” and “far from protecting the fundamental right to life and dignity”. “The easing of restrictions has not been accompanied by the required safety measures and environmental concerns. Such negligence has led to the Visakhapatnam industrial accident claiming 12 lives and hundreds hospitalized. The concerns for the safety and survival of the workers is grossly neglected," they said.  The leaders said the Centre has initiated the legislative process of codifying 44 existing labour laws into four codes and only of these -- The Code on Wages Bill -- has been adopted by the Parliament while others are in the process. "Even before this codification gets a legislative sanction, the existing laws are being violated with impunity. Once this code gets the legislative sanction, then the executive i.e. the government can through an executive order change this without the need for any reference to the parliament or state legislatures. This is patently anti-labour and draconian," the leaders said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naked-savagery-against-working-class-oppn-leaders-on-change-in-labour-laws-835159.html
08-05-2020||National||Three men die of COVID-19, new positive cases in Tamil Nadu rises to 6,009||Three men died of COVID-19 and as many as 600 people tested positive for coronavirus on Friday taking the aggregate number of cases in Tamil Nadu to 6,009, Health Minister C Vijayabaskar said. Following the three deaths, the number of fatalities in the state has risen to 40. Two men hailing from here -a 78-year old and another 56-year-old-and a 83-year-old man died of COVID-19 at government hospitals on Thursday, the Minister said, adding they had co-morbid conditions. The octogenarian died at Tirunelveli and the other two men here. Of the 600 who tested positive, 405 were men and 195 women, he said. On the rising numbers, the minister said: "The public need not have apprehensions about the number of positive cases. It is because of aggressive testing of people including those with severe acute respiratory infections and ordinary (flu like) symptoms like cough.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-men-die-of-covid-19-new-positive-cases-in-tamil-nadu-rises-to-6009-835160.html
08-05-2020||National||Indian scientists to develop medicine against COVID-19||Exploring new avenues to combat COVID-19, Indian scientists with support from India’s biggest research council have joined hands with the industry to develop monoclonal antibodies – a new form of medicine - against novel coronavirus. The National Centre for Cell Science, Pune and Indian Institute of Technology, Indore has partnered with PredOmix Technologies, Gurgaon and Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad in a collaborative mode for the public health emergency. The aim is to come out with a set of monoclonal antibodies that are capable of neutralising the novel coronavirus. The virus-neutralising antibodies block the spread of infection by binding to the virus and rendering it ineffective. An effective and safe method of treatment, such antibodies offer an alternate therapeutic regimen. Over 60 monoclonal antibodies have already been developed against viruses and many of them are in clinical trials. At least one product is in the market for use in kids. “Monoclonal antibodies are powerful tools against viruses and offer exciting opportunities. At CSIR we have a multipronged approach to counter the COVID-19 as we can’t put all our eggs in one basket,” Shekhar Mande, director-general of Council for Scientific and Industrial Research told DH. Under its flagship New Millennium Indian Technology Leadership Initiative, the CSIR has provided funding support of Rs 1.4 crore to the two institutes besides roping in industrial partners for commercial manufacturing in case of a laboratory breakthrough. “While both Israel and The Netherlands have announced the development of virus-neutralizing antibodies, the Indian approach is to develop a powerful cocktail of such antibodies that can simultaneously block mutational variants of the virus. We are fast-tracking the development process, to make the antibodies available within the next 6 months and thus improve the treatment efficacy,” Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech said in a statement. iframe src="/iframe; “Such antibodies can specifically recognize the virus antigens and neutralise the enemy. It is one of the options to counter the novel coronavirus fast,” Mande said. Researchers are leaving no stone unturned - from vaccines to new drugs and repurposed drugs – to find out a weapon against the rampaging pandemic. While vaccine development efforts lead the pack, scientists now open up new windows.   “The purpose of vaccination is to protect the healthy against future infections. But it alone may not provide the complete solution. The question is of how to treat those individuals who are already infected? We feel the monoclonal antibody therapy will provide a viable option,” Ella said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-scientists-to-develop-medicine-against-covid-19-835164.html
08-05-2020||National||Centre's kudos to Karnataka on COVID-19 random testing, concern on fatalities||Union Health Minister Harshvardhan on Friday appreciated Karnataka government’s efforts in mounting aggressive surveillance to detect COVID-19 cases in various districts of the state. In a video conference with Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, Harshvardhan also voiced concern over the high fatality rate in the state, which at 4.1% was higher than the national rate of 3.3% of the total cases. Harshvardhan lauded the state’s efforts in random testing for COVID-19 among those suffering from a severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI) in every district. “I don’t think any district or any state can match these efforts,” he said adding that he had been citing the example of Karnataka in his interactions with other states. He noted that there has been a surge in cases in Belgavi and Kalaburgi and asked the state government to continue surveillance among SARI/ILI cases. Harshvardhan also lauded the very proactive approach of the state government in contact tracing exercise carried out in Davangere where a nurse who had travelled in the district spread the virus. iframe src="/iframe The minister also asked the state that attention be accorded to the provisioning of non-COVID-19 essential health services such as immunisation drives, TB case tracing and treatment, providing blood transfusion for dialysis patients, treatment of cancer patients, ANC of pregnant women. Harshvardhan also stated that the Ayushman Bharat-Health & Wellness Centres could be used for screening for hypertension, diabetes and three types of cancers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-kudos-to-karnataka-on-covid-19-random-testing-concern-on-fatalities-835165.html
08-05-2020||National||Ram Vilas Paswan says 20 states getting ready for launch of ration card portability from June 1||Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Friday said as many as 20 states and union territories are getting ready for implementation of the ambitious ration card portability service 'One Nation-One Ration Card' from June 1. Under the initiative, eligible beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) would be able to avail their entitled foodgrains from any Fair Price Shop in the country using the same ration card. "So far, 17 states and UTs have integrated and three more states Odisha, Mizoram and Nagaland are also getting prepared. Total 20 states/UTs will be ready for the launch of ration card portability from June 1," Paswan told reporters. Seeding Aadhar details with ration cards and installing point of sale machines at PDS shops are critical for enabling ration card portability, he said. Already, 17 states/UTs have completed this process. These are: Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Haryana, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Jharkhand, Tripura, Bihar, UP, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Daman and Diu. Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said already intra-state ration card portability is being used, but the transactions are not significant. About one crore transactions a month are reported now. Inter-state portability has not yet picked up due to lack of awareness and suspension of biometric machines in view of COVID-19 pandemic, he said. "However, the issue has been sorted out with state governments. PDS (public distribution system) shop owners have been asked to keep hand sanitizer which the beneficiary can use, after and before using their finger for biometric identification," Pandey said. State governments have also been asked to create more awareness about the service, which will be made available in 20 states from next month, he added. There are over 81 crore beneficiaries under NFSA in the country, for subsidised foodgrains of 5 kilo per person at Rs 1-3/kg.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-vilas-paswan-says-20-states-getting-ready-for-launch-of-ration-card-portability-from-june-1-835167.html
08-05-2020||National||Indian Railways told to take preventive steps to avoid Aurangabad-like incident in future||With 16 migrants workers killed due to run over by goods train near Aurangabad on Friday early morning, the Commission of Railway Safety has asked the Railway Board to take all steps to prevent a repeat of such incidents in the future. Shailesh Kumar Pathak, Chief Commissioner of Railway Safety, under the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation, in his letter to Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav on Friday said that in future precaution should be taken by railway operation staff including maintenance and patrolling party, so that they should inform nearest stations immediately if they found any persons walking along the track. Same message should also be communicated to passing trains on that route, he said.  The Safety Commissioner also asked the Railway Board Chairman to issue necessary directions to zonal offices on this issue. The Commissioner in his letter said that apparently the affected persons had gathered along the track in the impressing that since train services were suspended due to COVID-19 lockdown, tracks were safe. "Furthermore, a false sense of security may have come into their minds about there being no trains on run whereas freight trains, parcel trains and special trains for stranded persons are on run, " Commissioner in his letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-told-to-take-preventive-steps-to-avoid-aurangabad-like-incident-in-future-835168.html
08-05-2020||National||Two more days to plug the leak of LG Polymers tank: Andhra Pradesh minister||The neutralization of chemicals inside the LG Polymers tank and plugging of the leakage would take two more days, Andhra Pradesh’s industries minister Mekapati Goutam Reddy said on Friday.  Mekapati, who is monitoring the situation as part of a group of ministers deployed by Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy in Visakhapatnam, said there was no need for the public to panic, “as experts on the field are doing their best to neutralize the Styrene vapours in the tank.” A team of experts from NDRF’s Pune unit specializing in dealing with chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear disasters and another from the National Environment Engineering Research Institute, Nagpur are assisting in the counteraction efforts at the plant and safe sealing of the Styrene monomer tank. However, Vizag locals in five KMs vicinity of RR Venkatapuram, where the LG unit is located, are restless since the poisonous leakage a day before has killed several and hospitalized about 400 people. The death toll in the LG Chem leak incident toll is at 12, with one more death reported on Friday.  According to health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, 554 victims were shifted to hospitals out of whom, 128 have completely recovered.  While 305 persons, including 52 infants, are being treated at the King George Hospital, 121 others are undergoing treatment at private hospitals and are out of danger. Nobody is on ventilator support,” Srinivas said, according to a CMO statement.  About 15,000 people from the five villages adjacent to LG Polymers plant were evacuated on a war-footing soon after the leakage was noticed on Thursday morning and rehabilitated at various locations. But residents of nearby Simhachalam, Pendurthi and especially Gopalapatnam towns are jittery about living close to the leak which is not yet brought fully under control. While some had a sleepless night, others moved to safer places in Visakhapatnam city with their friends and relatives. Some people who tried to return to their native places like Srikakulam were sent back by the police at the border check posts because of the COVID-19 restrictions on inter-district movement.   Adding to the fears are rumours and some TV reports of more leakages from the plant. In a statement issued on Friday, LG Polymers India said that, “the situation at the plant is under control and media reports of a second leak are incorrect.” “We have requested authorities for the evacuation of residents as a precautionary measure,” LGPI said. One of the central team members stated an improvement in the situation since Thursday, “but it would take 2-3 days for the location to become totally safe.” “Since we cannot go inside the tank to assess the quantities, it is difficult to predict exactly how much time it takes.” Appealing people not to believe rumours, Mekapati said that stern action would be taken against those found guilty, based on the probe report on the mishap. The minister added that the government has initiated a safety audit of 86 industries in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-more-days-to-plug-the-leak-of-lg-polymers-tank-andhra-pradesh-minister-835169.html
08-05-2020||National||SBI employee tests positive for COVID-19 in Kolkata||The State Bank of India (SBI) has temporarily shut down a section of its Local Head Office (LHO) in Kolkata after an employee tested positive for COVID-19. According to sources in SBI the concerned employee was working in the Liability Centralized Processing Centre of the office. Currently, he is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city. “ He was not coming to the office for about 10 days and later tested positive for COVID-19. Although we have sanitized the entire building the section where he worked will remain closed till May 11 as a precautionary measure,” sources said. iframe src="/iframe However, other departments are functional. Another SBI employee who had travel foreign travel history tested positive earlier but was cured of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sbi-employee-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-kolkata-835172.html
08-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Bombay HC rejects bail of PNB scam accused who tested positive||The Bombay High Court on Friday rejected temporary bail to Hemant Bhatt, an accused in the multi-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam, after noting that the 66-year-old has tested positive for novel coronavirus at Arthur Road jail in central Mumbai. Justice Bharati Dangre rejected Bhatt's plea after the prosecution told the court that a COVID-19 patient cannot be allowed to be freed on temporary bail. The court said jail authorities shall provide all medical facilities to Bhatt. Bhatt had, last month, approached HC seeking temporary bail on the ground that he is a senior citizen with chronic heart ailment and, hence, there was a risk of being infected with coronavirus. The court had on May 6, while hearing Bhatt's application, directed the police to inform the court about the situation at Arthur Road prison. Additional public prosecutor Shahaji Shinde, on Friday, informed the court that a number of inmates at Arthur Road prison and some staff members had tested positive for coronavirus, and Bhatt was one of them. Bhatt, an authorised signatory in diamond businessman and fugitive economic offender Nirav Modi's company, has been booked by CBI on charges of cheating and fraud in connection with the PNB scam. He is also facing money laundering charges initiated by Enforcement Directorate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-bombay-hc-rejects-bail-of-pnb-scam-accused-who-tested-positive-835176.html
08-05-2020||National||As COVID-19 figures zoom, Uddhav removes Mumbai's municipal boss||Rattled by soaring COVID-19 figures in India's financial capital of Mumbai,  the Maharashtra government on Friday shunted out its high-profile Municipal Commissioner Praveen Pardeshi. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is one of the biggest municipal bodies of India - whose budget is bigger than some smaller states. Rattled by criticism of opposition BJP and the Centre expressing unhappiness over handling of the Covid-19 pandemic,  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday took the final call. Pardeshi,  an officer of the rank of Additional Chief Secretary, has been shifted to the Urban Development department. Now, Pardeshi has been replaced by Iqbal Singh Chahal. Pardeshi is a senior officer with three decades of experience. He had shot into fame post-Latur earthquake when as Collector,  he handled the reconstruction.  He had handled several important positions like Principal Secretary, Revenue and Forest, and Additional Chief Secretary to the Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. He worked in the senior leadership position in the United Nations for 7 years in Geneva.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-covid-19-figures-zoom-uddhav-removes-mumbais-municipal-boss-835181.html
08-05-2020||National||Indian Museum Kolkata sealed after CISF personnel dies of COVID-19||The Indian Museum in Kolkata was sealed on Friday after a CISF officer posted there succumbed to COVID-19, an official said. Thirty-three CISF personnel deployed at the gallery's security unit have been asked to self-quarantine, Indian Museum director A D Choudhury told PTI. The museum is closed since March 14. "... After a report of a CISF jawan testing coronavirus positive, these security personnel have been quarantined," the director said. The entire museum premises and the security quarters are being sanitised and the staffers have been asked not to come to the office for the time being, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-museum-kolkata-sealed-after-cisf-personnel-dies-of-covid-19-835185.html
08-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Labour laws diluted as states seek to revive economy||A clutch of states in the country is in an aggressive rush to ease labour laws to help COVID-19 lockdown-battered industry, including increasing working hours from eight hours to 12 hours, even as the Opposition and trade unions vowed to stop "such naked savagery" using the "pretext" of a pandemic. BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have taken steps to exempt a business from the purview of labour laws barring a few while Congress-led Rajasthan has increased the threshold for establishments for lay-offs from 100 to 300 employees, attracting criticism even from RSS-affiliated trade union Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS). The decisions of various states could result in an increase in working hours as well as have an impact on contractual labourers, right to organise and form trade unions, settling industrial disputes and occupational safety, health and working conditions of workers for a specific period. On Friday, leaders of seven political parties, including CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, his CPI counterpart D Raja and senior RJD MP Manoj K Jha, shot off a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking his intervention to nullify the moves by states at a time the country is witnessing the "most inhuman tragic dimensions of the plight" of the migrant workers since the lockdown was announced.  Gujarat was the latest to join the bandwagon exempting all new units from labour laws with a condition that such units should operate for 1,200 days. But this will not impact laws related to minimum wages, safety and compensation related to accidents. Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh said it has approved an ordinance 'UP Temporary Exemption from Certain Labour Laws Ordinance 2020' that exempts all establishments, factories and businesses from the purview of all but four labour laws for a period of three years. The Building and Other Construction Workers Act 1996, Workmen Compensation Act 1923, Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act 1976 and Section 5 of the Payment of Wages Act 1936 as well as provisions related to women and children will continue. A UP government statement said, "businesses and economic activities came to a halt more or less due to the lockdown. To bring economic activity back on track, new investment opportunities would need to be created along with fastening the businesses processes and productivity." In Madhya Pradesh, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said all labour laws barring some sections of the Factories Act 1948 would be suspended for 1,000 days. A decision to this effect was taken on Tuesday. Officials said all existing factories hiring up to 40 workers will not have to follow any occupational, health and safety norms while labour laws will be diluted for new units to be set up in next 1,000 days. These states will be bringing in ordinances for diluting labour laws but will need President's assent as labour is in the concurrent list of Constitution.     Rajasthan has also increased the threshold of membership of trade union from 15% t 30% to recognise a union in an establishment. Opposing the proposals by several states, the CPI(M)-affiliated Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) accused the Centre of using "complaint states" to go ahead with a "cruel exercise". It said the Gujarat government actually "pioneered to unilaterally expand daily-working hours from eight to 12 hours without lawful compensation" while Haryana and MP followed suit. The CITU said states like Maharashtra, Tripura, Punjab and Rajasthan are reportedly following suit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-labour-laws-diluted-as-states-seek-to-revive-economy-835188.html
08-05-2020||National||People with mental illness can't be denied equal opportunity, HC for judgeship to bipolar person||People suffering from mental illness cannot be denied equal opportunity to have a dignified life, the Delhi High Court Friday held while directing the authorities to declare as selected a person, suffering from bipolar disorder, to the Delhi Judicial Service without any further delay. A bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Sanjeev Narula set aside the May 21, 2019 notice/result published by the Delhi High Court Registrar General rejecting the candidature of a person for Delhi Judicial Services-2018 under the category of Persons with Disabilities (PwD) on account of his mental disability not being found to be permanent in nature. The bench allowed the man's petition challenging his rejection and directed the authorities to declare the petitioner as selected to the Delhi Judicial Service without any further delay since he is the only qualified candidate in the 'mental illness' category. “Upon his appointment, the petitioner would retain his notional seniority along with his other batchmates and he would be deemed to have joined his post along with his other batchmates, though he would not be entitled to any back wages. It goes without saying that the respondent (high court administration) shall issue necessary orders regarding the petitioner's Induction training for judicial officers,” the bench said, in its 50-page judgement.  The bench said from the counter affidavit filed by the high court administration, it appeared the reason for rejection of the man's candidature was not that his mental illness is not of permanent nature, but because the authorities are of the opinion that the medical condition of Bipolar Affective Disorder (BPAD) makes him incapable of rendering service as a judicial officer.  “Once the posts are advertised and seats are reserved for, inter alia, persons with mental illness, it is not open to the respondent to deny the petitioner reservation under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPwD) Act, merely on the basis of an opinion or belief entertained by it that the petitioner would not be able to discharge his duties as a Judicial Officer due to his mental illness. This is a call that the Parliament has taken. “The Law provides reservation, inter alia, to persons with the enlisted benchmark disabilities which include 'autism, intellectual disability, specific learning disability and mental illness',” it said. The bench said it appeared that a person suffering from such a mental illness can lead a normal life, while being under treatment, though he may face ups and downs from time to time. “It appears that the Parliament granted reservation, inter alia, to PwD – who suffer from mental illness (which does not include retardation), so that such persons get an opportunity to lead a normal life with encouragement and dignity. Merely because they may need medication and treatment throughout their lives, or may suffer setbacks from time to time, cannot be a reason to deny them equal opportunity to assimilate in society, make their contribution and have a life of dignity,” the bench said.  It added that such persons have a fully developed mind like any normal human being and “they may suffer from substantial disorder of thinking, mood, perception or memory that may grossly impair judgment, behaviour and capacity to recognise reality or ability to meet the ordinary demands of life, but with medication and treatment such manifestations can be kept at bay”. The mere apprehension of the authorities that this candidate may not be able to handle the responsibility and stress which a judicial officer faces, cannot be a reason to declare him medically unfit or to say that he is not entitled to claim reservation, the bench said. It further said there is no medical opinion placed on record to come to the conclusion that a person, who is suffering from BPAD and is under remission, would not be able to discharge his responsibilities as a judicial officer.  It said the intent and object of the RPwD Act is to protect and preserve the rights of disabled persons and employment is an essential aspect of utmost importance. The law has to be read liberally, keeping in mind that it is a beneficial and social welfare legislation which has to be given effect to in order to protect the rights of the PwD and not to defeat their rights, it said. In November 2018, the high court administration had issued notice inviting online applications from eligible candidates for filling up 147 vacancies for DJS 2018. Out of 147 vacancies, 6 seats were reserved for PwD. Out of these 6 seats, 2 seats were reserved for persons having autism, intellectual disability, specific learning disability, mental illness and multiple disabilities as mentioned under the RPwD Act including deaf-blindness   The petitioner candidate said he was called for an interview by the Interview Board, comprising judges of the high court and other members and later when final results were published, his candidature was rejected as his disability was not found to be permanent as per the disability certificate submitted by him. The disability certificate issued by the Department of Psychiatry, AIIMS, certified the petitioner of having the disability, that is, mental illness – BPAD to the extent of 45 per cent and stated that his condition was 'currently in remission' and his condition was 'likely to improve'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-with-mental-illness-cant-be-denied-equal-opportunity-hc-for-judgeship-to-bipolar-person-835192.html
08-05-2020||National||Indian Railways appeal public not to walk on railway track||The Railway Ministry has made an appeal urging people not to walk on the tracks as goods train operation is in full swing. The national transporter made a fresh appeal to the public following 16 migrant workers getting killed by speeding goods train near Aurangabad on Friday (May 8) early morning. The railways also started making social media campaigns to create awareness among the public about the danger of walking along the railway track. Though railways suspended the services of passengers carrying train, freight trains, special parcel trains and Shramik special trains transporting stranded migrant workers are in full swing. The railway also earlier appealed public not to walk on railway tracks as several people were seen migrant workers walking along the track to reach their villages soon after nationwide lockdown announced to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The Chief Commissioner Railway Safety has also written to Railway Board Chairman asking him to take all precautions to prevent repeating of such incidents in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-appeal-public-not-to-walk-on-railway-track-835195.html
08-05-2020||National||More youth fearing income losses due to COVID-19: Survey||As the country enters the final week of the third phase of the COVID-19 lockdown, public sentiment is getting into negative territories with over 50 per cent of those polled having a negative outlook on income. What is more, younger and those in the middle-income consumers are more worried about their income post-COVID, loan repayments and spending, says an international survey. According to a survey by international consultancy Boston Consulting Group, as much as 85 per cent of those in the poll are worried about servicing loans post-moratorium, while more than 40 per cent are planning to cut down spending in the next six months as they fear about their jobs and income. The survey, carried out during the third phase of lockdown (May 4-17) among 1,300 consumers in metros and Tier 1 & 2 cities, is part of a global COVID-19 consumer sentiment research. “Despite lockdown relaxations, concerns across health, economic situation and daily lifestyle continue to remain high as consumers have more pessimistic about their future incomes, spends, and loan repayments,” says the survey. These concerns are much higher among younger consumers, SEC-B households and small business owners. Even among these categories, essentials, at-home entertainment, health and insurance continue to show greater resiliency, while travel, out-of-home entertainment, apparel, large ticket purchases emerge as categories with significant reductions. One-third of them are also thinking of trading down. The lockdown has also boosted digital payments/ media consumption, etc with many trying out digital payments for the first time. While online newspaper reading has added 20 per cent, additional new users, there has been a 40 per cent growth in new users shopping for staples online, and a 20 per cent addition to digital wallets. Despite the fear of loss of jobs and the resultant financial burden, many consumers think lifting the restrictions on movements is good to bring the pandemic under control. “More than 50 per cent consumers believe the availability of vaccine and containment of cases are the strongest indicators that the virus is in control, while only around 24 per cent consider this as part of lifting the lockdown,” says the survey. Around 60 per cent of the polled consumers believe that local retail and local transport are likely to return to normalcy first. But a similar number of consumers also believe that it will take at least a few months more for normal barrel back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-youth-fearing-income-losses-due-to-covid-19-survey-835199.html
08-05-2020||National||Defamation cases have become tool to intimidate media, says Madras HC||The Madras High Court has observed that defamation cases have become "tool of intimidation" by some powerful politicians and corporates and has quashed such proceedings against two journalists and an Engish daily. Justice G R Swaminathan, who quashed the proceedings recently, said such "cases are used as tools to intimidate the media." The higher judiciary could not desert its duty when it comes to protection of fundamental rights and the freedom of the press, the judge said. The Judiciary will have to take the role of an activist as "criminal defamation proceedings have become a tool of intimidation before corporate bodies and powerful politicians whose pockets are tunnel deep and whose hands are long that even media houses (that) have good resources have capitulated," he said. V V Minerals had filed defamation proceedings against the daily, objecting to an article published by the newspaper in July 2015. A local court in Tirunelveli had issued summons to four people--the journalist who authored the report, and the Editor of the daily, a grievance cell officer of the newspaper and the journalist's husband. Observing mere minor inaccuracies in reporting cannot justify initiating prosecution proceedings,the judge said: "There can always be margin of error, though the permissible width of the margin will depend on facts and circumstances." The errors in the proceedings included all the four not residing within the jurisdiction of the Tirunelveli Judicial Magistrate 1, he said. That being the case, how could it issue summons to them, the Judge wondered. Besides, the court should have returned the defamation complaint as it was defective since the accused had not been named in person with appropriate description. "The magistrate appears to have mechanically taken cognizance of the offences even without noting" that the grievances redressal officer and the editor have not been named in person at all, the Judge said. The article was published in the wake of a notice issued by the High court on a PIL relating to irregularities in beach sand mining, he pointed out. The media can carry a story on the issue when the High court issued notice based on the allegations made by a litigant and when the issue was raised as a public question. The media is entitled to carry story on the same, he said. Further, the author of the article had reached out to V Vaikundarajan of V V Minerals and published his response also on the same article, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defamation-cases-have-become-tool-to-intimidate-media-says-madras-hc-835200.html
08-05-2020||National||COVID-19 fallout: Centre assures SC to address issues of North East people||The Union government on Friday agreed before the Supreme Court to take appropriate measures to ensure people from North-East don't face any harassment since some people mistook them as Chinese from where the Coronavirus originated. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai recorded a statement of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and disposed of a plea filed by Alama Golmei and another person. The petitioners led by senior advocate Colin Gonsalves highlighted grievances of North-East people.  They pointed out materials indicating that certain harassment has been meted out to the people belonging to the North-East. They are facing several difficulties due to the fact that the people, in general, mistook them having some affinity with Chinese from where the coronavirus has been emanated, the counsel said. Mehta, for his part, said there was already a helpline for North-East people. To this, the counsel for the petitioners submitted that the said helpline was not responding.  "Be that as it may, the Solicitor General has submitted that the material which has pointed out in the writ petition shall be attended to and appropriate measures are taken by the government to dispel the apprehensions of the petitioners on an urgent basis," the bench said and closed the petition.  A woman from Manipur faced a lewd comment on returning home in Delhi in March. The accused, who was arrested, also allegedly spat on her, calling her as Coronavirus. A New Delhi-based organisation, Rights and Risks Analysis Group brought out a report showing harassment of people from the North East. It documented 22 incidents of hate and racism.  The Union government's Ministry of Home Affairs had on March 21 issued an advisory all states to sensitise law enforcement agencies to take action in case of harassment of North East people after the occurrence of COVID-19 in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-fallout-centre-assures-sc-to-address-issues-of-north-east-people-835203.html
08-05-2020||National||Bengal sees biggest single day COVID-19 cases||With 130 fresh COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, West Bengal witnessed its biggest single-day spike on Friday. The total number of cases in the state rose to 1678 out of which 1195 are active. The death toll also increased with 88 deaths directly due to the virus and 72 due to comorbidity bringing the total deaths in the state to 160 in the state. According to the daily Health Department bulletin, 4.69% of the samples tested are turning out to be positive for COVID-19. So far 35,767 samples have been tested out of which 3,015 were tested in the last 24 hours. Kolkata and the districts of North 24 Paraganas, Howrah continued to show worrying trends. Kolkata with 572 active cases counted for 47.86% of the total active cases in the state. So far 55 have died directly due to the virus in the city and 52 others have died due to comorbidities.  Howrah district so far has 318 active cases and witnessed 15 deaths directly because of the virus while five others have died due to comorbidity. As for North 24 Paraganas, there are 162 active cases to date and 13 have died directly because of the infection while eight perished due to comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-sees-biggest-single-day-covid-19-cases-835209.html
08-05-2020||National||PIL in HC challenging levying of 70 per cent special corona fee on sale of liquor in Delhi||A plea was filed in the Delhi High Court on Friday challenging levying of 'special corona fee' of 70 per cent on the MRP of liquor of all brands in the national capital, amidst the coronavirus lockdown. The Delhi government imposed the 'special corona fee' on alcohol, a day after allowing re-opening of 150 state-run liquor vends in the city from May 3. The plea, which is likely to be listed on May 11, sought setting aside of the May 4 notification and restraining the Delhi government and its Excise Department from levying the fee on liquor or any other consumable product. Petitioner and advocate Lalit Valecha, in the PIL, said the 'special corona fee' imposed by the Delhi government upon sale of liquor is in excess of what has been authorised by law and accordingly it is being collected arbitrarily. The plea, filed through advocate Manu Prabhakar, said the order of levying fee was an afterthought and an after effect of the overcrowding and violation of social distancing norms outside liquor shops and mis-management by the authorities and there is no explanation or justification of the sudden levy of the fee by the government. “The unprecedented levy of 'special corona fee' by the Delhi government resulting in overall increase in MRP (maximum retail price) of the liquor by 70 per cent is arbitrary, uncalled for and bad in law,” the plea alleged. It said the MRP of liquor in Delhi includes all taxes and duties that have been imposed by the Centre or the state government for the purpose of production, transportation, wholesale and retail sale of the product and increasing the MRP by 70 per cent by means of an executive order is “illegal and bad in law”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-hc-challenging-levying-of-70-per-cent-special-corona-fee-on-sale-of-liquor-in-delhi-835210.html
08-05-2020||National||Bodies of 16 migrants killed in Maharashtra to be sent to Madhya Pradesh by train||The bodies of 16 migrant workers who were mowed down by a train in the early hours of Friday in Aurangabad in Maharashtra will be taken to Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh, officials said. The 16, working in a steel factory in Jalna, some 59 kilometres from here, were walking with others to Bhusawal to catch a Shramik Special train to MP, but fell asleep on the tracks due to exhaustion and were run over by a goods train near Karmad, officials said. "A train that will depart from Aurangabad to Jabalpur in MP tonight carrying migrant labourers stranded in the lockdown will have a coach attached to transport the 16 bodies. The MP government will make further arrangements from Jabalpur to get the bodies to the kin," Aurangabad Collector Uday Choudhari told PTI. The incident is the most tragic involving migrant labourers since lockdown was imposed on March 25 to fight the coronavirus outbreak, with several reports coming from across the country of stranded people trying to reach their homes on foot, cycles, on trucks and even concealed in the drums of cement mixer vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bodies-of-16-migrants-killed-in-maharashtra-to-be-sent-to-madhya-pradesh-by-train-835212.html
08-05-2020||National||Vande Bharat Mission day 2: More Indians return from B'desh, Singapore and Gulf||The Government on Friday continued the “Vande Bharat Mission”, facilitating the repatriation of Indians, who were stranded in Bangladesh, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, and Singapore due to the travel and transport curbs imposed around the world to contain the COVID-19 pandemic.  Air India and Air India express aircraft brought back citizens from Dubai to Chennai, Dhaka to Srinagar, Singapore to Delhi, Riyadh to Kozhikode and Manama to Kochi. An Indian Navy ship – INS Jalaswa – also departed from Male for Kochi on Friday with nearly 700 returnees, who were stranded in the Maldives. The ship is expected to reach Kochi on Sunday. An Air India aircraft was initially scheduled to fly from London to Bengaluru on Friday, repatriating some of the Indians stranded in the United Kingdom. The flight has now been rescheduled to Saturday, due to a delay in COVID-19 tests for the crew of the aircraft. Three more Air India aircraft are likely to land in Bengaluru bringing in Indians stranded in Singapore and United States by May 15, when the first phase of the Vande Bharat Mission will come to its end. The first flight on the second day of the mission brought to Delhi 234 citizens, who were stranded in Singapore. It was followed by another from Dhaka to Srinagar, with 168 Indians, mostly students of the medical colleges in Bangladesh. The Air India aircraft on Friday also brought home Indians stranded in Dubai (United Arab Emirates), Riyadh (Saudi Arabia) and Manama (Bahrain). The government launched the Vande Bharat Mission on Thursday, with two Air India Express aircraft bringing in 363 citizens from Dubai and Abu Dhabi to Kozhikode and Kochi.  Sources in New Delhi said that altogether 64 flights with approximately 15,000 returnees from 12 foreign countries onboard were expected to land at 14 airports across India during the first phase of the Vande Bharat Mission till May 15. A total number of 27 flights would take off from the Gulf during the first phase of the mission – eleven from the UAE alone, five each from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, and two each from Bahrain, Qatar and Oman. The first phase of the mission would see altogether seven Air India flights bringing in Indians stranded in Bangladesh. The flights will land in Srinagar, Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. Besides, 14 flights would bring in citizens from the South-East Asian nations – five each from Singapore and the Philippines and four from Malaysia, sources in New Delhi said.  The government has planned seven flights from four airports in the United States– New York, Washington D.C., Chicago, and San Francisco – by May 15. Seven more flights would take off from London, bringing in stranded citizens from the United Kingdom, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vande-bharat-mission-day-2-more-indians-return-from-bdesh-singapore-and-gulf-835215.html
08-05-2020||National||We have to learn to live with coronavirus, says Health Ministry official||One in every three persons infected with COVID-19 has recovered from the disease and Indians will now have to learn to live with the virus, a senior health ministry official said here on Friday. India continued to witness a sharp increase in confirmed cases of COVID-19 as 3,390 fresh infections were reported till Friday morning, taking the total infections to 56,342. The death toll also spiked by 103 to 1,886. According to the DH COVID-19 tracker, the total confirmed cases had shot up through the day to 57,910, while the death toll was 1,929 at 8:15 p.m. on Friday. “We have to learn to live with the virus,” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry said, urging people to make COVID-19 prevention guidelines a part of their lives as a behavioural change. He was responding to questions about the possibility of a spike in the case due to easing in lockdown restrictions and return of migrant workers to their respective states. “Till now, 16,540 patients have been recovered and 37,916 patients are under active medical supervision,” Agarwal said adding that the recovery rate was now at 29.36%. He said 1,273 persons had recovered from the disease in the 24 hours ending 8:00 a.m. on Friday. Agarwal said of the 37,916 active patients, 3.2% were on oxygen support, 4.7 % in ICU (intensive care unit) support and 1.1% of patients on ventilator support. Agarwal said despite the surge in cases, there were 216 districts which had not reported COVID-19 cases till date, 42 districts have had no fresh cases in the last 28 days, 29 districts with no fresh cases in the last 21 days, 36 districts with no fresh cases in the last 14 days and 46 districts with no fresh cases in the last seven days.  The health ministry on May 1 classified 733 districts in the country as 130 in the red zone, 284 in the orange zone and 319 in the green zone, taking into consideration incidence of cases of COVID-19, doubling rate, the extent of testing and surveillance feedback. Agarwal said the districts would be re-classified in a day or two based on the feedback from the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-have-to-learn-to-live-with-coronavirus-says-health-ministry-official-835216.html
08-05-2020||National||Civil society groups urge PM to give Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to victims of Maharashtra train tragedy||A group of civil society organizations on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia per person for those who died in the Aurangabad train accident. Sixteen migrant workers sleeping on rail tracks while returning to Madhya Pradesh were crushed to death by a goods train in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra on Friday. The organisations, which have come together as a "National Campaign for Migrant Workers" demanded that all migrant workers returning home be provided with an ex- gratia of Rs 7,000 in lieu of the wages lost because of the nationwide lockdown imposed to stave off the spread of coronavirus. "Victims of the railway track accident, and all those who died while travelling to their homes, be given ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh from PM Cares Fund," they said. The campaign had earlier written to the prime minister demanding speedy return of workers to their homes and warned of a humanitarian disaster if the return was delayed. "This has now come true. The migrant workers are protesting all over the country demanding a speedy return to their homes. Lakhs of workers continue to walk to their homes thousands of kilometres away," it said. While the government allowed the movement of migrant workers back to their homes under public and legal pressure on April 29, all actions taken since then show that the intent is to hold workers back, they said in their letter. The campaign rued that the number of trains introduced is so low that it will take months for workers to go back. "The government fears that there will be a shortage of workers to restart the economy. The campaign would like to point out that such a stance, besides being wrong on humanitarian and legal ground, is also counterproductive," the letter read. "Earlier the workers go back, earlier they will come back for work. It is very unrealistic to expect the workers to start doing work in their current frame of mind," it said. The movement of migrant workers to their homes must be undertaken on a war footing, mobilizing all possible means of transportation and coordinated by a central task force, the civil society organizations said. The campaign also protested the orders of state governments diluting labour laws. "A number of state governments have passed orders extending work hours to 12 hours and suspending labour laws for varying periods of time. Such blatant dilution of labour laws cannot be allowed under exigencies of disaster management," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/civil-society-groups-urge-pm-to-give-rs-50-lakh-ex-gratia-to-victims-of-maharashtra-train-tragedy-835219.html
08-05-2020||National||Amit Shah expresses concern over rising COVID-19 cases in CAPFs, says wellbeing of troops govt's priority||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday expressed concern over increasing COVID-19 cases in Central Armed Police Forces like the BSF and said safety and wellbeing of the troops are Modi government's priority. Shah also directed for proper arrangements for health check-up and treatment of 'COVID warriors' and timely payment of dues in case of casualties, a home ministry statement said. The issue of a large number of coronavirus cases in the CAPFs was discussed at a high-level meeting, chaired by Shah and attended by directors general of BSF, CRPF, CISF, ITBP, SSB and NSG and senior home ministry officials. At the meeting, the home minister said the Modi government is not only concerned over spread of COVID-19 but is making all out efforts to ensure safety, security and wellbeing of all CAPFs, the statement said. He inquired about the situation regarding the security personnel affected by COVID-19 in each of the CAPFs as well as the cases that are found to be asymptomatic.  As many as 530 CAPFs personnel have tested COVID-19 positive so far while five personnel succumbed to the disease - two each from the BSF and the CISF and one from the CRPF, officials said. Among the active coronavirus cases, 221 were in BSF, 161 in CRPF, 35 in CISF, 94 in ITBP and at least 17 in SSB. During the meeting, the innovative measures taken by each of the CAPFs in order to contain the disease were also discussed. The suggestions ranged from providing awareness and training about precautions, changing the arrangements in mess and staying facilities in barracks, boosting immunity according to Ministry of AYUSH guidelines and ensuring proper personnel management, keeping in view the age of the security personnel and their health history. Acknowledging efforts of CAPF personnel in the fight against COVID-19, Shah asked the senior officers to ensure important things like timely payment of dues, including ex-gratia, insurance in case of casualty, the statement said. He also asked the officers present to be in touch with affected personnel and their families, ensure proper arrangements for their health check up and treatment, including establishment of a dedicated hospital or facility for COVID-19 affected CAPF personnel and also increasing effective tracing and testing facilities.   Shah also suggested that there should be sharing of best practices among the CAPFs and also laying down the Standard Operating Procedure for health related as well as management issues, like sanitisation and ensuring the use of appropriate protective gear by the personnel etc.  The CAPFs are about 10 lakh personnel strong and they are shouldering a variety of internal security duties in the country. The CAPFs have launched multiple measures to contain the infection by sanitising the premises and asking troops to strictly follow anti-coronavirus medical protocols, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-expresses-concern-over-rising-covid-19-cases-in-capfs-says-wellbeing-of-troops-govts-priority-835221.html
08-05-2020||National||May ask for Centre 'manpower' to give rest to police: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday refuted speculation about the Army being called in in Mumbai which has become a major coronavirus hotspot. In a live webcast, he said additional manpower may be sought from the Union government if needed so that the state police force gets some respite.  Asking people not to believe rumours, the chief minister said the government might ask for additional manpower from the Centre, if needed, to enable the police personnel to take rest in a phased manner. "This doesn't mean that Mumbai will be handed over to the Army. Police personnel are tired after working round-the-clock, some have fallen sick and a few of them have succumbed to the virus. They need rest," Thackeray said.  He also admitted that while the spread of the virus has been contained, the state has not succeeded in breaking the chain of infection yet. Whether the lockdown will be extended or not after May 17 will depend on how far people maintain discipline and follow rules, he said. "We have to come out of the lockdown one day or the other. We can't be living permanently like this. But to come out of this sooner, you need to follow rules and maintain discipline of social distancing and use face mask," Thackeray said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/may-ask-for-centre-manpower-to-give-rest-to-police-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-835222.html
08-05-2020||National||Mumbai's COVID-19 cases climb to 11,967; death toll 462||With as many as 748 persons testing coronavirus positive in Mumbai on Friday, the number of COVID-19 patients in the city jumped to 11,967, while the death toll reached 462 as 25 more persons succumbed to the infection, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. As 154 patients were discharged from hospitals on Friday, the number of recovered patients also grew to 2,589, it said in a release. As many as 462 new suspected COVID-19 patients were admitted to various hospitals in the city, the BMC said. The civic body said that of the 748 new positive cases reported in Mumbai on Friday, 206 had tested positive at various private labs between May 4 and 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbais-covid-19-cases-climb-to-11967-death-toll-462-835224.html
08-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Four test positive in Himachal Pradesh, tally rises to 51||Four people, including a two-year-old girl, tested positive for novel coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh on Friday, bringing the total number of cases to 51 in the state, officials said. A woman from Amb in Una district has tested positive, a district official said. She had returned from Delhi a few days ago and was kept in institutional quarantine, he added. In Chamba, Deputy Commissioner Vivek Bhatia told PTI a two-year-old girl tested positive on Friday. Her father, a driver, had tested COVID-19 positive on Wednesday, the DC said. The official said she will be admitted to RPGMC in Kangra for treatment. The driver from Khad Jota panchayat in Salooni subdivision had a recent travel history to Baddi in Solan district. Samples of all his contacts except that of his daughter tested negative, the DC added. A person from Kangra district has tested positive at Tanda's Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Kangra Superintendent of Police Vimukt Ranjan said. The patient's details were not immediately available. Earlier in the day, a 42-year-old man tested positive for the coronavirus in Hamirpur district, Deputy Commissioner Hairkesh Meena said. The man from Bijhari town in Bijhri tehsil had returned to Hamirpur from Delhi on April 29, he added. Hamirpur had become coronavirus-free on April 29 after the last two patients in the district tested negative for the infection. Himachal Pradesh has now 10 active cases with three in Chamba, two in Kangra, one each in Una, Hamirpur, Mandi, Shimla and Sirmaur districts, according to officials. While 34 people have recovered from the infection, three have died. Four people were shifted to other states for treatment. The fatalities include a 70-year-old Delhi resident who stayed at a guest house of a factory in Baddi in Solan and died at PGIMER, Chandigarh on April 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-four-test-positive-in-himachal-pradesh-tally-rises-to-51-835233.html
08-05-2020||National||Chhattisgarh gas leak: Mill operator arrested, owner on the run||The operator of a paper mill in Raigarh in Chhattisgarh where a gas leak on May 6 evening led to the hospitalisation of seven people was arrested on Friday for criminal conspiracy and attempt to commit culpable homicide, police said. The gas leak took place in Shakti Pulp and Papers when an open recycling chamber was being cleaned and seven people, including the arrested person, had to be hospitalised, an official said. "The mill's operator, Ranjeet Singh, was arrested after he was discharged from hospital. A case was registered on Thursday night against him and the factory owner under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 202 (intentional omission to give information of offence by person bound to inform), 284 (negligent conduct with respect to poisonous substance) and 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) of the IPC," said a Pusaur police station official. "The factory owner is on the run. Besides, a medico- legal notice has been served to Sanjeevani Hospital for allegedly delaying in reporting about such a serious incident to the nearest police station. The hospital's reply has been sought," he added. Meanwhile, MK Shrivastav, Deputy Director, Industrial Health and Safety, Ragarh, said a probe had revealed safety equipment was not provided to workers and there was no trained supervisor at the time of cleaning of the chamber. The factory has been sealed after the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-gas-leak-mill-operator-arrested-owner-on-the-run-835236.html
08-05-2020||National||Aarogya Setu most downloaded healthcare app in world: Amitabh Kant||Aarogya Setu, a government app developed for tracking COVID-19 patients, has become the most downloaded healthcare application and also featured among the top 10 downloaded apps in the world in April, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Friday. Close to nine crore users had downloaded the Aarogya Setu mobile application till May 4. The Centre has made it mandatory that government and private sector employees use it to bolster efforts to fight the COVID-19 pandemic.    "Incredible! India leads the world in leveraging technology to fight COVID-19. #AarogyaSetu:the most downloaded healthcare app & amongst the top 10 downloaded apps in the World for April 2020 in 1st month itself. Never seen this before. We are united in our fight against COVID-19," Kant tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on April 14had appealed to people to download the app, which alerts people if any known or person in their vicinity has tested positive. The app was developed under a committee set up by the Prime Minister's Office with active involvement of Niti Aayog and the Ministry of Electronics and IT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aarogya-setu-most-downloaded-healthcare-app-in-world-amitabh-kant-835256.html
08-05-2020||National||Fight against terrorism will continue till lasting peace is established in Jammu and Kashmir: Dilbag Singh||The coordination among various security forces has resulted in huge successes in Jammu and Kashmir, but the fight against terrorism will continue till lasting peace is established in the Union Territory, J-K Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said here on Friday. Chairing a joint officers' meeting here to review measures taken by Srinagar security grid, Singh also said the security agencies need to strengthen the bond further to foil ill designs of the neighbouring country and its sponsored terror outfits operating in J-K. The meeting was attended by top officers of the police, Army, CRPF, SSB and the ITBP. "The role of police, Army and CAPFs deployed on the various assignments in Jammu and Kashmir is commendable and the coordination among various security forces has resulted in huge successes,” the DGP said. During the meeting, the DGP complemented the security forces for the recent successful counter-insurgency operations. "The role of CAPF officers and jawans who are deployed on the various assignments across the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir is commendable and praiseworthy. The CAPFs have played a significant role both in maintaining law and order and counter-insurgency operations,” he said. Singh said the fight against terrorism will continue till lasting peace is established in Jammu and Kashmir, and emphasised upon the officers to make deployments as per requirements at all sensitive places. "The personnel on the ground should be briefed regularly and the synergy at grassroots level of SHOs and Coy (company) commanders has to be at level-best for achieving better results,” he said. The DGP stressed upon the officers not to let the peaceful atmosphere be disturbed by the inimical elements. "The synergy among the forces has yielded desired results in maintaining peace and order. We have to strengthen the bond further to foil ill designs of the neighbouring country and its sponsored terror outfits operating in J-K,” he said. Singh said the anti-national elements were taking advantage of the forces' responsibility in fighting the deadly coronavirus and called upon the officers to strengthen the security at all levels with joint efforts of all security forces to foil any nefarious designs of terrorists. The DGP, during the meeting, also reviewed the preparation/measures taken to contain coronavirus from spreading and directed the officers to take all necessary steps in implementing the government orders on the ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fight-against-terrorism-will-continue-till-lasting-peace-is-established-in-jammu-and-kashmir-dilbag-singh-835263.html
08-05-2020||National||2786 Karnataka residents among 67833 Indians keen to return home from abroad||Over 2700 citizens from Karnataka have so far registered with India’s diplomatic and consular missions abroad expressing willingness to come back home from the foreign countries, where they have been stranded ever since transport and travel curbs have been enforced around the world to contain the COVID-19 pandemic.       India’s embassies and high commissions in foreign capitals, as well as its consulates in other major foreign cities, received requests from altogether 67833 of the citizens of the country for the government to facilitate their repatriation. Most of the repatriation requests – 22470 or 34% – came from students. The students were followed by the migrant workers, who submitted 15815 or 30% of the requests for facilitation in repatriation. The rest included 4147 tourists and 9250 others, who had travelled to foreign countries on short-term visas, but got stranded with the validity of the visas either ended or about to end. While 5531 sought repatriation for medical emergencies, 3041 pregnant women and elderly people too registered with the missions expressing keenness to fly back home. Besides, 1112 Indians stranded abroad want to return due to deaths of family members. Sources said in New Delhi that 25246 people from Kerala, 6617 from Tamil Nadu, 4341 from Maharashtra, 3715 from Uttar Pradesh, 3320 from Rajasthan, 2796 from Telangana, 2786 from Karnataka, 2445 from Andhra Pradesh 2330 from Gujarat (2,330) and 2232 from Delhi were among the 67833, who had sought repatriation.  The Government on Thursday launched the “Vande Bharat Mission” to facilitate the repatriation of Indians stranded in foreign countries. The first phase of the mission till May 15 will see nearly 15000 Indians being repatriated from 12 countries on 64 flights operated by the Air India and the Air India Express. The returnees have to pay for the airfares at flat rates fixed by the Air India for return to India from each country. They also have to pay for accommodation at the quarantine facilities where they must stay for 14 days after arrival in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2786-karnataka-residents-among-67833-indians-keen-to-return-home-from-abroad-835267.html
08-05-2020||National||Lives in Aurangabad could have been saved if govt had made arrangements: NHRC||The lives of migrant labourers, who were killed in a train accident in Aurangabad while walking to their native places, could have been saved if arrangements had been made for their shelter or halt during their journey, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) said on Friday as it sought a report from Maharashtra government on the incident. In  its preliminary observations, it said the mishap could be termed as a train accident as normally it is not expected by anyone that some people will be sleeping on the railway tracks.  "However, the crucial aspect is that the poor labourers, who were already facing many hardships amid countrywide lockdown, were forced to walk on foot for a very long distance due to non-availability of any mode of transport, lost their lives due to apparent negligence by the district administration. Had some arrangements been made for their shelter or halt during their tiring journey, the painful tragedy could be averted," the NHRC said. The NHRC had recently observed that there is a need for the government agencies to deal with the situation arising out of country wide lockdown, very sensibly, particularly the people belonging to vulnerable sections of the society. "Death of poor migrant labourers is such a painful tragedy and is indeed an issue of violation of human rights," it said. The Chief Secretary and District Magistrate of Aurangabad have been asked to submit reports within four weeks about the steps taken by the state and the district authorities to provide food, shelter and other basic amenities to the poor people, especially the migrant labourers, who are facing extreme difficulties from every angle.  The details of the relief and rehabilitation provided to the victim labourers and their dependents along with status of the medical treatment provided to the injured is also required to be given in the report.  The workers, who were walking to Bhusawal from Jalna to board a “Shramik Special” train to return to Madhya Pradesh, were sleeping on the railway line when the mishap occurred between Badnapur and Karmad stations in Nanded Division. Around 20 workers were walking from Jalna to Bhusawal, which is about 150 kilometers. They stopped after walking for about 45 kilometers to take some rest and fell asleep on the tracks.  At around 5:15 AM, a goods train ran over them. The loco pilot had noticed some persons along the tracks. He honked and also tried to stop the train but failed to contain the speed before hitting the victims lying on the tracks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lives-in-aurangabad-could-have-been-saved-if-govt-had-made-arrangements-nhrc-835272.html
08-05-2020||National||Plea in SC for shelter, food, free transportation to migrant workers in view of death of 16 in Maharashtra's Aurangabad||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court on Friday seeking a direction to the Centre to ask all District Magistrates in the country to identify stranded migrant workers and provide shelter, food to them before ensuring their free transportation to native places in view of the early morning's tragic incident at Aurangabad in Maharashtra in which 16 such workers were mowed down by a goods train. The migrant workers were returning to Madhya Pradesh and had slept on railway tracks. The interim application, filed in a disposed PIL, has also referred to the earlier statements made by the Centre before the apex court saying that it was told that “there was no person walking on the roads in an attempt to reach his/her home towns/villages” and moreover the states and UTs will provide adequate facilities for migrant labourers. Referring to the tragic incident, lawyer Alakh Alok Srivastava, in the plea, said, “issue appropriate direction to Union of India to show cause as to despite the Orders…passed by this court in.., why no concrete action has been taken to avert the heart wrenching train accident, which took place at Gadhejalgaon village in Aurangabad District on May 08 at about 5.30 AM (Morning) in which at least sixteen (16) migrant workers, who were walking on foot, have been Killed.” It sought a direction to the Centre to ask all district collectors to “immediately identify such moving/stranded migrant workers in their respective Districts, immediately shift them to the nearest shelter homes/camps, provide them sufficient food, water, medicines and counselling etc. and upon proper medical examination, ensure to provide free transportation to them to their respective native villages, with utmost dignity”. The plea said the deceased labourers belonged to Shahdol and Umaria Districts of Madhya Pradesh and were walking from Jalna in Maharashtra to Aurangabad Railway Station to board trains to reach hometowns. After walking for several kilometers, they decided to take rest on the railway tracks between Satana and Karmad and were mowed down by a goods train, it said. Earlier, the top court had disposed the PIL seeking migrant workers’ welfare during the pandemic and consequential lockdown saying that the Centre and states are taking appropriate steps to provide relief to migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-for-shelter-food-free-transportation-to-migrant-workers-in-view-of-death-of-16-in-maharashtras-aurangabad-835287.html
08-05-2020||National||DCW chief files police complaint after receiving death threats on Twitter||DCW chief Swati Maliwal on Friday filed a complaint with police after she allegedly received death threats on Twitter. Maliwal recently voiced her opinion on issues like ''Bois locker Room'' and online slandering of jailed Jamia Millia Islamia student Safoora Zargar over the paternity of her unborn child. The Delhi Commission for Women chief said, in her complaint to the Cyber Crime Cell, that she has received death threats on her Twitter handle. "The person has made serious threats to kill and assault in these messages. These persons should be immediately booked and arrested (sic)," Maliwal said in her complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcw-chief-files-police-complaint-after-receiving-death-threats-on-twitter-835296.html
08-05-2020||National Politics||Centre needs to maintain transparency in fighting coronavirus, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the Government must start giving transparency to its actions in fighting COVID-19 by cooperating with states and making them partners in decision-making. Addressing a press conference through video conference, he said the lockdown is not an on/off switch and it is a transition which requires the cooperation of all - Centre, states, district magistrates and the people of India. The Congress leader also called upon the prime minister to devolve power and take the states and district magistrates into confidence. "We need to decentralise power in dealing with the virus. If we keep this fight only in PMO, we will lose. The PM must devolve power. If we centralise, there will be a calamity. PM has to trust chief ministers and chief ministers have to trust district magistrates," he said. Gandhi also called upon the government to tell the people what criteria it would use to open the lockdown or continue it post May 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-needs-to-maintain-transparency-in-fighting-coronavirus-says-rahul-gandhi-835021.html
08-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Rahul Gandhi asks PM Narendra Modi to devolve power, take states into confidence||Holding that the fight against COVID-19 cannot be just from the PMO, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday asked the prime minister to devolve power and make the states partner in decision-making. Gandhi said there will be a "calamity" if the fight against coronavirus is centralised. Addressing a press conference through video conference, he also asked the government to adopt transparency in its actions to tackle coronavirus and work together with states. His remarks came after complaints by Congress-ruled states that they were being pushed into fiscal distress in the absence of the Centre providing them resources to fight the pandemic. Gandhi also called upon the government to immediately put money into the hands of the poor and provide a financial package to the industry to help revive the economy. He said the lockdown is not an on/off switch, but is a transition which requires cooperation of all - Centre, states, district magistrates and the people of India. "We need to decentralise power in dealing with the virus. If we keep this fight in PMO, we will lose. The PM must devolve power. If we centralise, there will be a calamity. PM has to trust chief ministers and chief ministers have to trust district magistrates," he said. Gandhi also asked the government to tell the people what criteria it would use to open the lockdown or continue it post May 17, as the transition out of it is a serious challenge before the country.  He said the government needs to work on a psychological change and if it has to open lockdown, it has to convert people's fear of the disease into confidence, as it is not deadly for most of them. Noting that the country is facing an emergency situation, the Congress leader said the idea of injecting immediately a sum of Rs 7500 directly into the hands of poor is critical.  He also called for providing a financial package soon to protect the industry which provides jobs. "We have to protect the job creators and have to build a wall for them to protect jobs and wages of workers. We have to give them financial support," Gandhi said. The former Congress president said the economic package is being delayed as the government feels India could be downgraded by international agencies. "We need to start our domestic economy soon, the more time we lose, the worse impact it will have," he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-rahul-gandhi-asks-pm-narendra-modi-to-devolve-power-take-states-into-confidence-835039.html
08-05-2020||National Politics||Time to fight COVID-19 under PM Narendra Modi's guidance: BJP to Rahul Gandhi||The BJP on Friday asserted that the prime minister has been consulting state chief ministers and subject experts in dealing with COVID-19 as it asked Rahul Gandhi to act with "wisdom and practicality" and "fight the biggest calamity in human history under the able guidance" of Narendra Modi. Taking a swipe at Gandhi after he asked the prime minister to devolve power and make chief ministers partners in fighting the pandemic, BJP spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sudhanshu Trivedi said the "ever-youthful Congress leader who is about to complete a half-century now at least should have some wisdom and practicality". Trivedi said the Modi government has been very much receptive to suggestions from the opposition but it should be constructive and added that it is very typical and characteristic of Gandhi to speak before media without studying facts. The government has already announced a relief package of Rs 1.7 lakh crore and has also ensured money in the hands of the poor through direct benefit transfer to help them tide over difficulties during the coronavirus crisis, he said, responding to Gandhi's demands of a special package and cash transfer to the poor. Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee has also praised the direct money transfer, he said. In his recent conversation with the Congress leader, Banerjee had noted that the issues facing migrants should be handled by local authorities, Trivedi said. He added "It's not time to create controversy directly or indirectly. Instead it is time for cooperation and he should try to fight the biggest calamity in the human history under the able guidance of our prime minister."  The BJP leader invoked former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's poem "Aao milkar diya jalayein" to seek the former Congress president's cooperation, likening the pandemic to a case of the sun being eclipsed at noon. Gandhi would have got a better grip on the situation if he had discussed it with his senior party leaders and chief ministers, he said. India is the only country where there are attacks on health and security personnel for which the government had to bring an ordinance to tackle such crimes, he said, adding that there is an effort to commualise the issue, with international agencies being approached to criticise the central government. Trivedi was apparently referring to the allegations that right-wing activists have targeted Muslims for the spread of coronavirus. International bodies, he said, have supported the government's measures in combating the coronavirus.  He noted that before the lockdown was extended beyond April 14 by Modi, states like Maharashtra, Punjab, Odisha and Telangana had already done it. All of them are opposition-rules states, he added. Earlier at a press conference, Gandhi said the fight against COVID-19 cannot be just from the PMO and asked the prime minister to devolve power and make the states partner in decision-making. Gandhi said there will be a "calamity" if the fight against coronavirus is centralised. He also asked the government to adopt transparency in its actions to tackle coronavirus and work together with states. His remarks came after complaints by Congress-ruled states that they were being pushed into fiscal distress in the absence of the Centre providing them resources to fight the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/time-to-fight-covid-19-under-pm-narendra-modis-guidance-bjp-to-rahul-gandhi-835103.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Samajwadi Party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav hospitalised||Former defence minister and Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav has been admitted to a private hospital here after he complained of stomach and urine-related problems, a party spokesperson said. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister (80) had gone to the Medanta Hospital here Wednesday night for his routine checkup, but the doctors admitted him for monitoring his health over some stomach and urine-related issues, Rajendra Chaudhary said. "His condition is now stable. He is feeling better," he said. Mulayam's son and SP president Akhilesh Yadav, his younger brother and former state minister Shivpal Singh Yadav and other leaders visited him in the hospital on Thursday to enquire about his health, Chaudhary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/samajwadi-party-supremo-mulayam-singh-yadav-hospitalised-834900.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Areas under PoK now in IMD's forecast||The IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre has started including cities under Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir in its forecasts, a departure from its earlier format, officials said on Thursday. The IMD has started including Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, which are parts of PoK, under the Jammu and Kashmir meteorological sub-division since May 5, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the Regional Meteorological Department that gives forecast for the northwest meteorological division of the IMD. IMD Director General M Mohapatra said they have been mentioning areas under PoK under its daily weather bulletin ever since the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir in the two union territories August last year. However, officials said it's now being mentioned explicitly under the Jammu and Kashmir subdivision. These cities of PoK have now found a place in the overall forecast of the northwest division. The northwest division consists of nine sub-divisions – Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi-Chandigarh-Haryana, Punjab, east Uttar Pradesh, west Uttar Pradesh, east Rajasthan and west Rajasthan. The development assumes significance as New Delhi has been of a position that the Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir belongs to India. The inclusion of Muzaffarabad and Gilgit-Baltistan in the forecast comes amid Pakistan's Supreme Court allowing elections in Gilgit-Baltistan this week. India had strongly reacted to the development. Sources added that internally, it was pointed out that since IMD has been mentioning these cities under the PoK in its daily national weather bulletin and also the local bulletins, they should also find a place in the forecasts of the RMC. Mohapatra said that the IMD, being the World Meteorological Department nominated Regional Meteorological Centre, provides severe weather warnings to Pakistan, Afghanistan, Maldives, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Myanmar, Nepal and Bhutan detailing forecasts for the next five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/areas-under-pok-now-in-imds-forecast-834901.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Meghalaya collects Rs 6-cr revenue from liquor sales amid coronavirus lockdown relaxations||The Meghalaya government has collected over Rs 6 crore as revenue from liquor sales after wine shops were allowed to open earlier this week as part of the lockdown relaxations, Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong said. Tipplers have been queueing up outside liquor outlets in the state since they reopened on Monday, officials said. Authorities, however, have urged customers and shop owners to stricty abide by social distancing norms, failing which they would be asked to down shutters. "Establishments will be asked to close down if they fail to take measures to prevent overcrowding," Chief Secretary M S Rao said.  Wine stores had reopened in Meghalaya for a day on April 13, but were shut after one person tested positive for COVID-19 on the same day. The country is under lockdown till May 17 to contain the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/meghalaya-collects-rs-6-cr-revenue-from-liquor-sales-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-relaxations-834990.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus deaths rise to 100 in Rajasthan; tally 3,453||The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 100 in Rajasthan on Friday, with one more fatality and the number of cases in the state climbed to 3,453 as 26 fresh infections were reported, the health department said. There are 1,450 active cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan and 1,523 people have been discharged from hospitals so far after recovery, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. One person died in Ajmer on Friday, taking the toll to 100, he said. As many as 26 more people tested positive for COVID-19, the disease caused by coronavirus, including eight in Kota; six in Jaipur; five in Pali; two each in Ajmer, Jhalawar and Udaipur districts; and one in Alwar, he added. Jaipur has reported the highest number of infections at 1,117, followed by 842 cases in Jodhpur. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 to contain the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-deaths-rise-to-100-in-rajasthan-tally-3453-835009.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||BJP MLA claims cow slaughter incidents ‘rising’ in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich amid lockdown||BJP legislator from Mahasi assembly constituency in Uttar Pradesh’s Bahraich has alleged that incidents of cow slaughter are rising in the district amid the ongoing COVID-19-induced lockdown. Sureshwar Singh had written to the state’s additional chief secretary (home) on May 6 saying: “After lockdown, the incidents of cow slaughter are on the rise in Bahraich district… Except for calves and bulls, cows are seen in very less numbers." Singh expressed apprehensions that if the trend continued, soon it would be difficult to spot a cow in the district, which is around 130 km from state capital Lucknow. He further alleged that incidents of cattle theft too have increased in some areas of the district. "Criminals are arrested and on the second or third day, released on parole," the MLA said in his letter as he sought Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s intervention in the matter. Superintendent of police Vipin Mishra refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mla-claims-cow-slaughter-incidents-rising-in-uttar-pradeshs-bahraich-amid-lockdown-835019.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Riyaz Naikoo encounter: Restrictions tightened across Kashmir to maintain law and order||Curfew-like restrictions have been imposed across the Kashmir valley on Friday to maintain law and order as authorities apprehend street protests against the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen chief Riyaz Naikoo in an encounter with security forces. Concertina wires and heavy deployment of security force personnel dotted the roads around densely populated areas of the city and elsewhere in the valley to ensure that only people with movement passes were out of their homes, officials said. They said while the government is strictly enforcing the COVID-19 lockdown, the additional restrictions were imposed on Friday to ensure that the day passes off peacefully. Naikoo and his aide were killed in an encounter with security forces in Beighpora area of Awantipora on Wednesday, prompting authorities to snap mobile telephony and Internet services in the valley. Restrictions were also imposed in most parts of the valley including Srinagar city soon after the news about Naikoo's killing spread. A civilian was killed and 15 others were injured in clashes with security forces in Awantipora area of Pulwama district, hours after Naikoo and his associate were killed on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/riyaz-naikoo-encounter-restrictions-tightened-across-kashmir-to-maintain-law-and-order-835027.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||3 coronavirus patients die in Indore; case count rises to 1,727||Three COVID-19 patients, two of them senior citizens, succumbed in Madhya Pradesh's Indore, taking the toll to 86 in the district, where the count of positive cases breached the 1,700-mark, a senior official said on Friday. Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Praveen Jadia said with 28 more people testing positive for the virus in past 24 hours, the count has reached 1,727 in the district, the worst-hit by the infection in the state. Three men, aged 82, 63 and 40, succumbed to COVID-19, the CMHO said, adding they were also suffering from different illnesses. Of the 1,727 cases reported in the district so far, 663 patients have recovered, while 86 have died. According to the latest data, the case-mortality rate (that is total deaths out of total COVID-19 infections), stands at 4.98 per cent in the district, which has been classified as a red zone. However, a major improvement has been recorded in the mortality rate as compared to a month ago. According to state government data, the mortality rate of COVID-19 patients in the district was 10.33 per cent as on April 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-coronavirus-patients-die-in-indore-case-count-rises-to-1727-835029.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi condoles death of migrant labourers in Aurangabad train accident||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday condoled the death of 16 migrant labourers after being run over by a goods train in Aurangabad and said one should be ashamed of the treatment meted out to "nation builders". Sixteen migrant workers sleeping on rail tracks were crushed to death by a goods train in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra on Friday morning. In a tweet in Hindi, he said, "I am shocked at the news of the killing of labourers after being crushed under a goods train. We should be ashamed of the treatment being meted to our nation builders. My condolences to the families of those killed and I pray for the early recovery of the injured". Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also termed the incident as extremely sad and disturbing and demanded that adequate compensation be given to the families of those who died. "During the nation-wide return of labourers, the incident that took place in Aurangabad is extremely sad and disturbing," she said. In a tweet in Hindi, she said the lockdown has "destroyed" the lives of the poor. "They have no means to make a living. All the families who suffered in this incident should get compensation and all possible help," she said. The workers were returning to their home state Madhya Pradesh and due to exhaustion slept on the rail track, a police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-condoles-death-of-migrant-labourers-in-aurangabad-train-accident-835035.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: 22 migrants escape from quarantine centre in Chhattisgarh||At least 22 migrant labourers, who had returned from Andhra Pradesh, escaped from a COVID-19 quarantine centre in Chhattisgarh's Dantewada district, police said on Friday. The labourers escaped from a quarantine facility in Dantewada late on Thursday evening and a search was launched to trace them, Dantewada superintendent of police Abhishek Pallava told PTI. As many as 47 migrant labourers, who had travelled to their home districts from the neighbouring state, were quarantined at a facility in Aranpur police station area, he said. Of these, 22 labourers, who hail from Nahadi village, fled from the centre, he added. "They were examined for primary coronavirus symptoms on Thursday and all of them were found to be asymptomatic," Pallava said. The district administration has informed the sarpanch and secretary of the concerned village panchayat, Pallava said, adding that the police have launched a manhunt to track them down. So far, no case of COVID-19 has been reported from the Bastar division, which comprises Bastar, Kanker, Sukma Kondagaon, Narayanpur, Dantewada and Bijapur districts. Chhattisgarh has so far reported 59 COVID-19 cases, of which 38 patients recovered from the infection, while 21 are undergoing treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Raipur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-22-migrants-escape-from-quarantine-centre-in-chhattisgarh-835040.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||5 arrested for looting petrol pump of BJP MP in Uttar Pradesh||Five persons were on Friday arrested for their alleged involvement in looting Rs 50,000 from a petrol pump of a BJP MP in Uttar Pradesh, police said. The accused -- Virendra Yadav, Virendra Dhobi, Bacchilal, Direndra and Tejram -- were arrested on Friday and over Rs 57,000 were recovered from them, Superintendent of Police Ankit Mittal told PTI. Police have also recovered a country-made pistol and a number of cartridges from them, he said. The loot took place at BJP MP R K Singh Patel's petrol pump at Pokhri Barhat on Tuesday evening. He said five persons first got the petrol tanks of their motorcycles filled and then they looted Rs 50,000. They were chased by locals. Two of them fell from their motorcycle, but managed to escape. An FIR has been registered in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-arrested-for-looting-petrol-pump-of-bjp-mp-in-uttar-pradesh-835059.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Haryana govt decides to extend parole granted to prisoners by six weeks||The Haryana government has decided to extend by another six weeks the duration of parole or interim bail granted to convicted prisoners in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. As many as 3,817 prisoners were released last month on interim or regular bail, parole or extended parole. The state government decided to release convicted prisoners with up to seven years of sentence and undertrials liable to get as long jail terms on conviction. Foreign prisoners, however, are not included in this. Also, prisoners convicted in cases like drug smuggling, rape, acid attack are not among those released.  “The decision to release the prisoners had been taken in accordance with the Supreme Court's directive to decongest crowded prisons to prevent them from becoming fertile ground for spread of the coronavirus,” Jails Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala said. A high-powered committee under Justice Rajiv Sharma of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and comprising Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Haryana, Vijai Vardhan and DGP (prisons) K Selvraj in its recommendation had on May 5 stated “readmitting around 4,000 prisoners released on parole or interim bail back into the jails at this stage is a huge risk”. The committee was formed on the directive of the Supreme Court, dated March 23, which passed the order for decongesting prisons in view of the pandemic. "Readmitting of such a large number of inmates at this point is likely to increase the risk of the COVID-19 infection to the existing inmates and will defeat the whole objective of releasing inmates on parole/interim bail. "In this background, it would be appropriate to extend the parole period of the convicts for another six weeks from the date of their first surrender," the committee said. Initially too, the parole was granted for six weeks.  For undertrials, who were allowed 45-days interim bail, extendable to 60 days, the duration of interim bail has been also extended by six weeks from the date of their surrender. COVID-19 test and 14 days quarantine for prisoners returning from interim bail, parole or furlough will be mandatory. The test for prison staff returning after availing leave on emergent grounds, will also be mandatory. Staff will be allowed to join duty only on receipt of COVID-19 negative test report and fitness report from the medical officer of the jail, the committee has said. On April 19, a jail warden posted in Gurgaon district had tested positive for the infection after he returned from leave from his hometown in Bhiwani district. Meanwhile, taking into consideration “extreme and exceptional health status” of an undertrial woman prisoner, who is eight months pregnant and at the Jind district jail, bail was granted to her for 12 weeks, officials said. The representation was filed by her husband in the matters, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-haryana-govt-decides-to-extend-parole-granted-to-prisoners-by-six-weeks-835072.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown brings kites back to Lucknow skies||Confined to their homes due to the coronavirus lockdown, bored Lucknowites have suddenly found a passion for kite flying, adding a good dash of colour to their city’s skyline. More so in the old city areas of Chowk, Wazirganj, Thakurganj, Rakabganj, Yahiyaganj, Aminabad and Nakhhas, where it is easy to buy kites and spools of thread. "The sky is so clear these days,” says Mohammed Hussain, who is in his 80 and has grandchild Iqbal by his side.  "The lockdown has pushed everyone indoors. But my rooftop is there, open to all who love to fly kites," he tells PTI. "In the good old days, kite flying was an addiction. Alas, no longer now,” he says, complaining about video games, mobile phones and computers which turn children into couch potatoes. Once a traditional sport, kite flying is seen these days mostly during festivals like Makar Sankranti in January, Basant Panchami in February and Jamghat, the day after Diwali. Kites are also flown during the annual Lucknow Mahotsav. Over the years, their look has undergone a big change, Hussain says. They now come in shapes of birds, animals, insects and cartoon characters like Chhota Bheem and Spiderman.  'Kankawwa', the Lucknow style of kite in the form of wings of a bird, was perfected during the days of the nawabs. It is quite heavy and tests the skills of the kite flyer. Kite flying was a sport, particularly among the nobility, during the time of the Mughals. And the nawabs of Lucknow had their kites trimmed with gold and silver. In “patang baazi", kite flyers aim to snag and cut the strings of other each others’. Sometimes, there is betting between teams competing in these aerial dogfights. Children – when there is no lockdown, of course – wait for a kite to fall and take home as a trophy. Yakub Khan, a kite-seller in Nakhhas area, says the fighter kites are usually smaller in size, made of thin paper and diamond shaped, for greater manoeuvrability. While a “patang” is the common kite, “guddi” is the tall one with a small tail, he explains, proud of his knowledge in the field. "Making a kite requires great accuracy and care, it is an art in itself," he says. Khan also claims skill in making high-quality threads. 'Sadda' is plain cotton thread, 'manjha' the lethal cotton thread coated with powdered glass, good to cut the strings of other kites. Another piece of vital is equipment is the wooden spool – traditionally made of bamboo splits, wooden discs at each end and protruding sticks as handles – which is deftly manoeuvred in a kite fight. "The game of yesteryears has again come alive, thanks to the lockdown," Yakub says. Another old-timer Waris Mian says history has it that Nawab Asaf-ud-Daula's kites were decorated with gold and silver trimmings, and in the time of Amjad Ali Shah the “guddi” became popular. The origin of the kite is disputed, but it is widely believed to have been in China. In Indian literature, it is mentioned in the poetry of the 13th century Marathi saint-poet Namadev, and later in “Ramcharitmanas” of Tulsidas, who writes about Hanuman retrieving Lord Ram's kite that had flown to Indralok.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-brings-kites-back-to-lucknow-skies-835087.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath faces flak from BJP leaders for permitting sale of liquor in UP||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has come under attack from his own party leaders for permitting sale of liquor and pan masala. At least half a dozen saffron party MPs and MLAs have openly criticised Adityanath for the decision and demanded the immediate closure of liquor shops. ''The purpose of the lockdown is to save human lives from COVID-19. It will be defeated by allowing sale of liquor, pan masala and gutkha,'' BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj said. The leader questioned the rationale behind punishing spitting in public places when the sale of gutkha and pan masala had been allowed. Another BJP MP Satyadeo Pachauri shot off a letter to the CM seeking closure of the liquor shops saying that social distancing was not being followed there. Outspoken BJP MLA Surendra Singh said that the UP government should explore other options to generate income rather than allowing sale of liquor. ''It (liquor sale) will put lives of the people in danger. It cannot be justified on the pretext of revenue generation. It must be banned immediately,'' Singh said. He heaped praise on Bihar CM Nitish Kumar (liquor is banned in Bihar) and asked Adityanath to the same. BJP MLAs Nand Kishore Gujjar and Sunil Sharma also criticised the decision to open liquor shops and demanded their closure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-faces-flak-from-bjp-leaders-for-permitting-sale-of-liquor-in-up-835119.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Vande Bharat Mission: Indians stranded in Bangladesh, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, UAE and Bahrain repatriated||The Government on Friday continued the “Vande Bharat Mission”, facilitating repatriation of Indians, who were stranded in Bangladesh, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Singapore due to the travel and transport curbs imposed around the world to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. The Air India and Air India express aircraft brought back citizens from Dubai to Chennai, Dhaka to Srinagar, Singapore to Delhi, Riyadh to Kozhikode and Manama to Kochi. An Indian Navy ship – INS Jalaswa – also departed from Male for Kochi on Friday with nearly 700 returnees, who were stranded in Maldives. The ship is expected to reach Kochi on Sunday.  An Air India aircraft was initially scheduled to fly from London to Bengaluru on Friday, repatriating some of the Indians stranded in the United Kingdom. The flight has now been rescheduled to Sunday, due to delay in COVID-19 tests for the crew of the aircraft. Three more Air India aircrafts are likely to land in Bengaluru bringing in Indians stranded in Singapore and United States by May 15, when the first phase of the Vande Bharat Mission will come to its end.  The first flight on the second day of the mission brought to Delhi 234 citizens, who were stranded in Singapore. It was followed by another from Dhaka to Srinagar, with 168 Indians, mostly students of the medical colleges in Bangladesh. The Air India aircraft on Friday also brought home Indians stranded in Dubai (United Arab Emirates), Riyadh (Saudi Arabia) and Manama (Bahrain).  The government launched the Vande Bharat Mission on Thursday, with two Air India Express aircraft bringing in 363 citizens from Dubai and Abu Dhabi to Kozhikode and Kochi.   Sources in New Delhi said that altogether 64 flights with approximately 15,000 returnees from 12 foreign countries onboard were expected to land at 14 airports across India during the first phase of the Vande Bharat Mission till May 15. A total number of 27 flights would take off from the Gulf during the first phase of the mission – eleven from the UAE alone, five each from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait and two each from Bahrain, Qatar and Oman.  The first phase of the mission would see altogether seven Air India flights bringing in Indians stranded in Bangladesh. The flights will land in Srinagar, Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. Besides, 14 flights would bring in citizens from the South-East Asian nations – five each from Singapore and the Philippines and four from Malaysia, sources in New Delhi said.  The government planned seven flights from four airports in the United States– New York, Washington D.C., Chicago and San Francisco – by May 15. Seven more flights would take off from London, bringing in stranded citizens from the United Kingdom, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vande-bharat-mission-indians-stranded-in-bangladesh-singapore-saudi-arabia-uae-and-bahrain-repatriated-835146.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||UP CM Adityanath urges migrants to not walk, cycle home, says govt has made proper arrangement||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked officials to reach out to their counterparts in other states for better coordination in bringing the migrants home and urged the workers to not walk or cycle to Uttar Pradesh as this could endanger their health and security. His appeal came on a day 16 migrants were crushed under a goods train in Maharashtra when they were sleeping on rail tracks during their return home in Madhya Pradesh. They had slept on the tracks due to exhaustion after walking for several kilometres.  In Lucknow, a migrant couple cycling home to Chhattisgarh with their two children was killed after a vehicle hit them on Wednesday night. The children were injured but are stated to be stable at a hospital, police said on Friday. Though the government has been running special trains to ferry migrants, many of them have started their journey home on foot or a bicycle, saying they could not wait for their turn any longer due to lack of food and employment. Adityanath, whose government sent buses to Kota in Rajasthan to bring back students, reiterated that the migrants should not walk or cycle as this could prove detrimental to their health and security. During a review meeting, Adityanath also asked UP government officials to treat those returning to the state with honour. Later, speaking about the meeting, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said a "proper arrangement" has been put in place for the return of migrants from other states.  Awasthi stressed that Uttar Pradesh was ready to bring bring back all those willing to return if the state they are currently staying provides a detailed list and health certificate of the migrants. Till Friday evening, he said, 69 trains with migrants have arrived in the state. "When so many trains are coming, the CM said there is no need for anyone to walk to reach home and they should come back as per the proper arrangement made for them," Awasthi said. “Today, 11 trains have arrived, and 16 more will reach by night. They will together bring about 30,000 people from different parts of the country in a day," he said. Apart from that, about 10,000 UP Transport Corporation buses are ferrying migrants to their homes safely, the senior government official said. He said the return of migrants from Sharjah on Saturday was also discussed during the meeting, and said the flight that landed in Delhi on Friday carried 20 people from Ghaziabad and Noida. Adityanath said those coming from abroad should be screened and kept in quarantine centres before they could be allowed to go home. He asked Chief Medical Officers of all districts to study patient record, prepare a case history and continue pool testing to increase capacity. The Jansunwai portal is open for registration of those willing to return to their state and the response is good, he said. He said the government has segregated hospitals to treat COVID and non-COVID patients and this could help in effectively controlling the outbreak. He said measures should be adopted to run emergency services in the hospitals. He directed officials to ensure that the lockdown is followed strictly and in hotspot areas, sanitisation and door-step deliver of goods be ensure on priority. The CM also asked them to speed up the delivery of fodder to cow shelters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-adityanath-urges-migrants-to-not-walk-cycle-home-says-govt-has-made-proper-arrangement-835182.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh government decides to impose 'corona cess' on liquor sale||The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to impose 'corona cess' on liquor sale, through which the state exchequer is expected to earn Rs 100 crore yearly, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said on Friday. At a meeting of the state cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, it was decided that the cess would vary from Rs 5 to Rs 25 per bottle according to the quality of liquor, he said. Import fee for spirit used by industries with L-19A license for sanitisation has been increased from Rs 10.50 per bulk litre to Rs 15. With this hike, the state would earn Rs 10 crore per annum, Bhardwaj said.  Relaxation in curfew has also been increased from five hours to seven hours. This is apart from the one-and-a-half hour relaxation given for morning walk, he said. The minister said that timing for the relaxation will be decided by the district magistrates. The cabinet also decided to provide income tax rebate on contributions to HP SDMA COVID-19 State Disaster Response Fund, he added. Providing details about the "corona cess", a spokesperson said an additional license fee of Rs 5 per bottle on country-made liquor, Rs 10 per bottle on IMFL, Rs 5 per bottle, can on Beer/RTD India-made and Rs 25 per bottle on Foreign Imported Liquor would be levied. Similarly, an additional licence fee of Rs 10 per bottle, can on Beer/RTD (BIO), Rs 10 per bottle on Indian Wine/Cider and Rs. 25 per bottle on Wine/Cider (BIO) has been levied as "corona cess", he added.  A cabinet sub-committee constituted for economic revival after the coronavirus crisis blows over, made a presentation about its recommendations for expediting developmental works, mobilisation of resources and possible support to different sectors. It also recommended that Himachalis returning to the state should provide information about their skills which must be shared with labour, employment and industries departments for their utilisation in available sectors. The cabinet sub-committee also suggested measures for harvesting of crops and horticulture produce in the coming seasons. It recommended plugging revenue losses due to mining operations and fast-tracking forest clearances. At the meeting, the cabinet gave its nod to implementation of the Mukhya Mantri Shahri Ajeevika Guarantee Yojna, which aims to provide 120 days of assured unskilled employment guarantee to every household in urban areas. Rs 25.20 crore is expected to be spent under this scheme. In order to boost the employability of youth, the cabinet gave its nod to setting up of centre of excellence at Waknaghat in Solan district under an Asian Development Bank funded programme. The centre would provide high-end training in tourism, hospitality and IT sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-government-decides-to-impose-corona-cess-on-liquor-sale-835198.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||87 more cases of coronavirus in Punjab, death toll climbs to 29||A 74-year-old man died of COVID-19 in Punjab while 87 people contracted coronavirus on Friday, taking the total cases to 1,731 in the state. The 74-year-old man, a resident of Zirakpur in Mohali district, died at a hospital in Panchkula on Thursday, a health official said. With this, the total COVID-19 related death toll reached 29 in the state. Among 87 fresh cases reported on Friday, 49 were pilgrims from Maharashtra's Nanded, an official said. A total of 1,190 of around 4,100 pilgrims who have returned from Nanded have so far tested positive, the official said adding that around 500 test reports of pilgrims were yet to come. Among the fresh cases, 24 were reported in Gurdaspur, 18 in SBS Nagar, 11 each in Tarn Taran, Jalandhar and Amritsar, five in Kapurthala, four in Fatehgarh Sahib and one each in Barnala, Bathinda and Mansa, according to the medical bulletin. Three coronavirus patients from Mohali were discharged from hospital after they were fully cured of the infection. So far, 152 patients have been discharged in the state. Amritsar continued to top the COVID-19 tally in the state with 287 coronavirus cases, followed by 158 in Jalandhar, 157 in Tarn Taran, 125 in Ludhiana, 115 in Gurdaspur, 103 in SBS Nagar, 95 each in Mohali and Patiala, 89 in Hoshiarpur, 88 in Sangrur, 65 in Muktsar, 56 in Moga, 45 in Faridkot, 43 in Ferozepur, 40 in Bathinda, 39 in Fazilka, 27 in Pathankot, 24 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 23 in Kapurthala, 21 in Barnala, 20 in Mansa and 16 in Rupnagar, as per the bulletin. Out of the total cases, 29 have died. One patient is critical and is on ventilator support. A total of 37,950 samples have been taken so far in the state out of which 31,219 samples are negative and reports of around 5,000 samples are still awaited. There are 1,550 active cases in the state, the bulletin stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/87-more-cases-of-coronavirus-in-punjab-death-toll-climbs-to-29-835206.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Punjab mulls changes in labour laws, excise policy||The Punjab government on Friday said it is mulling changes in both the labour laws and excise policy to kick-start the economic activities in the state by making it an attractive destination for migrant workers, besides boosting its revenue. The twin issues of changes in the state’s labour laws and excise policy came up for discussion during a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, the government said in a statement/ The two issues cropped up in the Cabinet meeting a day after the government’s green signal to open liquor vends in state got a poor response from liquor contractors. A day earlier on Wednesday, the Uttar Pradesh approved an ordinance to exempt various industries in the state from different labour laws for three years to revive the state’s economic activities which have come to a grinding halt amid the Covid-led lockdown. Underlining the need for the industry to retain labour and prevent the migrant workers from leaving Punjab, Chief Minister Singh on Friday directed the state’s industry minister to take all possible welfare measures to ensure that workers’ interests are well taken care of, the government statement said. The Cabinet welcomed the opening of another 9,500 industrial units in the wake of the easing of lockdown restrictions. Singh said it was a good sign that with the opening of the industry, 35 per cent of those migrant workers, who had registered for going back home, have decided to stay back in Punjab for now. He also directed the Industry Department to aggressively pursue the development of the four industrial parks already announced by the state government in its budget for the 2002-21fiscal. There was a significant potential for attracting industry, particularly in the field of pharmaceutical pesticides, with many countries shifting their operations out of China, the Cabinet noted. Mulling changes in the excise policy, the Cabinet noted the liquor contractors’ lukewarm response to the state government’s green signal to open the vends. The liquor contractors did not open vends in most parts of the state on Thursday as they have been demanding revision of the excise policy, wanting the government to charge fee from them on the basis of actual liquor sales and not as per the prevailing fixed quota system. On the excise policy front, the Cabinet sought the precise details of the Covid-19 and lockdown implications for the policy and its execution, the government’s release said. The Excise and Taxation Department has been asked to review the policy in this context and bring a detailed proposal before the council of ministers, which will meet again on Saturday to further discuss the issue, the release said. Terming the prevailing situation as extraordinary, the Cabinet felt that all possible options should be explored to put the excise industry back on its feet, especially given its importance to the state's revenue model, the release added. On farming front in the state, the Cabinet also agreed on staggering the paddy cultivation operations in view of the shortage of migrant workers. Farmers are worried over the fate of paddy sowing which will start next month in amid the labour shortage and they have been demanding to allow paddy transplantation from June 1. Amid concerns over women with small children (under 5 years of age) deployed on Covid frontline duties, Chief Minister Singh asked the chief secretary to discuss the matter with various departments and formulate necessary guidelines to ensure the protection of such women. The Cabinet, meanwhile, approved the transfer policy for non-teaching staff of the School Education Department, with the same set to be effective from academic session 2020-21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-mulls-changes-in-labour-laws-excise-policy-835218.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Buyers flock to Delhi liquor shops as heavy website traffic prevents many from getting e-tokens||Booze lovers continued to throng liquor shops in the city, even as the e-token system introduced by the Delhi government could not fully take off due to heavy traffic on the designated website. The government is also considering options of contactless sale of liquor such as through home delivery, during the lockdown period, a senior government official said. The Supreme Court on Friday asked states to consider non-direct contact or online sales and home delivery of liquor during the lockdown period to prevent the spread of coronavirus on account of crowding at the shops.  A weblink for e-token system was launched on Thursday by the government to bring order at liquor shops witnessing huge crowds and violations of social distancing norms during lockdown. Delhi Home minister Satyendar Jain said that there were some issues with the site that are being worked out. "We have launched the e-token service for buying liquor from yesterday and there are some issues with the site which are being worked out," he told reporters. The government weblink for geting e-tokens to buy liquor got crashed repeatedly as soon as it was launched on Thursday evening due to record traffic, said an official. Many people who tried to register for e-tokens met with failures despite repeated attempts. "I tried unsuccessfully to register for e-token and spent over an hour on Thursday but the site was crashed. I also tried it in the night, but to no avail," said a hospitality professional from Mayur Vihar. Some buyers complained that their e-token were for advance dates. "After trying for hours, I finally registered for e-token on my mobile phone around 2 am. But, the time given for buying liquor is Sunday afternoon," said a hardware engineer from Preet Vihar. There were also complaints of some persons having valid e-token but finding it difficult to get liquor due to heavy crowd at shops. An official, however, said liquor shops had been asked for separate queue of e-token holders. A person may register on the government weblink giving details like mobile phone number and address and name of a liquor shop. An e-token is sent on the registered mobile number with specific time for buying liquor from the cited shop. With the Centre allowing relaxations under extended lockdown to the states, the Delhi government allowed sale of liquor from 200 vends operated by its four corporations earlier this week. With huge crowds at the liquor shops throwing social distancing for a toss, the government raised liquor price by 70 per cent of its maximum retail price but the situation remained more or less same. Also, due to massive crowds and fears of coronavirus spread due to violations of social distancing, only 50 of 200 shops could open.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/buyers-flock-to-delhi-liquor-shops-as-heavy-website-traffic-prevents-many-from-getting-e-tokens-835257.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Liquor smuggler held in Ghaziabad, property worth Rs 5 crore seized||Uttar Pradesh police on Friday arrested a liquor smuggler in Ghaziabad who was wanted in several cases and seized property worth Rs 5 crore allegedly purchased through illegal means. The accused Ravi alias Avinash was wanted in more than 20 cases of liquor smuggling and drug peddling. The two properties were confiscated upon the orders of the district magistrate's court. Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani told PTI that the properties in Indira Puri Tibra village road in Modinagar and Abupur village in Niwari area have been confiscated under provisions of the UP Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986. Earlier, police had sent a report against his property but he could not disclose the sources to convince the court on how he had obtained one of the properties in Modinagar area of the district. The court had ordered police to attach the two properties where he was running guest houses. Ravi was sent to judicial custody for 24 criminal cases registered against him in various police stations, the SSP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/liquor-smuggler-held-in-ghaziabad-property-worth-rs-5-crore-seized-835268.html
08-05-2020||North and Central||Over 5,300 people arrested so far for defying lockdown in Noida: Police||Thirty-three people were arrested across Noida and Greater Noida for allegedly defying the coronavirus-induced lockdown on Friday, taking the number of such arrests to 5,307 so far, the Gautam Buddh Nagar police said. Also, challans were issued to owners of 249 vehicles and four of them impounded in the district during the day for the same offence, the police added. Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) section 144 is in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar, which falls in the 'Red Zone' for COVID-19, even as lockdown restrictions continue, prohibiting normal movement in this district in western UP, adjoining Delhi. "Nine FIRs were registered on Friday for lockdown violations and 33 people arrested. A total of 793 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 249 of them, while another four were impounded," the police said in a statement. The FIRs were registered under Indian Penal Code section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and violation of prohibitory orders put in place under CrPC Section 144, which bars assembly of four or more people, they said. A total of 5,307 people have been arrested till 7 pm on Friday for defying the lockdown since it came into force here on March 23, according to police data available with PTI. So far, 1,457 FIRs have been registered under IPC section 188 and 6,140 accused booked, the data stated. Also, 95,189 vehicles have been checked during the lockdown period and challans issued to 21,931 of them, while another 1,128 have been impounded, it showed. An amount of Rs 2,38,300 has been collected in fines from the offending vehicles so far, the police said. The district administration has already banned movement between Noida and Delhi, except for ambulances, doctors, media and those directly involved in COVID-19 services. The Gautam Buddh Nagar police has extended the restrictions imposed under CrPC section 144 till May 17, covering the duration of the countrywide lockdown as announced by the central government. All public events, including religious or political congregations, cultural or sports meet and protest marches and processions will remain banned till May 17 and action will be taken against violators under IPC section 188, officials warned. As of Friday, 214 positive cases of coronavirus have been recorded in the district, including one death, while 118 patients have recovered and were discharged from hospitals, according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-5300-people-arrested-so-far-for-defying-lockdown-in-noida-police-835298.html
08-05-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus: For introverts, masks are just what the doctor ordered! ||Such quick and wide acceptance of the face mask is a tad surprising. Past mask-wearing advisories, commonly issued during air quality emergencies, have been less persuasive. Common reasons for resisting masks? Doubts about how effective they are. And that they look uncool and make breathing and talking inconvenient.  As of now though these considerations don’t matter. Between suitably scared corona-believers and corona-deniers, who sense this isn’t the time to mess with governments or popular sentiment, it appears that the world has decided to live with the mask with all its attendant issues. It suggests an uneasy reconciliation, but that may not be the case. Chatter buster Think about this: About 25 to 40 percent of the global population could be secretly welcoming the mask. These are the introverts, and they are probably willing to brave every challenge the mask poses as long as it lives up to one core promise. That it will restrain chatter. Sure, most people are neither introverts nor extroverts but ambiverts. Carl Jung famously said any person who was a 100 percent introvert or extrovert would be a “lunatic”. Introverts, who are basically introvert-ish ambiverts and they aren’t necessarily loners, poor conversationalists, or anti-social.  That said, the introvert does prefer smaller gatherings, more familiar company, less small talk, and more down time between social interactions. The mask, together with social distancing rules, promises to abet exactly this. Notorious for suffocating conversation, literally so, the mask will, one imagines, exhaust the extrovert sooner than usual. This, in turn, will spare the introvert small talk in workplaces, public transport, and social gatherings. These are not trivial reliefs by any measure.  According to workplace surveys, chatty coworkers are the top workplace distraction in Canada and the United States. Globally, 40 percent air travellers find talkative co-passengers annoying, and as many as 65 percent Indian flyers are willing to pay extra for a hypothetical ‘quiet zone’ aboard, online travel agency Expedia reported in 2017. Every self-respecting introvert will recall ducking behind a pillar/waiter or feigning a workplace catastrophe at a not-too-intimate gathering.  To the introvert’s rescue Hushing the talkative isn’t the only benefit the mask offers the introvert. For the introvert herself, the mask, with its famed inconveniences, presents the perfect excuse for claiming the solitude and silence she craves. She can dissuade unwanted advances in several ways – get terse, act exhausted, look disoriented – without fear of being dubbed impolite. The mask is easily scapegoat-ed.  How effective would the mask be against the truly garrulous? Difficult to predict, given how determined such characters usually are. However, there should be some succour nevertheless for the introvert. Behind her mask, she could still find release at no risk of detection. Via a gentle yawn, a clenching of teeth, a muttered curse. In short, the mask opens possibilities of less-draining work-days, journeys, and celebrations for the introvert. One can see why it is such a winsome idea for her. For long she has lived under the pressure of maintaining social niceties, been ticked off for not expressing and networking enough – at the expense of her mental health – and longed for quiet, more reflective moments. A muzzle on the mouth may not be what she prayed for but isn’t something not to be grateful for either. (Manish Dubey is a policy analyst and writer) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-for-introverts-masks-are-just-what-the-doctor-ordered-834982.html
08-05-2020||Panorama||COVID-19 shows ugly plight of migrant workers||The COVID-19 pandemic has revealed the sludge beneath the sheen of our global cities in a so-called ‘shining India’. The spotlight has been turned on those who remain in the city’s shadows in ‘normal’ times – the millions of migrant workers who build our cities. The story of metro rail workers in Bommanahalli serves as an example as it throws up critical issues that cut across organisations and the industry at large: the treatment of contract workers in the informal sector who make up more than 80% of the country’s workforce.     Regardless of whether or not BMRCL, as the principal employer, owns up its responsibility for the grim condition of the workers, the incident has exposed the exploitative conditions under the sleek, high-tech surface of the metro, all of which existed prior to the lockdown. The current situation pushes otherwise unaware commuters to sit up and take note of what goes into building and running the metro. Our air-conditioned ‘seamless’ ride comes at a human cost, whether in Bengaluru, Delhi or elsewhere.        Everything about the Bengaluru metro, and metro rail systems in other Indian cities, is said to be ‘cutting edge.’ The ambience within stations and trains, the quiet technology that moves them and the glass facades of buildings that flank the line, all transport us to a city of the future. However, from the perspective of workers, management-worker relations on the ground seem regressive and out of place in a high-tech ‘sarkari’ or state-owned enterprise.    In BMRCL, the allegations of unfair labour practices move all through the line from the permanent non-management cadre workers (1,200-odd men and women who operate the metro and the stations) to the 1,000-plus contract workers employed in security, ticket vending and housekeeping who are responsible for maintaining the impressive ‘global look’ of trains and stations. BMRCL, like most other companies, runs on workers hired through multiple contractors, making it difficult for any kind of collective action or parity in wages and conditions. Workers face precarity of employment, low pay scales and are deprived of pay hikes, paid leave, etc. The curious case of a woman guard who fell on the track in a faint while guarding the rail to prevent accidents raised questions among workers about possible fatigue from working multiple jobs (Deccan Herald, Nov 20, 2018). The lowest on the pay rung within BMRCL and the least visible are the sanitary workers who clean the bathrooms. BMRCL permanent workers, the ‘labour aristocracy,’ who are several notches above contract workers, themselves feel disadvantaged. The union, which is yet to be recognised by the management, claims that supervisors are high-handed and the working atmosphere repressive: transfers and work allotments are arbitrary and there is no bona fide grievance procedure that protects them. They allege that the management has contested their claim to be recognised as workers under the Industrial Disputes Act (1947) and, in effect, denying them a host of other rights. One young worker sums up his experience: “The management is very proud to say that the metro carries four lakh people every day. But who makes it run? They thank the public but have not bothered to recognise our work.” Those who build the metro, as we know, are simply written out of the narrative. It is almost as if the life of the metro runs on a parallel track — its ‘public persona’ as a means of high-tech world-class transport seems to be disconnected from the messy details of human relations that build and run it. For the average commuter, the comfort of the metro ride carries no hint of the eddies below as employees are prohibited from disclosing details to the public.  The metro is a fetish – a symbol of our collective dream of modernity as it glides above the congestion and disorder of the city below. It holds the blueprint of a future city that we would like to belong to. Our ambitions and desires ride on narratives that harp on ‘efficiency’, ‘public good’ and ‘mobility’, which conceal the harsh conditions that lie beneath.  Hidden stories of conflict are not peculiar to BMRCL but common across organisations. Most companies and organisations – private or public -- have inner lives that remain inaccessible to the general public. Reports of brutal conditions that create fissures in the façade of prestigious projects are met with denial or distancing. Within organisations, prevailing unfair labour practices are ‘public secrets’ that everyone is aware of yet no one ‘outs’ or acts on.  The edifice of rationality, efficiency and ‘civility’ is maintained through secrecy and the perpetuation of a deafening silence.  As I write this, my thoughts are interrupted by the endless piling sound of metro construction that has resumed post-lockdown. At what human cost is it being built and under what conditions? In the light of the recent news about Bengaluru’s builders and the state government obstructing the homeward journey of migrants in order to “kickstart the economy,” I remind myself that the story of the metro’s migrant workers is one among many.  The entire city rests on the unrewarded and undervalued labour of those who are denied the voice to question why.  This moment of re-imagining a post-lockdown ‘normal’ is an opportunity to push for a structural shift in the way ‘informal sector’ workers are treated within gargantuan industries like construction that supposedly fuel our economy. Let’s stop to ask who fuels it and how.  (The writer is an urban anthropologist and freelance researcher)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-shows-ugly-plight-of-migrant-workers-835078.html
08-05-2020||Panorama||Not all men, but enough||Unfortunately, the pandemic is not the only misfortune the country is facing right now. The ‘Bois Locker Room’ incident brought back traumatic memories for many women in the country. Instagram conversations of an all-boys group of over 50 teenage boys from South Delhi were leaked on May 2 when an Instagram user spoke about how she was sent horrid screenshots of the chats. The group got together to send objectionable pictures of minor girls, morphing them, using abusive language and talking about “gang-raping girls” and “leaking their nudes”. In a span of five days, numerous screenshots of teenage boys slut-shaming women, objectifying them, unfurled on various social media platforms. Male activists and women-bashers lashed out immediately, coming out with the #NotAllMen barrage. What was not shocking was that multiple women shared personal accounts of harassment. And as usual, men dismissed it as “attention-seeking behaviour.” Misogyny is so deeply entrenched in our society that women end up questioning themselves over men’s toxic behaviour. ‘Bois locker room’ is not a unique incident. Casual sexism is common across the world, regardless of class, caste or country. From widely sharing ‘wife jokes’ on WhatsApp to assassinating the character of a woman for dressing a certain way -- women are talked about as lesser humans. “Boys will be boys” -- this has time and again been used to emphasise and normalise that it is okay for men and boys to make degrading comments about women. The root of it all goes back to the patriarchal society we live in. Men occupy the authoritative positions, and women are reduced to feeding them and breeding for them. Men cannot be held singularly responsible. We have repeatedly heard mothers that things should be done in a certain way because “we are girls”. Young girls are told that chores are their responsibility and not their brothers’. This only aggravates the problem. It makes young girls believe that it is okay for a man to assert authority. At a party, a male ‘friend’ from my university came to me and told me, “This guy hooked up with that girl from our class.” This was obviously gossip until he went on to say, “He secretly recorded the whole thing. Trust me you don’t want to see how her body looks naked.” I was at a loss for words, and numb. At that point, I did not know how to react to what he had just said. “It is not okay to do that,” was all I could say. I realise today that what is not okay is to not call out and combat this behaviour. While there are 16-year-old girls on the internet propagating the idea of feminism and creating a safe space for women, there are also old men sliding into minor’s DMs. Rape jokes are passed along as edgy humour. Commenting on a woman’s body is the first thing that trolls come up with, no matter what the context. But women objectify men, too? The day after the incident came to light for glorifying rape culture, the twitter army took over and #GirlsLockerRoom was trending all day long. Yes, women objectify men, too. There are ‘thirsty’ pictures and videos shared on chats via various accounts. Recently, an Instagram account called qualiteaposts was trending for posting flirtatious videos of male actors. Society still likes to place the blame on women by asking questions like “but why did that girl do this or do that?” It is always the fault of a woman. But then again, not all men do this, right? Yes, not all men, but enough men.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/not-all-men-but-enough-835083.html
08-05-2020||Second Edit||Karnataka: Welcome relief, disburse early||The Karnataka government has done well to announce a financial package of Rs 1,610 crore for sections of people who are badly affected by the lockdown and the resulting disruption to their livelihood. The special package will involve direct transfer of cash to farmers, labourers, drivers, weavers and barbers in the state. Many flower growers suffered losses because their products could not be sold. They will get Rs 25,000 per hectare, and others like washermen, auto and taxi drivers who could not work because of the lockdown will get Rs 5,000. Construction workers will be paid Rs 3,000, in addition to the Rs 2,000 that they have been paid or promised earlier. There is also a new support scheme for weavers under which Rs 2,000 will be paid into the bank accounts of 54,000 weavers. A relief package for vegetable and fruit farmers is also under consideration and is likely to be finalised soon.  Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, who announced the package on Wednesday, said all development work would be put on hold to implement the package. Large numbers of people have lost their livelihood and are stricken by hunger and deprivation. The extended lockdown has meant the loss of income for many days. Some have received rations from the public distribution system but many have not because they are not covered by it. Direct income transfer may relieve the pressure to a small extent. The data pertaining to all deserving persons may not be available and it may not be possible to collect full data and have full documentation in these times. Construction workers, who form a large segment of the working population, have been given special recognition. This is welcome, and governments should reach out to the people with support and incentives rather than restrictions and bans.   The lockdown has hit about 800 million people across the country, including poor and landless farmers, daily wage earners, migrant labourers, the aged, the sick, women and all others from the most vulnerable sections of society. The central government had announced some relief last month, and some state governments have announced their packages. State governments have to do more because they are more real to the people and are closer to the ground. But they are also financially straitened because their revenues have shrunk and expenditures have grown. The Karnataka government’s gesture of support to some needy sections is valuable in this context. The relief should reach the beneficiaries at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/karnataka-welcome-relief-disburse-early-835076.html
08-05-2020||Second Edit||Prize scalp, but don’t fritter away gains||Riyaz Naikoo’s elimination by security forces in an encounter in Pulwama in South Kashmir is a major blow to the Hizbul Mujahideen (HM). He was among India’s most-wanted terrorists in Kashmir and carried a bounty of Rs 12 lakh on his head. India’s counter-insurgency operations have scored a major victory with the HM’s decapitation. The victory is all the more valuable as it has come at a time when the security forces are under pressure in the Valley as there has been a sudden spike in attacks and encounters in recent weeks. Naikoo was the HM’s chief of operations since 2017 and had played an important role in the outfit’s survival since then. The HM was under severe pressure that year, when another HM commander, Zakir Musa, left the group to set up the al-Qaeda-affiliated Ansar-ul-Ghazwat-ul-Hind. It was Naikoo’s leadership that prevented the HM from splitting down the middle at that time. He also managed to keep the AGH from expanding and was thus able to prevent pan-Islamist ideologies from gaining ground in the Valley.   Naikoo’s exit will hit the HM hard. The group lost two leaders, Burhan Wani and Sabzar Bhat, in quick succession in 2016-17. Naikoo’s leadership and his survival for three years at the helm provided the HM with stability. His death has plunged the HM into uncertainty and instability again. Of course, the HM’s Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir-based leaders and their handlers in the Inter-Services Intelligence will act swiftly to ensure a smooth transition. An announcement on a new operations chief for the HM in the Valley is expected to come soon. Naikoo evoked fear among many Kashmiris. He was behind the abduction of the kin of several policemen in 2018 and the killing of truckers, apple traders and migrant workers in the Valley last year. However, he was also popular. His charisma – his dramatic appearances at militants’ funerals reportedly impressed Kashmiri youth – made him a popular rebel icon in the Valley and is said to have drawn scores of boys to join the HM. His death has triggered protests in Srinagar and other towns. Indian security forces must tread carefully. Use of force to deal with unrest will prove counterproductive. Already, the government has blundered by not handing over Naikoo’s body to his family for burial, an insensitive move that will enrage Kashmiris. The gains made by eliminating Naikoo must not be frittered by coercive crackdowns that would prompt more youth to join the militants’ ranks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/prize-scalp-but-don-t-fritter-away-gains-835238.html
08-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: Super spreader Koyambedu market stings Tamil Nadu; was the cluster avoidable?||Just when Tamil Nadu was hoping that the worst was over, and the number of coronavirus cases would witness a downslide, emerged a cluster from the sprawling Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) located in the heart of the state capital. At the time of writing, over 1,400 positive patients of the total 5,409 cases in the state owed to the Koyambedu cluster which is expanding every passing day. Experts warn the number of cases from the cluster could increase as the expansive market complex that houses 3,200 shops saw thousands of people coming to buy vegetables and fruits through the lockdown period till it was closed down completely on May 5. And as if the crowd witnessed every day was not enough, there came an announcement from the Tamil Nadu government on April 24 that an “intensified lockdown” will come into force in Chennai and two other cities from April 26 to April 29. All hell broke loose on April 25 as thousands of people drove to the market making a mockery of social distancing and other norms that health experts say one should follow during a pandemic. Videos of traffic snarls outside the market complex not just on April 25 but many days during the period and the uncontrollable crowd inside the premises speak for themselves. ‘Proper crowd management plan was missing’ “The market is located in a well-designed complex with proper planning and it could have been maintained well. The flow of the public could have been managed well within the complex by opening all the gates to allow free movement of people during entry and exit. The virus’ spread is much faster in a crowd. And this is what happened in Koyambedu as thousands went to buy vegetables every day,” Dr P Kuganantham, former Chennai city health officer and epidemiologist, told DH. Since the market was open, several people rendered jobless due to the lockdown also turned vegetable vendors overnight turning up at the market. This trend was witnessed in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur districts as hundreds of people and vehicles converged at the wholesale market complex. The Koyambedu cluster could have been avoided, Dr Kuganantham said, adding that overcrowding at the market led to such a fiasco. “The market fiasco could have been avoided as nobody expected it to emerge as a new cluster. Also, people went in large numbers every day to buy from the market which they could have avoided. Young people turning vegetable vendors during the lockdown also contributed to the numbers as they went from one area to another to sell vegetables and fruits,” he added. Thousands came to the market every day The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) that maintains the market woke up only after the first case was reported in end-April. The Market Management Committee (MMC), which has representatives from the traders’, is also to be blamed for the “mismanagement”, vendors said. “Closing down the market was not an option in the first place as the supply of vegetables would have been affected. We had to ensure a smooth supply of 5,000 tons of vegetables every day for the needs of people. We would not have been able to ensure smooth supply if the market were shut,” senior bureaucrat D Karthikeyan, Member-Secretary, CMDA, told DH. Experts and government officials said a lack of coordination between the CMDA and traders resulted in the market ending up as a cluster.  The government knew thousands of people, including lorry drivers, vendors, and labourers, were coming to the market every day, but not enough precautions were taken, and security ensured. Vendors and experts say the government should have deployed more police personnel and opened all the 18 gates of the complex to ensure free-flow of the crowd. The first case from the market emerged in the last week of April and it spread like wildfire – retail outlets and those selling fruits and flowers were shifted to a different place on April 29 and the entire complex was locked down on May 5. It is after April 29 that the cluster travelled across the state as labourers and those visiting the market come from different regions of Tamil Nadu. Thousands of labourers hopped onto the lorries that carry vegetable supplies to reach their native places. Backward districts in northern Tamil Nadu like Cuddalore, Villupuram and Ariyalur that amount for a good number of labourers at the complex have reported at least 400 fresh cases. Lockdown within lockdown led to anxiety Dr Kuganantham also said people thronging the Koyambedu market in large numbers before the intensified lockdown could also be a reason for the spurt in the number of cases. He also said the government’s idea of reducing the number of COVID-19 cases by enforcing a lockdown within lockdown did not yield desired results. “People were anxious due to the intensified lockdown. The government thought they could make some progress by going in for a lockdown within lockdown. They thought it would result in some progress. But it was not so,” he said. Abdul Khader, secretary of Koyambedu Vegetable Wholesale Merchants’ Association, said the MMC should have been “pro-active” in taking precautionary measures. “There was no proper plan that was executed during the lockdown period. Though we are the ones who sell vegetables at the market, the MMC is the body that manages the market. They should have opened all the gates so that there is no crowding. And now the blame has fallen on traders,” he told DH. Another trader, who wished to remain anonymous, said the retail market should have been shifted from the complex once the lockdown came into force. “It is the retailers who witnessed good crowd as people came in large numbers to buy from them and stock up vegetables. And the police should have been more in number to regulate the crowd,” he said. ‘Traders’ did not listen to government’ Karthikeyan said the traders did not listen to the CMDA’s repeated pleas to shift the market to suburban areas like Kilambakkam and Madhavaram. “We could not have forcibly evicted them. After the first case was reported, we shifted retailers, fruit, and flower sellers to Madhavaram and now shifting the wholesale market out of the city. And Koyambedu is not a place in isolation. People come here from different parts of the city and even if one or two had the virus, they could have spread it to others due to the nature of the place,” he said. The sprawling campus is now being disinfected and will undergo the fumigation process for the next two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-super-spreader-koyambedu-market-stings-tamil-nadu-was-the-cluster-avoidable-834911.html
08-05-2020||South||Kerala: 21-year old girl found dead in Basilian Sisters Convent||A 21-year old girl was found dead in the well of a convent at Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta district in South Kerala. The deceased, identified as Divya P John, was pursing course to become a nun at the Basilian Sisters Convent over the last few years. A police source said that the prime facie suspicion was that the girl could have either committed suicide or have slipped into the well while taking water from the well. An investigation was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-21-year-old-girl-found-dead-in-basilian-sisters-convent-834912.html
08-05-2020||South||COVID-19 active cases further down to 25 in Kerala, no fresh infections on May 7||No fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala for the fifth day in a week. With five more recovering, the active cases came down to 25. Kasargod that once had over 150 cases now has only one active case.  Hotspot tag has been removed from 56 more places in the state. Now only 33 places are considered hotspots. Meanwhile, the state is keeping fingers crossed as NRIs were being brought down from Thursday night. All of them would be kept on 14 days quarantine. All Keralites who reached Kerala from hotspots in other states have been directed to remain in quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-active-cases-further-down-to-25-in-kerala-no-fresh-infections-on-may-7-834916.html
08-05-2020||South||'Minuscule technical leak' at Vizag factory; situation under control: Officials||A "minuscule technical leak" had occurred at the chemical factory in Andhra Pradesh's Visakhapatnam where styrene gas leaked in the early hours of Thursday but it was controlled and the process of neutralisation is on, officials said on Friday. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) are on the ground to support the local administration. A Union home ministry official said media reports stated that there was a second gas leak at the Visakhapatnam factory late on Thursday night. "It is clarified that this was a minuscule technical leak. It is required to bring the container in control. It has been controlled and the process of neutralisation is already underway. The situation is under control," the official said. The teams of NDRF and NEERI are on the ground to support the local administration, according to the official. The Centre on Thursday said 11 people died and 1,000 were exposed to the gas leak at the chemical factory. At least 25 people are in a critical condition after being exposed to the gas, officials had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/minuscule-technical-leak-at-vizag-factory-situation-under-control-officials-834986.html
08-05-2020||South||Rohingyas in TN tackle coronavirus lockdown blues, pine for better living conditions||Tucked away in a calm suburb of Kelambakkam, the air in the Rohingya Muslim refugees camp was abuzz with preparations by several men for making a delicious porridge to break the daily Ramzan fast. Sporting an infectious smile,Mohammed Ayub welcomes a neighbour even as he breaks up vermicelli noodles from packs strewn around and drops them in a huge vessel with boiling water as another man places firewood in the makeshift earthen stove. A 'cutting master' (butcher) in a nearby chicken-cum- mutton outlet, 22-year-old Ayub says he thanks God to pray and fast peacefully in the holy month of Ramadan after a 'bitter' phase in his native land of Myanmar. "Tamil Nadu bahuth pasandh hai," (I like Tamil Nadu very much) he says as his curious children look on. Ayub is one among those who came to Tamil Nadu in 2016 following a stay in Jammu and Kashmir for some time. They had reached the hill territory following a perilous journey from Myanmar. "I am happy and thank God for having a job even during the days of the lockdown. The stall I work is open till afternoon from 9 AM and I earn about Rs 10,000 and try to make ends meet," he says with a laugh when asked if his earnings have been affected due to curbs. A cyclone shelter building at Kelambakkam, which was recently given a fresh coat of paint, is the current home of nearly 100 Rohingyas who belong to 18 families. The neighbourhood is on the way to Mamallapuram, about 25 km from Tiruvanmiyur in south Chennai. While some Rohingya men work as butchers, some are helpers in restaurants and others do odd jobs like delivering goods on their fish carts. The refugees, who hail from regions, including Maungdan in Myanmar, have registered with the Foreigners Registration Office (Police Superintendent), in Kancheepuram and have a Residential Permit issued by the authorities. Yearning for relief from the sweltering heat, while several men have bath in an open enclosure in front of the building , Yusuf, a delivery man in the local market, moves his tri-cycle cart to a nearby lane to carry out repairs. "There was no work for more than a month," Yusuf says. Asked how he manages, he says "it is difficult, we somehow tackle." Trying to fix glitches in the engine, he hopes that with the easing of curbs, he will now find work. The 28-year-old man, a father of a boy and girl, says they were however spoilt for choice when it came to essential commodities like cooking oil, pulses, rice and wheat through the lockdown period since March 24 evening. "Koi farak nahi karta," (no one differentiates) he says and recalls the support they got from the government authorities and the local people, "be it Muslims or Hindus," to keep them going without hassles. "We got rice supplies from the (Shirdi Sai) Baba temple (in the vicinity) as well. We are happy everyone lends us a helping hand," says Yusuf. Not surprisingly, the bonding between the locals and the refugees is too striking to miss as Yusuf's wife combs the hair of an 'akka' (elder sister and she is a neighbour) Kalaichelvi, beneath the shade of a tree in a friendly chat. Kalaichelvi praises them for their hard work and says some well-to-do Muslims even gifted motors (engines) to the Rohingya men after seeing them slog. "They now have motorised tri-cycles which makes their work easy," she says. Rohingyas say the government-run Primary Health Centre bang opposite the camp is a boon for them since consultation, diagnosis and medicine is free of cost and the seven pregnant women are periodically taken care of. Recently, when some of them arrived here after visiting their relatives in other States, there was a "concern about the probability of them having contracted coronavirus." Assuaging concerns, authorities got them admitted to the Chengelpet government medical college hospital quickly and they tested negative for the contagion. "We were relieved," recall the inmates. Meanwhile, as trucks meander on the road, men taking bath in open with towels around their waists discreetly ask Yusuf if there are anyone 'nearby' and the catch lies therein. Barely covered with odd material like frayed clothes and strings, the open place for a bath about 10 to 12 feet away from the busy main road is a pointer to their living conditions. Though there are two restrooms in the 'pucca' building, given the number of occupants, it is far from adequate. The building used by the refugees is located on a road that serves as a link between the GST Road on the one side and the Old Mahabalipuram Road on the other, which are two key arterial roads that provide connect to the core city. For nearly 100 people, including about 40 children, the ground plus one building is cramped, where curtains and bedspreads serve as walls between families. Such a situation has prompted some families like that of Yusuf to move away and put up shacks on the open ground abutting the building. Also, they use the open ground for cooking in view of lack of space. During the rainy season, the ground is filled with water. Rohingyas say they will be even more grateful to the government if the authorities could consider an alternative site for them or improve amenities here. When asked, local officials told PTI, "from day one of their arrival here, the government has ensured that they have a proper place (to stay) and don't go hungry. Refugees are given all essential commodities and now they have supplies that will last for two months....also, periodically the premises is inspected to redress grievances." On their living conditions, they concurred that it needed improvement,adding steps were being taken to address concerns. "Improvement is needed in some other localities as well and not only there (Rohingyas camp)... the government is committed to everyone's welfare," they said. The pretty children, bubbling with enthusiasm, are, however, not worried about anything and go around playing at the tree-lined roadside near their place of dwelling. They go to the local government-run school and are fluent in Tamil. Those like Rafiq Alam, a helper in a restaurant and who has some family members in Bangladesh and Myanmar, are more worried about the chances to meet and live with them again than the lockdown difficulties. As Alam got ready to leave to break the fast and offer prayers, a gentle evening breeze wafted the pleasant smell of the hot porridge waiting to be served.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rohingyas-in-tn-tackle-coronavirus-lockdown-blues-pine-for-better-living-conditions-835011.html
08-05-2020||South||Battle to prevent fresh gas leak at Vizag plant||Engineers battled Friday to prevent more toxic gas escaping at a chemical plant on India's east coast, a day after a pre-dawn leak killed 12 people and knocked locals unconscious in the street. Although the death toll was lower than feared, the accident which left hundreds hospitalised outside the industrial port city of Visakhapatnam evoked memories of Bhopal where a gas leak killed around 3,500 people in 1984. Late on Thursday, the evacuation zone around the plant owned by South Korea's LG Chem was widened with hundreds more people in 10 localities brought to safety as a precaution, police said. "The situation is better now but we can't say it is completely normal. The temperature in the tanks has been brought down by 120 degrees but we need to being it down further by 25 degrees," senior police officer Swaroop Rani told AFP. "Twelve people have died so far. No one is critical. But we have told those who have recovered that they may go either to their relatives' houses or to shelters that we have set up till the situation is completely normal," she said. Plant owner LG Chem said Friday there was no fresh leak, but as a precautionary measure nearby people should be moved. The company "made a request to the police to evacuate residents in case of an emergency if the temperature rises in the tank", it said in a statement issued in Seoul. "Currently, we are taking necessary measures, such as adding water into the tank" to keep it cool. Horrifying footage on Indian television showed men, women and children slumped motionless in the streets after the Thursday morning gas escape. "There was utter confusion and panic. People were unable to breathe, they were gasping for air. Those who were trying to escape collapsed on the roads -- kids, women and all," local resident Kumar Reddy, 24, told reporters. B K Naik, district hospitals coordinator, said 1,000 had initially been hospitalised. By Thursday afternoon around 600 remained in treatment, with none in a critical condition. "This is a calamity," Naik told AFP. AFP photographs taken at the King George Hospital in the city early Thursday had shown two or three patients on each bed, some of them children, and several unconscious. "I pray for everyone's safety and well-being in Visakhapatnam," Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter. The plant, operated by LG Polymers, a subsidiary of LG Chem, is on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam. The city and the surrounding area are home to around five million people. The plant had been left idle because of the coronavirus lockdown, according to Rani, an assistant police commissioner in Visakhapatnam. "(The gas) was left there because of the lockdown. It led to a chemical reaction and heat was produced inside the tanks, and the gas leaked because of that," Rani told AFP on Thursday. LG Chem confirmed the plant, which makes polystyrene products, was not operating because of the lockdown, but there were maintenance staff at the facility, a spokesman in Seoul told AFP. Authorities advised people to wear wet clothes and masks, avoid eating uncovered food and consume bananas and milk to "neutralise the effect of the gas". According to the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), the gas was styrene, which is likely carcinogenic and combined with oxygen in the air forms the more lethal styrene dioxide. The leak happened because the gas was not stored at the appropriate temperature, causing pressure to build up and breaking the valve, the CSE said. The tank was also "old and not properly maintained" and there was no monitoring mechanism installed to specifically detect styrene, it said. The incident "shows us that there are ticking bombs out there as the lockdown ends and industries start resuming activities," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/battle-to-prevent-fresh-gas-leak-at-vizag-plant-835018.html
08-05-2020||South||Karnataka sees biggest single-day spike with 48 fresh cases; 11 children among new cases||Here's a break-up of the 48 fresh cases and the districts from which they were reported: Majority cases from Davanagere, six of them children Davanagere saw 14 new cases, 10 of them being the contacts of P533 and four of them being the contacts of P556. Among these 14, six are children: P724 (10-year-old boy), P729 (six-year-old boy), P730 (nine-year-old boy), P733 (three-year-old girl), P735 (13-year-old girl), and P736 (eight-year-old boy).  Second-highest number of cases from Uttara Kannada's Bhatkal Uttara Kannada's Bhatkal saw 12 cases, all contacts of P659. Among these 12, four are children: a five-month-old baby girl (P747), a three-year-old girl (P748), P745 (a 12-year-old girl), and P741 (an 11-year-old girl).   Belagavi Belagavi saw 11 cases. A 16-year-old girl (P716) is one of the patients. Four patients are contacts of P547 and three patients are contacts of P552.  Bengaluru Urban  Bengaluru Urban saw seven cases, out if which contact tracing is still underway for three patients. The other four out of the seven are contacts of P653.  BallariThe Ballari district saw one case. Contact tracing is still underway for the patient. Chitradurga The Chitradurga district witnessed three new cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-with-48-fresh-cases-11-children-among-new-cases-835026.html
08-05-2020||South||Reports of second leakage in Vizag not true; working to ensure complete plugging of leak: NDRF DG||Rumours about a second leakage in Vishakhapatnam are "not true" and the experts on the ground are working to ensure complete plugging of the breach, NDRF chief S N Pradhan said on Friday. There is no second leakage in Visakhapatnam, and the experts on ground are working to ensure complete plugging of the breach, Pradhan said on Friday.            Pradhan also asserted that the fumes that were seen coming out was a "technical" issue and there was no need to panic. "There are some rumours and media reports about a second leakage. I categorically clarify that it is not true," the NDRF Director General said in a video message.            Earlier, the Union home ministry had also clarified that a "minuscule technical leak" had occurred at the chemical factory in Andhra Pradesh's Visakhapatnam but it was controlled and the process of neutralisation was on. On Thursday, a styrene gas leak from LG Polymers in R R Venkatapuram area of Gopalapatnam in Visakhapatnam killed 11 people, and impacted over 1000 others who inhaled the toxic substance.        Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) are on the ground to support the local administration, the ministry said. The NDRF DG further said,"it has nothing to do with leakage as such and hence there is no reason to believe that there is a second leakage."            He said experts are doing the technical work and "I am sure during the course of the day they will be able to update us about the success of the complete plugging process.".            The chemicals required afresh to neutralise the leakage has been sent from Daman and it is in enough quantity, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/reports-of-second-leakage-in-vizag-not-true-working-to-ensure-complete-plugging-of-leak-ndrf-dg-835031.html
08-05-2020||South||Vizag gas leak: Over 60% of styrene vapour leak from plant polymerised, says District Collector||Over 60 per cent of the styrene vapour that leaked from a tank in LG Polymers near Visakhapatnam on Thursday, killing at least 11 people, has polymerized so far and all chemical tanks in the plant are safe, District Collector V Vinay Chand said on Friday. In a report submitted to Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy during a video conference, the Collector said it might take 18-24 hours for the remaining vapour to polymerise and turn safe. "We have taken all measures to plug the leak completely and experts are closely monitoring the situation. The situation is now fully under control," the Collector added. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, who was camping in Visakhapatnam overseeing the relief measures, also said the situation was totally under control and all tanks in the LG plant were safe. Responding to this, the Chief Minister directed the officials to speak to the engineers and explore steps to utilize the raw material and chemicals in the plant fully. "Also, take steps to remove the chemicals from the plant to another place," he said. Meanwhile, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney issued an order appointing a high-level to probe into the causes behind the gas leak and suggest measures to improve the protocol for industrial safety of similar types of plants. Special Chief Secretary (Environment and Forests) Neerabh Kumar Prasad will be its chairman and Pollution Control Board Secretary Vivek Yadav will be the member-convenor. Special CS (Industries), Visakhapatnam District Collector and city Police Commissioner will be the other members. "The Committee shall inquire into the reasons for the leakage and verify if the company adhered to all safety protocols. It will study if there are any long-term effects of the gas leakage on the surrounding villages," the Chief Secretary said. "The Committee will also recommend proposed action to be taken against the unit by the government, in case of any negligence on the vapour leak incident in Visakhapatnam, she added. The Committee has been asked to submit its report within a month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-leak-over-60-of-styrene-vapour-leak-from-plant-polymerised-says-district-collector-835041.html
08-05-2020||South||Vizag gas leak: NGT slaps interim penalty of Rs 50 cr on LG Polymers India, issues notices to Centre||The National Green Tribunal slapped an interim penalty of Rs 50 crore on LG Polymers India and sought response from the Centre and others on Friday in the gas leak incident in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, saying "there appears to be a failure to comply with the said Rules and other statutory provisions". A bench, headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, set up a 5-member Committee to probe Thursday's gas leak incident in the chemical factory, in which 11 people were killed and 1,000 exposed, and submit a report before May 18.  "Having regard to the prima facie material regarding the extent of damage to life, public health and environment, we direct LG Polymers India Pvt Ltd to forthwith deposit an initial amount of Rs 50 crore, with the District Magistrate, Vishakhapatnam, which will abide by further orders of this tribunal. The amount is being fixed having regard to the financial worth of the company and the extent of the damage caused," the bench said. The NGT issued notices to the Ministry of Environment and Forests, L G Polymers India, Andhra Pradesh State Pollution Control Board, Central Pollution Control Board, Vishakhapatnam District Magistrate and sought their response before May 18, the next date of hearing. The committee comprises former AP High Court judge Justice B Seshasayana Reddy; V Rama Chandra Murthy, Former Vice Chancellor, Andhra University, Vizag; Professor Pulipati King, Head of Chemical Engineering Department, Andhra University; CPCB Member Secretary, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology Director, and head of NEERI in Vizag. The NGT directed Vishakhapatnam DM and regional office of State Pollution Control Board to provide logistic support to the committee to enable their fact-finding and reporting. "The Chairman, CPCB may steer and facilitate the functioning of the committee using available technology. CPCB will bear the initial cost of functioning of the Committee to the extent necessary. The committee will be at liberty to take assistance of such experts, individuals and institutions as may be considered necessary," the bench said. The committee may visit and inspect the site at the earliest and give its report before May 18 by email and the site visit may be initially conducted by members available locally in consideration with outside members online, the NGT said. The committee has to submit report on sequence of events, causes of failure and persons and authorities responsible, extent of damage to life among others. The NGT said that Styrene gas is a hazardous chemical as defined under Rule 2(e) read with Entry 583 of Schedule I to the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989 and the Rules require on-site and off-site Emergency Plans to ensure prevention of damage. "There appears to be a failure to comply with the said Rules and other statutory provisions. Leakage of hazardous gas at such a scale adversely affecting public health and environment, clearly attracts the principle of 'Strict Liability' against the enterprise engaged in hazardous or inherently dangerous industry," the bench said, adding that such an entity is liable to restore the damage caused under the Environment Law, apart from other statutory liability. The statutory authorities responsible for authorising and regulating such activities may also be accountable for their lapses, the NGT said. The matter was taken up suo-motu (on its own) by NGT on the basis of media reports to the effect that leakage of hazardous gas, Styrene, took place on May 7 from a chemical factory owned by the South Korean company LG Polymers India Pvt Ltd, R.R. Venkatpuram village, Pendurthy Mandal, Vishakhapatnam resulting in death of 11 persons. A major early morning chemical leak from a polymer plant near Visakhapatnam impacted villages in a five-km radius, leaving many people dead and scores of citizens suffering from breathlessness and other problems, as the AP government ordered a probe into the issue. The leak was noticed by company staff who were reportedly inspecting machines to restart the factory and raised an alarm. Hours after the styrene gas leak around 2.30 am on Thursday from the multinational L G Polymers Plant at R R Venkatapuram village near here, scores of people could be seen lying unconscious on sidewalks, near ditches and on the road, raising fears of a major industrial disaster.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-leak-ngt-slaps-interim-penalty-of-rs-50-cr-on-lg-polymers-india-issues-notices-to-centre-835055.html
08-05-2020||South||Prisoner donates earning to coronavirusrelief in Kerala||While prisons in Kerala have been actively involved in the fight against COVID-19 by providing masks and sanitisers, a prisoner in the state has gone a step ahead by donating Rs 10,000 from his earnings from prison to the Kerala Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund. Suresh, a native of Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu, has been a remand prisoner at the Thrissur district prison in central Kerala since 2017 December. He handed over his donation to Thrissur district collector S Shanavas the other day. Suresh, who was a scarp dealer, was held after banned drugs were recovered from him. Suresh's version was that some pharmaceutical firm abandoned the medicines and he took it with the intention of extracting aluminium contents from the packets. Soon after he landed in jail, his wife died due to pregnancy related complications. District prison superintended Salim said that no one used to come to meet Suresh and he also did not send earnings from the prison to any relatives. Recently he shared the desire to contribute Rs 10,000 from his earnings for COVID-19 relief activities.   Though remand prisoners are not normally put to any sort of work in prisons, Suresh requested for doing some job. Hence, he was engaged in cleaning and agriculture work in the prison premises. Salim said that after Suresh's decision to contribute to COVID-19 relief received much appreciation, some more prisoners also seem to be thinking on similar lines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prisoner-donates-earning-to-coronavirusrelief-in-kerala-835085.html
08-05-2020||South||First Gulf evacuation flight to Karnataka on May 12||The first evacuation flight from Gulf region to Karnataka will arrive on May 12.  Air India flight will leave Dubai at 4.10 pm and will land in Mangalore at 9.10 pm, Union Fertiliser Minister D V Sadananda Gowda said on Friday. Earlier it was scheduled for May 14. Now the government rescheduled it for earlier date. The Centre has arranged two flights from Gulf countries to Karantaka to bring stranded people from the state.  Date of operation another flight from Doha to Bengaluru will be announced soon, Gowda said. Around 1,903 people from Karnataka residing in Gulf countries have registered themselves to return to the state in evacuation flight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-gulf-evacuation-flight-to-karnataka-on-may-12-835115.html
08-05-2020||South||Bedi derailing work by govt against COVID-19, says Puducherry CM||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Friday criticised Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi for allegedly derailing the good work done by officials of various departments to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the Union Territory. He told reporters here that Bedi was disrupting the work the Congress-DMK coalition government was doing to prevent the spread of the virus. "I suspect she has an ulterior motive by her conduct," he said. Also, he alleged that the former IPS officer was threatening the officials of a different department with a bogey of CBI probe despite them totally being preoccupied with the work of containing the coronavirus.  Narayanasamy said Bedi has been inciting the public to lodge complaints with the CBI against government officials on resumption of liquor sale. Several liquor godowns had been sealed and merchants were in distress following allegations of illegal sale of liquor. If at all there is any illegal practice of sale of liquor by any merchant or involvement of any official on the sale, the Excise Department could conduct an enquiry and take action, he said. He said Bedi was playing the role of a police officer to mar the reputation of the government officials and the image of the Congress-DMK government here. The Chief Minister said he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah bringing to their notice the alleged condemnable and objectionable style of functioning of Bedi. Narayanasamy, however, did not elaborate on what the Centre should do to Bedi, but said she should mend her ways and ensure that the current challenging situation arising out of coronavirus spread was overcome through working unitedly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bedi-derailing-work-by-govt-against-covid-19-says-puducherry-cm-835123.html
08-05-2020||South||Kerala COVID-19 active cases down to 16 on 100th day||While one fresh COVID-19 case was reported in Kerala on Friday, ten more got recovered from the infection bringing down the total active cases to 16. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that it was 100 days since the first COVID-19 case in India was reported in Kerala on January 30 and Kerala managed to flatten the curve and ensure a very high recovery rate. He also said that Kerala was geared up to face any fresh spike in COVID-19 cases as NRIs and Keralites from other states start coming in. So far 503 COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala, of which 484 already recovered and three died. The fresh case on Friday was a kidney patient who came down from Chennai All the ten recovered on Friday were from Kannur district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-covid-19-active-cases-down-to-16-on-100th-day-835150.html
08-05-2020||South||Kerala to insist on 14-day quarantine for all from red-zones in other states||With many Keralites from red zones in other states already entering Kerala without being quarantined, Kerala government is on a drive to trace all such persons and keep them on quarantine. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that of the 16385, who entered Kerala from other states over the last few days, 8912 were found to be from red zones in other districts. Already 3,216 of them were traced and were quarantined. All those who enter Kerala from red zones in other districts will have to remain in institutional quarantine for 14 days. Aged persons, pregnant women and children need to remain on home quarantine only. Of the 86,679 Keralites from other states registered for entry passes, 37,801 were from red zones. So far only those found to be having any sort of symptoms during screening at the border check points were put on quarantine. This led to a scare about asymptomatic coronavirus carriers entering the state, especially from red zones in other states. Hence, it was decided to insist on 14 days quarantine for those coming from other states. All persons aged above 75, children and pregnant women coming from other states will also have to remain in 14 days home quarantine.   The Chief Minister said that issuing of entry passes would be regularised to avoid crowding at checkposts. Meanwhile, Kerala government is making attempts to operate special trains for bringing Malayali students stranded in various places, including Bengaluru. Already a request was made by the state to operate a special train from Delhi for students stranded in Delhi and nearby states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-insist-on-14-day-quarantine-for-all-from-red-zones-in-other-states-835155.html
08-05-2020||South||Madras HC orders closure of TASMAC liquor shops in Tamil Nadu, allows online sale||A day after TASMAC shops that sell liquor in Tamil Nadu re-opened, the Madras High Court on Friday ordered the closure of all such outlets in the state till the lockdown to prevent coronavirus spread is lifted. The order is a major embarrassment to the Tamil Nadu government which reopened the TASMAC shops despite a massive spurt in the number of coronavirus cases in the state. A special division bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and Pushpa Sathyanarayana passed the interim order citing blatant violations of a slew of conditions imposed by the court on May 6, while permitting the reopening of shops from May 7. However, the division bench on Friday allowed the sale of liquor online. The court had on May 6 imposed conditions like strict adherence to social distancing for reopening the shops.  As many as 3,700 of the total 5,300 TASMAC shops reopened after over 40 days on Thursday raking in over Rs 172 crore in revenue in just seven hours of functioning. The sales figures for Friday were not available till the time of writing. Social distancing rules were flouted at the majority of the TASMAC shops on Thursday and Friday with tipplers jostling with each other to get their share of booze.    Friday’s orders came on a batch of petitions moved by several, including Makkal Needhi Maiam of actor Kamal Haasan, alleging that conditions imposed by the court were not followed at TASMAC shops. It was not immediately known whether the Tamil Nadu government will go in for an appeal against the order or will stay silent. TASMAC is one of the biggest revenue generators for the Tamil Nadu government, raking in sales of Rs 80 crore every day. The reopening of TASMAC shops was criticised by political parties and doctors alike saying it would lead to the emergence of more clusters. “All the hard work, the Government has done so far against #COVID19 has been neutralised by the opening of TASMAC shops. It is disheartening to see lakhs of people standing in the queue without following Social Distancing, which will lead to a wave of people being infected with Covid-19,” former Union Health Minister Anbumani Ramadoss said before the verdict. Dr. J. Amalorpavanathan, a vascular surgeon and convenor of the Tamil Nadu government’s Cadaver Transplant Programme, also felt the government could have avoided opening of TASMAC shops at this juncture as overcrowding by tipplers could result in the emergence of new clusters in the state. “This virus can be controlled only by isolation. We do not have a medicine or vaccine to control COVID-19. The only medicine we have is isolating people who carry the virus. The only way to fight the virus is to keep people inside and avoid crowds. But the opening of TASMAC shops where people do not follow discipline will only lead to new clusters,” he told DH. Maintaining that he was not “against those consuming liquor”, the vascular surgeon said the government was also “over-stressing” the police force by making them provide protection to TASMAC shops during a pandemic. “We cannot compare ourselves to western countries as liquor is sold in departmental stores there. And here it is very difficult to avoid crowding at liquor shops. If the overcrowding continues, we will have a series of TASMAC clusters in the state. Also, this is not the time to generate revenue,” Amalorpavanathan added. However, Dr. Sumanth C Raman, a doctor by profession and a popular TV face who is tracking Covid-19 developments in Tamil Nadu closely, says the government had no option than to open liquor shops, the sole income generator for now. “Having said that, managing crowds at TASMAC shops and ensuring that people follow social distancing is the government’s responsibility. But, the government, for now, has no source of income and opening TASMAC shops is not a pleasant decision that they have taken,” he told DH. He suggested that the government could have been cash-strapped to pay salaries for its staff, pay pension, and even fund welfare programmee if it had continued to keep the liquor shops shut.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-orders-closure-of-tasmac-liquor-shops-in-tamil-nadu-allows-online-sale-835177.html
08-05-2020||State||Leaky tap, broken chair? Book repairman on govt app||Karnataka will venture into the home services sector through a platform that will let citizens book handymen like electricians, plumbers and carpenters at rates fixed by the government.  The service, tentatively titled Kaushalya Setu, will be launched in Bengaluru with 26 job roles, mostly focused on home appliances.  "We are planning the launch in the second week of June," Karnataka Skill Development Corporation (KSDC) managing director Ashwin D Gowda told DH.  A mobile app and a website will be developed to hail skilled services. A skill registry prepared by KSDC will assign jobs to the nearest service provider. "We are starting with 26 job roles that include electricians, air conditioner repair and also drivers," Gowda said.  The skills registry will comprise details of all skilled persons trained by the KSDC. "Last year, we trained 40,000 people. At present, the people we train get placed in companies through vocational training institutes, or they opt for self-employment. But there was no formal set-up to bring them on one platform. That’s what Kaushalya Setu aims to do," Gowda explained. Under this service, the government will provide skilled workers certified by the industry and verified by the police. "We will fix rates based on market price to ensure citizens aren’t fleeced," Gowda said.  This will be on the lines of home services startup Urban Company (formerly Urban Clap), Gowda said. "But the difference is, being the government, we won’t be competing since we won’t make any money," Gowda said. "The objective here is to create a channel to connect those trained by us with citizens."  Neighbouring Kerala has developed a similar skills registry. "We found that their reach isn’t so encouraging. They have had only 10,000 app downloads. When we spoke to them, they said they failed to create awareness and they did not have police verification for providers," Gowda pointed out.  The government is in talks with multinationals Ernst & Young (EY) and KPMG for app development.  In all, Karnataka’s skills registry will have 1,200 job roles spanning 36 sectors. "Going forward, we are working on employment-based skill development programmes so that all the people we train are placed," Gowda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/leaky-tap-broken-chair-book-repairman-on-govt-app-834910.html
08-05-2020||State||Migrant row: Karnataka defiant, says other states don't want migrants back||Facing criticism for “forcing” migrant labourers to stay back, the BJP government on Wednesday defended the cancellations of trains meant to ferry them back to their native states. While Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said the migrants were “convinced” to stay back, Revenue Minister R Ashoka dismissed allegations of any force. The government is facing resistance from other states over their return, he said. "We are not forcing any migrant labourers to stay back here. We have not tried to stop them," Ashoka said, addressing an emergency news conference over the issue.  Referring to the incident of migrant labourers gathering near Bangalore International Exhibition Centre on Tuesday evening, he said that they had returned after being assured of wages and realising that they will be mandatorily quarantined for a 14-day period as soon as they reach their native states. Many of the labourers were from a Gutka company - who were demanding wages and rest were construction labourers - who agreed to return after learning about mandatory quarantine, and resumption of construction activity throughout the state. Ashoka alleged that West Bengal declined to take back 18,800 migrant labourers at the moment. "Respective governments have to permit the travel of those seeking to return and should also make quarantine arrangements," Ashoka said, reiterating that the government will not stop anyone leaving the state. The Opposition Congress, however, is fuming. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah lashed out at the BJP government over cancellation of trains meant for migrant labourers on Tuesday evening, calling it a violation of fundamental rights.   "The decision of CM Yediyurappa to cancel trains for migrants is not just inhuman but also a violation of fundamental rights. The argument of Yediyurappa that construction will not happen if migrants go back just exposes his mindset. He is willing to sacrifice the lives of helpless labourers for the sake of invisible hands," he said, taking a dig at the CM for arriving at the decision soon after his meeting with representatives from Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Association of India (CREDAI).  The Congress also accused the BJP of promoting bonded labour. "The decision to go back or to stay back should be with the labourers and not with the government. Labourers are free to choose health or work. Who will take responsibility if something goes wrong? Are we still practicing bonded labour?" Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/migrant-row-karnataka-defiant-says-other-states-dont-want-migrants-back-834954.html
08-05-2020||State||Newly-wed couple drowns while taking selfie in Karnataka's Hassan||A newly-wed couple slipped and drowned in Hemavathy river, while taking a selfie, near Henneli village near here, on Thursday evening. The deceased are Kritika (23) of the same village and Artheesh (27) of Belur taluk. The couple got married on March 20. Both are working in Bengaluru and were in the village due to the lockdown. Dy SP Gopi said that the couple had gone for a ride on their motorbike on Thursday evening. According to the primary reports, the couple may have tried to take a selfie near a check dam when they slipped and drowned in the river. The jewellery worn by the couple were intact and the motorbike was seen on the spot of the incident. The couple did not have any misunderstanding between them and it might not be a suicide, it is said.A case has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/newly-wed-couple-drowns-while-taking-selfie-in-karnatakas-hassan-834998.html
08-05-2020||State||Urge centre to declare COVID-19 national disaster, demand Rs 50,000 cr package, says Opposition||The Congress-led Opposition on Friday demanded that the state government should seek a Rs 50,000-crore special economic package from the Centre in the wake of COVID-19 crisis.  This is one of the 24 demands the Congress-led Opposition made during a meeting with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Besides Congress, leaders from the JD(S), CPI, CPI(M) and farmers groups attended the meeting.  “The state government should immediately ask the Centre to declare the COVID-19 pandemic as a ‘national disaster’ and demand at least Rs 50,000 crore to deal with the disease and address problems faced by the people due to the lockdown,” the charter of demands said.  During the meeting, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said that the PM CARES fund had Rs 35,000 crore. “Not a single paisa has come to the state from there. The Centre, at the least, should’ve given Karnataka whatever it got from the state,” he said.  The former CM also asked the government to increase COVID-19 testing and ensure sufficient availability of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits in all districts. “Experts have expressed worry that the virus may spread more in June and July. You have to be ready for that. And Asha workers should be given financial incentives,”he said.  Hike in compensation The Opposition asked the government to increase the per-hectare compensation for farmers from Rs 25,000 that has been announced, Rs 10,000 crore to revive industries, Rs 10,000 for each construction worker registered with the government and so on.  “Till the coronavirus (crisis) goes away, labourers should be given Rs 2,000 every month instead of a one-time relief of Rs 5,000,” Siddaramaiah said.   The meeting started with Yediyurappa informing the Opposition of steps taken by the government. “Compared with other states, the COVID-19 situation in Karnataka is under control,” he said. “I have information on various communities that are under distress. Giving them relief will be examined in the coming days. Also, by reviving economic activities, it’s our priority to ensure labourers are employed,” he said, listing out several initiatives taken by the government, especially on the agriculture front.  Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar said a special session of legislature should be convened to discuss the COVID-19 situation. “We have brought to the CM’s notice various issues. If no action is taken, then Congress will hit the streets in protest.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/urge-centre-to-declare-covid-19-national-disaster-demand-rs-50000-cr-package-says-opposition-835114.html
08-05-2020||State||Coronavirus: 11k cobbler families in Karnataka to get financial aid||Cobblers will be included in the government’s special economic package worth Rs 1,610 crore, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol said Friday.  Karjol, who is also the social welfare minister, said the government had identified 11,722 families dependent on the profession, for a one-time financial relief of Rs 5000. "These are cobblers that have wayside shops and are in financial trouble owing to the lockdown," Karjol said.  The compensation for the identified beneficiaries will be distributed through Babu Jagjivan Ram Leather Industries Corporation, the DCM added. The government's move to include cobblers into the economic package comes after it announced the same for auto drivers, taxi drivers, barbers and washermen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-11k-cobbler-families-in-karnataka-to-get-financial-aid-835178.html
08-05-2020||State||COVID-19: Pending sample reports make people anxious||People are anxious that more COVID-19 cases may be reported in the district. So far, eight positive cases were reported and two are dead.   The lab test results of 729 suspected cases are pending. The throat swab and sputum samples of symptomatic cases had been sent to the National Institute of Virology in Bengaluru. This is the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic, such as a large number of lab reports are pending. The number of suspected cases is rising every day. This is worrying people who are assuming that a large number of those pending cases may test positive for the virus. Going by the Health Department's Friday bulletin, 3,898 samples have been tested and 3,127 were found to be negative. Also, 87 cases are in the isolation ward of the district hospital.    Poorhouse Colony and KHB Colony are the two localities in the city that have been sealed down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-pending-sample-reports-make-people-anxious-835201.html
08-05-2020||State||Ambulance staff quarantined after each week's duty||The noble work of 35 ambulance drivers and staff in the district, who have ferried eight COVID-19 positive patients and also several suspected persons to hospitals, has come in for praise from all quarters.  The ambulance workers are working in two shifts. Each ambulance has a driver and two nurses. They have been given personal protection equipment (PPE), masks, and sanitisers.  The ambulance workers, who have transported COVID-19 patients, are quarantined for one week after their job is done. As a result, they stay away from their families for 15 days at a stretch.  The ambulance staffers have been specially trained for the job. They have been instructed to take several precautions while transporting Covid-19 patients. "The ambulance workers, who take a break from work, have been provided space to spend in quarantine with food, bathrooms, and other basic amenities," Hafisulla, regional manager of Emergency Management Research Institute (GVK-IMRC-108), said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ambulance-staff-quarantined-after-each-weeks-duty-835202.html
08-05-2020||State||COVID-19 lockdown to be further relaxed in Tiptur: MLA||MLA B C Nagesh said that lockdown in Tiptur will be further relaxed and appealed to people to take precautions to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the city and rural areas. He addressed reporters here on Friday.  He said that so far, only shops selling essential commodities were allowed to open. But now all sorts of merchants may open shop. "This decision has been taken to maintain economic stability," he added.  He said that autorickshaws were allowed to ferry people but only two at a time. "If auto drivers demand excess fare, action will be taken against them," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-lockdown-to-be-further-relaxed-in-tiptur-mla-835204.html
08-05-2020||State||Karnataka: Chess tourney raises Rs 15L for relief||Checkmate COVID Chess tournament, conducted by the state government, along with United Karnataka Chess Association and Mobile Premier League (MPL), has raised Rs 15 lakh for COVID-19  relief with 19,245 players taking part. All proceeds were donated to the Karnataka CM’s COVID-19 Relief Fund, recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-chess-tourney-raises-rs-15l-for-relief-835232.html
08-05-2020||State||'Karnataka govt aims to collect Rs 25,000 crore through excise dept'||Excise Minister H Nagesh on Friday said that a decision would be taken to grant permission to some liquor outlets, awaiting consent, to resume liquor sales after May 17. Speaking to reporters here he said, ”The collections of day one and day two after liquor sales resumed were Rs 197 crore and Rs 216 crore respectively.” He said that the government aimed to collect Rs 25,000 crore from the Excise Department. It was planned to collect Rs 22,500 crore earlier. The Excise duty on liquor was hiked by 17% since May 7 which would help collect an additional Rs 2,500 crore. “There will be more profit in the sales of liquor priced less. Compared to other states the liquor tax in the state is less,” he clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-aims-to-collect-rs-25000-crore-through-excise-dept-835234.html
08-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Balabrooie: Karnataka's COVID-19 War Room||Human movement is sparse in and around the Balabrooie Guest House, but surely copious data comes in, goes out and is analysed every day. For, the guest here is the COVID-19 State (Karnataka) War Room. Their present now combined, the host and the guest bring their own histories. The bungalow, within acres punctuated with banyan trees and much greenery, goes back to the 1850s. Its guest list has names like poet Rabindranath Tagore and former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, among others. Death, too, is almost familiar to the all-white edifice. In 2014, it was rescued by heritage lovers of Bengaluru from being razed down to make way for a legislators' club. The War Room, however, began its journey in late-March this year, lodged in BBMP's annex building. “We moved to the guest house to scale up the infrastructure,” says IAS officer Munish Moudgil, in charge of the War Room. “It is set up to give a single point of all data, IT and coordination for a Karnataka-level overview, in order to mount the fight against COVID-19.” In other words, it informs citizens, guides field teams across the state through its IT and data management skills. To achieve this, the War Room works 24/7 and in two shifts. A team of 25 works from the location, and another 40, who make up the IT team, work remotely. The team expands as needs arise. A cloud-computing network (KSWAN) enables digital data movement between the War Room and other sources and nodes of information like the BBMP War Room, district administration offices and the Health Department. "The best way to contain COVID-19 is to control the infection at human-to-human level. For this, we need to identify those who are likely to infect and likely to get infected, and then give citizens the best possible information. That's where our efforts come in,” Moudgil explains. At the crux of the efforts lie six categories of people: COVID-19 patients, primary and secondary contacts, migrant workers, healthy individuals, vulnerable individuals, and those under or supposed to be under quarantine. As the pandemic progresses, people move from one category to another. The systems in place track the movements, collate data and inform. Among the slew of IT initiatives is the Corona Watch app. Through GIS mapping, it informs citizens about the patients’ whereabouts, cases near the user's house, and government COVID-19-designated hospitals. The Health Watch app is used by field workers to collect health data from individuals in the containment zone. The Migrant Workers' app, in the hands of those monitoring the camps, is to ensure all migrants get essentials and do not jump quarantine. The Health Watch app allows door-to-door health survey of those in the containment zone. "But the core of COVID-19 containment is contact tracing,” points out Moudgil. “When a person tests positive, information about his primary and secondary contacts is fed to the contact tracing app, then accessed by concerned field teams. They follow up until the contacts are under quarantine.” He admits contact tracing goes up to 72 hours in some cases, but the ideal period is within 24 hours. “South Korea claims it completes tracing within 10 minutes. But we must consider their surveillance system. Considering our society and cultures, we want to strike the balance of not allowing the virus to spread without invading anyone's privacy,” he says. Two toll-free helplines, powered by an Interactive Voice Response system and an in-house call centre, address people’s COVID-19-related (and other) grievances. “Say, a person skips the prescribed visit to a fever clinic, we constantly call him (up to five times even) and we also inform the clinic about the case. Only when the clinic gives us a positive report, we close the loop,” he adds. The War Room puts out a 15-page report daily on the COVID-19 prevalence in Karnataka and is shared on the state’s official COVID-19 dashboard. There is something to be said of human behaviour, too.  "Udupi has the highest per capita foreign-returned people in Karnataka. In the last 30 days, there has been one case. There was no outbreak because people knew not to come out. Elsewhere, we still have cases of people violating quarantine. But overall, increase in tests is not increasing the number of cases in Karnataka, so we can be confident that we’re in a good situation,” he says, “but that's no reason to be complacent.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/balabrooie-karnatakas-covid-19-war-room-835007.html
08-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka allows bars, restaurants to clear liquor stock||Karnataka on Friday allowed clubs, bars and restaurants to clear their existing stock of liquor in ‘takeaway’ form at the maximum retail price till May 17.  An order by the Excise Department has allowed the conditional sale of liquor from such establishments only till the stocks lasted, and also permitted takeaways of food. The order came after several petitions by various associations of bars and hotels, who raised concerns that their stock will have to be destroyed if drinks such as beer - which has a shelf life of six months - are not sold.  The order is applicable to CL-4 (clubs), CL-7 (hotels and lodges) and CL-9 (bar) license holders. The establishments will have to fulfil several conditions, such as the sale of sealed bottles only, transporting liquor stocks to CL-2 (MRP) outlets, maintaining social distancing during the sale and others. The order is not applicable to outlets in containment zones.  Clubs, bars and restaurants cannot procure fresh liquor stocks from the Karnataka State Beverage Corporation Ltd (KSBCL) during the period.     The government had allowed the sale of liquor at MRP stores from May 4, resulting in serpentine queues at such outlets throughout the state. Following the same, a delegation of bar and restaurant owners had petitioned the government to allow the sale of liquor at bars and restaurants. Rumours Excise department officials have dismissed rumours of possible closure of all liquor outlets from next week. "There are several rumours doing rounds on social media about the sale of liquor in the state. The general public should not heed any such rumours," Venkat Raja, Additional Commissioner of Excise, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-allows-bars-restaurants-to-clear-liquor-stock-835136.html
08-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka seeks ICMR permission for lung biopsy of COVID-19 victims||To provide critical patients with more effective care and bring down mortality rates, Karnataka is seeking ICMR's permission to conduct lung biopsies after the death of COVID-19 patients. "We will be applying to ICMR to seek permission to conduct lung biopsies after the death of COVID 19 patients and for clinical autopsies. This will help in providing critical patients with more effective care and bring down mortality rates," said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare, in a statement. In the event of a surge in cases, after the lockdown lifts, the state is planning to involve private medical colleges and private institutions to handle cases and will provide doctors with a checklist to follow regarding COVID 19 treatment.  Use of pulse oximeters for all patients Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, said, “Our team of expert doctors has recommended the use of pulse oximeters for all patients, and the necessity of routing all patients through the Critical Care Support Team (CCST). They have also suggested that people with lung issues should be tested for COVID-19. In order to reduce the burden on government hospitals, tests can be taken from private hospitals as well. The CCST expert panel will conduct a training session with the team of experts in districts to discuss patient management. We have advised districts to procure two or three high flow nasal cannula systems for patients and suggested non-invasive ventilation for patients as well.”  "We have instructed all District Health Officers to nominate nodal and sub-nodal officers to monitor and capture details of ICU patients, patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and the critically ill on a day-to-day basis. We have also made necessary arrangements for the CCST to conduct training for COVID-19 teams in designated hospitals on current treatment protocols. We have also formed district committees to streamline their interactions with the CCST for better patient care,” said Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar.  Bhaskar chaired a high-level meeting with officials from the health department to assess the functioning of tele-ICU unit, CSST and discuss steps to reduce the mortality rate in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-seeks-icmr-permission-for-lung-biopsy-of-covid-19-victims-835186.html
08-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka Opposition demands Rs 50,000 crore package||The Congress-led Opposition on Friday demanded that the state government should seek a Rs 50,000 crore special economic package from the Centre in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis.  This is one of the 24 demands the Congress-led Opposition made during a meeting with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. Besides Congress, leaders from the JD(S), CPI, CPI(M) and farmers groups attended the meeting.  “The state government should immediately ask the Centre to declare the COVID-19 pandemic as a ‘national disaster’ and demand at least Rs 50,000 crore to deal with the disease and address problems faced by the people due to the lockdown,” the charter of demands said.  During the meeting, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said that the PM CARES fund had Rs 35,000 crore. “Not a single paisa has come to the state from there. The Centre, at the least, should’ve given Karnataka whatever it got from the state,” he said.    The former CM also asked the government to increase Covid-19 testing and ensure sufficient availability of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits in all districts. “Experts have expressed worry that the virus may spread more in June and July. You have to be ready for that. And ASHA workers should be given financial incentives,” he said.  The Opposition asked the government to increase the per-hectare compensation for farmers from Rs 25,000 that has been announced, Rs 10,000 crore to revive industries, Rs 10,000 for each construction worker registered with the government and so on.  “Till the coronavirus (crisis) goes away, labourers should be given Rs 2,000 every month instead of a one-time relief of Rs 5,000,” Siddaramaiah said.  The meeting started with Yediyurappa informing the Opposition of steps taken by the government. “Compared with other states, the Covid-19 situation in Karnataka is under control,” he said. “I have information on various communities that are under distress. Giving them relief will be examined in the coming days. Also, by reviving economic activities, it’s our priority to ensure labourers are employed,” he said, listing out several initiatives taken by the government, especially on the agriculture front.  Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar said a special session of legislature should be convened to discuss the Covid-19 situation. “We have brought to the CM’s notice various issues. If no action is taken, then Congress will hit the streets in protest.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-opposition-demands-rs-50000-crore-package-835187.html
08-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||D’gere, Belagavi, U-K dists see rapid surge in Covid-19 cases||There is no let-up in Covid-19 cases in Karnataka. The state on Friday saw a staggering 48 cases, its biggest single-day spike, so far. Four districts - Belagavi, Uttara Kannada Davangere and Chitradurga - alone have accounted for 40 cases. Covid-19 cases continued to swell in Davangere. As many as 14 people, including four children in the age-group of three to nine, contracted novel coronavirus on Friday.  Among them, 10 people are the contacts of Patient 533, a staff nurse of a CHC in Davangere while four others are the contacts of Patient 556, an elderly man from Jalinagar in the city, Health department sources said.  The district had just three cases till April 28. But since then, Davangere city saw a flurry of cases. A staff nurse (Patient 533) alone is said to have infected 30 of her contacts. As on May 8, the district’s tally of cases stands at 61. With four deaths and two discharges post-recovery, Davangere has 55 active cases. Belagavi records11 new cases The Covid-19 hotspots in Belagavi district - Hirebagewadi and Kuduchi - witnessed a sudden surge in coronavirus cases on Friday. Hirebagewadi village reported 10 new cases, which include five women. All the 10 cases are contacts of Patients 547 and 552. A 20-year-old youth from Kuduchi in Raibag taluk, a contact of Patient 723, tested positive for the virus. The 11 fresh cases have taken Belagavi district’s tally to 85, most of which are either members of Tablighi Jamaat who attended Nizamuddin congregation or their contacts. Flurry of cases in Bhatkal  Infections continued to swell in Bhatkal, Uttara Kannada, as 12 new cases emerged from the port town on Friday. All 12 cases, including 10 of a family, are contacts of Patient 659, an 18-year-old girl, who tested positive on April 5. Among the fresh cases are a five-month-old baby and a three-year-old kid. A friend and a neighbour of P-659 are also among the infected. Deputy Commissioner K Harish Kumar told reporters, “Three families from Bhatkal, including the family members of Patient 659, had visited First Neuro Hospital in Mangaluru in April third week. The families had not informed the district administration of their visit to Mangaluru hospital. Two weeks after their visit, the town is seeing a surge in cases.” Throat swab samples of more than 50 secondary contacts have been sent to lab for examination, he said. C’durga slips to Orange Zone Chitradurga district on Friday slipped to Orange Zone from Green after three people with travel history to Ahmedabad tested positive for the virus.  “All three, part of a 15-member Tablighi Jamaat team, had contracted virus durng their visit to Ahmedabad for a congregation. Post-recoveRy, they returned to Chitradurga. All 15 members were put up in a quarantine facility in the fort city. Three members have again tested positive for coronavirus and have been sent to the designated hospital,” Deputy Commissioner R Vinoth Priya told reporters. Sandur in Ballari district saw its first Covid-19 case on Friday. A woman from Krishna Nagar has contracted virus. Investigations are underway to trace the source of her infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/d-gere-belagavi-u-k-dists-see-rapid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-835235.html
08-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to cut lessons to reduce burden for students||Students, enrolled in the state-run schools, will study lighter textbooks for 2020-21 academic year as the government has decided to reduce the lessons in view of the time lost due to the Covid-19crisis. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has asked officials to work out an action plan for the omission of excess chapters in the existing curriculum. In a meeting with department officials on Thursday, Suresh Kumar directed them to submit a detailed action plan based on the possible loss of academic days. “This proposal to cut the excess chapters will apply to all classes from 1 to 10th,” said a senior official.  The possibility of deferring commencement of annual academic year was also discussed during the meeting.  Covid-19 lesson  All state-run schools (for classes 6 to 10) will have a lesson on Covid-19 condition.  The minister has asked officers to publish a learning module.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-cut-lessons-to-reduce-burden-for-students-835244.html
08-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||2 repatriation flights from Gulf countries on May 14||The first evacuation flight from Gulf countries to Karnataka will be operated on May 14. Air India flight (X0814) will leave Dubai at 4.18 pm and land at Mangalore International Airport at 9.30 pm, Union Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister D V Sadananda Gowda said on Friday The Centre has arranged two flights from Gulf countries to Karnataka to bring the people stranded there. The date of the operation another flight from Doha to Bengaluru will be announced soon, Gowda said. After complaints from Karantaka that no flights were arranged for Karnataka from Gulf countries under the Centre’s massive evacuation plan, Gowda spoke to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on the issue. “Jaishankar has agreed to arrange special flights exclusively for Karnataka passengers,” Gowda said.  Around 1,903 people from Karnataka, residing in Gulf countries, have registered themselves to return to the state in the evacuation flights, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2-repatriation-flights-from-gulf-countries-on-may-14-835247.html
08-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Common curriculum for Karnataka varsities from 2021||All state-run universities will have a common curriculum for the 2021-22 academic year. This applies to both undergraduate and postgraduate courses. To avoid disparity in the curriculum offered by universities, the Higher Education Department has decided to introduce a uniform curriculum and set up expert committees to submit recommendations on the same. Expert panels Following discussions at the recent meeting with vice-chancellors of all universities, Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan has constituted five expert committees for each faculty. To submit recommendations on framing common curriculum in arts subjects, a committee headed by Prof Y S Siddegowda, vice-chancellor of Tumakuru University, has been formed. Similarly, committees have been set up for science, commerce, technical courses and distance education. "We have been asked to consult vice-chancellors, heads of the departments at all universities to get their opinion. After that, we will submit recommendations to the government," Siddegowda said. The committee heads feel that it would not be possible to implement a uniform curriculum for the 2020-21 academic year as they cannot convene meetings until the Covid-19 pandemic is over. Under the existing system, each university has its curriculum based on the recommendations made by the Board of Studies. Ashwath Narayan said, "Common curriculum is the need of the hour and we need to concentrate on bringing out a healthy, skilled and intelligent workforce from our universities. Bringing reforms in the curriculum and making it uniform will be helpful for that." "Common curriculum will help to eliminate disparities among students from different universities," he pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/common-curriculum-for-karnataka-varsities-from-2021-835248.html
08-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka plans to minimise mortality rate due to COVID-19||With the COVID-19 cases crossing 750 and the fatalities reaching 30,the Karnataka government on Friday decided to work out strategies to minimise the mortality rate in the fight against the coronavirus in the state. Karnataka recorded its biggest ever single-day spike of 48 new COVID-19 cases, including an infant, taking its total to 753 today. Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar chaired a high-level meeting with the top rank officials to chalk out a strategy to minimise the deaths due to the deadly virus, a government press release said. The state government is taking its fight against COVID-19 to the next level, and will additionally focus on measures to reduce the mortality rate in critical patients in the State by strengthening health systems to ensure that critical patients are treated early. "This will help reduce the death rate of COVID-19 patients in Karnataka," Bhaskar was quoted as saying. He said instructions have been given to all the District Health Officers to nominate nodal and sub-nodal officers to monitor and capture details of ICU patients, patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and the critically ill on a day-to-day basis. Necessary arrangements have been made for the Critical Care Support Team to conduct training for COVID-19 teams in designated hospitals on current treatment protocols, the officials apprised the Chief Secretary. It was pointed out in the meeting that district committees to streamline their interactions with the Critical Care Support Team for better patient care have been set up. Additional Chief Secretary Jawaid Akhtar apprised the Chief Secretary that the team of expert doctors have recommended the use of pulse oximeters for all patients. It was also decided in the meeting that all the patients having lung related diseases should be tested for COVID-19, the press release stated. "We have advised districts to procure two or three high flow nasal cannula systems for patients and suggested non-invasive ventilation for patients as well," Akhtar was quoted as saying. The government was open to involving private medical colleges and private institutions if there was surge in COVID-19 cases. The state government decided to apply to the ICMR to seek permission to conduct lung biopsies after the death of COVID-19 patients and for clinical autopsies. "This (lung biopsy) will help in providing critical patients with more effective care and bring down mortality rates," Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-plans-to-minimise-mortality-rate-due-to-covid-19-835250.html
08-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka seeks Centre’s nod for COVID-19 testing machines||The state government has requested Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan for directions to utilise COVID-19 testing machines installed on the premises of two private companies in Bengaluru. During a video conference with the minister, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar requested for clearance from ICMR to utilise the testing machines available at the two private institutions. "If we are allowed to make use of the testing machines installed at two private firms in Bengaluru, then we could test additional 6,000 samples every day," said Sudhakar. The Union minister immediately instructed the ICMR officials to take necessary measures for utilisation of the testing machines installed on the premises of the private firms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-seeks-centre-s-nod-for-covid-19-testing-machines-835282.html
08-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Trust and traders serve the needy||The Hazrat Ibrahim Ali Shah Trust members and some traders have been serving people in distress in market areas in Bengaluru City since the lockdown was imposed. As the Trust members are against raising donations for the purpose, a large number of non-members have supported the cause. P A Amjad Sharieff, the Trust secretary says, “We normally don’t collect funds or go in for donations for the charitable activities of the Trust. However, considering the magnitude of the crisis, non-members have also joined hands.” Apart from the Trust members, many traders in the K R Market and the adjoining areas are also extending a helping hand to the needy. A kitchen was setup to cook food and serve meals to those in need to overcome hunger. For nearly a month and a half, these people have been distributing food to over 300 people in and around Kumbarpet area - near Jama Masjid in Russell market, in the fireworks colony behind Poornima theatre and along Avenue road. Puliyogare, chitranna, rice bath and other dishes are served. The Trust members have also distributed close to 300 grocery packets to families in need spending Rs 3.60 lakh. “Some families are unwilling to accept the packets despite needing them. It is a matter of prestige for them to accept the packets. We identified such families and supplied the essentials,” Atiq explains.  Several residents of Avenue Road and SP Road have been benefited. “The Trust members and other traders have helped us with grocery and food,” says 50-year-old Anbu, a tea stall owner on S P road says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-trust-and-traders-serve-the-needy-835284.html
08-05-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Thackeray discusses coronavirus situation with central team||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that a central government team held a meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday and suggested that more people should be placed in institutional quarantine. The number of coronavirus cases in the state has crossed 17,000. "The state government has issued necessary instructions to the BMC (Mumbai civic body) administration to increase its capacity for institutional quarantine," Tope said. There are 64 laboratories in the state and 9,000 to 10,000 tests for COVID-19 are being carried out on daily basis, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-thackeray-discusses-coronavirus-situation-with-central-team-834926.html
08-05-2020||West||Train runs over migrant workers in Aurangabad; 16 dead||In a shocking incident, at least 16 migrant workers were run over by a goods train in Aurangabad in Marathwada region of Maharashtra in the wee hours of Friday. Top officials of the Maharashtra police and South Central Railway, Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police have rushed to the spot. While the Maharashtra police confirmed 16 deaths, the Ministry of Railway gave the figure as 15. Aurangabad Superintendent of Police Mokshada Patil said that one injured have been shifted to a hospital while 16 have died. "It was an unfortunate incident," she said. Four people who were sitting a bit away from the tracks survived. "We are speaking to them. They are in state of shock," she said. They were coming from Jalna and were headed towards Bhusawal to catch a train back home. "Where exactly they are from and what was their final destination is yet to be found out. We are counselling the survivors and speaking to them," she said. The incident took place when they were resting along the tracks between Jalna and Aurangabad in the Nanded division of SCR. According to a communique from Ministry of Railways, during early hours today after seeing some labourers on track, loco pilot of goods train tried to stop the train but it eventually hit them between Badnapur and Karmad stations in Parbhani-Manmad section. The injured have been taken to Aurangabad Civil Hospital. An inquiry has been ordered into the incident, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said. It is learnt that the person run over are labour native of Umaria and Shadol of Madhya Pradesh. They were working in SRG Company in the Jalna district.  "As per survivors' version, they left Jalna at 1900 hours on Thursday and walked initially along the road up to Badnapore, and later along the track towards Aurangabad," according to a press statement issued from New Delhi. After walking for about 36 km, they became tiresome and sat on the track for taking some rest and gradually they were deep asleep. According to the statement, 14 persons sat on the track, two, adjacent to the track and three away from the track. "A  total of 14 persons died and two were injured,  who were shifted to Government Hospital, Ghati, AWB. One of the injured has passed away in hospital," it said. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the next of kin of the victims. He added that the medical expenses of those injured would be borne by the government.  "Its a very unfortunate incident,' Thackeray said.  He urged the government to deploy more trains to enable migrants to reach their home states.  "The migrants should not lose hopes and patience," he urged. Ram Kripal, Commissioner of Railway Safety, South Central circle will hold an independent inquiry on the incident. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan condoled the death of the poor workers from his state. "It is a shock that cannot be described in words. I have spoken to the Railway minister and asked for a proper probe and remedial measures," he said. President Ram Nath Kovind also took to Twitter to offer his condolences. "Saddened beyond words to learn about the loss of lives in the railway track accident near Aurangabad in Maharashtra. My thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families. Wishing speedy recovery to the injured," he said. Saddened beyond words to learn about the loss of lives in the railway track accident near Aurangabad in Maharashtra. My thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families. Wishing speedy recovery to the injured. Meanwhile, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu tweeted: "Deeply saddened to learn about the loss of lives in a train mishap in Aurangabad, Maharashtra. My heartfelt condolences to bereaved families." Extremely anguished by the loss of lives due to the rail accident in Aurangabad, Maharashtra. Have spoken to Railway Minister Shri Piyush Goyal and he is closely monitoring the situation. All possible assistance required is being provided. Deeply saddened to learn about the loss of lives in a train mishap in Aurangabad, Maharashtra . My heartfelt condolences to bereaved families. "Extremely anguished by the loss of lives due to the rail accident in Aurangabad, Maharashtra. Have spoken to Railway Minister Shri Piyush Goyal and he is closely monitoring the situation. All possible assistance required is being provided," PM Modi said in a tweet.  Extremely anguished by the loss of lives due to the rail accident in Aurangabad, Maharashtra. Have spoken to Railway Minister Shri Piyush Goyal and he is closely monitoring the situation. All possible assistance required is being provided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/train-runs-over-migrant-workers-in-aurangabad-16-dead-834943.html
08-05-2020||West||VP M Venkaiah Naidu condoles deaths of migrant workers in Maharashtra train accident||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday condoled the death of 14 migrant workers in a train accident in Maharashtra's Aurangabad. The workers were mowed down by a goods train early this morning. "Deeply saddened to learn about the loss of lives in a train mishap in Aurangabad, Maharashtra. My heartfelt condolences to bereaved families," Naidu said on Twitter. According to police, the workers were returning to Madhya Pradesh and had been walking along the rail tracks. They had slept on the tracks due to exhaustion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vp-m-venkaiah-naidu-condoles-deaths-of-migrant-workers-in-maharashtra-train-accident-834964.html
08-05-2020||West||Training programme for hospitality industry on coronavirus awareness||The Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI), in collaboration with the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI),  has initiated a dedicated training programme on COVID-19 awareness for hospitality professionals across the country. The programme aims to gear up hotel and restaurant players for a post-lockdown scenario to ensure the safety of their guests and to instill confidence among customer. The training covers precautions to be taken and procedures that establishments should ensure to implement including receiving of raw materials, guest service, lobby management, and maintenance of rooms after the lockdown is lifted. FHRAI is conducting training in collaboration with its training partner – Parikshan. The first batch of the Food Safety Training and Certification (FoSTaC) programme for its members was held on May 5. The Association is aiming at imparting this training to four to five thousand hospitality professionals in the coming three to six months. "The idea behind initiating this training programme is to have at least one senior staff thoroughly trained in safety, security and hygiene of an establishment. Once the lockdown is lifted, the trained staff will be in a position to impart knowledge to fellow staff in each section. The underlying objective of this programme ultimately is to ensure the health and safety of our guests. Atithi Devo Bhava, and to us, our patron’s safety is paramount. The programme is being organised keeping in view the awareness requirements about the pandemic and necessary precautions that need to be taken by Food Business Operators (FBOs) before restarting their operations. FHRAI is organising these sessions to instill confidence in its members, guests, and the workforce to prepare ourselves to tackle the post-pandemic situation,” says Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, Vice President, FHRAI. The training is being conducted online using the Zoom platform and the training team is being led by Dr V Pasupathy, National Advisor, FHRAI and FoSTaC Diamond Trainer. FSSAI, more specifically, has issued guidelines on various food sectors including catering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/training-programme-for-hospitality-industry-on-coronavirus-awareness-834966.html
08-05-2020||West||Aurangabad migrants death: Congress blames Modi govt, Railways||The Congress in Maharashtra on Friday blamed the Narendra Modi government and Railway Ministry for the Aurangabad railway run over incident involving migrants. "#Aurangabad train accident is a complete failure of Modi Govt. & @RailMinIndia officials.For last 2-3 days, we are trying to speak to Railways officials to get a clear idea about the schedule, tickets of special trains for labourers but they could not give satisfactory answers," Maharashtra Youth Congress president Satyajit Tambe said. In a shocking incident, at least 16 migrant workers were run over by a goods train in Aurangabad in Marathwada region of Maharashtra in the wee hours of Friday. Top officials of the Maharashtra police and South Central Railway, Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police have rushed to the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aurangabad-migrants-death-congress-blames-modi-govt-railways-834980.html
08-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Man booked for kidnap, rape in Palghar||An offence was registered against a 19-year-old man for allegedly kidnapping and raping a girl from Mokhada village in Maharashtra's Palghar district, police said on Friday. The Palghar police on Thursday registered a case against the accused under sections 376 (rape), 363 (kidnapping) and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code, while no arrest has been made so far, public relations officer Hemant Katkar said. The accused, who was reportedly in love with the 18- year-old victim, allegedly kidnapped her on April 18 and raped her in captivity for two days, he said. The victim subsequently escaped and lodged a complaint on Wednesday, following which a case was registered, the official said, adding the further investigations were underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-booked-for-kidnap-rape-in-palghar-834992.html
08-05-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray announces Rs 5 lakh compensation to Aurangabad victims' kins||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the next of kin of the victims of the Aurangabad migrants run over incident.  The medical expenses of those injured would be borne by the government.  "Its a very unfortunate incident,' Thackeray said.  He urged the government to deploy more trains to enable migrants to reach their home states. "The migrants should not lose hopes and patience," he urged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-announces-rs-5-lakh-compensation-to-aurangabad-victims-kins-834996.html
08-05-2020||West||8-yr-old girl raped by neighbour in Uttar Pradesh||An 8-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her neighbour in Kolhi area here, police said on Friday. The incident took place on Thursday when the girl was playing outside her house. The accused -- Vikram, who lives nearby, took her to his place on some pretext and allegedly raped her, they said. The girl later narrated the incident to her family members, who registered a complaint in this regard with police. The accused was arrested by the police and the girl has been sent for medical check-up, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/8-yr-old-girl-raped-by-neighbour-in-uttar-pradesh-835036.html
08-05-2020||West||Ajit Pawar urges migrants to be patient, avoid risky journeys||Terming the death of migrants in a train accident as "painful", Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday urged labourers to have patience and not undertake risky journeys to their home states. At least 16 migrant workers sleeping on rail tracks while returning to Madhya Pradesh were crushed to death by a goods train in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra in the early hours of Friday. Only four migrant workers survived in the accident, which took place at 5.15 am near Karmad, around 30 km from Aurangabad, police said. "The incident is painful. It is disturbing to see how desperate migrant workers in Maharashtra are to return to their home states," Pawar said in a statement. Pawar, who is also the state's Finance Minister, said the Maharashtra government was working on war footing to send migrant workers to their native states and this was being done with cooperation from the Centre and other state governments. "Workers should wait till their turn comes and arrangements are made (to ensure their return). They should not risk their lives travelling in an unsafe manner," he said. Everyone will be able to return home in phases and there was no need to hurry, Pawar said. The state government had arranged for food, water, accommodation and medical facilities of 6.5 lakh migrant workers, the Deputy Chief Minister said. Accidents like this, at a time when the state government was doing its best to take care of migrant labourers, was unfortunate and painful, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ajit-pawar-urges-migrants-to-be-patient-avoid-risky-journeys-835056.html
08-05-2020||West||BJP ignores old guards, gives chance to newcomers in Maharashtra council polls||Giving a chance to newcomers in the ensuing Maharashtra Legislative Council polls, the BJP seems to have ignored the old guard. For the election to nine seats of the Council, the BJP, on Friday, nominated Pravin Detke, Gopichand Padalkar, Ajit Gopchede and Ranjitsinh Mohite-Patil. In the process, the saffron party, that is on the Opposition benches, seems to have ignored some top leaders. These include Eknath Khadse, Prakash Mehta, Vinod Tawde and Chandrashekhar Bawankule, who were ministers in the erstwhile BJP-Shiv Sena government headed by Devendra Fadnavis, the current leader of the Opposition. Besides, another top leader whose name was not considered is Pankaja Munde, the daughter of late BJP stalwart Gopinath Munde and niece of the late Pramod Mahajan. She contested the election from family seat of Parli but lost to NCP's Dhananjay Munde, the Social Justice Minister in the Uddhav Thackeray government. Last year, Pankaja and Khadse, who was once No 2 in the Fadnavis government, raised a banner of revolt against the Maharashtra leadership but state BJP President Chandrakant Patil pacified them. In fact, Khadse was keen that he gets an MLC ticket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-ignores-old-guards-gives-chance-to-newcomers-in-maharashtra-council-polls-835084.html
08-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Over 98,000 cases of lockdown violations registered in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday said as many as 98,774 cases were registered and 19,082 persons were arrested for violating prohibitory orders during the COVID-19 lockdown in the state. At least 98,774 offences were registered under section 188 (disobeying an order passed by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, the minister said. As many as 557 police personnel, including 62 officers, had tested positive for coronavirus in the state, he said.  Nearly 190 incidents of assault on police personnel were reported at various police stations in the state, while 686 persons were arrested in these cases, he said. The police department had issued over 3 lakh passes to people working for emergency services during the lockdown, Deshmukh said, while urging citizens to cooperate with health workers and the police in the fight against COVID-19. The authorities had quarantined 2,26,236 persons in the state and 653 were nabbed for violating quarantine norms, he said.  A total of 86,246 calls were made to the police helpline 100 during the lockdown, the minister said. At least 1,286 offences of illegal transport were registered, while 55,148 vehicles were seized for violating the lockdown, he said. The police had collected fines to the tune of over Rs 3.66 crore for various offences ever since the lockdown was imposed prohibitory orders came into force in March. The state government had set up 4,729 relief camps, where 4,28,734 migrants, labourers and needy were housed, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-over-98000-cases-of-lockdown-violations-registered-in-maharashtra-835108.html
08-05-2020||West||Rail safety watchdog calls for 'abundant caution' to avoid recurrence of such incident||After 16 migrant workers sleeping on railway tracks were mowed down by a goods train, Chief Commissioner of Railway Safety Shailesh Pathak has written to the Railway Board Chairman, calling for abundant caution and requesting him to issue instructions to ensure that such an accident does not recur. The 16 people, walking back home during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, were killed after a goods train ran over them near the Karmad railway station in Aurangabad district in Maharashtra on Friday morning. The Commission of Railway Safety, which investigates all serious rail accidents and clears all rail projects, also said that now that such an incident of migrant or other persons walking along the tracks leading to consequent deaths have come to notice, all-out efforts must be made to prevent recurrence of such incidents in future.  "Under such circumstances, as an abundant precaution, it is essential that all railway personnel connected with train operation, maintenance and patrolling activities should be cautioned to immediately communicate any such occurrence of persons walking along the track, if noticed by them, to the nearest station so that necessary action like Caution Order to all passing trains (can be taken)," he said. In his letter to Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav, he also said that this protocol is already part of duties of all railway servants under the Indian Railways (Open Line) General Rules, 1976. "In view of the aforesaid, it is requested to immediately issue suitable directions to all Zonal Railways to avoid recurrence of such unfortunate incidents in future," he said. The Commission of Railway Safety comes under the civil aviation ministry and investigates all railway accidents.  The railways has already ordered a probe under Ram Kripal, Commissioner of Railway Safety, South Central Circle, who will hold an independent inquiry into the accident, the Railway Ministry announced. Sources said that what is being probed is the role of patrolmen who are tasked with keeping trespassers away from tracks and also alert the nearest station about any incident. While the railways does not treat these incidents as "railway accidents" and terms runover cases as "trespassing", there have been instances in the past where it has offered ex-gratia to the next of kin of a victim on sympathetic grounds. In the 2017 Elphinstone bridge collapse incident in which 23 people were killed and 39 injured in Mumbai, the railways had given ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the next of kin of those killed in the incident, Rs 1 lakh for those seriously injured and Rs 50,000 to people who suffered simple injuries. The railways has not yet announced any ex gratia in the Aurangabad accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rail-safety-watchdog-calls-for-abundant-caution-to-avoid-recurrence-of-such-incident-835117.html
08-05-2020||West||Dharavi's tally of COVID-19 patients rises to 808||The number of COVID-19 patients in Dharavi, Mumbai's biggest slum sprawl, reached 808 on Friday as 25 more persons tested positive for the infection, a senior official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. The death toll in the area also rose to 26, he said. Although the death toll increased on Friday, no deaths were reported during the day, he said. "Till Thursday night, Dharavi's death toll was 21. The five death cases were added in the tally on Friday although these patients had died in the last few days," the official said. Of the 808 patients, 222 have been discharged so far from hospitals after recovery, he added. Dharavi, believed to be the biggest slum in India, is posing a tough challenge for the BMC and the Maharashtra government to contain the coronavirus spread, mainly due to its population density, which makes social distancing very difficult.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavis-tally-of-covid-19-patients-rises-to-808-835189.html
08-05-2020||West||Aurangabad Incident: NHRC sends notice to Maharashtra govt over deaths of migrant workers on rail tracks||The National Human Rights Commission on Friday issued notices to the Maharashtra Chief Secretary and the District Magistrate of Aurangabad over 16 migrant workers being mowed down by a goods train. The incident happened between Badnapur and Karmad stations in Nanded Division. The NHRC has taken suo motu cognisance of media reports about mowing down of 16 migrant workers by the goods train in the early hours of Friday, it said in a statement. The officers have been directed to submit a detailed report within four weeks. It should also include details of the steps taken by the state and the district authorities to provide food, shelter and other basic amenities to the poor people, especially migrant labourers, who are facing extreme difficulties from every angle during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, it said. According to media reports, 14 labourers died on the spot and two others succumbed to injuries later. The workers, who were walking back home in Madhya Pradesh, were sleeping on the railway line when the accident occurred, it said. About 20 workers were walking from Jalna to Bhusawal, which is about 150 km. They stopped after walking for about 45 km to take some rest and fell asleep on the tracks. At around 5:15 AM, a goods train ran over them, the statement said. The loco pilot, as mentioned in the news report, had noticed some persons along the tracks. He honked and also tried to stop the train but failed to contain the speed before hitting the victims lying on the tracks. An inquiry in the matter has been ordered by the Ministry of Railways, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aurangabad-incident-nhrc-sends-notice-to-maharashtra-govt-over-deaths-of-migrant-workers-on-rail-tracks-835220.html
08-05-2020||West||No Army deployment in Mumbai to fight coronavirus||The Maharashtra government on Friday night dismissed rumours that suggested Indian Army would be deployed on Mumbai till the end of COVID-19 lockdown. "Please do not believe in rumours. I want to categorically deny it," Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said in his webcast. He, however, said Maharashtra Government may seek deployment of Central forces, if needed, to allow police personnel to take rest in phases in Mumbai. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh too dismissed the rumours. "The Mumbai police are competent to handle any kind of emergent situation in light of the corona pandemic or otherwise," he said. "All these rumours of the army being called in to handle situation in Mumbai are false and agenda-driven," he added.  "Mumbai police has always been internationally respected for its high professional standards," he reminded and added, "The police have often been at the frontlines in our battle against COVID-19,  ensuring law and order is maintained  even in high-contagion areas and no one should raise unnecessary questions on their commitment, drive or work."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-army-deployment-in-mumbai-to-fight-coronavirus-835258.html
08-05-2020||West||Gujarat's COVID-19 cases up by 390 to 7,403; deaths so far 449||With as many as 390 more people testing coronavirus positive since previous night, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Gujarat reached 7,403 on Friday, a health official said. During the same period, 24 patients succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll due to the pandemic in the state to 449, said Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi. Out of the total 390 new cases that were detected during the day, 269 were from Ahmedabad. Other major centres include Vadodara (25), Surat (25) and Arvalli (20). Of the total 24 patients, who succumbed to the infection in the 24 hours, as many as 22 died in different hospitals of Ahmedabad, while one each died in Bhavnagar and Surat. Till now, 449 people have died due to coronavirus in Gujarat. As many as 163 patients recovered in the past 24 hours and given discharge from different hospitals, taking the total number of such patients to 1,872. Of the total 1,05,387 tests conduct so far in Gujarat, results of 7,403 have come positive, while 97,984 have tested negative. "As requested by Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, the Centre has decided to send AIIMS director Rajdeep Guleria and Dr Manish Sureja to Gujarat on Saturday, to help the state in reducing the mortality rate," said Ravi. "Both these experts will reach here by a special flight from Delhi. They will visit Ahmedabad civil hospital and SVP Hospital to take stock of the situation. These experts will interact with our doctors and share their feedback with us before leaving," she added. According to Ravi, Gujarat does not figure in the list of top five states that have registered the highest increase in positive cases between April 30 and May 6. She added that the state's COVID-19 cases growth rate was 50.7 per cent and the case doubling rate now stands at 12 days. Of the 449 persons who died so far due to the infection, as many as 343 have succumbed in Ahmedabad alone. Similarly, of the total 7,403 cases registered in Gujarat till now, as many as 5,260 cases were reported in Ahmedabad alone, followed by 824 cases in Surat and 465 in Vadodara. Gujarat's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 7,403, new cases 390, deaths 449, discharged 1,872 active cases 5,082 and people tested so far 1,05,387.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-covid-19-cases-up-by-390-to-7403-deaths-so-far-449-835259.html
08-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Mumbai invokes an 1897 law to draft doctors in its coronavirus fight||By Upmanyu Trivedi and Dhwani PandyaOne of India’s largest cities is invoking a colonial-era law to draft thousands of doctors to work in its hospitals, fueling concern that the medical system is becoming overwhelmed by virus cases despite the country’s weeks-long lockdown. Letters have been sent to as many as 75,000 doctors in Mumbai with a private practice, requiring them to sign up for at least two weeks duty at one of the state-run hospitals, according to T. P. Lahane, director, Medical Education and Research under the Maharashtra state government. Those who defy the order risk prosecution and imprisonment under the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897 and losing their license to practice medicine. While India’s densely-packed cities and vulnerable population sparked fears it could see an explosion in virus cases, the nation has seen just over 56,400 infections and just 1,890 deaths so far, compared with more than 75,000 fatalities in the U.S. Still, the world’s largest lockdown -- with more than 1 billion people confined to their homes -- isn’t flattening India’s virus curve, unlike Italy and Spain where infection rates had begun slowing at a similar stage of their lockdowns. Within India’s climbing tally, Mumbai accounts for about one-fifth of the country’s virus cases, and there are already signs its health care system is close to breaking point. A Twitter video this week showed a hospital ward allegedly in Mumbai’s Lokmanya Tilak Hospital where corpses of virus victims tied in black plastic sheets were left on beds next to infected patients. As the financial hub, it is more globally connected than other Indian cities and has Asia’s most-congested slum, Dharavi. While the latest diktat signals that authorities are bracing for a deluge of fresh cases, it also risks alienating the nation’s front line forces against the virus and complicating its containment efforts. Fatigued Staff “We can’t say for sure when the virus will peak in Mumbai but we have to be ready for it,” said Lahane, referring to the need for private sector to pitch in as fatigue starts setting in among health care workers at state-run hospitals. “Our hospitals’ staff have been working constantly since the last two months while the number of patients, positive cases and treatment centers have been increasing in the city.” Doctors over 55 and those with co-morbidities will be excused. “If they are closing down their clinic, sitting at home and not working in a hospital, then government will initiate action,” Lahane said. The public health care set-up has done nearly all the heavy lifting in India’s virus fight so far. Roping in private sector doctors -- especially those who are not working -- to give respite to their overworked peers in government hospitals seems fair, but the heavy-handedness of the approach has alarmed many. Bloomberg spoke to half a dozen doctors and most expressed outrage at being coerced into mandatory duty. Some pointed to the irony of such an order from local authorities at a time India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked citizens to support health care workers by clanging plates and the air force has organized flower showers. All the doctors asked not to be identified for fear of a backlash. Although the state of Maharashtra -- where Mumbai is located -- is controlled by a former ally and now rival of Modi’s ruling party, Shiv Sena, doctors were looking to the federal government for leadership. Despite the hardship caused by his nationwide lockdown, Modi’s approval ratings have climbed to 83%, signaling widespread approval for his actions during the virus crisis. No Dignity A senior Mumbai-based physician specializing in renal care called it an arm-twisting tactic that lacked dignity. The fact that a century-old law is being invoked underscores the nation’s lack of preparedness in handling epidemics, this doctor said. Using fear to force doctors to work will only discourage them and shows a lack of respect for those risking their own lives, according to another city-based doctor. Asking physicians to volunteer would have been a far better approach, this doctor said.  The Epidemic Diseases Act gives authorities special powers. The legality of the order will have to be tested against a doctor’s right to practice or not practice and the medical code of ethics, according to Lzafeer Ahmed, a New Delhi-based lawyer. Some medics were also worried there wouldn’t be enough good quality personal protective equipment when they do show up for virus duty. No one seems ready for a legal fight for now. The Association of Medical Consultants on Thursday advised its members to “voluntarily apply since that is the need of the hour,” according to a statement shared by the industry lobby. It also asked its members to request adequate protective equipment, proper lodging, hygienic food, transport and insurance cover. Sharing Beds Nearly 550 health care workers have been infected in India, the Hindustan Times reported. While some may have contracted the virus while treating patients, a doctor in a Mumbai state-run hospital said many of her colleagues were catching it from dormitory rooms in medical colleges where they often share beds as doctors alternate through the day and night shifts. As infected doctors are pulled out of action, it places further strain on the nation’s health care systems which were underfunded and rickety even before the virus hit. The Lokmanya Tilak Hospital, meanwhile, has formed a committee to probe the veracity of the video showing corpses in one of the wards, it said in a statement Thursday, and would take action against anyone found guilty. “It has been observed several times that the family members are not available to claim bodies of patients who have died,” the hospital said in the statement. “We need to call them repeatedly and still they avoid claiming the bodies.” Not Just Doctors The looming public health crisis in Mumbai will need more than just doctors to beat back the virus. It’ll need other staff such as nurses, sanitation workers, clerks and hospital guards, according to a pulmonary specialist in Mumbai. Securing the support staff may be more difficult. Some are scared, some are getting sick, some stay in containment zones while some can’t come because public transport has ground to a halt in the lockdown. Securing that support staff may be more difficult, according to a pulmonary specialist in Mumbai who has been treating patients and asked not to be named fearing a backlash from authorities. The doctors in Mumbai’s private sector nevertheless have to show up unless the order is quashed in a court. “It seems to be a case of excessive delegation,” said Ahmed, the lawyer in New Delhi. “Unfortunately, until the order is struck down by a court or withdrawn, doctors would have to abide by it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mumbai-invokes-an-1897-law-to-draft-doctors-in-its-coronavirus-fight-835280.html
