09-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Three COVID-19 patients recover in Karnataka's Mandya||Patients (P) 442, P 443 and  P324 were discharged from the hospital. The district reported a total of 28 positive cases until Saturday. The treatment for the remaining 14 COVID-19 patients will continue at the designated hospital. According to the authorities, all the patients are responding to treatment and are recovering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-covid-19-patients-recover-in-karnatakas-mandya-835463.html
09-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru street vendors under financial crisis||After the state government allowed liquor shops to open, street food vendors in the city are demanding permission to do business. Due to the lockdown, to combat Covid-19, street vendors are under financial crisis. The city has thousands of hawkers and a large number of people, particularly youth, depend on street food. A majority of them depend on the food business for a livelihood. Chandrshekar, a vendor at Jayalakshmipuram said he opened his shop last on March 21, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced Janata Curfew. “I tried opening the shop later, but, failed due to certain reasons. I am facing severe financial crisis as the food stall is the only source of income for my family,” he said. Chandrshekar said, “At least now, the government must allow street vendors. As liquor shops are allowed, there is no issue in allowing street food centres. Let the government frame certain guidelines for vendors to do business.” Savitha, a street food vendor at Vijayanagar said that she has rented a pushcart to to business. “Now I am not able to pay the rent as there is no business. I and my husband are doing the business from the last 15 years. But, we never faced such a situation. We were earning nearly Rs 1,200 a day. But now, it has become difficult to pay the rent.  My husband is suffering from varicose veins problem and needs Rs 1,200 for medicines per month,” she said. Shivanna, a vendor near Ramaswamy Circle said the government must come to the rescue of vendors. “Most of the vendors are poor and depend on rented vehicles. Now, we are not in a position to pay the rent. The vehicle owners are not in a condition to waiving off rent, as they depend on it. The government must announce a compensation,” he demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-street-vendors-under-financial-crisis-835635.html
09-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Tourist guides deprived of govt benefits||With the lockdown, following the outbreak of COVID-19, tourist guides across the district are under stress and are facing hardships. The district has several historical hotspots and lakhs of tourists from parts of the world visit them. Hundreds of families depend on tourism for their livelihood. Following the lockdown from March, the tourism sector is affected severely.  In 2018, as many as 28,98,779 Indians and 56,315 foreign tourists had visited the district. Similarly, in 2019, 19,921,96 Indians and 50,838  foreigners had visited various tourist hotspots in Hassan district. However, until February 2020, 1,79,403 Indians and 10,191 foreigners have visited the tourist places here. As many as 75 tourist guides are there at temple towns Belur, Halebid and Shravanabelagola. All the temples remain closed and there is no business for hotels as well as accommodation facilities. Taranath, president of Hoysala Tourist Guides Association, said that the tourist guides are facing sever hardships as they have no other source of income. “The guides do not get any benefits from the government. The government have issued licenses, but, no benefits are available. A tourist guide gets 15 days of work in a month. So, the government should offer Rs 5,000 as honorirum to the tourists per month,” the president demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tourist-guides-deprived-of-govt-benefits-835637.html
09-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Nodal officers inspect post lockdown situation||A team of nodal officers led by tahsildar Shobitha on Saturday inspected situation in the town after the lockdown was relaxed. The officers personally verified if people had worn masks while moving in public places and maintained social distancing. They visited Ammavaripet, the premier locality of the town and verified if the guidelines were followed by the public. Shobitha expressed displeasure as people had gathered in large numbers to buy commodities at a store violating the social distancing guideline. She directed the storekeeper to ensure social distancing by the customers. She warned of cancelling the license of the shop if the customers failed to maintain social distancing near his store. The nodal officers DDPI K Rathnaiah, K N Manjunath and Srinivas visited various wards and requested people to strictly follow the guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/nodal-officers-inspect-post-lockdown-situation-835609.html
09-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Elderly man in Chintamani in Chikkaballapur district tests positive||A 71-year-old man from Chintamani in the district tested positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday taking a number of COVID-19 cases in the district to 22. The victim, a resident of N R Extension Layout, had returned to Chintamani from Bengaluru on April 27. The health department staff collected throat swabs of four of his family members and quarantined them at a government hospital in Chintamani, said sources. The ward-9, where he stays, has been sealed down, while lockdown has been tightened in wards-10 and 11. The City Municipal Council staff are disinfecting spots he visited in the town. The elderly man had met his grandson who had returned from London. He resumed his morning walk with others after he returned to Chintamani from Bengaluru. A large number of people attended the funeral procession of his wife who passed away recently. Domestic help at his house also serves at several other houses. These things have created panic as officials feel that the virus may be transmitted quickly to others. The officials are now collecting details of primary and secondary contacts of the elderly man, who runs a jewellery outlet. They are also collecting details of customers who visited his outlet. So far, 12 COVID-19 cases from Gauribidanur, 9 from Chikkaballapur and one from Chintamani have been reported in Chikkaballapur district. One each from Gauribidanur and Chikkaballapur has died. About 11 others from Gauribidanur and four from Chikkaballapur have been discharged after recovery. At present, six people are undergoing treatment at the district hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/elderly-man-in-chintamani-in-chikkaballapur-district-tests-positive-835614.html
09-05-2020||National||Delhi's Hospital in Burari to start functioning as COVID-19 care centre in next 2-3 days||A 400-bed hospital in northwest Delhi's Burari area will start functioning as a COVID-19 care centre in the next few days, Health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday. Asked about AIIMS Delhi Director Dr Randeep Guleria's prediction that India's COVID-19 cases are likely to peak in June-July, Jain said, "All these predictions are made by doctors and scientists". "Earlier also prediction were made, but the cases are lesser than what was predicted. If they say that COVID-19 cases will reach their peak in June, it might happen. Patterns of other countries are also similar," Jain told reporters. The number of coronavirus cases in Delhi on Thursday climbed to 5,980, with 448 fresh cases, the largest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases in the city. The death toll in Delhi now stands at 66. The city government's health minister had recently visited the upcoming facility in Burari.  The hospital in Burari area will start functioning as a COVID-19 care centre in the next 2-3 days, he said. Asked about patients belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat, who have recovered, he said, they are being released on orders. Among them, those who are foreigners and whose visa may have expired, their travel will be handled by the Ministry of External Affairs, he added. The Delhi government has ordered all test reports to be given within 24 hours, failing which the labs cannot conduct tests. If due to any reason, there is a delay, action will be taken against them after 48 hours. This has happened as some labs were taking 10-15 days for testing samples, Jain said. Till May 7, the total number of patients who have recovered in Delhi stood at 1,931. Among those undergoing treatment, 87 people are in ICU and 13 are on ventilators, Jain said. The minister also said construction work, which has been allowed in Delhi, will take time to start again. For construction workers, the employers should make arrangements for their stay at their respective sites, he said. In response to another question on cases of healthcare workers testing positive, he said there is no question of hiding any data by the Delhi government because if someone tests positive, it should not be hidden.  "Once the reports come, the hospitals have to inform the government. Across the world, we are witnessing that the frontline workers are more vulnerable to this infection, but in Delhi, the situation is better," he said. Jain also said the government has launched an "e-token service for purchase of liquor" from May 7. There are some issues with the website which is being worked out, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhis-hospital-in-burari-to-start-functioning-as-covid-19-care-centre-in-next-2-3-days-835302.html
09-05-2020||National||India's new envoy to Sri Lanka flies onboard transport aircraft to reach island nation||Senior diplomat Gopal Baglay on Friday travelled from Delhi to Colombo on board a military transport aircraft to take over as India’s new envoy to Sri Lanka. Baglay travelled onboard an Indian Air Force (IAF) transport aircraft, which also carried a 12.5-tonne consignment of essential medicines and protective gears for healthcare equipment – a gift from India to Sri Lanka to help the neighbouring country to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. The consignment was the fourth of its kind gifted by India to Sri Lanka in the recent weeks. Baglay, who joined the Indian Foreign Service in 1992, was appointed as India’s new High Commissioner to Sri Lanka in February. Even before he could travel to the island nation to take up his new assignment, the travel and transport curbs, lockdowns and ban on arrival of international passenger aircraft were enforced in both the nations to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. He, however, flew on board the IAF transport aircraft on Friday. India’s continued commitment to share its resources with friends and partner nations even at a time when many countries the world over the faced scarcity of medical products due to the COVID-19 pandemic and consequent supply chain disruptions, is in line with the abiding faith of India’s leadership in the dictum of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ (the whole world is but one family), Baglay said after arriving in Colombo on Friday.  He will observe the “health protocol” stipulated by the Sri Lankan Government in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to a press release issued by the High Commission of India in Colombo. Baglay served as Deputy High Commissioner of India to Pakistan from 2011 to 2014. He headed the Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran division of the Ministry of External Affairs before being appointed as its spokesperson in February 2017. He, however, moved to the Prime Minister’s Office as Joint Secretary a few months later.  He also served in India’s missions in Ukraine and Nepal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-new-envoy-to-sri-lanka-flies-onboard-transport-aircraft-to-reach-island-nation-835303.html
09-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: 251 Shramik Special Trains operated so far, nearly 3 lakh migrants ferried, says Indian Railways||The Indian Railways on Friday said it has operated 251 Shramik Special trains since May 1 and ferried home nearly three lakh migrants stranded in various parts of the country due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The Railways had operated 61 trains on Thursday. On Friday, it has planned to operate 53 trains, out of which 43 have already departed, officials said. "We will run more trains on Friday. The number of migrants ferried is likely to cross the three lakh-mark by tonight," said a Railway spokesperson. Every special train has 24 coaches, each with a capacity of 72 seats. But the national transporter is allowing only 54 people in a coach to maintain social distancing norms by not allotting the middle berth to any passenger. While the railways has officially not stated how much it has spent so far on these services, the cost for which the government says has been shared on an 85:15 ratio with states, officials indicated that the national transporter has spent around Rs 80 lakh per service. Since the beginning of the services, Gujarat remained one of the top originating stations, followed by Kerala. Among the receiving states, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh remained the top states.  Earlier, the railways drew flak from opposition parties for charging for these services. In its guidelines, the railways has said the trains will ply only if they have 90 percent occupancy and the "states should collect the ticket fare".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-251-shramik-special-trains-operated-so-far-nearly-3-lakh-migrants-ferried-says-indian-railways-835305.html
09-05-2020||National||Delhi coronavirus cases cross 6,000-mark with 338 new cases||Delhi on Friday crossed the 6,000-mark in COVID-19 cases with the reporting of 338 fresh cases. On Thursday, the national capital has witnessed 448 cases, the highest for a single day. The first case in Delhi was reported on March 2. With this, the number of cases has risen to 6,318, out of which 2,803 cases or 44.36% of the total cases were reported this month alone. During the day, two deaths were reported with the toll rising to 68 while 89 people were discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 2020. At present, 4,230 people are still under treatment, including 937 COVID-19 patients under home isolation. On May 7, there were 771 patients who were in home isolation with a day, it was risen by 166. The government now allows mild COVID-19 patients to undergo treatment at their houses provided there is provision for the person to be isolated properly.  On May 1, Delhi had reported 223 cases which saw an increase to 386 on May 2. The capital reported 349 cases on May, 206 on May 5 and 428 on May 6. Of the total cases, 69.72% (4,405) of the patients were below 50 years while the deaths among this group were just 17.65% of the 68 dead or 12 people. In contrast, the number of patients above 60 years was the lowest at 14.83% or 937 but the fatality was the highest among them with 33 or 48.53% of those who lost the battle with COVID-19. Among 50-59 years, there were 976 people (15.45%) but among the dead, their proportion was 33.33% or 22 This is the first time that the death toll of those below 60 years recording below 50%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-coronavirus-cases-cross-6000-mark-with-338-new-cases-835307.html
09-05-2020||National||Twitter removes Tejasvi Surya's controversial tweet||On the Centre's request, the microblogging social media site Twitter has removed 121 posts from its platform including one controversial tweet by Bengaluru South BJP MP Tejasvi Surya.  Taking note of the some of the objectionable tweets put out by Karnataka MP, the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) asked the US-based company to remove it.  As per  Section 69A of the Information Technology (IT) Act, the Ministry made a request to twitter to remove the tweet on April 28 2020.  The issue came to know through Twitter’s filings with a third-party database, which makes such requests public. Tejasvi Surya' s controversial tweet made in 2015 -  “In short: true, terror has no religion. But the terrorist definitely has a religion, and in most cases, it’s Islam."  Earlier Surya' old retweet on Arab women also kicked up row it was strongly criticised by many for Islamophobic content.  Young MP's old tweet also put the government in an embarrassing position as the NDA government has to make huge damage control exercise. Ambassadors of several Gulf countries pleading Indian working there not to make any Islamophobic tweet.  Some of the tweets requested to remove including some of the right-wing handles or and pro-Pakistan tweets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-removes-tejasvi-suryas-controversial-tweet-835309.html
09-05-2020||National||Five lakh fruit trees to be planted across India on Environment Day||Around five lakh fruit trees will be planted across the country on the World Environment Day on June 5. The plantation drive will be undertaken by two NGOs from India and the US. The Dehradun-based Sustainable Green Initiative and the United States-based One Tree Planted will execute the programme together with the involvement of local communities in the land of small and marginal farmers countrywide, SGI founder Raj Mohan said. Trees to be planted during the drive include moringa, papaya, banana, lemon, guava, apricot, pear, peach and jujubes, he said. The SGI has planted 30,100 fruit trees in ten villages in Saklana range of Uttarakhand's  Tehri Garhwal district, he said. The initiative is intended to not just expand the green cover but also create sustainable livelihood for the rural populace. Fruit trees will not only provide nourishment but also supplement income of small farmers, he said. Moringa, papaya, and banana trees can produce food and fruit within 8-10 months of planting. Lemon, guava, apricot, pear, peach, and jujubes produce fruit in their third year and onwards, he said. The long-term benefit is immense. Each tree provides a minimum of Rs 1000 per year, half a million fruit trees translate into Rs 50 crore worth of fruit and nutrition, year after year for the next 50-60 years, the SGI founder said. Beyond the nutritional and social benefits of reforestation with fruit trees, this project will support cleaner air and help reduce the effects of climate change. The planting and nurturing of fruit trees will be executed by local partners at Sustainable Green Initiative with whom One Tree Planted has already planted over 300,000 trees throughout India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-lakh-fruit-trees-to-be-planted-across-india-on-environment-day-835310.html
09-05-2020||National||COVID-19: 698 Indians stranded in Maldives sail back home under 'Operation Samudra Setu'||A total of 698 Indian nationals stranded in the Maldives due to the COVID-19 linked international travel restrictions were evacuated on Friday from the scenic island nation on an Indian Navy warship. "Op #SamudraSetu. #INSJalashwa set sail from #Male, #Maldives tonight bringing back 698 of our citizens," the spokesperson of the Indian Navy tweeted. "Bon Voyage! #INSJalashwa departs from Male port for Kochi with 698 Indian nationals on board," the Indian High Commission in the Maldives tweeted. India's High Commissioner in the Maldives, Sunjay Sudhir earlier expressed his deep gratitude to the Indian Navy, the Government of Maldives and its agencies for extending complete cooperation for the success of the massive evacuation of Indian nationals. An Indian Navy spokesman said there were a number of pregnant women and children among the evacuees who will travel to Kochi in Kerala. The INS Jalashwa, the Navy's amphibious warship, reached Male on Thursday to undertake the massive repatriation mission named 'Operation Samudra Setu' (Sea Bridge). Sudhir said a second Navy ship INS Magar will leave for Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu on Sunday with 200 Indians. He said the exercise will be repeated next week by the Indian Navy warships. The first Naval ship from Male is expected to arrive at the Cochin Port on May 10, Port Trust officials in Kochi said.  The INS Jalashwa is part of the repatriation mission launched by the Indian Navy to bring Indian citizens home from foreign shores, the Indian Navy said in a statement. Immigration procedures of the passengers were carried out in the Hulhumale' Ferry Terminal in Male City. "Fantastic job by the entire team of @VelanaAirport for the safe repatriation of Indian nationals!" the high commission tweeted. The massive evacuation exercise is testimony to Maldives-India friendship, it said in another tweet. Several Indians who are travelling by the warship lauded the evacuation plan launched by the government. "It is a very great thing that the High Commission did for us and we did not have any issues till now. We got everything with proper guidelines, all the things done by the High Commission," Pradeep, who hails from Palakkad, said. He works in a resort in Male. "Jamsheed from Kerala thanks Govt of India, Govt of Kerala & @indiannavy for this historic Operation to repatriate #Indian nationals from the #Maldives," the High Commission of India in Maldives tweeted. The INS Jalashwa is properly equipped with relief materials, COVID-19 protection gear along with medical and administrative support staff, it noted. Amidst the coronavirus pandemic, India is conducting its biggest ever repatriation exercise named Vande Bharat Mission to bring back stranded Indians from abroad, including from the US, the UAE and the UK. The High Commission in Male on its Facebook page said, MVR 600 or an equivalent amount of USD 40 will be charged as the Evacuation Services Charge from each person listed for repatriation by INS Jalashwa. "This amount would be collected at the service fee collection counter after completion of the Immigration process at the Velana International Airport. Kindly carry exact change to avoid delay/ inconvenience," the post said. Meanwhile, all arrangements as per government guidelines are in place at Cochin Port to facilitate the arrival of those who are evacuated from Maldives via the sea route, officials in Kochi said. Before arrival at Cochin, on board the vessel, the Navy will get the self e-declaration data filled by all passengers and also identify the passengers symptomatic of COVID-19. The symptomatic passengers will be disembarked first, followed by other passengers (district wise) in batches of 50 persons, the Port Trust said. Separate zone has been earmarked for the symptomatic patients. The passengers disembarked will undergo further statutory verifications for clearances inside the Samudrika Cruise Terminal where Port Health Organisation will verify the self declaration forms, the Port Trust said. All passengers on arrival in India will be medically screened and would have to download and register on the Aarogya Setu app. On Monday, the Indian government announced plans to begin a phased repatriation of its citizens stranded abroad from May 7. On Thursday, two special flights from the UAE carrying a total of 363 Indian nationals, including nine infants, left for Kerala as India began its biggest ever repatriation exercise to bring back its citizens stranded abroad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-698-indians-stranded-in-maldives-sail-back-home-under-operation-samudra-setu-835311.html
09-05-2020||National||Jammu and Kashmir govt arranges special trains to bring back its residents stranded across country||The Jammu and Kashmir government is arranging special trains for its residents stranded across the country due to the lockdown and will bear the cost of the tickets, even as 30,000 people have so far returned to the UT with proper regulation, the Home Department said on Friday. "Train services are being arranged for stranded persons of J-K, particularly from far off places. These trains will start arriving shortly and necessary coordination with the sending states as also with Railway authorities is going on," a statement from the UT's Home Department said. It said the Jammu and Kashmir government has decided to bear the cost of the tickets. "The returnees will not need to make any payments for their return journey by train," the statement said. However, it said nobody should move in a hurry without passes issued with the consent of the J-K government. "Else, will be quarantined for 21 days in Kathua," the statement said. The J-K government issued a standard operating procedure on April 30, a day after the Union Ministry of Home affairs allowed movement of stranded persons with certain conditions. "The Government of J-K has collected details of stranded persons who wish to return to J-K by providing web links for registration,” the statement said. Arrangements are being made for their arrival in an orderly manner while adhering to the norms of social distancing and undertaking tests to ensure that timely action is taken to prevent any spread of COVID-19 in J-K, it said. "Approximately 30,000 persons have entered the UT, with proper regulation, from Lakhanpur. During this period, migrant workers, students and stranded persons from the states of Himachal Pradesh and Punjab have already returned to J-K. The stranded persons in the states/UTs of Haryana, Uttarakhand, Chandigarh and Delhi have been permitted to return, in a regulated manner, with effect from May 7 and this process will continue for a week," the Home Department said. The government said it is necessary that the return is managed properly so that its efforts to contain COVID-19 do not get adversely affected. "The government reassures all the stranded persons of J-K that it is taking every possible step for their early return to their homes. The government is fully aware of the details of the stranded persons of J-K at various places across the country, not only through the web links started by the Government of J-K but also from the data shared by the sending states/UTs," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-govt-arranges-special-trains-to-bring-back-its-residents-stranded-across-country-835312.html
09-05-2020||National||8-month-old among 24 fresh COVID-19 cases in Bihar; tally now 574||A boy from Nepal and an eight-month-old girl were among 24 people who tested positive for COVID-19 in Bihar on Friday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 574 in the state, a top Health department official said. Migrants comprised a significant proportion of those testing positive on the day which marked the contagion spreading to Khagaria, Saharsa and Supaul districts, leaving only two of the states 38 districts unaffected. According to Principal Secretary, Health, Sanjay Kumar, Samastipur reported the maximum number of six cases, all of them men aged between 35 and 50 and hailing from two different blocks under Rosera sub-division. Over 10 crore people in 20 districts have been covered as part of a door-to-door screening conducted on the pattern of the Pulse Polio campaign, the principal secretary said. Samastipur District Magistrate Shashank Shubhankar said they had all recently come back from Kolkata and following the spurt in cases, the OPD at the sub-divisional hospital has been shut down as a precautionary measure. Four men in their 20s and 30s tested positive in Khagaria and DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh said they were all migrant labourers, three of whom had returned from Delhi a few days back while one had returned from Rajasthan. Ghosh added that all of them had been kept at quarantine centres in the district upon their arrival and none had shown any symptoms.     The principal secretary also stated that Saharsa has reported its first two cases, both aged 13, while a 16-year-old patient is from Supaul. All the three boys are at a quarantine centre in Saharsa where, DM Kaushal Kumar said, they had arrived on Wednesday by a train carrying about 1,000 people from Nandurbar district in Maharashtra. He said the boys were among 177 minors who had been studying at a Madarsa in a Maharashtra town and their samples were sent for testing as they were found to be symptomatic during thermal screening. Four fresh cases were reported from Darbhanga, and according to District Magistrate Thyagarajan, three of them had come from Howrah in West Bengal by a private vehicle earlier this week while the fourth, a 60-year-old woman, caught the contagion from a person having previously tested positive. The baby girl testing positive was from East Champaran district and her infection trail was being ascertained. Quite a few COVID-19 patients in the state, across different districts, have been less than a year old. Besides, one case each was reported from Nawada, Nalanda, Begusarai, Banka, Bhagalpur and Katihar districts, the principal secretary said. On the positive side, the state continued with a fine recovery rate. Altogether 49 patients recovered in the last 24 hours and the total number of such cases till date was 267, the state health department said. Munger has accounted for the most number of 102 cases of which one has died while 52 were still active. Buxar (56), Rohtas (54) and Patna (46) are among the other badly affected districts.  Five persons -- one each from Munger, Vaishali, East Champaran, Sitamarhi and Rohtas -- have died. All the deceased persons were males and barring the 70-year-old from Rohtas, all were under 60 years of age with underlying medical conditions. According to the state health department's analysis of 550 cases reported till Thursday, as many as 445 were asymptomatic. More than 400 were under 40 years of age. Over 60 per cent of patients were male. The number of samples tested so far, at seven facilities in Patna, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga, was 30,320.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-month-old-among-24-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-bihar-tally-now-574-835314.html
09-05-2020||National||Most Indians expect COVID-19 crisis to end sooner locally than globally||Indians are more optimistic than people globally with regard to the COVID-19 crisis as most in the country feel that the pandemic will end sooner locally, by May-end or the end of July, a survey has revealed. Nearly half of respondents in India believe the situation will resolve in the country in the next three months, but some think it may take longer, according to the data by London-headquartered global market research and data company Yougov. Even though some countries have managed to control the spread of coronavirus with no new cases in the last few days, Indians are more likely to believe the COVID-19 crisis will get resolved sooner in India than it will globally, it added. Nearly half (48 per cent) think the pandemic is likely to end in India by end of May or end of July, which is higher than the number of people hoping for the same to happen globally within this time frame (40 per cent). Fewer Indians (32 per cent) think it may take longer (end of August- end of October) till the crisis resolves in India, but the number of people saying this for the situation changing globally is slightly higher- at 36 per cent, the survey has found. Fewer than this, both locally (7 per cent) and globally (10 per cent) think the pandemic may last till the end of the year (end of November- end of December) till it is under control, the survey added. The survey was done online by YouGov Omnibus among 900 adult respondents in India between April 28 and May 1 through YouGov's panel of over six million people worldwide. The survey further revealed that Indians are most likely to visit public places once local COVID-19 cases are under control, but likely to return to work once the government normalises movement.  When asked about returning to normal life, people seem more likely to return to public places such as parks and gardens, college and universities, malls and cinema halls (27 per cent each), and restaurants and hotels (25 per cent) once the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the country is under control, it added. Three in 10 (31 per cent) said they would consider visiting their friends and family at their homes under similar circumstances, it added. On the other hand, Indians are more likely to return to their offices or workplace once the government removes restriction on movement (29 per cent).  About 23 per cent are willing to take a domestic holiday or a staycation when there is no further spike in cases, but when it comes to travelling internationally, Indians are more likely to do so either when the spread of new cases is controlled globally (21 per cent) or when a vaccine to prevent COVID-19 is widely available (20 per cent). While the novel coronavirus is one of the greatest health emergencies faced by mankind, it has changed the world for the better in some areas. The biggest positive impact of the virus is believed to be on the environment, with 68 per cent respondents saying that. The virus has also taught mankind to value what they have and a half (50 per cent) think it has helped us appreciate our loved ones and the society, it said. The survey further found that many also believed this crisis may lead to technological advancements (43 per cent), stronger domestic supply chain (35 per cent) and less polarisation within the society (27 per cent). A handful of people (6 per cent), however, believed there will be nothing good coming out of this crisis, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/most-indians-expect-covid-19-crisis-to-end-sooner-locally-than-globally-835318.html
09-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 9, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-9-2020-edition-835345.html
09-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 9||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 62,333 as of May 9. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 2,074  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 16,540 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-9-835346.html
09-05-2020||National||Civil societies, groups, urge PM Modi to use PM-Cares to help families of migrants who died in Maha train accident||In a shocking incident, at least 16 migrant workers were run over by a goods train in Aurangabad in Marathwada region of Maharashtra in the wee hours of Friday. The lives of migrant labourers, who were killed in a train accident in Aurangabad while walking to their native places, could have been saved if arrangements had been made for their shelter or halt during their journey, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) said on Friday as it sought a report from Maharashtra government on the incident. In  its preliminary observations, it said the mishap could be termed as a train accident as normally it is not expected by anyone that some people will be sleeping on the railway tracks.  "However, the crucial aspect is that the poor labourers, who were already facing many hardships amid countrywide lockdown, were forced to walk on foot for a very long distance due to non-availability of any mode of transport, lost their lives due to apparent negligence by the district administration. Had some arrangements been made for their shelter or halt during their tiring journey, the painful tragedy could be averted," the NHRC said. A group of civil society organizations on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia per person for those who died in the Aurangabad train accident. "Victims of the railway track accident, and all those who died while travelling to their homes, be given ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh from PM Cares Fund," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/civil-societies-groups-urge-pm-modi-to-use-pm-cares-to-help-families-of-migrants-who-died-in-maha-train-accident-835348.html
09-05-2020||National||Migrants accident: Maharashtra tragedy just a tip of an iceberg||Pieces of bread strewn with their body parts on Aurangabad Jalna railway brought out the poignancy of the tragedy of life and livelihood even as the government plans a strategy of Jaan Bhi Jahan Bhi.  While politicos continue to blame each other over the crisis, the deaths of migrant labourers continue across India. On Wednesday night in Lucknow, Krishna Sahu, Pramila and their two kids tried to cycle home from Lucknow to their Chhattisgarh. A speeding vehicle hit them on a bypass road in Lucknow, killing both the husband and wife on the post and leaving the children orphaned. The foot-march of migrants continues even as the Railway Ministry in coordination with states is organising Shramik Special trains for them. The Centre on Friday said 222 Shramik Special trains have carried more than 2.5 lakh people. Nearly 500 migrants came out in streets in Surat on Thursday, alleging that even as money for train tickets was taken from them five days ago no arrangements were made to send them back home. Nearly 150 labourers from Surat left from Surat for Jharkhand on bicycles.   Labourers inside a Bihar bound train fought with belts and fisticuffs inside a train over food near Satna railway station in Madhya Pradesh. Migrant labourers agitated in many railway stations throughout the week, even as their home states refused to accept them. When this humanitarian crisis is over, the real challenge before the cities dependent on migrant labour will be to convince them to come back, to keep their engine of growth running.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrants-accident-maharashtra-tragedy-just-a-tip-of-an-iceberg-835351.html
09-05-2020||National||Only severe COVID-19 patients to be tested before discharge: Union health ministry||Coronavirus infected patients developing severe illness or having compromised immunity will have to test negative through RT-PCR test before being discharged by a hospital, the Union health ministry on Friday said in its revised discharge policy for COVID-19 cases. Moderate cases of COVID-19 and pre-symptomatic, mild and very mild cases need not undergo tests before being discharged after resolution of symptoms. According to the rules till now, a patient was considered fit to be discharged if he or she tested negative on day 14 and then again in a span of 24 hours. "The revised discharge policy is aligned with the guidelines on the 3 tier COVID facilities and the categorisation of patients based on clinical severity," the ministry said. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,981 and the number of cases climbed to 59,662 on Saturday, registering an increase of 95 deaths and 3,320 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry. The discharge criteria for severe cases, including immunocompromised like HIV patients, transplant recipients, and those having malignancy will be based on clinical recovery and of patient tested negative once by RT-PCR (after resolution of symptoms), the revised policy stated. Cases clinically classified as "moderate" will undergo monitoring of body temperature and oxygen saturation. If fever resolves within three days and patient maintains saturation above 95 per cent for the next four days (without oxygen support), such a patient will be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset incase of absence of fever without antipyretics, resolution of breathlessness and no oxygen requirement "There will be no need for testing prior to discharge," the ministry said. At the time of discharge, patient will be advised to follow home isolation for seven days as per the guidelines. Patient on oxygenation also falling under moderate category, whose fever does not resolve within three days and demand of oxygen therapy continues, will be discharged only after resolution of clinical symptoms and when they are able to maintain oxygen saturation for three consecutive days. Mild, very mild and pre-symptomatic cases admitted to a COVID care facility will undergo regular temperature and pulse oximetry monitoring. "The patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge," the revised discharge policy stated. At the time of discharge, patient will be advised to follow home isolation for further seen days as per the prescribed guidelines. At any point of time, prior to discharge from COVID Care Centre, if oxygen saturation dips below 95 per cent, patient will be moved to Dedicated COVID Health Centre. After discharge from the facility, if he/she again develops symptoms of fever, cough or breathing difficulty he will contact the COVID Care Centre or state helpline or 1075. His or her health will again be followed up through tele-conference on day 14, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-severe-covid-19-patients-to-be-tested-before-discharge-union-health-ministry-835389.html
09-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockown 3.0: Ganesh Chaturthi in Maharashtra to be simple, low key this year||The BrihanMumbai Sarvajanik Ganeshutsav Samanway Samiti (BSGSS), the apex body of Ganesh mandals, has urged the organisers to celebrate the festival in a simple manner.The 11-day festival starts on August 22 on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi and ends on September 1 on Anant Chaturdashi. "Just couple of days ago, we made a request to the Ganesh mandals....Ganesh festival is a tradition and we will continue to celebrate it but it would be in a simple manner," BSGSS president Naresh Dahibhawkar told DH.  According to him, the mandals have responded positively to the appeal of the apex body. "The Ganesh festival of Mumbai is famous across the world," he said. In Mumbai alone, there are 10,700-odd sarvajanik Ganesh mandals, of which around 250 are the big ones. Dahibhawkar said that during the festival, the guidelines of the WHO, Centre and Maharashtra government would be followed.  We have to ensure that there is physical distancing,  a place to wash hands and sanitisers are there, the BSGSS chief said. "The issue is more complex than it appears to be. Practically, the preparations and meetings start by April. But now we are at a stage when Covid-19 is peaking in India, and Mumbai and its suburbs are the worst-affected. We hope and pray that things should be normal by the end of May," he said, adding that because of Covid-19 lockdown, there is an element of uncertainty. Another issue is that it is difficult to make big idols at this stage. "There is an issue of availability of raw materials. The local, as well as migrant workers, have left," he said. He said from June, there would be regular meetings with the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Mumbai police - and at this stage, they are working overtime to fight COVID-19 pandemic. "First let us see when the lockdown ends. But that notwithstanding, we have told mandals to celebrate the festival in a low-key manner and continue the tradition," he said.In Mumbai,  the origin of the festival in this form is from Keshavji Nayak Chawl at Girgaum here, where Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak started its first ‘sarvajanik’ Ganesh Utsav in 1893. It was done to garner support for India’s freedom struggle. Some of the most popular Ganesh mandals are Lalbaug-cha-Raja at Lalbaug, Ganesh Gully, Lalbaug, Tejukaya Mandal, Lalbaug, GSB Seva Mandal, Matunga-Kings’ Circle, GSB Sarvajanik Ganeshutsav Samiti, Wadala, Kethwadi, 11thLane, Kethwadi, 12th Lane, Sahyadri Mandal, Tilak Nagar-Chembur, Shri BalGopal GaneshUtsav Mandal, Marine Lines, Fort VibhagSarvajanik Ganeshutsav Mandal, Fort, Andheri-cha-Raja or the Azad Nagar Sarvajanik Utsav Samitee at Andheri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockown-30-ganesh-chaturthi-in-maharashtra-to-be-simple-low-key-this-year-835390.html
09-05-2020||National||PM Modi remembers reformer Gokhale on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday remembered reformer Gopal Krishna Gokhale on his 154th birth anniversary, recalling his contribution towards education and social empowerment. Remembering Gopal Krishna Gokhale on his birth anniversary. A remarkable personality blessed with immense wisdom, he made outstanding contributions towards education and social empowerment. He also provided exemplary leadership to India’s freedom movement. "Remembering Gopal Krishna Gokhale on his birth anniversary. A remarkable personality blessed with immense wisdom, he made outstanding contributions towards education and social empowerment," Modi wrote on Twitter. Gokhale, the prime minister said, also provided exemplary leadership to India's freedom movement. Gokhale was born on this day in then Bombay Presidency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-remembers-reformer-gokhale-on-birth-anniversary-835393.html
09-05-2020||National||Maha: 363 cases registered over social media posts on COVID-19||Maharashtra Cyber has registered 363 offences of rumour mongering, spreading misinformation, hatred and fake news on social media during the COVID-19 lockdown, an official said on Saturday. The state police's cyber wing has been monitoring online activities to prevent the spread of misinformation about the COVID-19 pandemic. As many as 196 persons were arrested for sharing or uploading objectionable posts, videos and photographs on social media, the official said. In Sangli district, a case was registered against some people for uploading a Tik-Tok video about a particular community being responsible for the pandemic and also using abusive language against prominent social reformers, he said. At least 14 offences were registered by the cyber wing in the district since the lockdown was enforced, he added. Similarly, in Parli town of Beed district, some persons were booked for a social media post linking the spread of COVID-19 to a particular community, he said, adding that the district had recorded highest number of cyber offences during the lockdown. Of the 363 offences registered so far, at least 155 cases were related to WhatsApp forwards, while 140 were for objectionable Facebook posts, the official said. The cyber wing had deleted at least 101 objectionable posts from social media platforms during the lockdown, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maha-363-cases-registered-over-social-media-posts-on-covid-19-835396.html
09-05-2020||National||Death toll due to COVID-19 rises to 1,981; cases climb to 59,662||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,981 and the number of cases climbed to 59,662 in the country on Saturday, registering an increase of 95 deaths and 3,320 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry.  The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 39,834, while 17,846 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said.  "Thus, around 29.91 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. The total number of cases also include 111 foreign nationals. A total 95 deaths deaths were reported since Friday morning, of which 37 in Maharashtra, 24 in Gujarat, nine in West Bengal, seven in Madhya Pradesh, four each from Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, three from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu and two from Delhi and one each from Punjab and Haryana. Jharkhand has recorded three COVID-19 fatalities. Odisha and Himachal Pradesh have reported two deaths each. Meghalaya, Chandigarh, Assam and Uttarakhand have reported one fatality each, according to the Union health ministry's data. According to the ministry's website, 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities. However, a PTI tally of the figures reported by various states as on Friday evening showed 59,100 cases 1,904 deaths in the country. There has been a lag in the Union health ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. According to the health ministry data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 19,063, followed by Gujarat at 7,402, Delhi at 6,318, Tamil Nadu at 6,009, Rajasthan at 3,579, Madhya Pradesh at 3,341 and Uttar Pradesh at 3,214. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 1,887 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,731 in Punjab. It has risen to 1,678 in West Bengal, 1,133 in Telengana, 823 in Jammu and Kashmir, 753 in Karnataka, 647 in Haryana and 571 in Bihar.  Kerala has reported 503 coronavirus cases so far, while Odisha has 271 cases. A total of 150 people have been infected with the deadly virus in Chandigarh and 132 in Jharkhand. Tripura has reported 118 cases, Uttarakhand has 63 cases, Chhattisgarh and Assam have 59 cases each, Himachal Pradesh has 50 and Ladakh has registered 42 cases so far. Thirty-three COVID-19 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Meghalaya has registered 12 cases, Puducherry has nine, while Goa has seven COVID-19 cases.  Manipur has two cases. Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Dadar and Nagar Haveli have reported a case each. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research)," the ministry said on its website. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-rises-to-1981-cases-climb-to-59662-835398.html
09-05-2020||National||India UK bilateral ties poised for even bigger take-off: Ruchi Ghanashyam||Ruchi Ghanashyam retired as the Indian High Commissioner to the UK early this month in an unusually discreet way given the constraints related to the coronavirus lockdown, bidding farewell to her team at the India House in London virtually over a conference call. However, there has been little impact on her workload as she continues to be flooded with queries and requests as the first repatriation flight for Indian nationals takes off from London for Mumbai on Saturday. The 60-year-old former diplomat, who is yet to fully pack her bags or say all her goodbyes, is confident that her tenure comes to a close at a time when India-UK relations are poised for real take-off. "India and the UK have strategic ties and a deep relationship which spans almost every area we can think of," said Ghanashyam in a farewell interview. "This depth was even more visible during this time of crisis, when we worked closely together to assist with the repatriation of each other's nationals, facilitated the supply of life-saving medicines to the UK and set up collaborations between institutions and businesses to find meaningful solutions. This gives me hope that our bilateral ties are poised for an even bigger take-off," she said. The career diplomat, who arrived in the UK in November 2018, has had an extremely eventful posting with General Elections in both countries, the ups and downs of Britain's exit from the European Union (EU) at the start of this year and culminating in the coronavirus pandemic. "I arrived in the thick of Brexit negotiations and retired in the thick of a global pandemic – so the journey has been most unusual. There were two major elections in 2019 – in India and the UK – so most certainly a very eventful time," she recalls. "I have been extremely fortunate to have some wonderful interlocutors, from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) as well as the wider network, who have facilitated and aided an even closer India-UK connect," she said. This connect in her final few weeks involved weekly calls with FCO minister for South Asia, Lord Tariq Ahmad, among others, during which each side could raise areas of concern and highlight priorities on both sides in a "spirit of openness and willingness to listen". "During a crisis of this nature, in my own country our Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) has been working so hard, as is our External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and the entire team, so it is incumbent upon each one us to do what we can – for our own people but also for the wider society, whether we hold a position or not," she said. The Indian High Commission in London has been hosting a series of virtual meetings, including with Indian businesses, diaspora and students' groups, to create a support network for Indians caught up in the lockdown. "From organising affordable accommodation to hot meals for those who may be feeling alienated being far away from their loved ones, we have very capable officers at the mission who have found ways to help every Indian who reaches out to us," she said. "Our endeavour has been to connect with everyone and understand the challenges faced to try and address them as best as possible, within the constraints of the lockdown," she added. Ghanashyam, who will head back to Delhi once the COVID-19 related travel restrictions are eased, feels like her retirement has not entirely sunk in yet as there is an ongoing demand on her time, including this week at the virtual launch of the Grant Thornton and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) 'India Meets Britain Tracker 2020' of the fastest growing Indian companies in the UK. She was also instrumental in encouraging the first-ever report on 'The Diaspora Effect', collated by Grant Thornton and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) earlier this year to quantify the impact of the 1.5-million-strong Indian diaspora in the UK. "There are so many highlights of my tenure, which was short [17 months] but immensely eventful. There were two major celebrations, the 550th anniversary of Guru Nanak Devji and the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, both of which were marked in a big way across the UK," she said. The diplomat, seen at every major UK event dressed in her trademark saree, also initiated the first-ever India Day at the London Fashion Week in February to promote the work of the Indian weavers behind the garment. "It has been a privilege to wear these beautiful creations throughout my career. That was the reason behind the first India Day, to highlight the genius behind some of the handwoven and carefully crafted sarees by Indian weavers and crafts people," she said. And, asked about the possibility of penning down her memoirs as she settles into her retirement, Ghanashyam admits she has not entirely signed off yet. "It has been a particularly hectic time and though I have retired, there is work still to be done. My diplomatic career has been my life for 38 years, the longest association after my parents and family, so it is only natural that I can't simply just switch off," she said. "As and when I get a chance to settle into my retired life, I will think about things to do. I can't say I have given a memoir a serious thought but maybe over time I might feel the urge to write about the various amazing experiences across so many international postings of my career," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-bilateral-ties-poised-for-even-bigger-take-off-ruchi-ghanashyam-835403.html
09-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu pay tributes to Maharana Pratap on birth anniversary||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid tributes to Maharana Pratap on his 480th birth anniversary, saying his patriotism will always be remembered. In his message, Naidu said Maharana Pratap was one of India's greatest warriors. "His indomitable courage, valour, leadership skills and love for motherland will always be remembered and continue to inspire every Indian," he said. Modi described the 13th king of Mewar as the great son of Mother India.  "His life full of patriotism, self-respect and might will always remain a source of inspiration for the people of the country," the prime minister said. Pratap Singh, popularly known as Maharana Pratap, was born in 1540.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-pay-tributes-to-maharana-pratap-on-birth-anniversary-835406.html
09-05-2020||National||57 new coronavirus cases in Rajasthan, total cases rise to 3,636||Fifty-seven new coronavirus cases were reported in Rajasthan on Saturday morning, taking the total number of cases in the state to 3,636 officials said. Maximum of the new cases -- 20 -- were reported from Udaipur and 15 in Jaipur, a government official said. Eleven cases were from Ajmer, three from Pali, two each from Rajsamand and Churu, and one each in Kota, Barmer, Jalore and Dausa, the official said. Rajasthan has reported 103 deaths due to COVID-19 so far and the maximum cases (1,160) and deaths (54) are from Jaipur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/57-new-coronavirus-cases-in-rajasthan-total-cases-rise-to-3636-835411.html
09-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Mothers in villages use household items to homeschool kids||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced a nationwide lockdown from March 25 to April 14 and urged the country of around 1.3 billion people to stay home in view of the coronavirus outbreak. The restrictions were first extended till May 3 and again extended till May 17. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,981 and the number of cases climbed to 59,662 in the country on Saturday, registering an increase of 95 deaths and 3,320 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry. As most of the educational institutions in cities across the country are offering online classes due to the lockdown, parents too are chipping in to educate their kids at home using iPads, tabs and smartphones.  However, in the absence of fancy gadgets, internet connection and in some cases even electricity, those living in the hinterlands have come up with unique ideas like using fruits, vegetables, buttons, pulses etc. to teach their kids how to count and identify different shapes, sizes and colours. In a video shot in a remote village in Odisha, a mother can be seen using tomatoes, onions and green chillies to teach her child how to count while another similar clip from a village in Jharkhand shows a mother teaching her child about different shapes through drawings that she made on the ground using a piece of chalk. The child identifies the rectangle, circle and square before jumping inside them as part of an educational game. In another video, children can be seen learning about numbers with the help of buttons and grains of different pulses. The mothers made the videos as part of an initiative by child rights NGO Save the Children to teach children in remote parts of the country and ensure that the parents are engaged in the learning process of the child. "Our field level staff made some videos based on domain areas and shared them. We started the videos as an experiment because we are working with families who are struggling for their daily bread and butter and other issues," said Kamal Gaur, deputy director-education at Save the Children. "But these videos acted like a stimulus. We have developed a time table that every day we will touch upon an area so we started sharing those videos and we asked people how they were sou spending time with their children and they started sending us videos," she told PTI. She further said that sometimes the mothers would replicate what was sent to them but most of the times, they come up with their own innovative ideas. "It is an experiment but we are now putting it in a form of curriculum to distribute it in a much organised manner," Gaur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-mothers-in-villages-use-household-items-to-homeschool-kids-835412.html
09-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Delhi govt pays for Bihar-bound migrant labourers, RJD attacks Nitish Kumar govt||The Delhi government bought special train tickets for around 1,200 Muzaffarpur-bound migrant workers after the Bihar government refused to pay, prompting a sharp attack on the "insensitive" Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) dispensation by the Opposition RJD, which promised to pay on behalf on the labourers. AAP Parliamentary Party leader Sanjay Singh said Railways is saying first give money and then the train will run while the Bihar government is saying take the money from labourers and they will give it to them later. "The Delhi government said, 'we will not allow the workers to pay money, so it has already paid the Railways through a cheque'. Whom are Nitish and BJP fooling?"  The RJD attack on JD(U) led by its top leader Tejashwi Yadav, aided by the AAP government's decision, comes against the backdrop of upcoming Bihar Assembly elections later this year and is seen as an attempt to corner the Nitish-led government on the question of migrant labourers. Kumar had earlier questioned the move to transport people across state borders but had welcomed the Centre's move allowing special trains to transport stranded migrant labourers and claimed that his government had requested the central government to do so. The Arvind Kejriwal-led government made the announcement on Friday to bear the cost of train travel of all migrant workers if their home states do not respond on the matter of bearing their travel cost. On Friday, Delhi Labour Minister Gopal Rai tweeted that 1,200 migrant labourers left for Muzaffarpur and the Delhi government will bear their full travel cost. All those who boarded the train were given food packets to eat during the travel along with dry fruits, biscuits, banana and water bottles, an official statement said on Friday. It said the guidelines make it clear that the Centre and the home state of the migrant workers should bear the cost of their travel. The Delhi government had reached out to states with the list of migrant workers stranded in Delhi but most of them are “yet to respond on the issue of bearing the travel costs”, it said.  Tejashwi lost no opportunity in taking on the JD(U)-BJP government and tweeted, "Thank you so much, Arvind Kejriwal-ji. We are sorry for the insensitivity shown by the Bihar government. As a responsible Opposition, we offer our support in terms of financial contribution in taking back migrant Bihari workforce. Please let us know the modalities of transferring the money." "Dear Nitish Kumar-ji, stop acting like a Private Ltd Co. We are a welfare state and therefore it’s our responsibility to look after people. As per MHA’s directive, do send us the list of passengers so that we can directly pay to the sending state. Our party is committed to serve poor," he said in a separate tweet. Former BJP leader and Union Minister Yashwant Sinha said, "According to Sanjay Singh, MP of AAP, Bihar government refused to bear even 15% of its share of the rail fare of the migrants returning from Delhi. So the AAP govt paid it. How can Bihar be so insensitive and callous?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-delhi-govt-pays-for-bihar-bound-migrant-labourers-rjd-attacks-nitish-kumar-govt-835420.html
09-05-2020||National||Extending daily working hours will neither benefit industries nor workers: Karnataka govt||The Karnataka government may not extend the daily working hours from 8 to 12, with Labour Minister A Shivaram Hebbar saying on Saturday that the move would neither benefit the industries nor workers. Hebbar told PTI that the proposal has not been discussed and it may come for final deliberations next week. He also noted that some States have already extended the working hours. More than extending working hours, there should be employment to be given. If there are no jobs what can be done by extending working hours? If it is done (working hours extended to 12 hours), it would neither benefit workers nor industries. Let's see what happens, he said. Asked if the government was in favour of the extension, he said, "I don't think it will be ready for the (12 hour) proposal." Meanwhile, the Minister also said that their top priority now was to see that all MSMEs start operating again, salaries are paid to employees and there are no job losses for any reason. If industries don't reopen, how can workers get their employment? We should think in parallel, Hebbar said adding, the government was keeping the interests of both MSMEs and workers in mind. He urged the Centre to offer a relief package to the MSME sector, saying it is facing very difficult times due to the adverse impact of the COVID-19-induced lockdown, and also noting its role in generating large-scale employment and feeding large industries. The BJP-led government has done whatever within its limitations to help the MSMEs, he said. Earlier this week, the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced that the monthly fixed charges of electricity bills of MSMEs would be waived for two months. MSMEs have suffered huge production losses due to the lockdown. It takes some time for them to revive, Yediyurappa had said. The Chief Minister had also said payment of fixed charges in the electricity bills of the large industries will be deferred without penalty and interest for a period of two months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extending-daily-working-hours-will-neither-benefit-industries-nor-workers-karnataka-govt-835425.html
09-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Aarogya Setu, a privacy vs public health trade-off?||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, we look at the dilution of labour laws and what they mean during the lockdown and post-COVID scenario. In DH explainer, Akash Sriram talks to Pallavi Bedi from the Centre for Internet and Society about the buzz around government-mandated Aarogya Setu app. DH Correspondent Jagadeesh Angadi speaks to Dr Suresh Hanagawadi of Karnataka Haemophilia Society to get an insight on blood shortage during COVID-19 times and how blood donation was facilitated in Davangere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-aarogya-setu-a-privacy-vs-public-health-trade-off-835436.html
09-05-2020||National||Fact-check: Fake tweet shows Amit Shah saying he has bone cancer||The text in the viral image reads, “My fellow countrymen, each step that I took was for the nation’s well-being, I don’t hate any person from any caste or religion. Since the past few days due to poor health I haven’t been able to serve the citizens of the country, I am sad to share that I have bone cancer in the back of my throat. I hope during good months of Ramzan, Muslim community will also pray for my speedy recovery and I will be at your service soon.” [Translated from: मेरे देश की जनता, मेरे द्वारा उठाया गया हर एक कदम देश हित में ही रहा है, मेरा किसी जाती या धर्म विशेष के व्यक्ति से कोई दुश्मनी नहीं है, कुछ दिनों से बिगड़े स्वास्थ के चलते देश की जनता की सेवा नहीं कर पा रहा हूं, यह बताते हुए दुख हो रहा है मुझे गले के पिछले हिस्से में बोन कैंसर हुआ है, में आशा करता हूं, रमज़ान के इस मुबारक महीने में मुस्लिम समाज के लोग भी मेरे स्वास्थ के लिए दुआ करेंगे औरजल्द ही स्वस्थ हो कर आपकी सेवा करूंगा।)”    The viral image of Home Minister Amit Shah’s tweet is not authentic. The tweet has been manufactured and this is evident from the inconsistencies. 1. Tweet is not in perfect alignment  The viral tweet has been manufactured to imitate how a tweet would look on a mobile phone. Alt News has compared it with a screenshot of a recent tweet by Shah. In the viral tweet, the text crosses over the red line towards the left and beyond the display picture.    2. Exceeds character count At first glance itself, the text in the viral screenshot seems over the 280 character limit on Twitter. Alt News extracted the text from the image by saving the file and opening it in Google docs. Upon pasting the text on Twitter, we found that it has 149 extra characters.    3. Spelling and grammatical mistakes The tweet carries more commas than required and only one full stop at the end. The entire paragraph is essentially one sentence. Furthermore, the word ‘जाति’ (caste) has been wrongly spelt as ‘जाती’, ‘स्वास्थ्य’ (health) as ‘स्वास्थ’, ‘मैं’ (Me) as ‘में’ and ‘और जल्द’ (and soon) as ‘औरजल्द’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-fake-tweet-shows-amit-shah-saying-he-has-bone-cancer-835437.html
09-05-2020||National||Actor Sandhya Mridul urges citizens to report cases of domestic violence||If you are a silent witness to a case of domestic violence, you are as guilty as the one indulging in it, says actor Sandhya Mridul in a newly released video campaign that urges bystanders to be as vigilant as survivors in seeking help by calling the National Helpline for Domestic Violence. While the main intention behind the lockdown was to protect people from getting exposed to the deadly coronavirus, statistics have shown that women have ended up becoming more vulnerable to abuse. The National Commission for Women (NCW) recently reported 587 complaints on their helpline number and online portal since the lockdown came into effect in March. On the one hand several women have taken to social media sharing stories of how just being at home in this period has ensured safety from gendered assault and harassment. But on the other hand, gender experts and women rights activists have been raising concerns. The lockdown has presented a challenging situation for lakhs of women caught in difficult situations with their abusers, with no looming respite. Financial uncertainty, lack of access to basics and struggles of confinement have aggravated the situation.    Sandhya, who is known for her honesty and forthrightness on a range of issues, says that the video is not just shedding light on a bitter reality, but also calling out our own hypocrisy in dealing with this situation. “Such a grave issue cannot be just regarded as someone else's problem, or a personal matter. We cannot be mere bystanders, we need to take ownership as a community and stand up against what is wrong. This lockdown was imposed for the safety of people. But the flip side is that because of it, many women are not safe in their own homes,” she says. Sandhya also makes an appeal to all those watching the video that in case they know of a friend, neighbour or anyone in the community who is going through this ordeal, they should call the National Helpline for Domestic Violence, or even use the WhatsApp alert, which is set up for a scenario where victims might not be able to make a telephone call. Abha Bhaiya, a gender expert who is also one of the founders of Jagori, says that domestic violence against girls and women is an epidemic, if not a pandemic. “The lockdown is supposed to ensure safety with physical distance. However, for many women, the home was never a safe place and the enforced lockdown has resulted in escalated violence against women inside the homes,” she says, adding that the state must recognise the gravity of the crime and act with utmost seriousness, putting in place safety measures and infrastructure required for women to move out of violent homes. The video is the latest in a series around coronavirus advocacy started by Mumbai-based Waatavaran Foundation, Bengaluru-based Jhatkaa.org and Bihar-based Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/actor-sandhya-mridul-urges-citizens-to-report-cases-of-domestic-violence-835438.html
09-05-2020||National||Teenager raped by two men who recorded act, blackmailed her||A 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two men here who made a video of the act and then blackmailed her for about an year, police said on Saturday. A case was registered against the two men, Circle Officer Aalok Mishra said. "On a complaint lodged by the girl that she has been raped by two youths, who also made a video clip and blackmailed her for almost an year. Police on Friday registered a case," he said. The girl has been sent for medical examination at a government hospital, he said. The CO also said that the two accused are absconding and efforts are on to nab them. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/teenager-raped-by-two-men-who-recorded-act-blackmailed-her-835445.html
09-05-2020||National||'Bois Locker room' incident: PIL in HC for SIT or CBI probe and arrests of offenders||A PIL was filed in the Delhi High Court seeking an SIT or CBI investigation in the incident of "Bois Locker Room", an Instagram group in which obscene messages and morphed pictures of underage girls were shared, and demanded arrest the offenders. The participants of the chat room were mostly young teenage boys from Delhi who allegedly shared lewd and objectionable content pertaining to minor girls. The chat room was used to make comments and share compromising and allegedly morphed images of minor girls. The plea is likely to come up for hearing on May 13. Petitioner Dev Ashish Dubey also sought protection for the girls and women who have highlighted the crime of Delhi school students so that they cannot be harmed by the members of the group. "Since the issue is related to the offence committed against girls and women by the group members of Instagram group named as 'Bois Locker Room', which was created by school students mainly staying in South Delhi. Hence the petitioner preferred this PIL," the plea said. The plea, filed through advocates Dushyant Tiwari and Om Prakash Parihar, sought direction to the Centre and Delhi government to get the social media chat group incident investigated through a Special Investigation Team (SIT) or the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). It also sought direction to the authorities to arrest all the members of the Instagram Group "Bios Locker Room" members immediately. "The entire issue needs to be investigated by the SIT or CBI as these students belong to high profile families and there is an apprehension that the investigation or enquiry conducted by the local police will be influenced and wrongdoers will never be arrested and punished," it alleged. It said instead of being apologetic or fearful after the vulgar comments and obscene photos posted by them came into public domain, the boys openly threatened the girls and the offence committed by these students through the Instagram group is illegal and amounts to violation of various laws, it said. Earlier, two advocates had written a letter to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice to take suo motu cognisance of the incident. Delhi Police's Cyber cell have arrested the 18-year-old admin of the chat group. He appeared for his class 12 board examinations this year. Police have said he is a student of a school in Delhi-NCR and four group members, who all are majors, above 18 years, have joined the probe. The juveniles, who are part of the group, are being quizzed at their home in the presence of their parents and members of NGOs. A juvenile member was apprehended. The Delhi Commission of Women (DCW) had issued a notice to Instagram and Delhi Police, taking cognisance of the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bois-locker-room-incident-pil-in-hc-for-sit-or-cbi-probe-and-arrests-of-offenders-835446.html
09-05-2020||National||Bengal grandmother makes 130 km bicycle trip for grandson’s treatment||Where there is a will, there is way. The saying got an entirely new meaning for a 50-year-old grandmother from West Bengal’s Jhargram district. She has cycled 130 km in total to and from her village in the remote Belpahari area of the district with her five-year-old grandson, a thalassemia patient, riding pillion to the district hospital, for his blood transfusion. A resident Suridiha village of Jhargram, Malati Tudu’s grandson was diagnosed with thalassemia when he was five months old. Since then he needs A+ve  blood every month to survive. Tudu said that last time on March 30 she did not face any difficulty in taking her grandson to the district hospital for blood transfusion since the government ambulance at the local health centre was available. “Despite the lockdown then I did not face any problems when taking my grandson to the district hospital as the ambulance was available free of cost,” said Tudu. But this month when she went to the health centre to ask for the ambulance Tudu was in for a shock. The ambulance was not available due to mechanical problems and there was no other way to take her grandson to the hospital during the lockdown.  Not to be disheartened the resilient grandmother decided to take matters into her own hands and set off for the district hospital on a bicycle with her grandson riding pillion. Tudu on May 3 brought her grandson from her daughter’s house on the bicycle to her home. Then after resting for the night, she set off with her grandson on a 65 km long ride for the district hospital. After reaching there late evening on the same day she admitted her grandson at the hospital.  But her challenges were not over yet. “ Blood bank authorities told me that blood transfusion will not be possible without a donor,” said Tudu. Finally with the intervention of the local Trinamool Congress (TMC) leadership donor was found and her grandson received a blood transfusion. Relieved Tudu once again rode 65 km with her grandson to back to her village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-grandmother-makes-130-km-bicycle-trip-for-grandson-s-treatment-835453.html
09-05-2020||National||Ship from Maldives with about 698 stranded Indians to arrive on May 10||Ahead of the arrival of a Naval ship here with stranded Indians from Maldives, a top police officer on Saturday said all arrangements are in place to facilitate safe stay of the repatriated comprising Keralites and people from other parts of the country in the southern state.  INS Jalashwa, participating in Indian Navy's "Operation Samudra Setu" to bring home Indians stuck in foreign countries due to COVID-19 pandemic, has departed from Male port for Kochi with 698 Indian nationals on board on Friday night. It is expected to reach here on Sunday. This is the Indian Navy's first massive evacuation exercise during the COVID-19 lockdown. Inspector General of Police Vijay Sakhare said 431 people traveling via ship are from Kerala. Rest of the passengers are from other parts of the country including Tamil Nadu (132 people). A few people from states including Goa, Haryana, Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Telangana and Lakshadweep are also traveling in the ship. "All these people disembarked from the ship will be sent to Institutional Quarantine facilities for 14 days," Sakhare, who is also the commissioner of the Kochi City police, told PTI. The Keralite passengers, once cleared by all statutory organisations, would be transported to different districts in KSRTC buses (30 per bus). Police would escort them till their quarantine facilities in every single district, he said. "The people from other states, they will stay in the quarantine facilities in Ernakulam for 14 days," said Sakhare who is the in-charge of the operations. Asked about the transportation of the people from other states after completion of their 14 days quarantine, Sakhare said a decision in this regard would be taken after consultations with the Central and their state governments. Narrating the steps taken by the state government to ensure safe quarantine of the symptomatic people, the top official said such passengers would be segregated and disembarked first, followed by other passengers (district wise) in batches of 50 persons. "We have a thermal scanning system at the entry itself. When they get down from the ship, they will be subjected to thermal scanning. If somebody has heightened temperature he or she will be segregated and sent to the hospitals for formal check-up. The hospital will decide if they need to be isolated or sent to the Institutional Quarantines set up by the state government," said. Ambulance for transporting symptomatic passengers to quarantine centres are ready, he added. Majority of the passengers coming via ship from Maldives are migrant labourers. The number of tourists and professionals travelling in the ship are very few, official sources said. Before arrival at Cochin, on board the vessel, the Navy would get the self e-declaration data filled by all passengers and also identify the passengers symptomatic of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ship-from-maldives-with-about-698-stranded-indians-to-arrive-on-may-10-835454.html
09-05-2020||National||It's like 2nd innings of Test match: Kumble on fight against COVID-19||Former India captain and coach Anil Kumble compared the fight against the dreaded COVID-19 pandemic to the "second innings" of an intense Test match where people can't afford to let their guard down. The coronavirus outbreak has wreaked havoc, claiming over 2,76,000 lives so far while infecting more than four million people. Among other things, the unprecedented health crisis has also brought sport to a standstill, leading to cancellation and postponement of several events, including the Tokyo Olympics and European Football Championships and the Indian Premier League. "If we have to fight this coronavirus pandemic, we need to be in this together. It's like a Test match. Cricket Test matches are of five days but this has been longer," Kumble said in a video posted on his Twitter account. "Cricket Test matches are only two innings each, but this can be even more. So don't be complacent that we had a slender lead in the first innings because the second innings can be really rough." "We have to win this battle, it cannot be won just by a first-innings lead, we need to win this battle by registering an outright victory," he added. The novel coronavirus outbreak has forced the government to enforce a national lockdown since March 24 with an aim to flatten the curve of the deadly disease that has led to more than 59,000 positive cases and close to 2,000 deaths in the country. The former leg-spinner thanked all the health care workers and others who are going on with their work so that everyone else can stay safe at home. "I take this opportunity to thank all the corona warriors, be it the doctors, nurses, the attenders, the sanitation workers, volunteers, the government workers, officers, police. All of you have been doing a great job," Kumble said. "They have been great, selfless. They are at risk taking care of patients, so hats off to them," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/its-like-2nd-innings-of-test-match-kumble-on-fight-against-covid-19-835456.html
09-05-2020||National||Chidambaram welcomes Centre's decision to borrow additional Rs 4.2 lakh crore||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday welcomed the Centre's decision to borrow additional 4.2 lakh crore and said it should be used to provide relief to the poor and re-start the economy. "After resisting our appeals, especially through statements of the CEA, the government has finally decided to borrow an additional amount of Rs 4.2 lakh crore taking the projected fiscal deficit to 5.38 per cent. We welcome the decision," he said in a statement. The senior Congress leader, however, said, "It is not enough to borrow more unless the amount is used to provide relief to the poor and to re-start the economy. We look forward to the revised expenditure budget for 2020-21." Echoing similar sentiments put forth by several eminent economists, he had appealed to the central government to shed its reservations and borrow more in 2020-21. "In our view, the budgeted fiscal deficit of 3.5 per cent should not be a constraint in these extraordinary times," he said in the statement. The government on Friday revised its gross market borrowing target from the estimated Rs 7.8 lakh crore to Rs 12 lakh crore in view of the coronavirus pandemic. "The estimated gross market borrowing in the financial year 2020-21 will be Rs 12 lakh crore in place of Rs 7.80 lakh crore as per BE 2020-21. The above revision in borrowings has been necessitated on account of the COVID-19 pandemic," the Finance Ministry had said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chidambaram-welcomes-centres-decision-to-borrow-additional-rs-42-lakh-crore-835457.html
09-05-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan urges migrants to be patient, ensures their safe return||In the wake of the death of 16 workers from Madhya Pradesh in a train accident in Maharashtra on Friday, MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday urged the stranded migrants to be patient as his government was making arrangement for their safe return to the state. He also asked them not to risk their lives by undertaking return journey on foot. Sixteen migrant workers- part of a group of 20 headed towards villages in Madhya Pradesh and who were resting on the tracks, were crushed to death by a goods train in Aurangabad district in the early hours of Friday. According to police, they had left Jalna around 7 on Thursday evening and decided to rest on the tracks after walking for about 36 km. In a video statement, Chouhan said, "The migrant labourers should be patient and avoid return journey on foot as the state government has made arrangements to bring them back." "Eleven trains carrying people from other states have already reached Madhya Pradesh and 10 more are coming on Saturday," he said. The government will ensure the safe return of the migrant workers, he added. "Contact the state control room and give information. We are committed to bring you back to the state, he appealed to the migrants. Chouhan said that about 1.25 lakh migrants have been brought back to the state so far. He said the labourers can get themselves registered for the return journey by contacting on the phone number - 0755-2411180.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-urges-migrants-to-be-patient-ensures-their-safe-return-835459.html
09-05-2020||National||Delhi govt issues 4.75 lakh e-tokens to buy liquor||The Delhi government has so far issued around 4.75 lakh e-tokens to buy liquor in the national capital, an official said on Saturday. Under the e-token system, customers are given specific time for purchasing alcohol so that there is no violation of social distancing norms by people queuing up outside liquor stores. The e-token is sent on mobile phones of registered people. The new system was introduced on Thursday in the wake of long queues outside liquor vends and people not following social distancing norms there. The Delhi government has allowed around 200 liquor shops to operate in the city. "The government has so far issued around 4.75 lakh e-token since Thursday evening to people to buy liquor without standing in long queues," the official said. People willing to get e-token can apply through a web link www.qtoken.in where they are allotted specific time for purchasing liquor after they fill personal details.  According to the official, the e-token system is maintaining social distancing and cutting down on waiting time in long queues by specifying time for each e-coupon holder to buy liquor at a shop. People are required to furnish address of liquor shop in their area along with their mobile number and other details, while applying for e-token on the web link.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-issues-475-lakh-e-tokens-to-buy-liquor-835460.html
09-05-2020||National||Why men rape? Book seeks to find out answers||Why men rape? A new book seeks to find out answers by examining a slew of factors that shape male behaviour. In her book "Why Men Rape: An Indian Undercover Investigation", Tara Kaushal sets out to understand the reasons why women feel unsafe through a detailed investigation which includes interviews and meetings with nine men who have an inclination to commit acts of sexual violence. The core of Kaushal's research methodology for the book, scheduled for release next month, entailed spending up to a week each with nine men who have raped, across different parts of the country. The author spent time in their home environments; interviewing and observing them, and their families and friends. Kaushal says through a study of these "mostly 'undetected' (the experts' term for rapists outside the criminal justice system), some unconvicted rapists, I sought to determine how history, economics, environment, upbringing, education (or lack thereof), psychological state, and attitudes towards sex, women and gender shaped their behaviour and impacted their inclination to commit rape". She says anthropological, observational research is expensive and time-consuming but in-depth. "Sociological, interview-based research is cheaper and easier but oftentimes shallower, with the drawback of the say-do divide - what people say is different from what they do." Kaushal says she was "undercover - with a different name and corresponding email and Facebook IDs; hidden tattoos and a so-not-me kurta- jeans look; the works". The 250 questions she asked and the things she observed were the "same with all men, but I never told them I was studying them because they had been identified as rapists". The men interviewed belong to all sections of society - a doctor who raped his 12-year-old patient; an unemployed man who has decided to kill his former lover; a youth who gang raped; a serial gang rapist who doesn't believe that rape exists. Alongside, the author gives insights from myriad survivors; world-famous experts; a jail inmate who provides with commentary on the world view of rape convicts inside a prison; and many more. The book, published by HarperCollins India, also talks about how hypersexualized mainstream cinema, prejudiced media coverage of rape cases, the explosion of pornography, and other historic and current factors have become collaborative agents in causing gender violence in India. In a nation plagued by the memory of Nirbhaya and the misogyny of the Bois Locker Room, the book is seen as a bold step towards revolutionising our discourse around sexual violence. According to Krishan Chopra, publisher (non-fiction) at HarperCollins India, "Why Men Rape" is an extraordinary journey to find an answer to a question that has begun to haunt India. "Tara Kaushal looks at how a whole slew of factors -- from history and environment to upbringing and ingrained attitudes about sex and gender -- shaped male behavior," he says. Commissioning editor Ananya Borgohain says this is a "rather unsettling book which will make you stand still, flummoxed, trying to grasp how our society functions".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-men-rape-book-seeks-to-find-out-answers-835467.html
09-05-2020||National||Over 1 lakh cases of coronavirus lockdown violations registered in Maharashtra||Over one lakh cases of lockdown violations were registered and 19,297 persons were arrested ever since prohibitory orders were enforced in Maharashtra in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, police said on Saturday. At least 1.02 lakh cases were registered under section 188 (disobeying an order passed by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, an official said. As many as 714 personnel, including 81 officers, of Maharashtra police contracted COVID-19, and of these 61 had recovered from the infection, he said. Maximum number of coronavirus cases reported in the police department were from Mumbai, he added. At least 194 cases of attacks on policemen were reported in various parts of the state, while 680 persons were arrested in these incidents and 73 policemen and a home guard were injured in these attacks, the official said. Nearly 32 cases of attacks on health workers were reported in the state till Saturday, he added. Meanwhile, the police have registered 1,289 offences of illegal transport and seized 54,611 vehicles during the lockdown, the official said. The police have also collected fines to the tune of over Rs 3.76 crore for various offences in this period, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1-lakh-cases-of-coronavirus-lockdown-violations-registered-in-maharashtra-835471.html
09-05-2020||National||In times of crisis, journalists should work for welfare of people, strengthening unity in society: RSS leader||In times of crisis, journalists should be more responsible and work for welfare of people and strengthening unity in society, RSS joint general secretary Manmohan Vaidya said on Saturday as the country battled against the coronavirus pandemic. Speaking on the occasion of Narad Muni Jayanti via video-conferencing, Vaidya said journalists while doing reporting should always keep welfare of society in their mind. And many journalists in the country do so. According to Hindu mythology, Narad Muni is a travelling storyteller and primary source of information among Gods. Expressing concern that a specific type of India's image is being painted in a section of the international media which is far away from ground reality, Vaidya said it was being done by some Indian journalists and they should keep the country's interests in mind while reporting. He further said that at the time when the country was facing the COVID-19 pandemic, journalists should be more responsible, working for welfare of people and strengthening unity in society. Underlining that journalism should not be market-driven, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader said journalists while doing their duty should also work for awakening the society and showing people the right path.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-times-of-crisis-journalists-should-work-for-welfare-of-people-strengthening-unity-in-society-rss-leader-835473.html
09-05-2020||National||Overseas evacuation: SC directs Centre to give priority to those at advanced stage of pregnancy||The Supreme Court has directed the Union government to consider giving priority to a group of women, including doctors and nurses, for repatriation from Saudi Arabia as they pleaded that they were at advanced stage of pregnancy.  A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai said, "The government shall explore the question of further priority as per the specific cases of the petitioners and shall take appropriate steps accordingly." Petitioners Sanisha Thomas and others led by senior advocate Indira Jaising filed a plea in the top court, seeking directions to the Centre to make appropriate arrangements to rescue and bring them back to India. They said these women were pregnant and stranded in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in vulnerable conditions. They also wanted adequate directions to the embassy at Riyadh for taking measures to ensure that the petitioners had access to proper medical facilities till they were repatriated. Absence of facilities would prove fatal to them and their foetuses, they contended. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said the government had on May 5 already taken a decision to bring back citizens stranded in overseas. He said priority was already given to expectant mothers in terms of the guidelines for evacuation of stranded citizens. The petitioners, for their part, submitted that since their pregnancy was at advanced stage, they were required to be given further priority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/overseas-evacuation-sc-directs-centre-to-give-priority-to-those-at-advanced-stage-of-pregnancy-835476.html
09-05-2020||National||LG Polymers says vapour leak caused accident at Vizag plant||LG Polymers India Ltd on Saturday blamed leaking vapour from a storage tank for the leakage of deadly styrene monomer gas at its Visakhapatnam plant that killed at least 11 people and forced the evacuation of thousands. Status quo at the plant was restored on Saturday morning, the company said in a statement. The gas leakage from the plant was reported on Thursday morning after the company tried to restart operations following the partial easing of the coronavirus lockdown. "Our initial investigations suggest that the cause of the incident is prima facie by the leaking vapor from the Styrene Monomer (SM) storage tank near the GPPS (General Purpose Poly Styrene) factory on Thursday, May 7," the statement said. The unit of South Korean chemical giant LG Chem said it is committed to working closely with the concerned authorities to investigate the cause of the incident, prevent recurrence in future and secure the foundation for care and treatment. "While focusing on stabilizing the plant, we assure you that we are doing our best to extend all the possible support to ensure people and their families who have been affected by this incident are taken care of. "Our teams are working day and night with the government to assess the impact of the damage caused and create concrete measures to deliver an effective care package that can be implemented immediately," it said. The firm said a special task force has been set up to help victims and families to resolve any issues and provide every assistance to the bereaved families. "All families will be contacted shortly. This team has the responsibility to provide every support for the deceased, medical supplies and household goods, and emotional management for psychological stability to all injured and victims," the statement said. "We will also actively develop and promote mid-to-long term support programs that can contribute to the local communities," it added. LG Polymers India also expressed deepest condolences to everyone who has been affected and hurt by this incident. "We would also like to sincerely thank every member of the authorities, the police and government officials who have worked very hard to rescue and recover the victims," it said. "We assure everyone we will do our best to resolve the situation and prevent any incident in the future."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lg-polymers-says-vapour-leak-caused-accident-at-vizag-plant-835479.html
09-05-2020||National||I am healthy, not suffering from any disease, says Amit Shah||Denying rumours that he was seriously ill, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said he remains in perfect health and does not suffer from any ailment. Shah's statement came after social media was abuzz with speculation over his health, with some even suggesting that he was suffering from cancer and could even lose his life, in the past few days citing his "absence" in public. "In the past few days, some friends in social media have been spreading rumours about my health. It went to the extent that some people even wished my death through tweets," he said. Shah said he was working till late night everyday as the country was fighting COVID-19 and he was not aware of it initially. When it was brought to his notice, he said he felt that if some were "happy" about it, they should be allowed to remain happy and so no clarification was issued. However, he said lakhs of party workers and well-wishers expressed their concern in the past two days, which he could not overlook. "That is why I am issuing a clarification now. I am healthy and I have no ailment," he said. He also went on to say that as per Hindu beliefs, such speculation and rumours add to one's years and that people should not waste time. Shah said he hopes that people will concentrate on their own work and allow him to do his bit. He also said that he bores no ill-will against those who spread rumours against him. Soon after Shah's statement was released on social media, several BJP leaders took to Twitter to condemn the rumour mongers. BJP president J P Nadda tweeted, "it is highly condemnable to spread rumours about Amit Shah's health. It exposes the mindset of those people who spread the rumours. I pray to God to give wisdom to these people." Cricketer-turned-BJP MP, Gautam Gambhir tweeted, "These baseless rumours against the Hon'ble Home Minister spread with malicious intent show the moral bankruptcy of his adversaries. Same people claim to be flag bearers of liberalism & progressive mindset. Sick!"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-am-healthy-not-suffering-from-any-disease-says-amit-shah-835488.html
09-05-2020||National||COVID-19 patient recovers after 38 days on ventilator||Amid the nationwide gloom over the COVID-19 crisis, some good news emerged from West Bengal. A 52-year-old social worker from South Kolkata emerged victorious from the fight with the coronavirus after being on the ventilator for 38 days. The fight started on March 29 when he was rushed to the AMRI Hospital in South Kolkata’s Dhakuria on March 29.  A senior hospital official told DH that at the time of arrival the patient’s condition was so critical that he had to be put on a ventilator within two to three hours. What made matters worse was that the patient was diabetic and also suffering from mild Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The situation was as such that although he tested negative twice on April 17 and 18 but had to be put on ventilator support till May 2 due to his critical condition.  “He finally came out of ventilator on May 2.  His tests came negative on two on April 17 and 18. But his condition was not good. It was quite a difficult case,” the official said. The doctors and other hospital staff cheered on as the patient was released on Friday. Describing the cases as a “very difficult struggle” for her team Dr. Saswati Sinha (Critical Care and Internal Medicine) at AMRI Hospital said that it would not have been possible without the tireless work of nurses and doctors. Another tale of sheer will power and urge to survive came from Apollo Gleneagles Hospital in the city. A 68-year-old man from Silchar already suffering from cancer and diabetes has recovered from COVID-19 after two weeks of treatment. He arrived at the hospital on April 20 for consultation regarding a cancerous tumor in his mouth when doctors noticed that he had a slight fever. Immediately he was admitted to the COVID Observation Ward and tested positive the next day. He recovered after two weeks.  “The tests came out negative twice on May 4 and May 5. He was discharged on May 6 and is doing fine,” stated a release by the hospital. The patient has been advised to be in-home quarantine for 14 days after which his cancer treatment will resume.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-patient-recovers-after-38-days-on-ventilator-835490.html
09-05-2020||National||Confusion over Delhi's COVID-19 toll as govt data, figures from hospitals don't match||Doubts have arisen over the COVID-19 data released by Delhi government after a mis-match has been observed over the number of deaths reported by hospitals and those reflected in the official health bulletins. While the health bulletin issued by Delhi government pegged the deaths at 68 and cases at 6542 with 224 fresh cases on Saturday, those reported to the administration from hospitals is at least 124. No deaths were reported during the day. The Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, run by the central government, said it has reported 52 cases of death to the Delhi government but only 26 are reflected in the latest health bulletin. Similarly, authorities in Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital under Delhi government has reported 55 deaths but the official toll has just five from the hospital. In AIIMS' Delhi and Jhajjar campuses where 14 deaths have been reported, the bulletin acknowledges only two while none of the three deaths from Lady Hardinge Hospital finds a place in the official data. Hospital officials in RML and LNJP said they had highlighted the mis-match several times to the government but there has been no response. Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain defended the government and rubbished claims of fudging data while responding to Opposition allegations that the government was under-reporting cases and deaths.  He said if the government wanted to hide anything, it would not have released the correct data on Thursday when the capital reported 448 cases, which is the highest number of cases for a single day. A Delhi government spokesperson strongly denied any wrongdoing and said the allegations are "completely false and politically motivated". Each and every death reported by hospitals have to be vetted by a death audit committee comprising senior doctors and only then it is reflected in the health bulletin and there is no interference of any kind in its work, the spokesperson said. Defending the government, an official cited an example where details of a person who died on May 1 was reflected only on May 7. The committee was set up on April 20 with a mandate to audit daily each and every death in private and government hospitals before releasing the data. It was not only the number of cases in which there was mis-match with some hospitals saying the real picture on number of cases were also not reflected. Questions are also raised over the Delhi government abruptly stopping to provide elaborate details on testing on April 28. However, it later restarted providing details after a week but only cumulative figures are given. The health bulletins these days do not reflect the results of samples pending. According to health bulletin of Saturday, Delhi government has tested 84,226 samples as on 12 AM of May 8, which is an increase of 2,859 from the previous figure. Recently, Delhi High Court had directed the Arvind Kejriwal government to update its website regularly to reflect the correct number of Covid-19 tests it conducted as well as the number of pending samples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/confusion-over-delhis-covid-19-toll-as-govt-data-figures-from-hospitals-dont-match-835495.html
09-05-2020||National||Panel needed to help states tide over fiscal crisis: V Narayanasamy to PM Modi||Chief Minister of Puducherry V Narayanasamy on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to appoint an expert committee to help states overcome the fiscal situation in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown. He told reporters here that he had written a letter to the Prime Minister urging him to constitute immediately the expert committee to go into the poor fiscal condition of the states during the current lockdown and help mobilise funds to meet their commitments. The expert committee should be given a time-frame of one week to come out with its recommendations as to how the Centre could help the states wriggle out of the fiscal crisis and how States could rise to the exigency, he said. Narayanasamy hoped the Prime Minister would consider his suggestion and take appropriate action. "I am speaking candidly and making the suggestion for all states which no BJP-ruled state Chief Ministers will express,", Narayanasamy a former Central Minister, said. Already, he said, Puducherry had not been provided the compensation for loss arising out of the implementation of the GST (goods and services tax) here. Union Territory should be included in the fifteenth Central Finance Commission and Puducherry should also be able to raise higher quantum of loan from open market borrowings, he said. The Chief Minister reiterated that the state governments alone should have the powers to declare which are the zones that should come under green, orange or red. The present system of Centre declaring the zones is not of help to small places like Puducherry, he said. He said there were only three active cases for COVID-19 in the Indira Gandhi Government Medical college hospital here. Mahe, Karaikal and Yanam regions, all enclaves of Puducherry, have no active cases of the virus and been declared green zones, he said. He thanked the staff of Health, Public Works, Police, Public Health and local Administration departments for the team work which enabled the Union Territory contain the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/panel-needed-to-help-states-tide-over-fiscal-crisis-v-narayanasamy-to-pm-modi-835501.html
09-05-2020||National||Two months on, there is no sign of stopping the COVID-19 streak in Maharashtra||It's exactly two months now that Maharashtra has been living with the COVID-19 pandemic. The first COVID-19 cases were detected on March 9 when a Pune-based couple, who during the last week of February visited Dubai, tested positive. As of Saturday (May 9), i.e. two months into the deadly pandemic, the state has more than 19,000 cases and more than 700 deaths. The first death was reported in Mumbai, on 17 May,  when a 64-year-old person, with a travel history to Dubai, passed away. The Mumbai-Pune belt comprising two huge metropolitan areas has over 15,000 cases and 600 plus deaths. The financial capital of Mumbai has emerged as the epicentre of COVID-19 pandemic in India. In the last five days, Mumbai has been registering on an average two dozen death cases - that translates to the fact that every hour on an average, one person is dying of the deadly infection in Mumbai. India's first case in Kerala was reported in Kerala on January 30 but the first case in Maharashtra was reported only 38 days later. Since then, the cases have jumped in this western Indian state, reaching rather alarming levels.  The Maharashtra government is preparing for the worst and several makeshift hospitals, isolation and quarantine facilities are being set up in more regions of the city. Two Wuhan-type hospitals are coming up, one at the Bandra-Kurla Complex in Mumbai and another in Thane. "We have to change our lifestyles and the way we work and entertain. Physical distancing has become the order of the day," Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has repeated in his webcast messages. Change in outlook and perception would be the order of the day now. "People will have to follow physical distancing, use masks, carry water, sanitisers and soap with them," said Dr. Suhas Pingle, chairman, action committee, Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra State. As of Friday evening, the total positive cases stood at 19,063 and deaths at 731. The silver lining is that 3,470 patients have been treated and discharged - plus the fact that over two lakh tests have been conducted. The Maharashtra figures, however, are very high as the India total is at 59,816 cases with 1,986 deaths.  Maharashtra's Health Minister Rajesh Tope said that the cases would decline in a fortnight. "In 15 to 20 days, we expect the cases to go down. We have increased surveillance in congested areas," he said, adding that the spread in places like Dharavi and Worli was a concern and was being tackled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-months-on-there-is-no-sign-of-stopping-the-covid-19-streak-in-maharashtra-835503.html
09-05-2020||National||Andhra Pradesh reports three COVID-19 deaths, 43 cases; tally now 1,930||The number of active COVID-19 cases slid below the 1,000 mark to 999 in Andhra Pradesh on Saturday though the overall tally rose to 1,930 with the addition of 43 in the last 24 hours ending 9 am. The COVID-19 toll in the state also increased by three to 44 while 45 more patients were discharged from hospitals, according to the latest bulletin. Chittoor district saw a sudden spurt in cases, with 11 reported in the last 24 hours ending 9 am on Saturday, as some people who returned from Koyambedu wholesale market in Chennai city tested posted for coronavirus. It is suspected that these people contracted the disease at Koyambedu and several others who also returned from the place were sent to quarantine, sources here said. Visakhapatnam too continued to show an upward trend as five fresh cases were registered, taking the total in the district to 62. The major hotspots Kurnool, Krishna and Guntur reported six, 16 and two fresh cases. In the last 24 hours, Krishna reported two and Kurnool one coronavirus casualty. In all, 887 people were discharged from hospitals after recovering from the infection. The state has completed testing 1,65,069 samples, of which 1,63,139 returned negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-reports-three-covid-19-deaths-43-cases-tally-now-1930-835507.html
09-05-2020||National||Anil Deshmukh thanks Maharashtra cops for coronavirus fight with logo tribute||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday expressed gratitude to policemen in the frontline in the fight against the coronavirus outbreak by keeping the state police logo as the display picture or DP of his social media accounts. He asked people to do so in large numbers to encourage the men in khakhi who have been working round the clock, with several of them having got infected, and six losing their lives. In a Facebook post, Deshmukh said, "There is a need to highlight that the brothers in my police family are not alone. The people care for the police as much I do as home minister." "I will keep the logo of Maharashtra Police as the DP of all my social media accounts like Facebook, Twitter and Instagram in the honour of our brave police. You too should use the logo (as the DP) to participate in big numbers to honour the police brothers," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anil-deshmukh-thanks-maharashtra-cops-for-coronavirus-fight-with-logo-tribute-835512.html
09-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Delhi HC extends by 45 days interim bail of 2,177 under-trial prisoners||The Delhi High Court on Saturday extended the interim bail of 2,177 under-trial prisoners by 45 days to de-congest jails in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh passed the order in view of a high-power committee's recommendation that it would be dangerous to put the prisoners back in jail as the risk still remains high. The committee, headed by Justice Hima Kohli, on May 5 opined that since there was a paucity of space in jail premises to create sufficient number of isolation wards for the prisoners returning after expiry of their interim bail, the relief should be extended by another 45 days. During the hearing, Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain, appearing for the prison authorities, said they have no objection to the extension of bail. "Accordingly, it is ordered that the interim bails for a period of 45 days granted to 2,177 UTPs, in view of the recommendations of HPC...are hereby extended by another period of 45 days from the date of their respective expiry of interim bails on the same terms and conditions," the bench said. It also directed the Director General (Prisons) to ensure that the order was conveyed to all 2,177 under-trial prisoners (UTPs) by telephone and other available modes and listed the matter for hearing on June 22. The committee, which was formed on the order of the Supreme Court to lay down guidelines to decongest jails and prevent spread of the coronavirus, was also of the view that moving a separate application on behalf of each of the 2,177 UTPs would be "cumbersome" and lead to wastage of judicial time. Therefore, it had recommended that the high court be requested to pass a judicial order to extend the interim bail of the prisoners by 45 days. The matter was placed before Chief Justice D N Patel, who on May 7 issued verbal directions to set up the bench on Saturday, May 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-delhi-hc-extends-by-45-days-interim-bail-of-2177-under-trial-prisoners-835516.html
09-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi extends greetings to Vladimir Putin on Victory Day||Extending his greetings to Russian President Vladimir Putin on the 75th anniversary of the Victory Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that India stands with Russia in the solemn remembrance day.  In a tweet, Modi also noted that tens of thousands of Indian soldiers also made the sacrifice in the Second World War. "India stands with Russia in solemn remembrance today, on the 75th Anniversary of Victory Day. Tens of thousands of Indian soldiers also made the supreme sacrifice in the Second World War. My warm greetings to President Putin and the Russian people on this occasion," Modi tweeted. In Moscow, Putin marked Victory Day, the anniversary of the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II, in a ceremony shorn of its usual military parade and pomp because of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-extends-greetings-to-vladimir-putin-on-victory-day-835517.html
09-05-2020||National||Row over donating temple fund for COVID-19 relief in Kerala||Kerala is witnessing a row over the Guruvayoor Devaswom donating Rs 5 crore for COVID-19 relief. The Guruvayoor Devaswom manages the famed Guruvayoor Sree Krishna temple in Thrissur district. While the BJP alleged that there was misappropriation of the offerings received for the minor deity, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan alleged that the party was triggering communal sentiments. Guruvayoor Devaswom chairman K B Mohandas, who handed over Rs. 5 crore to Kerala Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund, justified the decision citing that it was part of the Devaswom's social responsibility and similar donations were made during flood also. Many Hindu outfits and BJP opposed the move alleging violation of the Guruvayoor Devaswom Act. They approached the Kerala High Court claiming that as per the Act the funds of the temple should be used only for temple related or religious purposes. The Court referred the matter to the consideration of a full bench already considering petitions regarding using of temple funds for other purposes. BJP Kerala spokesperson B Gopalakrishnan, who termed the decision to give Devaswom's Fund to government's COVID relief as absurd, stated that the entire property of the devaswom belonged to the deity who is a minor and hence could not be misappropriated.  Mr Vijayan, who is also a senior CPM leader, alleged that the BJP was trying to make the issue communal sensitive. It is a very dangerous trend that needs to be condemned, said Vijayan. Meanwhile, the decision of the Guruvayur Devaswom to donate Rs. 5 crore also came at a time when many temples were reportedly finding it difficult to pay wages to employees owing to the dip in revenue due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/row-over-donating-temple-fund-for-covid-19-relief-in-kerala-835519.html
09-05-2020||National||Govt disbursed Rs 18,253 cr to 9.13 cr farmers under PM-KISAN scheme during lockdown: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said Rs 18,253 crore has been disbursed to 9.13 crore farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme during the ongoing nationwide lockdown. Under the PM-KISAN (Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi) scheme, each farmer gets Rs 6,000 in a year in three equal installments directly in bank account. Front-loading the release of the first installment under the PM-KISAN scheme was part of the Rs 1.70 lakh crore Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) announced on March 26 to protect the poor from the impact of the coronavirus lockdown. The lockdown was imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 25 to curb the spread of COVID-19, and since then it has been extended twice. With regard to further assistance to farmers, the finance minister said that 3 crore farm loan borrowers have opted for a three-month moratorium. "Since March 2020, 9.13 crore farmers have been paid Rs 18,253 crore under PM-KISAN during the #lockdown. About three crore farmers with agri loans totaling Rs 4,22,113 crore availed the benefit of the 3-month loan moratorium," Sitharaman said in a tweet. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on March 27 allowed banks to grant moratorium on installments of term loans, scheduled to be paid between March 1 and May 31. In order to ease burden on loan borrowers, she said, "PSBs contacted more than 95% of borrowers eligible for emergency credit lines & working capital enhancements between March 20 - May 6. The amount sanctioned jumped to Rs 54,544 crore, more than double the amount 2 days ago. Number of cases covered more than tripled." In an effort to promote rural employment through infra projects, the government has rendered support to states under the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF). "Support of Rs 4224 cr was provided to states under RIDF during Mar, 2020 for promoting rural employment through infra projects. Working capital limit of Rs 6700 cr has been sanctioned for procurement of agriculture commodities to State Govt entities since Mar, 2020," she said in another tweet. The RIDF is a pool created by shortfall of specified priority sector lending of banks. The fund is managed by National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) is thus utilised for development of rural infrastructure in the country. Domestic commercial banks contribute to the fund to the extent of their shortfall in stipulated priority sector lending to agriculture. The main objective of the fund is to provide loans to state governments and state-owned corporations to enable them to complete ongoing rural infrastructure projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-disbursed-rs-18253-cr-to-913-cr-farmers-under-pm-kisan-scheme-during-lockdown-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-835526.html
09-05-2020||National||302 Shramik Special trains run so far, around 3.4 lakh migrants ferried amid lockdown: Indian Railways||The Indian Railways has operated 302 ‘Shramik Special’ trains since May 1 and ferried home more than 3 lakh migrants stranded in various parts of the country amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, officials said. The national transporter has planned to operate 47 trains on Saturday, out of which 34 trains have already departed, they said. Every Shramik Special train has 24 coaches, each with a capacity of 72 seats. The railways, however, is allowing only 54 people in a coach to maintain social distancing norms by not allotting the middle berth to any passenger. While the railways has not yet announced the cost incurred on the special services, officials indicate the national transporter has spent around Rs 80 lakh per service. The government had earlier stated that the cost of the services has been shared on 85:15 ratio with states. Since the beginning of running the Shramik Special trains, Gujarat remained one of the top originating stations followed by Kerala. Among the receiving states, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh remain the top states. Earlier, the railways drew flak from opposition parties for charging for these services.   In its guidelines, the railways has said the trains will ply only if they have 90 per cent occupancy and the "states should collect the ticket fare".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/302-shramik-special-trains-run-so-far-around-34-lakh-migrants-ferried-amid-lockdown-indian-railways-835540.html
09-05-2020||National||Evaluation for class 10, 12 board exams to be done at home by teachers||The evaluation for class 10, 12 board exams will be done by teachers at their homes and 3,000 schools have been identified as exam centres to deliver the answer sheets to them, Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said on Saturday. He said 1.5 crore answer sheets of already conducted class 10, 12 exams will be delivered to teachers. "From the 3,000 schools, these copies will go the evaluators and evaluation will begin tomorrow. Teachers will evaluate from home and we will be able to complete the process in 50 days," he added. The evaluation of the answer sheets has been delayed due to a nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the coronavirus outbreak. The pending board exams will be held from July 1 to 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/evaluation-for-class-10-12-board-exams-to-be-done-at-home-by-teachers-835542.html
09-05-2020||National||DH Exclusive | We paid Rs 930 each to travel from Kerala to Bihar, say Shramik Special train passengers||Contrary to the tall claims made by the Centre as well as the State Governments that the passengers travelling by Shramik Special trains to their respective states need not pay a single penny, those who boarded such trains were actually made to pay the passenger fare, all in cash. Deccan Herald on Saturday spoke to seven different passengers, who travelled from either Kerala to Bihar or returned from Maharashtra to their home State. All seven passengers confirmed to the DH that notwithstanding the claims made by the Centre (that the Railways will bear 85 per cent of the fare while the remaining 15 per cent will be borne by the respective State Governments), they were made to pay the full train fare. “Just when we boarded the Kerala Government bus to be dropped at Kozhikode railway station, the conductor collected Rs 930 from each of us as the train fare (from Kozhikode to Katihar in Bihar),” said Brajmohan, a college teacher, who went to Kerala to bring back his son on March 22 but got stuck up there due to lockdown for the last 45 days. “My son studies in Class IXth at Vidya Prakash Public School there. The school management took proper care of us (we were four guardians stuck up there). However, while returning by special train, we were asked to shell out Rs 930 each. Since my son was with me, I paid Rs 1860,” said Brajmohan adding that Railways provided them food at Vijayawada and then again at Katihar. “They did not charge for food or water,” he added. Nippu Kumar was yet another guardian who had gone to Kozhikode to bring back his two sons. “I paid Rs 2790 as train fare for three of us,” he told Deccan Herald. “After reaching Katihar railway station on May 5, we were brought to Patna by bus on May 6. The bus was crowded and packed to the capacity. All suggestions for social distancing went for a toss,” he lamented.  These passengers, who travelled from Kerala to Patna, were kept in the isolation wards at DAV School, Khagaul near Patna, and then sent to their respective districts on May 7 with the mandatory advisory of home quarantine for 21 days. But it is not only those who travelled from Kerala to Bihar who were made to pay the train fares. Such complaints were made by even those who travelled from Bhiwandi (in Maharashtra) to Patna in Shramik Specials. Niranjan, Nitesh and Sajhu Kumar, all three who worked in Maharashtra textile mills, returned by this train. “While travelling in Shramik Special train, we were made to pay Rs 700 each,” said Niranjan Kumar of Punpun. “Were these amounts reimbursed by the State Government?” DH asked each of them. “No”, said the passengers. The Bihar Government sources, however, claimed that once these people, who have returned from other States, complete their 21-day quarantine period, their travel cost would be reimbursed by the State Government, “Besides, they will be entitled to an additional cash dole of Rs 500 each,” the source added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-exclusive-we-paid-rs-930-each-to-travel-from-kerala-to-bihar-say-shramik-special-train-passengers-835544.html
09-05-2020||National||Four more test positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand, tally rises to 67||Four more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand on Saturday, taking the state's tally of positive cases to 67. The latest cases were reported from Udham Singh Nagar district, Director National Health Mission Yugal Kishore Pant said. All of them were caught by police while entering the district from outside the state without valid passes and kept in institutional quarantine, the official said. They are residents of Uttarakhand with a travel history to Maharashtra, Gujarat and Haryana, Pant said. With this, COVID-19 cases in Uttarakhand have risen to 67, out of which 46 patients have been discharged after recovery and one has died. The number of active cases in the state currently stands at 20. The rate of COVID-19 positive cases in Uttarakhand is 0.76 per cent and recovery rate 69 per cent which is better than the national average, Pant said, adding that average recovery time in the state is 16 days. Fatality rate is 1.49 per cent and the doubling rate stands at 38 days, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttarakhand-tally-rises-to-67-835551.html
09-05-2020||National||Couple held for snatching mobile phones in Delhi||Police have arrested a couple for allegedly snatching mobile phones from people in central Delhi, officials said on Saturday. Following reports about a couple on white scooter snatching mobile phones, Arjun (22) and Vaishali Kaushal (20) were arrested near Railway Colony, Kishanganj, they said. The woman riding pillion on the scooter used to snatch the mobile phones from people, a senior police officer said. Arjun had been involved in 31 cases. Three months ago, he married Vaishali, a tattoo artist, and both are addicted to drugs, police said. Vaishali had also allegedly snatched the mobile phone of a jewellery showroom security guard in Karol Bagh, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/couple-held-for-snatching-mobile-phones-in-delhi-835555.html
09-05-2020||National||Testing capacity for coronavirus scaled up to 95,000 per day: Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||The testing capacity for COVID-19 has been scaled up to around 95,000 tests per day and a total of 15,25,631 tests have been conducted so far across 332 government and 121 private laboratories, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday. The minister, who reviewed the status of COVID-19 in the northeastern states along with the measures taken for its containment and management, also stressed on the need to take concrete action to check the use of non-smoking tobacco and prohibit spitting in public places which shall help in preventing the spread of the infection, according to a statement. During the high-level meeting with Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim, Vardhan appreciated the dedication of all the states in combating COVID-19.   "It is a huge relief and very encouraging to see green zones in most northeastern states. As of date, only Assam and Tripura have active COVID-19 cases. Other states are all in the green zone. Let us focus and work together by converting the orange zones to green zones and maintain the protective status across the states," Vardhan was quoted as saying in the statement. He flagged the large prevalence of non-smoking tobacco usage in some of the states and the problem of spitting in public places. "Strong reforms are needed in this direction," Vardhan said while appreciating the effort of states that have banned the use of chewing tobacco and ordered imposition of fine for spitting in public places.    During the detailed interaction, the states highlighted various issues related to testing facilities, health infrastructure, surveillance, contact tracing etc. and also shared their best practices, the statement stated. Vardhan said, “The testing capacity has increased in the country and it is 95,000 tests per day with 332 government laboratories and 121 private laboratories. Cumulatively, 15,25,631 tests have been done so far for COVID-19.”  Tripura has reported 118 cases, Assam 59, Meghalaya 12 cases, Manipur two while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each till Saturday morning 8 AM.   Meghalaya and Assam have also reported one fatality each so far.    To maintain the positive status of COVID-19 management in the Northeast, the Union Minister advised them to ensure that the returning migrant labourers, students and those from abroad are screened and quarantined as per the guidelines and protocol laid down by the by ministries of Health and External Affairs, the statement said.  For the states that have international borders, the minister stated that they need to take adequate measures in the border areas to prevent exposure by conducting screening of all individuals at entry points and following quarantine protocol as per the guidelines, it said. Vardhan said while some states have worked in this direction, others need to focus on more effective surveillance, contact tracing, house to house survey and early diagnosis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/testing-capacity-for-coronavirus-scaled-up-to-95000-per-day-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-835556.html
09-05-2020||National||ED attaches National Herald building, BJP wants it converted to COVID-19 isolation facility||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Mumbai has attached assets worth Rs 16.38 crore of Associated Journals Limited (AJL), the publisher of National Herald newspaper, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). "ED attaches under PMLA, assets to the extent of Rs. 16.38 crore in Bandra (East), Mumbai of Associated Journals Limited in illegal land allotment case," the ED tweeted. Meanwhile,  the Maharashtra BJP on Saturday demanded that the National Herald building at Bandra be converted into an isolation facility to treat COVID-19 patients. The building is currently under the possession of Enforcement Directorate.  Senior BJP leader and former minister Ashish Shelar has shot off a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in this regard. "I have requested the chief minister to approach Finance Ministry and ED to use the seized National Herald building into a 1,000-bed Corona isolation centre," Shelar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-national-herald-building-bjp-wants-it-converted-to-covid-19-isolation-facility-835558.html
09-05-2020||National||Approved 10 trains for bringing back migrant workers: WB govt||West Bengal government on Saturday said that it has approved 10 trains for bringing back migrant workers from the state. Addressing media persons at the state secretariat Home Secretary Alapon Bandopadhyay said that one such train from Telangana will reach Bengal’s Malda district on Sunday. The development comes after Union Home Minister Amit Shah in a letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee that her government was not doing enough to ensure the return of migrant workers from Bengal. “We have approved 10 trains carrying migrant workers to come to Bengal. One such train from Telangana will reach Malda tomorrow,” said  Bandopadhyay. However, he declined to comment on the Home Minister’s letter. The Home Secretary also said that the state government has approved 6,000 passes inbound small vehicles coming to the state. He also said that that the Bengal government has issued 18,000 passes for trucks stuck in the state due to the lockdown so that they can return to their own states. Lashing out at Shah, Trinamool Congress MP and the Chief Minister’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee demanded that he should either prove his “fake allegation” or apologise. “A HM failing to discharge his duties during this crisis speaks after weeks of silence, only to mislead people with a bundle of lies! Ironically he’s talking about the very ppl who’ve been literally left to fate by his own Govt. Mr @AmitShah, prove your fake allegations or apologise,” tweeted Abhishek.  Refuting the Railway Ministry's claim regarding West Bengal Government not approving trains from certain states to bring back migrant workers the State's Home Secretary Alapon Bandyopadhyay  in a tweet late on Saturday night termed it as " misleading".  "Ministry of Railways tweet is misleading and incorrect. All the trains mentioned in their tweet were approved and communicated to the concerned  States on 8 May( yesterday) or  before, no new decision in this regard has been taken today. Further decisions to follow in due course" tweeted Bandyopadhyay. Meanwhile, in the last 24 hours, the death toll directly due to COVID-19 rose to 99 in West Bengal. Earlier the state government had said that 72 have died of co-morbidity. The total number of cases also increased in the state on Saturday(May 9). With 108 new cases in the last 24 hours total COVID-19 cases in Bengal increased to 1,786 out of which 1,243 are active cases. So far 372 COVID-19 patients have been discharged after the recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/approved-10-trains-for-bringing-back-migrant-workers-wb-govt-835563.html
09-05-2020||National||Close shave for Jharkhand workers walking on railway tracks||A group of 20 migrant workers returning to Jharkhand from West Bengal's Birbhum district by walking along railway tracks had a narrow escape when an inspection van stopped in front of them on a river bridge, officials said on Saturday. The labourers had managed to reach the temple town of Tarapith from Purba Bardhaman district during the lockdown and started on foot from there towards neighbouring Jharkhand on Friday night. When they were on a bridge over the river Brambhani around 9.30 PM, an inspection van came from the opposite direction, from Pakur in Jharkhand, officials said. The driver of the inspection van applied emergency brake after he noticed the people, who included women and children, on the track. After the driver informed the control room, a GRP team reached there and brought them to Nalhati in Birbhum district, officials said. Efforts are on to send the 20 people, who are now sheltered in the Nalhati I BDO's office, to Jharkhand. The incident occurred hours after 16 migrant workers sleeping on rail tracks were crushed to death by a goods train in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/close-shave-for-jharkhand-workers-walking-on-railway-tracks-835564.html
09-05-2020||National||Two fresh COVID-19 cases in Kerala, total goes up to 505||Two fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported from Kerala on Saturday, both being foreign returnees who reached the state from Dubai and Abu Dhabi on May 7 and were among the expatriates airlifted by the Centre as part of its mission to bring back stranded Indians abroad. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said with the two new patients, the total number of cases in the state has gone up to 505 and there are currently 17 under treatment. "One patient from Idukki, who was under treatment, has been cured today.The two new cases are now under treatment in Kochi and Kozhikode. They reached the state on May 7 in the Abu Dhabi- Kochi andDubai-Kozhikode flights, respectively," Vijayan told reporters. "There are 23,930 people under observation in the state out of which 334 are in isolation wards of various hospitals," he said. Out of the total 505 infected, Kerala has till now cured 485,Vijayan added. The state has reported three deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-total-goes-up-to-505-835565.html
09-05-2020||National||Telangana bucks the trend, welcomes migrant labourers from Bihar||At a time when migrant labourers are either leaving for home states or agitating where transport facilities are not being provided, Telangana is welcoming them from Bihar to help in packing and moving its bumper paddy yield. On Friday, about 300 daily wage labourers from Khagaria arrived at the Lingampalli railway station in Hyderabad in a special train, to work at the rice mills in the state. They were received by the Telangana ministers and officials with flowers. Incidentally, the first Shramik Train in the country left from the same station to Hatia in Jharkhand on May 1, the World Labor Day, ferrying 1,225 migrant construction workers.   Later, Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao announced that 40 trains per day for a week would be arranged for migrant workers wanting to move to their states, with Telangana bearing the cost. The intention was to use some of these trains to bring the required mill workers to the state. At least 15 migrant trains could be run till now and one such train which went to Bihar on Thursday has brought 300 workers.     Stating this as the first batch, officials said the plans are to bring about six thousand workers, especially from Bihar to ease the paddy procurement process. Thanks to the completion of various irrigation projects like Kaleshwaram on River Godavari, Telangana is reaping a bumper paddy harvest this Rabi season and Rao government is procuring rice at a record level from farmers. With paddy cultivated on a record of nearly 40 lakh acres, Telangana is reportedly expecting a yield of one crore tonnes. Accordingly, the government has set up 6,237 paddy procurement centres, whereas for Maize, 1,090 centres. Till Friday, over 34 lakh tonnes paddy was procured. But the problem is porter shortage. Most of the hamalis in the about two thousand rice mills in the state are Biharis. Most of them had gone home for Holi and some during the lockdown and could not return because of the continuing COVID-19 restrictions. Thus, facing difficulty to supply the Custom Milling Rice to the Food Corporation of India, Telangana officials, following CM’s instructions, consulted with rice millers, and coordinated with their Bihar counterparts to bring workers here. Workers reportedly get paid about Rs 1,200 against Rs 300-400 they get back home.  All the 300 workers were screened for COVID-19 symptoms at the station and after meals, were sent to various districts like Nalgonda, Karimnagar - 20 in each RTC bus. “The arrival of the Bihari workers would speed up paddy procurement. We will take good care of them, since they came here on our request, on our word,” said state’s civil supplies minister Gangula Kamalakar. Telangana had announced Rs 500 and 12 kg rice for every migrant worker stuck here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-bucks-the-trend-welcomes-migrant-labourers-from-bihar-835568.html
09-05-2020||National||1.5 lakh migrant workers want to return to Haryana, 8 lakh want to leave: Home Minister Anil Vij||While nearly eight lakh migrant workers stranded in Haryana have registered themselves on a government portal to return to their native states, over 1.5 lakh of them have applied on the same portal from different states to return back to work, state Home Minister Anil Vij said on Saturday. Vij said most of these 1.5 lakh workers, who have registered themselves to return, belong to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. He also said on the same portal nearly 8 lakh migrant workers, however, have registered themselves for leaving the state. “Nearly 1.5 lakh migrant workers want to return to Haryana while 8 lakh of them have registered themselves for leaving the state for their native states,” Vij said. “Most of the 1.5 lakh who want to come back are from Bihar, UP and MP. They want to come here as commercial activities have started and they are hopeful that they can find a job,” he said. Asked how Haryana can facilitate those migrants willing to come back during the lockdown, Vij said, “We are talking to the states to which they belong.” Most of the migrants who want to return have applied to come to industrial towns of Gurgaon, Sonipat, Jhajjar, Rewari, Faridabad and Panipat, said officials. They said that most of these who have applied to return may have left before the lockdown or during its initial few days. Asked if the resumption of the state’s industry and economic activities would not be affected due to more workers seeking to leave the state and than those willing to return, Vij said, “We and the rest of the country and the world is facing a situation that we are bound to face some difficulties. “But we cannot stop those migrant workers who want to go back with their states too being ready to have them back. We can only persuade these workers and we are already doing that. We are seeking to assure them that the Haryana government will take care of all their needs, but we cannot force them to stay back,” he said. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had on Wednesday reiterated his appeal to migrant workers not to leave the state and instead start working in manufacturing units which have been allowed to resume operations, saying the coronavirus situation in the state was much better. He had said migrants must compare the situation in their native places with that in Haryana before taking a decision. The chief minister, however, had said if anyone still wanted to leave, the state government has already made arrangements for their return as per the Centre's guidelines. On Wednesday, the first special train from Hisar carrying 1,200 migrant workers left for Katihar in Bihar. More such migrants wanting to go back will be sent back within the next seven days through 5,000 buses and 100 trains, with the state government being ready to bear the entire cost of their transportation. As many as 23,452 migrant labourers have so far been sent to their home states free of cost by various trains and buses arranged by the state government during the past three days, a statement had said here on Friday. Meanwhile, Vij said 66 persons from Haryana were among the stranded Indians, who were brought back home on Friday as part of the Centre’s mega repatriation mission Vande Bharat. “As many as 66 persons from Haryana returned from abroad and they have been quarantined in a facility in Gurgaon,” he said. PTI SUN VSD RAX RAX||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-lakh-migrant-workers-want-to-return-to-haryana-8-lakh-want-to-leave-home-minister-anil-vij-835571.html
09-05-2020||National||Kingpin of 532-kg Amritsar heroin haul arrested from Haryana||The Punjab Police on Saturday arrested from neighbouring Haryana Ranjeet Singh Rana, an alleged drug smuggler who was wanted in connection with a 532-kg heroin haul from Attari last year, officials said. He was arrested from a hideout in Haryana's Sirsa district, the police officials said. Facing over 10 criminal cases, Rana alias Cheeta was one of the key links in the network engaged in smuggling a large number of consignments of drugs and illegal weapons through the Indo-Pak border, the police said. Among other cases, Rana was wanted in the narcotics haul case in which the Customs department seized 532 kg of heroin worth Rs 2,700 crore on June 29, 2019 from 600 bags of rock salt at the Integrated Check Post in Amritsar's Attari. Rana was said to be the kingpin of the narcotics haul. "We have nabbed him (Ranjeet) from Sirsa," Punjab Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta told PTI. His brother Gagandeep Singh was also arrested, the state police chief said. Giving details of the operation, Gupta said he spoke to his Haryana counterpart Manoj Yadav around 9 pm on Friday. Thereafter, coordination was established by Amritsar police with Sirsa Superintendent of Police Arun Nehra. A team of Amritsar police reached Sirsa at 3:30 am. The outer cordon of the area was laid jointly by Haryana and Punjab police, he said. After not finding Rana at the first location, a Punjab Police team reached the second location, he said. Gupta said after police knocked on the door, Rana slowly opened the door. As soon as he saw the police party, he tried to close the door and grab an axe lying near his bed. But the police kicked open the door and caught him. His brother Gagandeep Singh, who was sleeping in another room, was also arrested, the officer added. The arrest of Rana and his brother marks the first time the police have been able to unravel international drug networks on such a massive scale and expose a major racket of proceeds of narcotic trade being routed to terrorist outfits operating in Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab and other parts of the country, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said. He recalled his promise to the people of Punjab that he would go after the "big fish" involved in the drug trade and save the youth of Punjab from the drug trap. Rana's arrest comes after the state police recently nabbed Hizbul Mujahideen operatives in Amritsar. The Punjab Police had last month arrested Hilal Ahmed Wagay, a close associate of slain Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riyaz Naikoo, the police said. Later on May 5, Wagay's two accomplices -- Bikram Singh and Maninder Singh -- were arrested from Amritsar, they said. Their interrogation revealed that Bikram and Maninder along with their cousins Rana, Iqbal Singh alias Shera and Sarwan Singh were dealing in drugs smuggled from across the border. Bikram had gone to deliver Rs 29 lakh of the drug money to Wagay on the instructions of Rana, Iqbal and Sarwan, DGP Gupta said in a statement here. Bikram and Maninder told police about the activities of Rana and his brother, he said. Further analysis of data along with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) led to the identification of Rana's Sirsa location. Subsequently, in coordination with the Haryana Police, the hideout was busted and he was arrested with his brother in the early hours of Saturday, the chief minister said in a statement. Rana was one of the most active nodes of the extensive and common network of drug smugglers or couriers set up by Pakistan intelligence agency ISI to push composite consignments of drugs, weapons, fake currency from Pakistan into Punjab through various means, including drones, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kingpin-of-532-kg-amritsar-heroin-haul-arrested-from-haryana-835575.html
09-05-2020||National||Rajasthan govt gave politics precedence over people's health: Union minister||Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Saturday lashed out at the Rajasthan government, saying it gave politics precedence over people’s health and failed to contain the coronavirus spread. The Jodhpur MP said asked the state Congress government to introspect over deficiencies in dealing with the situation in his constituency, which is also the hometown of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. "Had there been no deficiencies, the government would not have failed in tackling coronavirus in Jaipur and Jodhpur,” said Shekhawat. He alleged that the state government gave ‘priority to politics over people’s health’ due to which the condition ‘worsened’ in the state, especially Jodhpur. In a statement, Shekhawat also accused Gehlot of not taking “serious steps” to contain coronavirus cases, saying the chief minister was indulging in ‘politics of appeasement. Referring to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s claim that the Centre did not release funds for the state, Shekhawat said the adequate budget has been released but the Rajasthan government has not utilised it properly.  The minister said it was unfortunate the district administration and police were not responding to his calls. Responding to the allegations, state Congress spokesperson Ajay Trivedi said the minister was trying to divert people’s attention and questioned the BJP leader’s ‘absence’ from his constituency. “Not just as an MP, but also as a cabinet minister of the Union government, he has a bigger responsibility. But instead of doing something constructive in such difficult times, he engaging in petty politics,” said Trevedi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-govt-gave-politics-precedence-over-peoples-health-union-minister-835576.html
09-05-2020||National||Mizoram becomes coronavirus-free with recovery of lone patient||Mizoram became coronavirus-free with the discharge of the lone COVID-19 patient from a hospital on Saturday, officials said. It now shares a similar status with four other northeastern states -- Manipur, Sikkim, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. Mizoram Health Minister Dr R Lalthangliana said the state's lone COVID-19 patient, a pastor, was discharged from Zoram Medical College (ZMC) on Saturday afternoon after 45 days of intense treatment. He was discharged from the hospital after four consecutive tests turned negative, the minister said. The pastor, who is in his early 50s and working under the Baptist Church of Mizoram, returned to the state from Amsterdam on March 16. He was pursuing higher study in theology in the Netherlands capital. He tested positive for novel coronavirus on March 24 and was admitted at ZMC along with his wife and two children. The pastor's wife and children were discharged from the medical college on March 28 after they tested negative for COVID-19. The state health minister thanked doctors, nurses and staffs of ZMC for successfully treating the patient. He said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has congratulated Mizoram for becoming free of COVID-19. The Union Heath minister has also congratulated the state for the 10 point drop in infant mortality rate (IMR), Lalthangliana said. According to officials of the health department, following his discharge from the hospital, the pastor has been advised to be in home quarantine for 14 days and then undergo medical check-up again. The patient was accorded a warm welcome by the people of his locality in Aizawl as he was discharged from the medical college.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mizoram-becomes-coronavirus-free-with-recovery-of-lone-patient-835579.html
09-05-2020||National||First patient to receive plasma therapy in UP dies of heart attack||The first patient to receive plasma therapy as an experimental treatment for coronavirus infection in Uttar Pradesh died following a heart attack on Saturday. The patient, a 58-year-old doctor, was admitted at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) here. The doctor, who was on ventilator since the last 14 days, died on Saturday evening following a heart attack, KGMU Vice-Chancellor M L B Bhatt said. Since he had high blood pressure and diabetes, he was under the continuous observation of doctors in the isolation ward, Bhatt said. “The patient was in a stable condition. His lungs had improved, but he later developed urinary tract infection. Two reports of his samples came out as negative (for COVID-19) today,” the vice-chancellor said. “He, however, suffered a heart attack around 5 pm. Despite all efforts, he could not be saved,” he said. The doctor from Orai in Uttar Pradesh was administered plasma therapy at the state-run KGMU on April 26. He was administered the plasma donated by a doctor from Canada who was the first COVID-19 patient admitted at the hospital and later recovered. Tulika Chandra of Blood Transfusion Department, KGMU said, "When the patient was given plasma therapy, his condition was very bad. His lungs, however, improved. But as he was an old patient with diabetes, he was kept on the ventilator.”  Convalescent Plasma Therapy is an experimental procedure for treating COVID-19 patients. In this treatment, plasma, a blood component, from a cured patient is transfused to a critically ill coronavirus patient. The blood of a person who has recovered from COVID-19 develops antibodies to fight the virus. This therapy uses the antibodies from the blood of a cured patient to treat another critical patient. The Union health ministry, however, had advised against considering the therapy to be a regular treatment for coronavirus, adding it should be used for research and trial purposes till there is a piece of robust scientific evidence to support its efficacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-patient-to-receive-plasma-therapy-in-up-dies-of-heart-attack-835580.html
09-05-2020||National||IITs, NITs should guide MSMEs to manufacture anti-COVID-19 gear: Tewari||IIT Kharagpur Director V K Tewari has said central institutes like the IITs and NITs have a major role to help the micro, medium and small enterprises (MSME) by guiding them to manufacture personal protective equipment, parts of diagnostic kits and other products required in the COVID-19 era. Tewari advocated creating mobile apps for the MSMEs, hit hard by the novel coronavirus triggered lockdown, to provide them with training by the institutes. "For instance, if we provide them (MSME units) with designs of gloves, masks meeting certain guidelines, they can come up with products in 3-4 months. Similarly, these enterprises can be roped in for making parts of diagnostic kits and PCR machines... after required training," he said. Delivering an address on Facebook Live on the page of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishads (ABVP) West Bengal unit on Friday, the IIT-KGP director suggested that such units may also be asked to produce PPE. "We have to know what the MSMEs want, what they require and guide them accordingly in the light of the situation arising out of the COVID-19," Tewari said adding that guidance of premier institutes having the required expertise will help the units meet the market demand. "We should work towards making substitutes of certain imported products so that we don't have to import (them)," said the academician.  The government has taken steps to contain the spread of novel coronavirus, Tewari said adding that an estimated 1-2 crore people had died in the Spanish flu outbreak of 1918 in the country. "We are (now) having lockdown 3.0 after the lockdown 1.0 started countrywide on March 25. Let's all hope, if the condition improves, lockdown 4.0 will not take place," he said. ABVP national secretary Saptarshi Sarkar said Tewari being a renowned academician and head of a premier institute was invited to a Facebook lecture session. "We are not associated with any political outfit. And his lecture was meant to guide the student community. There should not be any controversy in it," he said when asked about the reason to invite Tewari. The ABVP is the students' wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iits-nits-should-guide-msmes-to-manufacture-anti-covid-19-gear-tewari-835584.html
09-05-2020||National||Arrange transportation of 9.5k migrant workers to home states, will pay their fare: Delhi Congress to CM||The Delhi Congress has forwarded two lists of nearly 9,500 migrant workers to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying that they want to return back to their native states and the party is ready to pay for their train fares. A day after sending names of 2,106 migrants to Kejriwal, Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar on Saturday sent another list of 7,299 workers from various states, saying that they have approached the party seeking its help in their transportation from Delhi to their native states. Kumar, in a letter to Kejriwal, requested him to make proper arrangements for smooth and safe journey of the migrant workers to their respective states. The migrant workers have sent their requests to the Delhi Congress for train tickets to go back to their native states, Kumar said. "Delhi Congress, as decided by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, will foot the train fares of the migrant labour if the Delhi government makes arrangement for their journey," he said. Delhi Congress wrote to the chief minister and the Delhi government’s chief secretary as well, expressing its readiness to pay for the train fares of the migrants, said the Delhi Congress president. Delhi government in last few days arranged train travel of 1,200 migrant workers from Bihar and over 1,000 from MP, who were sheltered at government facilities while trying to go back to their respective states during the lockdown. Delhi government in a statement on Friday said it has decided to bear the cost of train travel of the migrant workers if their home states do not respond on the matter of bearing their travel cost. As per current guidelines, the Central government and the home state of the migrant workers have to bear the cost of their travel, it said. The Delhi government has already reached out to respective states with the list of their migrant workers stranded in Delhi. Most of these states are yet to respond on bearing the travel costs of these stranded people, the statement read. The Delhi government has decided to bear the cost to avoid any further inconvenience to stranded workers, added the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arrange-transportation-of-95k-migrant-workers-to-home-states-will-pay-their-fare-delhi-congress-to-cm-835585.html
09-05-2020||National||31 fresh COVID-19 cases, 2 deaths in Punjab||Punjab reported two more coronavirus deaths on Saturday, while 31 people tested positive for the infection, bringing the number of cases to 1,762 in the state, according to the state government's medical bulletin. The fresh fatalities pushed coronavirus-related death toll to 31 in Punjab. There are 1,574 active cases in the state, according to the bulletin. A 62-year-old COVID-19 positive man from Hoshiarpur died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here, said a health official. The man was having respiratory problems, the official added. A 56-year-old COVID-19 patient died at a Ludhiana hospital, the official said. Among fresh cases reported on Saturday, 17 were in Jalandhar, five in Fatehgarh Sahib, four in Rupnagar, two in Pathankot and one each in Patiala, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur, according to the bulletin. Five coronavirus patients from Jalandhar were discharged from hospital after recovering from the infection. So far, 157 COVID-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals in the state. Amritsar continued to top the COVID-19 tally in the state with 287 cases, followed by 175 in Jalandhar, 157 in Tarn Taran, 125 in Ludhiana, 116 in Gurdaspur, 103 in SBS Nagar, 96 in Patiala, 95 in Mohali, 90 in Hoshiarpur, 88 in Sangrur, 65 in Muktsar, 56 in Moga, 45 in Faridkot, 43 in Ferozepur, 40 in Bathinda, 39 in Fazilka, 29 in Pathankot, 28 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 24 in Kapurthala, 21 in Barnala, 20 each in Mansa and Rupnagar, the bulletin said. One patient is critical and is on ventilator support, it said. A total of 39,462 samples have been collected in the state so far and 33,639 of them have come out negative and reports of 4,061 are still awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/31-fresh-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-in-punjab-835588.html
09-05-2020||National||Indian Railways operate 302 Shramik special trains||The India Railways has operated 302 'Shramik Special' trains since May 1 and ferried more than 3.4 lakh stranded people in various parts of the country. Gujarat remained one of the top originating stations followed by Kerala. Among the receiving states, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh remain the top states. The railways operating the special trains to transport migrant workers, pilgrims, and tourists stranded in different places. Every Shramik special train has 24 coaches, each with a capacity of 72 seats. However, to ensure social distance, only 54 people allowed in each coach.  While the railways have not yet announced the cost incurred on the special services, officials indicate the national transporter has spent around Rs 80 lakh per service. The railways said it is bearing 85 % of the cost while the remaining 15 % have to bear by the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-operate-302-shramik-special-trains-835594.html
09-05-2020||National||Coronavirus cases in paramilitary forces cross 600-mark||COVID-19 cases in paramilitary forces have crossed 600 mark after Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Indo-Tibetan Police Force (ITBP) on Saturday reported around 70 fresh cases. All the 62 cases in the CRPF were reported from its 194th Rapid Action Force (RAF) battalion deployed in the national capital. With this, there are 231 personnel from the force who have tested positive for COVID-19. ITBP reported six fresh cases, taking the total number of cases to 100. Altogether, the paramilitary forces have reported 607 cases. Border Security Force (BSF) has reported 224 cases while 38 cases have been reported in Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and 14 in Shashastra Seema Ball (SSB). So far, five personnel have died due to COVID-19. On Friday, Union Home Minister reviewed the functioning of paramilitary forces during COVID-19 along with Directors General of the forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-cases-in-paramilitary-forces-cross-600-mark-835596.html
09-05-2020||National||All 42 'inconclusive' COVID-19 samples found negative at NIB: Noida CMO||All 42 “inconclusive” COVID-19 samples which were sent for retesting to the Centre-run National Institute of Biologicals have been found negative, Gautam Buddh Nagar officials said on Saturday. The samples were collected at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida and found “inconclusive” by experts there after which they sent these to the NIB on May 5, the officials said. The development was followed by a controversy over “low number of tests” being done in Gautam Buddh Nagar even as some people took to social media to claim that the “higher authorities” were meddling in the result reports. However, the GIMS, an ICMR-approved COVID-19 testing facility, had refuted the charges on May 7, saying that due to technical reasons, some lab reports tend to be inconclusive.   “Forty-two COVID-19 test samples were found inconclusive during testing and were sent to the government-run NIB for retesting. The reports have been received. None of the 42 samples have been found positive,” Chief Medical Officer Deepak Ohri said. The senior doctor also assured that the medical workers are dedicated to the fight against the pandemic and urged people not to believe or spread rumours. “All doctors, medical and paramedical staff in the district are putting in all efforts with transparency to combat coronavirus. Some people are making unsubstantiated claims and creating a situation of confusion which is discouraging for 'corona warriors' and their energy is wasted in clarifying these doubts,” the CMO said in a statement. Gautam Buddh Nagar adjoining Delhi in western Uttar Pradesh has recorded 216 positive cases of coronavirus, including two deaths, till Saturday evening, even as 121 patients have got discharged after successful treatment, according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-42-inconclusive-covid-19-samples-found-negative-at-nib-noida-cmo-835597.html
09-05-2020||National||PIL filed in SC for India to seek compensation from China in ICJ for COVID-19||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Union government to approach the International Court of Justice to seek 600 billion US dollars from China for creating a  "biological warfare weapon to kill mass population" in India. The petition filed by Madurai resident K K Ramesh pointed out that many countries and its leaders have openly expressed their view that China created a biological weapon of COVID-19, which was not originated from animals. America's president also said that he did have evidence of COVID-19 pandemic was created in a biological lab in China, it claimed.  The petition filed by advocate C R Jaya Sukin contended that the Wuhan Institute of Virology had been used for China’s illegal biological warfare weapon program.  The petition claimed, "The People's Republic of China had deliberately created biological weapon COVID-19 against India and leaked it to every public place that killed Indian people and destroyed India's economy."  It contended that coronavirus is an extremely dangerous disease. It was designed to mutate from person to person. Many people got killed, a lot of people were admitted to hospital for treatment, and crores of people have lost their jobs due to COVID-19.   The petitioner said the International Court of Justice has been constituted for hearing the disputes between the States. Common citizens cannot file a petition over there, so the petitioner filed the plea as a Public Interest Litigation (PIL).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-for-india-to-seek-compensation-from-china-in-icj-for-covid-19-835599.html
09-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Over 2,500 people detained for violating lockdown in Delhi, says Police||Over 60 cases were registered and 2,511 people detained in the national capital on Saturday for violating lockdown norms, police said. According to the data shared by the police, 68 cases were registered under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5 pm. A total of 2,511 people were detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 142 vehicles impounded under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, it showed. A total of 608 movement passes were issued during the day, the police said. Twenty-three cases were registered against people for stepping out of their houses without wearing masks, they added. Since March 24, 1,52,830 people have been detained for violating government orders under section 65 of the Delhi Police Act in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-over-2500-people-detained-for-violating-lockdown-in-delhi-says-police-835601.html
09-05-2020||National||Mother’s Day: Home and beyond, finding a partner for the coronavirus pandemic||He hops off a helicopter, whips off his shades and makes a dash through the grounds towards his home to give his mother a surprise, but there she is, waiting at the door with a ‘pooja thali’ in her hand. That admittedly cheesy scene between Shah Rukh Khan and Jaya Bachchan from the blockbuster Hindi film “Kabhi Khushi Kabhi Gham” was playing in Sonali Puri’s mind when she was on a Mumbai-Jammu flight to give her mother a surprise last month. Her mother was at the door just as she had imagined but instead of a ‘thali’ was a hand sanitiser! “Good hygiene is a blessing in times of coronavirus, my mother told me,” laughed the 37-year-old. That was in mid-March, a few days before the coronavirus forced lockdown began on March 25. And home in Jammu is where Puri still is, the short vacation turning into extended mother-daughter downtime, both recalibrating their equations as they spend focused time with each other after years. This Mother’s Day, the first time in years perhaps that Puri has been home for the day, she said she is just happy she managed to spend this stressful lockdown period with her mother. “I don’t remember spending this much time with my mother in the past 10 years. We play cards – she still cheats -- watch old movies, cook, sing, dance and of course fight too. Everything like old times.   “The best thing is that with her being around I can be the child again, and with me being around she gets to be the mother again. Even the otherwise stressful work-from-home is not that bad with her around,” said Puri, a recruiting professional.   The nationwide lockdown was first extended till May 3 and then till May 17 with a few relaxations built in.   The uncertain weeks have seen everyone across the spectrum of income, age and gender trying to hold on to their ‘constants’ in life. While lives all over are upended, home is the anchor – few like Puri are at home, lakhs of others such as migrant workers are taking unbelievable risks to get there and many are stranded longing for the day they’ll finally be there. For Puri and many others like her, home is where family is, or maybe just where mother is. Those in connected India not in the same physical space in this lockdown period are reaching out to their mothers with many asks. Some are calling their mothers for recipes, some for advice and discussing the day’s events and others to just vent to a sympathetic listener who always understands.   People have a whole laundry list on why mother makes for the best lockdown partner ever – even in absentia.    The pandemic has turned him into a “mamma’s boy”, admitted 27-year-old Ramansh Billawria, a lawyer in Delhi.   Grocery shopping, recipes, bargaining with vendors and even basics like, “what is done first, dry mopping or wet mopping?”, Billawria is calling his mother in Pathankot in Punjab incessantly.    “I recently shifted to New Delhi for my job. Just when I thought I was coming to term with the pace of the city, the city, as well as the country, went into hibernation mode.   “I have lost the count of calls I made my mother during the lockdown. Had I been her I would have stopped taking the calls. Thank god, she is not like me. I have promised to treat her with Spanish eggs – the one dish I learned without her help -- whenever I meet her next,” said Billawria.    For Simi Gupta, 35, who is expecting a child this July, to not have her mother by her side in the last two months of her pregnancy is “unthinkable”. But this is reality and she is trying to cope with it, hoping that the lockdown is lifted soon and her mother can come from Agra to be with her when the baby is born.   “A daughter needs her mother the most during pregnancy. It’s not about work or anything else. Her mere presence can do a world of good. My husband and I are making umpteen video calls to her, checking about every minute thing related to the baby," said Gupta, a Haryana-based teacher.    "Moreover, with the fear of COVID-19 all over, her being here would have brought a much needed sense of calm to me and my family,” she added.   For Mother’s Day, her seven-year-old twin daughters with some help from their father are making cards for both -- their mother as well as their grandmother.  “The other day, one of my daughters came to me and said we will celebrate once the chotu is outside you and nani is inside our house,” Gupta recalled with a smile.   It doesn’t really matter how old you are.   Vandana Thapa, a homemaker in her 40s, is worried about her mother’s health, a dialysis patient, and is desperate to meet her.   “It is for the first time in many years that my daughter and I are here in Delhi and not spending the summer holidays with my mother and father in Dehradun,” she said.   The comfort of being home is special, say men and women of all ages. Juggling housework, office pressures and the stress of living through a pandemic is tough. But a call from home or to home can puncture the stress balloon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mother-s-day-home-and-beyond-finding-a-partner-for-the-coronavirus-pandemic-835602.html
09-05-2020||National||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr hospitalised in critical condition||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr, a triple Olympic gold medallist, has been admitted to a city hospital in critical condition. The 96-year-old was taken to a private hospital from his residence in Sector 36 in Chandigarh, where he lives with his daughter Sushbir and maternal grandson Kabir. "Dadaji is in ICU right now at Fortis Hospital. He was admitted last evening with complaints of pneumonia. He is on ventilator but better than yesterday," grandson Kabir told PTI. Dr Rajinder Kalra, doctor of 1975 World Cup winning side as well as family doctor:"Balbir had 104 degree fever on Thursday night. Initially, we tried to manage by giving him sponge baths at home but his conditions didn't improve we tried to shift him to PGI, Chandigarh. "But since PGI Chandigarh is a COVID hospital, so it was difficult to get him admitted in ICU. So we admitted him in Fortis, Mohali where he as been 3-4 times before." "He is currently in ICU but better than yesterday. His COVID-19 test went for examination today and the results are expected tomorrow," Kalra said. In January last year, Balbir Sr was discharged from PGI after spending 108 days in the hospital, where he underwent treatment for bronchial pneumonia. "It is an unparalleled achievement and credit to his grit that he could recover at the age of 95 from the scenario of bronchial pneumonia and near cardiac failure that he was initially admitted with," Prof. Jagat Ram, Director PGIMER had then said when the former India captain was discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hockey-legend-balbir-singh-sr-hospitalised-in-critical-condition-835603.html
09-05-2020||National||Centre proposing to do away with Interstate Migrant Workmen Act, alleges Congress||The Narendra Modi government is proposing to do away with the Interstate Migrant Workmen Act, even though it is the Centre's responsibility to ensure workers' rights are taken care of under the legislation especially during the lockdown, the Congress said on Saturday. The party said Parliament should assert itself and not allow this to happen, as it called upon the Centre and the states to jointly formulate an action plan to ensure the safe return of migrants to their homes. "The Modi government has proposed to do away with the Inter-State Migrant Act, 1979. Parliament should assert itself forcefully to ensure this does not happen. If anything, the Act needs to be updated and strengthened. The inexcusable loss of lives and livelihoods needs to stop now," senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said. Asserting that inter-state migration is the "exclusive jurisdiction" of the Centre, Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said, "The BJP government should do its duty rather than shirking responsibility, passing the buck and extorting money from labourers." The legislation is intended to regulate the employment of inter-state migrant workmen and to provide for their conditions of service. It was enacted to prevent the exploitation of inter-state migrant workmen by contractors and to ensure fair and decent conditions of employment. Shergill said a 'One Nation, One Policy' should be adopted for reverse migration of workers rather than 28 states having different laws of acceptance for the labourers. "Instead of playing politics on the issue of migrants, the Centre and the states should together prepare an action plan without any discrimination, to ensure the safe return of migrants," he said. The Congress leader said the manner in which Indians stranded abroad are being welcomed at airports, migrant labourers should also be welcomed by different states. The central government must announce compensation for families of the 55 labourers who died due to its "ill-planning, insensitive approach and irrational decision-making", Shergill said. The Congress spokesperson said Home Minister Amit Shah broke his silence on the issue of migrants after over 45 days of lockdown and death of over 55 labourers, by writing to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. "He should write similar letters to Gujarat and Karnataka (where BJP governments are in place) who are stopping labourers from returning to their native states during a nationwide lockdown. The West Bengal government must help migrants reach their homes," he said. Shah in his letter to CM Mamata Banerjee said the West Bengal government was not allowing trains with migrant workers to reach the state and that may further create hardship for the labourers. TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee hit back at Shah saying he should either apologise or prove his allegations. Accusing the home minister was spreading a "bundle of lies" after staying silent for weeks, Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of the West chief minister said Shah was talking about the very people who have been left to their fate by the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-proposing-to-do-away-with-interstate-migrant-workmen-act-alleges-congress-835605.html
09-05-2020||National||Locals protest with dead bodies accusing LG Polymers of negligence||Hundreds of locals of RR Venkatapuram and other villages protested at the LG Polymers plant with three victim dead bodies, demanding justice and shifting of the hazardous unit away from their habitations. The deadly Styrene vapour leakage from the Polystyrene unit of the South Korean MNC on Thursday’s wee hours has killed 12 people and hospitalized about 500. On Saturday morning, locals brought the dead bodies returned from the hospital after postmortem including that of a girl child who died inhaling the toxic vapour, to the company gates. Villagers tried to block Andhra Pradesh DGP Gautam Sawang who came to inspect the plant. Police controlled those who tried to enter inside the factory. “The mishap cause is under investigation,” Sawang said. “Experts had sought 48 hours, as per the protocol, to bring everything to normalcy which should be by tomorrow.” While announcing a high-level committee to probe the incident, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy announced Rs one crore compensation for each of the families which suffered the loss of life. Rs 10 lakh ex-gratia is for those treated with ventilator support, while Rs one lakh would be given for those who are hospitalized for two or more days. Primary treatment receivers will get Rs 25,000 while Rs 10,000 would be given for each person in the affected five villages. Livestock loss will also be compensated. A job to one family member will also be looked into, the CM said, while indicating that the LG unit might have to shift away from the large human habitation area, based on the committee's findings. Thousands of people were sheltered in function halls etc. with food arrangements. While all this is from the government side, agitated locals accused LG of doing nothing to their rescue – including not warning with an alarm – or rehabilitation since the mishap occurred.   Following public anger, LG Polymers issued a statement assuring all possible support to the locals and safety security settings to prevent such event recurrence. “We would like to assure everyone that the company is committed to work closely with the concerned authorities in India to investigate the cause of this incident, prevent recurrence in the future, and secure the foundation for care and treatment,” LG said, while offering “sincere condolences and apologies to all the affected.” Company officials stated their teams as working day and night with the government to assess the impact of the damage caused and “create concrete measures to deliver an effective care package that can be implemented immediately.” “A Special task force has been set up to help victims and families to resolve any issues and provide every assistance to the bereaved families. All families will be contacted shortly. This team has the responsibility to provide every support for the deceased, medical supplies and household goods, and emotional management for psychological stability to all injured and victims. We will also actively develop and promote mid-to-long term support programs that can contribute to the local communities,” LG Polymers release further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/locals-protest-with-dead-bodies-accusing-lg-polymers-of-negligence-835607.html
09-05-2020||National||After CM's request to Amit Shah, AIIMS doctors visit Ahmedabad||Two days after Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani's request to Union Home Minister Amit Shah to send top doctors to Ahmedabad to guide local doctors in checking the mortality rate and treating coronavirus infected patients, Director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, arrived in the city early Saturday morning and held meetings with the health department officials as well as doctors and nursing staffs treating patients at special COVID-19 hospital. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria landed in the city in a special aircraft with another senior doctor Manish Suneja. They visited the civil hospital, Asarva, where a 1,200-bed special COVID-19 hospital is operational for more than a month. Ahmedabad city with 5,540 cases and 363 deaths is worst hit in the state. Health officials said that the senior doctors met local doctors, nurses and other staffs and took a virtual tour of entire facilities. Later in a meeting, Guleria said that "the reason behind high mortality rate is late admission of people to hospitals, comorbidity and weaker immunity."  "There is a stigma and fear attached to coronavirus. People fear to approach doctors at early stages since they feel that they will be stigmatized and that's why the delay in approaching doctors. People with mild symptoms should approach doctors immediately as a delay only increases the chances of death. The level of oxygen gets reduced in such people but they don't realise it that proves fatal. The west has termed it as happy hypoxia," Guleria said in the meeting. He added that to stop the mortality rate, people will have to come forward. He also praised the facilities and treatment methods and said that they were of "international standard."   Meanwhile, the state reported 23 more deaths from the infection on Saturday evening. Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi said that that it was the lowest number of casualties in the past one week. The state also recorded a total of 394 fresh cases, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 7,797, while the death toll jumped to 472.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-cms-request-to-amit-shah-aiims-doctors-visit-ahmedabad-835608.html
09-05-2020||National||ICMR teams up with Bharat Biotech to develop COVID-19 vaccine||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has partnered with Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) to develop a fully indigenous vaccine for COVID-19, the apex health research body said on Saturday. The vaccine will be developed using the virus strain isolated at the ICMR's National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, a statement said. The strain has been successfully transferred from NIV to BBIL, it added. "Work on vaccine development has been initiated between the two partners. The ICMR-NIV will provide continuous support to BBIL for vaccine development. ICMR and BBIL will seek fast-track approvals to expedite vaccine development, subsequent animal studies and clinical evaluation of the candidate vaccine," the health research body said in the statement.  The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,981 and the number of cases climbed to 59,662 in the country on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-teams-up-with-bharat-biotech-to-develop-covid-19-vaccine-835613.html
09-05-2020||National||'Prepared for worse', says Health Minister as coronavirus cases rise||While India’s COVID-19 count continued its upward march with 3,320 new infections reported on Saturday, Health Minister Harshvardhan said the country’s health infrastructure is ready for the worst scenario. “We do not anticipate a very worst type of situation in our country like many other developed countries but still we have prepared the whole country for the worst situation,” Harshvardhan said during a review meeting with health ministers of north-eastern states. According to the health ministry, as of 8:00 am on Saturday, India had 59,662 confirmed cases of COVID-19, after an increase in excess of 3,000 infections for the third consecutive day. As many as 95 patients succumbed to the disease in a single day, taking the death toll to 1,981. A DH COVID-19 Tracker put the total cases at 60,222 and the death toll at 1,997 as of 7:15 pm on Saturday. “We have dedicated 843 hospitals exclusively for COVID-19 patients, with 1,65,991 beds. Across the country, there are 1,991 dedicated COVID-19 health centres which have 1,35,643 beds. This includes isolation as well as ICU beds,” Harshvardhan said. He said India also has 7,645 quarantine centres across the country which would also house the Indian citizens coming from foreign countries by special evacuation flights operated by the government. On the testing front, he said India, which began its fight against COVID-19 with one lab in Pune, now has a network of 453 laboratories across the country, including 121 private labs, with a cumulative capacity to test 95,000 samples every day.    “On Friday, we had tested more than 84,600 samples,” the minister said. For the northeastern states, Harshvardhan stressed on the need to take concrete action to check the use of non-smoking tobacco and prohibit spitting in public places which shall help in preventing the spread of the infection. For the states that have international borders, the minister suggested adequate measures to prevent exposure by conducting screening of all individuals at entry points and following quarantine protocol as per the guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prepared-for-worse-says-health-minister-as-coronavirus-cases-rise-835615.html
09-05-2020||National||COVID-19: 15 districts account for 64% of cases||Fourteen districts – out of which only two are in southern India – contribute more than 60% of India’s COVID-19 case, according to new government data that underlines the need to strengthen containment strategies at the state level. These districts account for 64% of the cases. Out of these, the big cities of Delhi, Pune, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Chennai account for 47% of the total cases. Mumbai contributes 61% of Maharashtra cases whereas more than 71% of cases in Gujarat are in Ahmedabad and half of Tamil Nadu cases come from Chennai. The only two southern districts in the list are Chennai and Hyderabad that contribute 7% of the national caseload. The rest comes from Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Pune, Indore, Thane, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Surat, Kolkata, Agra and Bhopal. The states must strengthen the containment strategies besides undertaking rigorous testing and contact tracing, said an official. These were among the 20 districts where a central team was sent last week to review the COVID-19 management strategies adopted by the states.  Among the big five cities, Mumbai has the highest doubling rate of 19.4 days while Chennai is the worst at 6.2 days. The doubling rate for Ahmedabad, Pune and Delhi are 17.8 days, 11 days and 7.1 days. For comparison, the national doubling rate is 10 days. Because of the risks posed by these districts, the Centre on Saturday once again dispatched teams of officials to Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to assist the state governments. A central team has already visited Maharashtra. There are some improvements too. Vadodara and Kurnool that were among the worst districts about a fortnight ago are not out of the woods. But Kolkata with a fatality rate of 10% - the highest in the country – is a new inclusion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-15-districts-account-for-64-of-cases-835623.html
09-05-2020||National||35 tigers in Melghat Reserve as per 'waterhole-machaan' census||A 'waterhole-machaan' census carried out in Melghat Reserve in Maharashtra's Amravati district over Thursday and Friday revealed the presence of 35 tigers and 45 leopards as well as healthy numbers of other wild animals, forest department officials said. The "Nisarg Anubhav", as the forest department terms the census centred on the observation of waterholes from tree platforms, was held on Buddha Poornima in six wildlife divisions coming under Melghat Tiger Reserve, namely Sipna, Gugamal, Akot, Melghat, Akola and Pandharkawada. "A total of 547 machaans were set up. We sighted 35 tigers. The number of leopards seen was 45 while 352 sloth bears and 172 wild dogs and 17542 other wild animals were also sighted," MS Reddy, Field Director of Melghat Tiger Reserve, said in a statement issued on Saturday. "In the last census done on April 30 last year, we saw 16 tigers, 12 leopards, 163 sloth bears and 47 wild dogs," he added. As per an official release, the census found 752 Indian gaurs, 3318 wild boars, 727 Sambhar deer, 879 spotted deer, 433 barking deer, 10 four-horned antelope, 75 porcupines, 67 civet cats, 15 hyenas, 1685 blue bulls, 5763 langurs, 17 jackals, four pangolins, 398 black buck, 72 wild cats and 2136 peacocks. Unlike other years, only forest department staff took part this time due to the lockdown in place for the coronavirus outbreak," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/35-tigers-in-melghat-reserve-as-per-waterhole-machaan-census-835627.html
09-05-2020||National||434 Kashmiri students leave Madhya Pradesh for home by buses||Over 434 Kashmiri students, stranded in various parts of Madhya Pradesh due to lockdown on account of coronavirus outbreak, left for Jammu and Kashmir from Bhopal and Indore by buses on Saturday afternoon. 365 students started their home-bound journey in buses from Bhopal, while 69 others left from Indore. Bhopal district collector Tarun Pithode said medical check-up of all the students was conducted before they were given e-passes for the journey. A fleet of 18 AC buses carrying 365 students left Bhopal around 3 pm, while the group of 69 students left Indore in two buses. In Bhopal, Kashmiri students from various parts of the state gathered at a private school in Gandhi Nagar locality on Friday night. The buses will ferry the students to Lakhanpur post on Punjab-J&K border in Kathua district, from where the administration of the Union Territory will arrange their travel to their hometowns, an official said in Indore. Water Resources Minister Tulsiram Silawat was present in Indore when two buses carrying students left.  Firdaus Ahmed Johar, a research student at Indores Devi Ahilya University, was among those who boarded buses for Jammu and Kashmir. Expressing happiness, he said, "We were stranded in Indore for the last several days due to lockdown. We are thankful to Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for helping us return home." Congress leader Digvijaya Singh had recently written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, requesting him to make arrangements to take Kashmiri students stranded in Madhya Pradesh to their homes. As Jammu and Kashmir is under Central rule, it is the Centre's duty to help the people from that region to return from various parts of the country where they are stranded, Singh had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/434-kashmiri-students-leave-madhya-pradesh-for-home-by-buses-835629.html
09-05-2020||National||Goa govt's quarantine fee rules disappointing, says GSAI||Goa govt's quarantine fee rules disappointing, says GSAI   Panaji, May 9 (PTI) Goans brought back to the state amid the lockdown for the coronavirus will be quarantined for free while those brought back from across the globe will have to pay for such facilities, the Pramod Sawant government has said. In an order issued on Friday, it said "all persons entering into Goa state including seafarers (Goans working on different ships) who sign off at any Indian port will be sent to institutional quarantine centre for testing on arrival. If tested positive, they will be shifted to the Covid hospital as per existing protocol". "All Indian nationals, if tested negative, will undergo mandatory institutional quarantine at their own cost or in the case of seafarers, the cost to be paid by their company, for a minimum period of 14 days on arrival in India by flights/ships," the order further said. However, the order said, free quarantine facility would be provided to Goans stranded within the country during the lockdown. Dixon Vaz of Goa Seaman Association of India (GSAI), a body representing locals who are stranded on different ships, called the order disappointing. "Locals working on different ships are disappointed with the latest order where the government decided to charge seafarers for quarantine services for 14 days when they arrive in Goa," he said. "As per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), the Union Home Ministry clearly says if a person tested negative for COVID-19 after arrival in the country, he or she will be stamped for home quarantine. However, the Goa government has set up its own rules which makes it mandatory for those who were stranded on ships to pay for quarantine, which is totally against guidelines," he said. PTI RPS BNM BNM||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-govts-quarantine-fee-rules-disappointing-says-gsai-835638.html
09-05-2020||National||3 foreigners held for robbing gas cylinder delivery man in South Delhi||Three foreign nationals, including a 39-year-old woman, have been arrested for allegedly robbing an LPG gas cylinder delivery person in South Delhi's Hauz Khas, police said on Saturday. Two of the accused were identified as Hamid Ahmadi (31) and Mohammad Shamshahbad (29),both residents of Vinoba Nagar, they said. Police have withheld the identity of the woman. According to police, the incident took place near Chirag Delhi Metro station on Friday when the accused, who were in a car, approached the delivery person, Satish Pathak. The woman asked him about the price of a cylinder. She also requested him to make her understand using Indian currency notes on the pretext that she does not know Hindi language and would be unable to figure out the price. "When the victim showed them his notes, the person sitting at the back came out of the vehicle and pushed him. They robbed him of Rs 11,180. When the accused were fleeing, Pathak chased them and held on to the rear window," Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. Pathak raised the alarm, following which a scooter rider and a motorcycle-borne man blocked the accused's way and caught them. They informed the police and handed over the accused to them, the DCP said. The robbed money and the car were recovered and the accused's previous involvements are being checked, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-foreigners-held-for-robbing-gas-cylinder-delivery-man-in-south-delhi-835642.html
09-05-2020||National||Provide all possible help to needy: J P Nadda to BJP workers||The BJP has distributed more than nine crore food packets during the ongoing lockdown and also given ration to over two crore people, BJP president J P Nadda said on Saturday.  During a meeting with party leaders, including from different states and local bodies through a video conference, Nadda took review of the party's relief work for the poor and said the organisation has undertaken the exercise to serve people at an unprecedented level.  A BJP statement said he asked party leaders to provide all possible help to the needy while praising their efforts so far.  "We are serving the humanity and have to continue doing so... We don't have to tire in our campaign. We have to become role models for the society," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/provide-all-possible-help-to-needy-j-p-nadda-to-bjp-workers-835648.html
09-05-2020||National||Amid COVID-19, heart transplantation in Kerala||Heart transplantation is being carried out in Kerala on Saturday with the heart harvested from a brain dead woman aged around 45 in Thiruvananthapuram being airlifted to Kochi and being transplanted on a woman hailing from Ernakulam district. The heart transplantation assumed significance as a helicopter recently hired for Kerala Police was operated for transporting the organ from Thiruvananthapuram to Kochi, around 225 kilometres, in around 45 minutes. The decision to hire the helicopter on a rent of Rs. 1.7 crore had recently triggered allegations of unnecessary spending at the time of financial crunches. A team of doctors led by cardiac surgeon Jose Chacko Periappuram was conducting the transplantation. The heart was harvested from a Thiruvananthapuram native at KIMS hospital. The transplantation was progressing on an Ernakulam native at Lissie hospital in Kochi and the first stage is said to be successful.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-heart-transplantation-in-kerala-835652.html
09-05-2020||National||Ahmedabad COVID-19 cases up by 280 to 5,540; death toll 363||A total of 280 new COVID-19 cases were reported from hotspot Ahmedabad besides 20 more deaths on Saturday, taking the total case count to 5,540 in the district and fatalities to 363, a Health department official said. Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi said that the number of the discharged patients from various hospitals in Ahmedabad after recovery mounted by 106 to 1,107 in the last 24 hours. A team of expert doctors from Delhi, led by AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, visited various hospitals in the city on Saturday and guided local medical teams on how to bring down the high COVID-19 death rate, Ravi said. "They found that the protocols being followed at the civil hospital and other hospitals in Ahmedabad were up to the mark," she said, adding that the team was satisfiedwith the state Health department's work. As a measure to bring down the death rate, the doctors have appealed to symptomatic patients, and especially those with underlying health conditions, to avail medical treatment without delay, Ravi said. Ahmedabad's COVID-19 mortality rate stands at 6.5 per cent, which is almost double than the national average of 3.3 per cent. Dr Guleria, accompanied by Dr Manish Soneja of AIIMS' department of medicine, visited the civil hospital and met doctors and staff, who were attending to COVID-19 patients and offered them guidance, a Health department release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahmedabad-covid-19-cases-up-by-280-to-5540-death-toll-363-835659.html
09-05-2020||National||CBSE to start evaluation of Class 10-12 answer sheets from May 10||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is set to begin the process of evaluation of Class 10 and Class 12 answer sheets from Sunday (May 10), HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Saturday (May 9). The answer sheets – about 2.5 crore – will be home delivered to qualified evaluators who will carry out the assessment and complete the process within the next 50 days, the minister said. As many as 18 lakh students had appeared for Class 10 examinations and another 12 lakh for the Class 12 exams. The HRD minister said permission had been granted for evaluation in 3000 schools. He expressed hope that 1.5 crore answer sheets in 173 subjects would be evaluated soon. Nishank said that the assessment of the answer sheets of the 29 pending subjects – exams for which will be held between July 1 and 15 – will also be completed at the earliest. In an office memorandum issued on Saturday, the Ministry of Home Affairs has said that while all schools remain closed under the lockdown guidelines to prevent the spread of COVID-19, “special permission has been granted for the operation of 3,000 CBSE-affiliated schools selected as evaluation centres, for the limited purpose of work associated with the evaluation of answer sheets.” “I am confident that this will help us to quickly evaluate the 2.5 crore answer sheets. The results will be declared after the board examinations (scheduled between July 1 and 15),” the HRD Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-start-evaluation-of-class-10-12-answer-sheets-from-may-10-835662.html
09-05-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 106 in Rajasthan; 3,708 cases||The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 106 in Rajasthan on Saturday, with three more fatalities and the number of cases climbed to 3,708 as 129 fresh infections were reported, officials said. The fresh cases were reported from 13 districts. Three patients of COVID-19, the disease caused by coronavirus, died at SMS Hospital, Jaipur. With this, 106 people have succumbed to the infection in the state, the officials said. A four-year-old girl and a 24-year-old woman from Jaipur, and a 33-year-old man from Churu district were among those who died at the hospital, they said. Of the 129 fresh infections, Jaipur reported the highest number of cases at 51, followed by 24 in Udaipur, according to the officials. Ajmer recorded 15 fresh cases, Jodhpur 11, Chittorgarh 10, Pali five, Churu and Jalore three each and Rajsamand two. Barmer, Dausa, Kota, Sawaimadhopur and Sirohi reported one case each. The total number of coronvairus cases in Rajasthan now stands at 3,708, the officials said. There are 1,440 active cases in the state. As many as 2,162 coronavirus patients have recovered and 1,895 of them have been discharged so far, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-106-in-rajasthan-3708-cases-835666.html
09-05-2020||National||ICMR partners with BBIL to develop indigenous coronavirus vaccine||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) have partnered to develop a fully indigenous vaccine for COVID-19 using the virus strain isolated at Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV). The strain has been successfully transferred from NIV to Bharat Biotech and work on vaccine development has been initiated. ICMR and BBIL will seek fast-track approvals to expedite vaccine development, subsequent animal studies and clinical evaluation of the candidate vaccine, an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-partners-with-bbil-to-develop-indigenous-coronavirus-vaccine-835667.html
09-05-2020||National||Seven narcotic smugglers held in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba and Udhampur||Seven alleged drug peddlers were arrested on Saturday with huge quantity of narcotic substance in Samba and Udhampur districts of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. Binder Singh and his associate Jaseer Singh, from Punjab's Sangrur, were arrested with 48.7 kg of poppy straw seized from their truck coming from Kashmir on Jammu-Pathankot highway in Samba district, a police spokesperson said. Another driver, Kulwinder Singh of Sangrur, was arrested following recovery of 1.3 kg of poppy straw from his vehicle during checking at Bari Brahmana area of the highway in the same district, he said. In Udhampur town, four drug peddlers were arrested with heroin during checking at two places on the national highway, the police spokesperson said. He said all arrested persons were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at different police stations and further investigations were on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-narcotic-smugglers-held-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-samba-and-udhampur-835671.html
09-05-2020||National||More central teams for 10 states that have witnessed or are witnessing high COVID-19 cases: Health ministry||The health ministry has decided to deploy central teams in 10 states that have witnessed or are witnessing high COVID-19 cases to assist their health departments to facilitate management of the outbreak. These are besides the 20 central teams of public health experts sent earlier to 20 high case load districts on May 3, the health ministry said in a statement on Saturday, adding a high-level team was recently deputed in Mumbai to support Maharashtra's efforts in COVID-19 response and management. The statement was issued in the backdrop of medical experts from AIIMS - Director Dr Randeep Guleria and Dr Manish Soneja - from the department of medicine visiting the civil hospital in Ahmedabad to provide expert guidance to the doctors there on the management of COVID-19 following directions from the Centre.  They interacted with the frontline staff amid concerns over the rise in COVID-19 fatalities in the state. According to official sources, the team of doctors flew to Ahmedabad by a special Indian Air Force flight on Friday evening. According to the health ministry statement, the central teams comprises a senior official from the health ministry, a joint secretary-level nodal officer and a public health expert.  "The team shall support the state health department in implementation of containment measures in the affected areas within the respective states' districts and cities," the statement said. The teams are being sent to Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, it said. According to the health ministry, the death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,981 and the number of cases climbed to 59,662 on Saturday registering an increase of 95 deaths and 3,320 cases in the last 24 hours since Friday morning.  The 1,981 fatalities include 449 from Gujarat, 200 from Madhya Pradesh, 160 from West Bengal, 101 from Rajasthan, 68 from Delhi, 66 from Uttar Pradesh, 14 from Andhra Pradesh, 40 from Tamil Nadu, 30 in Karnataka while Telangana and Punjab have reported 29 fatalities each due to the respiratory disease.  According to the health ministry data updated in the morning, Gujarat has reported 7,402 cases, Delhi 6,318, Tamil Nadu 6,009, Rajasthan 3,579, Madhya Pradesh 3,341 and Uttar Pradesh  3,214. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 1,887 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,731 in Punjab. It has risen to 1,678 in West Bengal and 1,133 in Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-central-teams-for-10-states-that-have-witnessed-or-are-witnessing-high-covid-19-cases-health-ministry-835672.html
09-05-2020||National||Migrant movement to West Bengal: Only 2 trains so far out of 302||Amidst a war of words over the movement of trains ferrying stranded workers to West Bengal, railway data shows that the state, which is a source of a sizeable number of the migrant population, has so far accepted only two Shramik Special trains, though 302 of them have run so far. According to the railways' guidelines for these special trains ferrying migrants back to their native places during the coronavirus lockdown, both the states where the trains will be originating and terminating have to give their acceptance for running them. Among the states like Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal, which are considered the largest source of the migrant population in the country, the Trinamool Congress-ruled state has the least number of migrant special trains coming in. Bihar has accepted 73 trains, 17 trains are still on their way there and 15 more trains have got the nod to be operated to the state. Uttar Pradesh has brought its migrants in 88 Shramik Special trains, 33 more are on their way and 21 more will begin their journeys in the coming days. Jharkhand has accepted 13 trains, has three more running and two in the pipeline while Odisha has brought in migrants in 20 trains. According to figures from 2011 census, West Bengal ranks fourth among the states from where people migrate for work and employment. Between 2001 and 2011, nearly 5.8 lakh people migrated from the state looking for work, which is fewer only than Uttar Pradesh (37.3 lakh), Bihar (22.6 lakh) and Rajasthan (6.6 lakh). However, the West Bengal government said on Saturday that it has accepted 10 more trains from Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Rajasthan and Punjab after Home Minister Amit Shah shot off a letter accusing it of not allowing migrants to return. "Migrants from West Bengal are eager to reach home, but we are not getting expected support from the state," Shah said in his letter. The home minister said that West Bengal is not allowing trains. This is injustice with the migrant labourers. This will create further hardship for them, he added. The TMC also released a schedule of eight trains which it had planned,including four to be run on Saturday. The railways said that while no trains are to run to Bengal on Saturday, it has received clearance to run eight trains to the state. Railways said that three trains from Karnataka, two each from Punjab and Tamil Nadu, and one from Telangana will take stranded people to West Bengal over the next few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-movement-to-west-bengal-only-2-trains-so-far-out-of-302-835673.html
09-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Rahul Gandhi demands audit of PM CARES Fund||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday demanded an audit of PM CARES Fund and said the account of money received and spent be made public. On March 28, the Centre set up the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund with the primary objective to deal with any kind of emergency situation like the one currently posed by the COVID-19 outbreak and provide relief to those affected. "The PM-CARES fund has received huge contributions from PSUs and major public utilities like the Railways. "It's important that prime minister ensures the fund is audited and that the record of money received and spent is available to the public," Gandhi said on Twitter. The Congress has questioned the government over setting up of a separate PM CARES Fund by the prime minister for fighting coronavirus, demanding that the same be merged with the PM National Relief Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-rahul-gandhi-demands-audit-of-pm-cares-fund-835683.html
09-05-2020||National||In tweaked policy, pre-discharge test only for severe COVID-19 cases||The Centre has tweaked the discharge policy for COVID-19 patients where only those with severe illness or compromised immunity will undergo RT-PCR tests before they are allowed to leave the hospital. Patients with very mild, mild, pre-symptomatic or moderate illness need not undergo any tests before being discharged from COVID-19 care facilities. The revised discharge guidelines are a departure from the earlier policy that required a laboratory-confirmed patient to undergo a test after 14 days of hospitalisation and a repeat test within 24 hours — with both results negative — before being discharged from the healthcare facility. “Mild/very mild/pre-symptomatic cases will undergo regular temperature and pulse oximetry monitoring. The patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days,” the revised guidelines said. “There will be no need for testing prior to discharge,” they said. The patient will be advised to follow home isolation for a further seven days. The revised discharge policy is aligned with the guidelines on the three-tier COVID-19 facilities and categorisation of patients based on clinical severity — mild, moderate, severe. The policy states that if a patient develops symptoms of fever, cough or breathing difficulty again after being discharged, he will contact the COVID-19 care centre or state helpline or 1075. Such a patient’s health will again be followed up through tele-conference on the 14th day. Patients clinically classified as moderate will undergo monitoring of body temperature and oxygen saturation.  “If fever resolves within three days and patient maintains saturation above 95% for the next four days (without oxygen support), such a patient will be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset in case there is no fever without anti-fever drugs, no breathlessness and no need for oxygen,” the policy said. “There will again be no need for testing prior to discharge, and home isolation for seven days is suggested with close monitoring of health,” the policy said. Even for Covid-19 patients classified as clinically severe and those who are immunocompromised, the discharge criteria will be a single negative test and not two in addition to clinical recovery. Immunocompromised patients include those with HIV, transplant recipients and patients with malignancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-tweaked-policy-pre-discharge-test-only-for-severe-covid-19-cases-835700.html
09-05-2020||National Politics||Amit Shah accuses West Bengal govt of not helping migrant labourers, TMC hits back||The confrontation between the Centre and West Bengal government intensified on Saturday with Union Home Minister Amit Shah accusing the Mamata Banerjee-led government of not doing enough to bring back migrant labourers. The Trinamool Congress rubbished the claim as a "big lie" and hit back against Shah. It began with Shah shooting off a letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee saying that migrant workers, who were stranded due to the COVID-19 lockdown, were "anxious to return" to their home state while her government had not shown initiative despite other states approaching them to transport labourers.  The Home Minister directly writing to the Chief Minister marks an aggressive turn in the fight between the BJP and the TMC in Bengal, which is going to the Assembly polls in April-May next year in which BJP seeks to overthrow the Mamata regime. So far, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has been writing to Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha on COVID-19-related issues.  With the Centre starting special trains to transport migrant labourers from May 1, Shah said that "injustice" was being done to migrant labourers and that it pained him that the state government was not cooperating with others. Seeking Mamata's cooperation, he said the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had been receiving repeated requests from several states to arrange migrants' travel. Some of the states are even facing unrest by such migrants, he said. The TMC returned fire with Rajya Sabha leader Derek O'Brien saying that everything in Shah’s letter was a "big lie" and that he had just woken up from slumber. O'Brien said that two trains had already reached the state from Kerala and Rajasthan, while an official list shows that at least eight Bengal-bound trains will start from Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Telangana. "You are writing to Bengal. Don't you remember what your Karnataka Chief Minister (B S Yediyurappa) did? He stopped trains for migrant labourers after a meeting with real estate developers. The Karnataka Chief Minister almost made these migrant workers bonded labourers. After pressure put on him, his earlier decision was withdrawn," he said. He also referred to the move by the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh governments to almost suspend labour laws for at least three years and asked why he was not writing letters to these states. "Have you forgotten all these? When you cannot convince people, you either confuse or go to sleep. This time, you have done both," he said.  Asked whether Shah’s letter was the inauguration of the BJP campaign in Bengal, O’Brien said that the sending of the Inter Ministerial Central Team on COVID-19 actually started their campaign and that Shah had entered only now. The Centre and Bengal have been locked in a bitter political battle as the Assembly polls are just a year away and it has now spread into the COVID-19 fightback.  Finding fault with Bengal’s response in controlling the pandemic, the MHA had sent two Inter-Ministerial Team Central Teams to seven districts in the state besides questioning its recording of cases and deaths related to COVID-19. It had also written to the state accusing it of blocking trucks on the Indo-Bangladesh border. The TMC-led Bengal government had shot back saying that the BJP government at the Centre was murdering the federal structure of the country by sending teams without intimating the state. It also felt that Bengal was being targeted because it was on the BJP’s “radar” for a long time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-accuses-west-bengal-govt-of-not-helping-migrant-labourers-tmc-hits-back-835385.html
09-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus lockdown: Centre is 'lying', planned eight trains to ferry migrants, says TMC||The TMC on Saturday accused Union Home Minister Amit Shah of "lying" about the West Bengal government not allowing trains to reach the state, and said they have already planned eight trains to ferry migrants from Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Telangana. The first train will be leaving on Saturday from Hyderabad to Malda, the TMC said. Shah on Saturday wrote to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, saying while the Centre has facilitated more than two lakh migrants to return home, it is not getting expected support from the state. "The Centre is lying, eight trains ready to ferry passengers to Bengal from different states: It is no right to say CM Mamata Banerjee not allowing migrants to come back.16 migrants died on your watch, will rail minister take responsibility," asked TMC MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar.  In a zoom meeting with several TMC MPs, including Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien, said West Bengal is running 711 camps for migrants in the state and were taking good care of them. According to the plan so far, 31,224 people will return to West Bengal, 17,211 among them from Hyderabad alone. "The Centre wants to embarrass our CM and gain politically in the state. They cannot tolerate her and that is why they are targeting us singularly," Dastidar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-centre-is-lying-planned-eight-trains-to-ferry-migrants-says-tmc-835451.html
09-05-2020||National Politics||'Government' responsible for tragedy in Aurangabad: Shiv Sena||The "government" was responsible for the deaths of 16 migrant labourers who were mown down by a goods train in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district, Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said in its editorial on Saturday. The newspaper, however, did not make it clear whether it blamed the BJP-led Centre or the Sena-led Maharashtra government for the tragedy. "The government did not think of allowing them to go back to their native place, nor did it make arrangements for their food," the editorial said, adding that the authorities should have taken into consideration the problems of the poor before enforcing lockdown on account of coronavirus. The sight of `rotis' strewn on the railway track where the migrants -- who had fallen asleep due to exhaustion while on their way to Madhya Pradesh -- were crushed to death showed a heart-wrenching and harsh reality, Samanaa said. "The labourers were in fine health and had no symptoms of coronavirus and still they died. The responsibility of their death lieswith the government," the editorial said. "Lockdown was enforced to ensure people are safe from coronavirus. But poor labourers are dying of hunger due to the lockdown," it said. The labourers who died on the railway track were victims of the pandemic and not an accident, it asserted. The plight faced by migrant labourers was not restricted to Maharashtra but to the entire country, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece said. "Due to the lockdown, businesses and industries have been closed and workers want to go back to their homes. As no transportation is available, they are walking back with small children and the government is seeing all this with open eyes. "It is sad to see a young mother with her belongings in one hand and a small child in other walking 1,600 km to reach her destination. It is shameful that the country's labour class is suffering in this way," the editorial said. Despite appeals made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief ministers of the states to stay where they are, migrant labourers are on the move, the editorial said. Shiv Sena is in power in Maharashtra in alliance with the Congress and the NCP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-responsible-for-tragedy-in-aurangabad-shiv-sena-835498.html
09-05-2020||National Politics||'Confusion' within central government in fight against coronavirus: Congress||The Congress on Saturday said there was "confusion" within the central government in its fight against the novel coronavirus and wondered how would India tackle the pandemic if officials continued to speak in different voices. Referring to "differing" comments made by some officials on the COVID-19 situation in the country, Congress senior spokesperson Ajay Maken said the government should tell the people clearly about the exact state of the pandemic to enable them to prepare accordingly. He also came down heavily on the Arvind Kejriwal-led government in Delhi and asked it to be more transparent in reporting cases of the novel coronavirus. His comments came as confusion prevailed over the number of deaths due to the coronavirus in the national capital, with data from four hospitals showing that 92 people succumbed to the infection as against 68 fatalities reported by the Delhi government.   He said it was a "matter of shame" that the national capital was witnessing "a sorry state of affairs" in the fight against the pandemic. The Congress leader said there should be more coordination between states and the central government. He also called upon the central government to spell out a clear lockdown-exit policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/confusion-within-central-government-in-fight-against-coronavirus-congress-835504.html
09-05-2020||National Politics||'Inhuman' comments about Amit Shah's health 'extremely condemnable': JP Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda said on Saturday that making "inhuman" comments about the health of Home Minister Amit Shah is "extremely condemnable". "Making inhuman comments about the health of Home Minister Amit Shah is extremely condemnable. Spreading such misleading remarks about anyone's health shows the mindset of people doing so. I strongly condemn it and pray to God to grant them good sense," Nadda said in a tweet. His tweet came after Shah, also Nadda's predecessor as the BJP president, asserted in a statement that he is "totally healthy" and rejected rumours being spread about his ill health on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/inhuman-comments-about-amit-shahs-health-extremely-condemnable-jp-nadda-835506.html
09-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus lockdown: Sharad Pawar request PM Narendra Modi for smooth repatriation of migrants||NCP chief Sharad Pawar has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to talk to chief ministers of those states who are not allowing migrant workers to come back home. Pawar spoke over the phone to Railways Minister Piyush Goyal and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on the issue of repatriation of migrant workers to their home states during the coronavirus-induced lockdown period. "I humbly request our @PMOIndia Shri. Narendra Modi ji to intervene in this matter by talking to the CMs of the respective states who are not allowing these people to come back home," the NCP chief tweeted. Though he did not name any specific state, the NCP had recently accused the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka of not wanting to take back labourers hailing from the two states. "Had a telephonic conversation with Shri @OfficeofUT - Chief Minister of Maharashtra and Shri @PiyushGoyal - the Union Railway Minister regarding the issue of migrant workers," Pawar twitted. He said Thackeray has assured him of making arrangements for the transportation of workers desirous of returning to their home states. "State Transport buses will be used for their travel," Pawar added.  On his part, Goyal also assured of making arrangements for the journeys of the workers by trains, Pawar said. On Friday, 16 migrant workers sleeping on railway tracks in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra were mowed down by a goods train. They were part of a group of workers who were walking from Jalna to Bhusawal from where they were hoping to board trains for their onward journey to Madhya Pradesh.  Separately, hundreds of workers have undertaken journy on foot to their home states in view of the loss of livelihood amidst the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-sharad-pawar-request-pm-narendra-modi-for-smooth-repatriation-of-migrants-835546.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||365 Kashmiri students to return home from Bhopal in 18 buses||Over 360 Kashmiri students stranded in parts of Madhya Pradesh due to the lockdown will be sent back to their native places in air-conditioned buses from Bhopal on Saturday, an official said. As many as 365 Kashmiri students stuck in different districts of the state will return home in 18 AC buses from Bhopal, a public relations department official said. The students are currently accommodated in a private school in Gandhinagar locality of Bhopal, he said, adding that they will leave at around 2 pm on Saturday. District collector Tarun Pithode and other officials visited the private school on Friday night to take stock of the arrangements there. Sources said that another group of Kashmiri students will also leave from Indore. Congress leader Digvijaya Singh had recently written a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, requesting him to make necessary arrangements for the nearly 400 Kashmiri students stuck in the state. He had said that as Jammu and Kashmir is under the central rule, it is the Centre's duty to help the people from that region stranded in different parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/365-kashmiri-students-to-return-home-from-bhopal-in-18-buses-835384.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Restrictions continue in Kashmir; Curbs relaxed in some peaceful areas||Restrictions continued in Kashmir on Saturday in the wake of killing of Hizbul Mujahideen chief Riyaz Naikoo in an encounter with security forces on Wednesday, but the curbs were relaxed in some areas of the valley where the situation remained peaceful, officials said. Restrictions on the movement and assembly of people continued in the valley for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday following Naikoo's killing in Pulwama district of south Kashmir on Wednesday, the officials said. They, however, said the curbs were relaxed in some areas of the valley where the situation remained peaceful. Some relaxations in terms of allowing movement of people and opening of shops in certain areas have been allowed, they added. Deployment of security forces continued in vulnerable areas to maintain law and order, the officials said. While the government has been strictly enforcing the COVID-19 lockdown, restrictions were imposed across the valley on Wednesday – the day Naikoo and his aide were killed in an encounter with security forces in Beighpora area of Awantipora in Pulwama. The authorities also snapped mobile network, except BSNL postpaid services, and suspended mobile internet services. While the mobile phone services were restored Friday night, mobile Internet services continued to remain suspended for the fourth consecutive day. The situation remained largely peaceful on Friday, except for clashes between groups of youth and security forces in few areas of Pulwama and in Budgam district where a deputy superintendent of police was injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrictions-continue-in-kashmir-curbs-relaxed-in-some-peaceful-areas-835405.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir witnesses decline in infant mortality rate||Jammu and Kashmir has been able to achieve "remarkable improvement" in multiple indicators related to maternal and child health in recent years, with a decline in infant mortality rate (IMR), an official spokesman said. The IMR has been reduced from 52 (2005) to 22 (2018), according to the latest data released by the Registrar General of India in the SRS bulletin on Friday. "The current national average of infant mortality rate stands at 32 much higher than that of J-K," the spokesman said. "The entire Health and Medical Education Department with active support from the National Health Mission (NHM) has put in strenuous efforts to provide essential newborn care at government health institutions across the Union Territory," Atal Dulloo, the financial commissioner in Health and Medical Education Department, said. Special newborn care units (SNCUs) have been established in 27 districts and other equivalent hospitals, three NICUs, newborn stabilisation units (NBSUs) and newborn care corners (NBCCs) have been set up in 264 delivery points with financial and technical support from the National Health Mission, he said. "The progress in scaling up the interventions to save the lives of the newborn has substantially accelerated during recent times leading to reduction in child mortality indicators," Dulloo said. Some of the measures in this regard include strengthening of NICUs and SNCUs, implementation of Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakram, hiring of manpower, etc. To further decrease the infant mortality rate in the Union Territory to single digit by 2022, an action plan has been developed which is being implemented at various levels, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-witnesses-decline-in-infant-mortality-rate-835432.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Providing adequate ration to Rohingya refugees during COVID-19 lockdown: AAP govt to Delhi HC||The AAP government has told the Delhi High Court that adequate ration was being provided to Rohingya families at three camps in south and north east parts of the city during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The submission was made by the Delhi government before a bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula, which was hearing a plea seeking immediate relief for the Rohingya families at settlements in Khajuri Khas in north east Delhi and Shram Vihar and Madanpur Khadar in south Delhi. Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose and advocate Urvi Mohan also told the court that four hunger centres were being run near the settlements mentioned in the plea. The petitioner, Fazal Abdali, claimed that the Rohingyas at these three camps were being denied relief under the various schemes announced by the Delhi government to combat the coronavirus pandemic. The bench, however, noted that the petitioner had not given any specific particulars of the neglect faced by these families and had only made general allegations in the representations sent to authorities. The court further said that a similar matter was pending in the Supreme Court on whose orders nodal officers have been appointed to address the grievances of those needing help and therefore, the petitioner ought to have first approached the nodal officers. The bench also said that as a similar matter was pending in the apex court it would not be appropriate to entertain the plea and disposed it of with a direction to the petitioner to approach the nodal officers or revenue magistrate with precise allegations and particulars. The court said the petitioner will have to inform the nodal officer about the name and address of the refugee who has been denied medical attention, water or ration. The bench also directed the nodal officers to dispose of such representations, if any are made, within three days by a "speaking order".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/providing-adequate-ration-to-rohingya-refugees-during-covid-19-lockdown-aap-govt-to-delhi-hc-835440.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Aurangabad train tragedy victims had applied to MP govt for passes, says Congress||Opposition Congress in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday alleged that the 16 migrant workers, who were crushed to death by a train in Maharashtra on Friday, had applied to the Shivraj Singh Chouhan govenment for passes to travel back home about a fortnight ago, but the administration failed to act on it. Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh tweeted a video in which a survivor of the train tragedy claimed that they had applied for their return to their respective districts in Madhya Pradesh. Alleging that the MP government's "negligence and inaction" led to the death of the workers, Singh also called for a probe to know what arrangements the BJP-led government had done to bring back these workers after they applied for return. "The workers killed in the train accident had asked for passes from the Shivraj government about fifteen days back. These 16 lives could have been saved, if passes were issued. Shivraj ji, these deaths are the result of jungle raj," Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee said in a tweet. In a tweet, Digvijaya Singh said, "16 labourers of Umaria, Shahdol and Mandla districts of Madhya Pradesh were crushed to death in a train accident. I had asked Shivraj Singh Chauhan yesterday. Whether these workers were registered (for their return)? "If this (they applied) had happened, what arrangements did the MP government make? Listen from the surviving workers," he said. Singh shared a video of a labourer, whose co-workers were killed in the train accident in Aurangabad. In the video the worker claimed that they had applied to the government for return to the state. "Now the statement of the labourer Dhirendra Singh who survived proved that the workers lost their lives due to the negligence and inaction of MP government," Singh said in another tweet. Talking to PTI in response to the Congress's charges, state BJP vice-president and MLA Rameshwar Sharma alleged, "This is happening due to the top Congress leaders, who had announced to pay the train expenses of migrants. The people are leaving their homes to reach the railway stations after this announcement." "Congress should act responsibly when the state government has announced to make arrangements to bring back the migrants. After getting registration from the migrants, the state government is sending SMS to them with information about the boarding time and place after making arrangement of transportation," he said. Sharma said that the state government was committed to bringing back every migrant. Sixteen migrant workers sleeping on rail tracks while returning to Madhya Pradesh were crushed to death by a goods train in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra in the early hours of Friday. The labourers, working in a steel factory in Jalna, left for their home state on foot. They came till Karmad and slept off on the tracks as they were tired, a police official had said. Three of the four survivors were sleeping some distance away from the rail tracks, police said. The migrant workers, rendered jobless due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown and desperate to go to their native places, were walking along the rail tracks apparently to escape police attention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aurangabad-train-tragedy-victims-had-applied-to-mp-govt-for-passes-says-congress-835447.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Funeral of COVID-19 victim held after protests by locals in UP's Firozabad||The funeral of a 33-year-old man, who died of COVID-19, was held after protests by residents who refused to allow the cremation, fearing spread of the disease. When the Health Department's ambulance carrying the man's body reached Swarg Ashram in Chharbagh on Friday evening, residents came to know about the cremation and they started protesting. Police were called in to bring the situation under control. The final rites of the man were held on the banks of Yamuna river late night in the presence of police personnel. "The police personnel pacified the protesters and allayed their fears over the spread of the infection. To ensure that situation does not deteriorate further, the last rites were held on the banks of Yamuna river," City Magistrate Pankaj Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/funeral-of-covid-19-victim-held-after-protests-by-locals-in-ups-firozabad-835450.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||CISF reports 13 fresh COVID-19 cases; maximum in Delhi metro unit||The Central Industrial Security Force reported 13 fresh cases of COVID-19 among its personnel on Saturday with the maximum being in its Delhi Metro protection unit, officials said. The 1.62 lakh personnel strong force has a total of 48 active cases of coronavirus with the addition of the new numbers. Two of its personnel have succumbed to the disease over the last two days. Among the 48 active cases, maximum 31 are in the unit that guards the Delhi Metro followed by 13 in the Mumbai international airport guarding unit. The maximum rise in cases, at 10, over the last 24 hours has also been reported from the Delhi Metro guarding unit. Coronavirus positive troops have also been reported at CISF units like Delhi airport (3), Ahmedabad airport (2), Kolkata Port Trust (3) and one at its VIP security unit based at Greater Noida. The force is tasked to guard civil airports (63 at present) in the country and vital infrastructure in the aerospace and nuclear domain.  The paramilitary forces or the Central Armed Police Forces have over 540 positive cases now and five personnel have succumbed to the disease. These forces, under the command of the Union Home Ministry, include the CRPF, BSF, ITBP, CISF and SSB.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cisf-reports-13-fresh-covid-19-cases-maximum-in-delhi-metro-unit-835461.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Mobile phone services restored in Kashmir, but no internet||While mobile phone services were restored in Kashmir on Saturday after remaining suspended for three days in the wake of the killing of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen chief Riyaz Naikoo on Wednesday, internet services on mobile phones continue to remain suspended. The mobile phone services were restored across the valley on Friday night, officials said, adding the decision was taken in view of the improving situation. However, they said the decision to restore the mobile internet services would be taken at an appropriate time after assessing the situation. Due to the communication shutdown amid COVID-19 pandemic, people in Kashmir, especially those quarantined, are facing tough times as they have lost connection with their relatives. People living outside the Valley highlighted problems they were facing after authorities suspended mobile and 2G internet services on Wednesday leaving only government-owned BSNL and Broadband functional with a limited network. In a major success, security forces on Wednesday killed Naikoo besides three other militants in two separate encounters in Pulwama. Amid coronavirus, the cardiac emergencies which were being handled in peripheries are now landing up in Srinagar as the internet blockade has put cardiologists’ Save Heart Initiative offline, local media reported. Helplines in the hospitals have also fallen silent with mobile networks down. The student community is also bearing the brunt of the communication shutdown as they are not able to attend online classes. “The situation is unbearable for the students as we are losing our crucial time. All the educational android apps are not loading leaving us frustrated,” said Irtiqa Wani, a 10th class student. Communication shutdown has also hit hundreds of NGOs across the Valley who have played an important role during the lockdown owing to COVID-19 distributing thousands of food kits to needy, protective facemasks, and PPE kits among medical teams. At a time when Information Technology is being used as a major tool to fight COVID-19, the suspension of mobile and 2G internet is a major setback for contact tracing, sources said. Suspension of 2G internet service makes the contact tracing apps such as “Aarogya Setu” and “Talaash” of no use as it is mainly based on Global Positioning System (GPS) technology, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mobile-phone-services-restored-in-kashmir-but-no-internet-835466.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Former Chhattisgarh CM Ajit Jogi hospitalised||Former Chhattisgarh chief minister Ajit Jogi, 74, was admitted in a private hospital here on Saturday after he suffered a cardiac arrest, doctors said, adding that his condition is critical. Citing the information provided by family members of Ajit Jogi, the hospital said he fell unconscious at his residence here in the morning. Ajit Jogi's son Amit Jogi told PTI from Bilaspur that the health of his father deteriorated suddenly while he was having breakfast. As per a health bulletin released by Shree Narayana Hospital, Ajit Jogi was given cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) at his residence by a senior intensivist before he was rushed to the hospital. "Jogi suffered a cardiac arrest at his house only. As of now, his ECG and pulse have returned to normal which means his heartbeats are returning to normal functioning. But his respiration is still not normal. He is on a ventilator and his condition is critical," it said. Ajit Jogi's MLA wife Renu Jogi is with him at the hospital. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel spoke to Amit Jogi over phone to take stock of his father's health and assured that the state government will take every possible steps to ensure his better treatment, an official statement here said. A bureaucrat-turned politician, Ajit Jogi had served as the first chief minister of Chhattisgarh from November 2000 to November 2003 in then Congress government, after the formation of the state. Ajit Jogi parted ways with the Congress in 2016 after he and Amit Jogi got embroiled in a controversy over alleged fixing of the by-election (2014) held for Antagarh seat in Kanker district. Subsequently, he formed his own outfit Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J). He is an incumbent MLA from Marwahi seat||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-chhattisgarh-cm-ajit-jogi-hospitalised-835472.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Three more private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients in Delhi||Amid a spurt in coronavirus cases in the national capital, the Delhi government has roped in three more private hospitals with a total of 150 beds to treat COVID-19 patients. In an order issued on Saturday, Delhi Health Secretary Padmini Singla declared Fortis in Shalimar Bagh, Saroj Medical Institute in Sector 19, Rohini and Khushi Hospital in Dwarka for admitting confirmed or suspected cases. The decision was taken due to the "shortage of isolation beds in private hospitals", te order read. The three hospitals will have 50 isolation beds each. Medical superintendents of these hospitals have been directed to make the isolation facility functional before Monday. On April 30, Singla had declared Maha Durga Charitable Trust Hospital and Sir Gangaram City Hospital as COVID-19 hospitals. LNJP Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital, Sir Gangaram Kolmat Hospital and Max Hospital in Saket are some of the COVID-19 dedicated facilities in Delhi, where 6,318 people have tested positive for the disease and 68 died till Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-more-private-hospitals-to-treat-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-835474.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||BSP attacks Uttar Pradesh govt for exempting industries in state from some labour laws||The Bahujan Samaj Party on Saturday attacked the Uttar Pradesh government for exempting industries in the state from some labour laws, saying it comes at a time when the condition of labourers is the "worst" during coronavirus pandemic. In a series of Hindi tweets, BSP chief Mayawati said, "Due to the outbreak of COVID-19, the condition of labourers is perhaps the worst, and even then a mechanism has been implemented where instead of 8 hours of work, they are made to work for 12 hours. This is very sad and unfortunate. Change in labour laws should be in the interest of the labourers." "Babasaheb BR Ambedkar had brought the concept of overtime, if the labourers had worked for more than 8 hours in a day, when exploitation of labour was at its peak. Is it correct to push the country to that era," she asked in another tweet. The BSP chief also said, "Keeping the current situation prevailing in the country, the labour laws should be changed in a way, so that labourers working in a factory or private organisation get food and lodging facilities there itself. In no condition any labourer should be allowed to die because of hunger, nor should they be forced to undertake exodus." The UP Cabinet chaired by the Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath earlier this week had given its nod to ''Uttar Pradesh Temporary Exemption from Certain Labour Laws Ordinance, 2020'' to exempt factories, business establishments and industries from the purview of all, except three labour laws and one provision of another law for three years. An UP government official spokesperson had on Thursday said the government has given its approval to an ordinance exempting businesses from labour laws to revive the economy and boost investments following the coronavirus outbreak. "This step has been taken because businesses and economic activities have come to a halt more or less due to the national lockdown," the spokesman had said. "There is a need to give impetus to industrial and economic activities and create more investment opportunities besides bring the existing industry back on track," he had said. The state Cabinet had given its nod to ''Uttar Pradesh Temporary Exemption from Certain Labour Laws Ordinance, 2020'' to exempt factories, business establishments and industries from the purview of all, but three labour laws and one provision of another legislation for three years. Some labour laws, however, would continue to prevail, he had said, adding that labour laws provisions related to the women and child will continue to exist along with the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, 1976, the Building and Other Construction Workers Act, 1996, the section 5 of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 and the Workmen Compensation Act, 1923.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsp-attacks-uttar-pradesh-govt-for-exempting-industries-in-state-from-some-labour-laws-835478.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Migrants in Rajkot pay train fare to return home in Uttar Pradesh amid COVID-19 lockdown||Migrant workers returning from Rajkot to Ballia on a special train on Saturday claimed that Gujarat Police charged them Rs 725 fare. Authorities here, however, said they had no information about it. The train carrying 1,170 migrant workers from parts of UP reached Ballia in the morning, following which they were screened and provided food packets, District Magistrate Hari Pratap Shahi said. "The migrants were then sent to their states. As many as 420 are from Ballia, while rest of them are from Prayagraj, Fatehpur, Hardoi, Maharajganj, Kushingar, Etawah and other districts," he said. Some passengers claimed that they had to pay Rs 725 train fare to Gujarat Police, the district magistrate said, adding that he had no information on this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrants-in-rajkot-pay-train-fare-to-return-home-in-uttar-pradesh-amid-covid-19-lockdown-835487.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Reconsider home delivery of liquor, wives of Congress leaders urge Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Fearing a surge in cases of domestic violence, wives of two Punjab Congress leaders, including a cabinet minister, have urged Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to reconsider his government's decision of allowing home delivery of liquor. The state government had allowed the home delivery of liquor during the third phase of the coronavirus lockdown from Thursday. Though there is no provision for it in the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 and the excise rules, the decision was taken to ensure social distancing in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh too on Thursday had said that the opening of liquor shops will lead to an increase in domestic violence. Expressive reservations about the decision, Mamta Ashu, a Ludhaina councillor and wife of Punjab Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, on Saturday said the fight against drugs was an election promise of the Congress due to which the decision needed a rethink. “It might lead to increase in cases of domestic violence during ongoing lockdown. Even contractors not willing to open them,” Mamta Ashu tweeted on Saturday. Similarly, the wife of Congress’ Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring too requested for a rethink. Amrita Warring on Friday tweeted that the decision may lead to an increase in cases of domestic violence while slamming the previous SAD-BJP government of ‘destroying families’. “Respected @capt_amarinder ji, It is my humble request to kindly reconsider your decision to start Home Delivery of alcohol in Punjab. This will also lead to increase in domestic violence. Previous @Akali_Dal_ Govt has already destroyed families with alcohol & drug abuse,” she tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/reconsider-home-delivery-of-liquor-wives-of-congress-leaders-urge-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-835491.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Pakistan pushing foreign militants to unsettle peace in Kashmir||While the Jammu and Kashmir Police has termed the killing of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen chief Riyaz Naikoo as a ‘major success’ in its fight against militancy in Kashmir, Pakistan is using the summer months to do all it can to push foreign militants to unsettle the calm in the Valley. “For the Pakistan Army and spy agency ISI, the Hizb-ul is an important vertical of their strategy to keep Kashmir on the boil. The killing of Naikoo is a huge blow to the indigenous terror outfit as after Burhan Wani’s elimination in 2016, it was him who would recruit local youths for Hizb-ul,” sources told DH. They said as recruitment of local youth into militancy had already dwindled since last year, Pakistan will not hesitate in sending more battle hardened militants to keep the morale of ultras high. The Hizb-ul has, over the years, remained the largest indigenous militant outfit in Kashmir and it draws its recruits mainly from the Valley. “Pakistan wants to keep the Hizb-ul at the forefront just to show the world that terrorism in Kashmir is indigenous. For that purpose, they will ensure that Hizb-ul is not in disarray and will send some recruits from PoK to help them,” sources said. A senior police officer said that Pakistan would send more militants to strengthen Jaish-e-Muhammad and Lashkar-e-Taiba outfits, but the Hizb-ul will be kept as a “front organisation” to claim responsibility for the attacks. “This fits the Pakistani narrative that it is the Kashmiris who are fighting against the Indian Army and not foreign militants. Pakistani militants, who are sent across the LoC, have been instructed to ensure that they prod the others of Kashmiri origin in their groups to lead the attacks. Thus, the main threat to security in the Valley is from these hardened terrorists,” he revealed. “As the attention of New Delhi and the world will remain on battling the coronavirus pandemic and its fallout, Pakistan will use these summer months, when the snow melts in mountain ranges, to do all it can to push militants to unsettle the calms of security forces in the Valley,” the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-pushing-foreign-militants-to-unsettle-peace-in-kashmir-835492.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Woman commits suicide at AIIMS after her mother dies of cancer||A 23-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide at the AIIMS here after her mother died of cancer at the hospital, police said on Saturday. She was reported missing after her mother passed away on Wednesday and her body was found near the new private ward block of the hospital on Saturday, they said, adding that she fell to her death from a building. "Her mother was a cancer patient. She was being treated at the hospital and had died during treatment on Wednesday," Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. Her father was busy in the formalities when she left the area. She was reported missing since Wednesday. The family hails from Moradabad district of Uttar Pradesh, a senior police officer said. Hospital staff noticed the body and informed the police. The block was closed due to which nobody found out about it earlier, police said. Police said she had called her friends and told them that she was going to kill herself. The body has been recovered and an inquest proceeding is unde||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-commits-suicide-at-aiims-after-her-mother-dies-of-cancer-835494.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Sugarcane farmer killed in clash over land dispute in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli||A sugarcane farmer was killed and his brother sustained injuries in a clash between two groups of farmers over a land dispute at Jalalpur village in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district, police said. Police said trouble started when Nareshpal and his brother Harender were confronted by Pardeep with a group of farmers who attacked him with sticks while working in his field. The injured Nareshpal was rushed to hospital where he was declared dead. Nareshpal and Pardeep's agricultural land lie adjacent to each other and a dispute arose over it, police pointed out. A case was registered on Friday under IPC Sections 147 (punishment for rioting) 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) while a search is on to catch hold of the accused, police added. According to the complaint lodged by Harender, it is alleged that the accused Pardeep, Binder Ashok, Chanderbir, Ashvani Kala and Shubham assaulted his brother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sugarcane-farmer-killed-in-clash-over-land-dispute-in-uttar-pradeshs-shamli-835496.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||UP Cong launches portal for lockdown-related complaints||The Uttar Pradesh Congress has launched a chat portal that will let people list the problems being faced by them amid the ongoing COVID-19-induced lockdown, the party said on Saturday. The complaints received from users of the ‘UP Mitr’ chat portal will be forwarded to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath so that the state government can help the people, state Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said in a statement. "The portal has been made to help the common public during the COVID-19 pandemic. Through it, problems of the common public will be listed and the UP Congress will help the complainants. The list of complaints will be sent to the chief minister,” Lallu said. The Congress leader said that his party was committed to help every needy person in the state. "The party is running community kitchens at various places in the state including Ghaziabad, Hapur, Kanpur, Allahabad, Lakhimpur Khiri and Lucknow,” he said in the statement. “The party's district committee is making dry ration available to the needy persons. Help is also being given to the labourers of the state, who are stranded outside the state," he added. This chat portal has been developed by a private company free of cost for the Congress party, Lallu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cong-launches-portal-for-lockdown-related-complaints-835497.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Two held in Shamli for 'objectionable' WhatsApp post against PM Narendra Modi, Sonia Gandhi||Two men were arrested in Shamli district for allegedly posting an objectionable WhatsApp message against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress president Sonia Gandhi, police said. The WhatApp group admin Vikas Upadhyay and Vikki Jatav, who sent the message, were arrested in Shamli on Friday, according to Circle Officer Jitender Singh. A case was registered against the two men under Sections 67 and 67A of the Information Technology Act and Indian Penal Code Sections 500 (punishment for defamation) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace). According to the complaint lodged by a local resident, it is alleged that Vikki Jatav posted the message against the political leaders on a WhatsApp group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-held-in-shamli-for-objectionable-whatsapp-post-against-pm-narendra-modi-sonia-gandhi-835509.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Image makeover amid COVID-19: UP village with terror tag makes masks||It seems to be a noble effort by a village, stigmatised as a 'terror hub', to get rid of the tag amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The residents of Sanjarpur village in Uttar Pradesh's Azamgarh district, about 300 kilometres from Lucknow, which earned notoriety after four youths were allegedly involved in the 2008 Batla House encounter were found to be its resident, have been making masks and distributing them free of cost to the people. So far, the village residents have stitched around 30,000 masks and distributed them not only among their own people but also among the residents of dozens of nearby villages in the district. ''We are stitching around two thousand masks every day. Around a dozen people, including women, are involved in making them,'' says Tarique Shafique, a resident of the village, who coordinates the entire exercise. Speaking to DH over phone from Sanjarpur, Shafique said that though they incurred a cost of around Rs seven per mask, it was provided to the people free of cost. ''We, however, pay labour charges to the women involved in stitching the masks,” he said. The masks were provided in order of priority. ''The older people come first. After them come the women and children, followed by the youngsters,'' Shafique said. He said that it was a ''collective effort'' from the residents of the village. ''Those who can contribute do so,'' he added. Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi recently sent a letter to the villagers hailing their work. Sanjarpur earned the tag of 'terror hub' after four of its residents were found to be involved in the alleged Batla House encounter in 2008 in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/image-makeover-amid-covid-19-up-village-with-terror-tag-makes-masks-835529.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||People say agitated at being put in quarantine centres despite having valid pass to travel amid lockdown in Jammu and Kashmir||Despite having a valid official pass to move between Jammu and Kashmir, hundreds of travellers have ended up at administrative quarantine centres set up by the government on the outskirts of the winter capital as part of its efforts to combat the coronavirus. The move is agitating the people who questioned the logic behind sending them to an institutional quarantine when they are given the passes in extremely exceptional situations, like a medical emergency or joining their duties after completing the formalities due to a lockdown. One such quarantine centre is set up at Excise and Taxation Training institute in Nagrota, 15 km from Jammu city, where 35 persons, including women and a seven-year-old girl, are anxiously waiting for their sample reports – the outcome of which will decide their future at the sprawling facility. While a majority of them are expected to be released after their test reports are negative, four labourers from Amritsar in Punjab who had travelled from Srinagar to Jammu in a truck without permission will have to wait till the government decides to send them to their hometown. "I have been given a pass under medical emergency and diverted to this centre on the pretext of taking samples after almost a day-long hectic travel. If this was to happen, then why did they entertain my request for a pass in the first place. They should have first conducted COVID-19 test before giving me a pass for travel from Srinagar to Jammu," an agitated Sikh youth from Srinagar said. The travellers are also concerned about their well-being at the centre. "I have taken so much precaution and followed the general guidelines and medical advisories religiously since the lockdown came into force about two months ago. I am perturbed since landing at the centre because you don't know the other people camping here or the fresh arrivals,” Tawseef Ahmad Mir, a resident of Budgam district of central Kashmir, told PTI. Mir was accompanying his seven-year-old daughter Manhaa Tawseef in a private vehicle to Jammu when he was stopped at Nagrota Toll plaza and diverted to the centre on May 7. Tawseef studies at a school in Jammu and was returning to join online classes. “I have no complaint about the facilities being provided by the government. My concern is my child who is unaware of the threat perception. I am sharing a 10-bed dormitory with four others from Amritsar and another relative. Luckily for us, these labourers have already tested negative a few days back, which gave me some relief,” he said. Mir, his daughter and 23 others were taken to GMC hospital in a State Road Transport Corporation bus on Friday without maintaining the much-publicized social distancing and their samples were taken. The samples of nine others were taken a day earlier and all of them are now waiting for their reports. Three occupants, hailing from Uri township of north Kashmir's Baramulla district, were discharged from the centre on Friday night, five days after their samples were taken which came negative. "I failed to understand the logic behind shifting us here. Wasn't it better to allow us to reach our destination and call us for testing on the next available slot which would have saved the government all the expenditure on our lodging, boarding and transportation to and fro the hospital," a Srinagar resident, who wished not to be named, said. He said all the commuters moving on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway are being screened and registered at nearly a dozen places on either side with full details including residential address and phone numbers. "It is simply a waste of public money. We are fortunate that none of the occupants at this centre have tested positive for the coronavirus till date," he said, alleging that the people with influence are getting away without screening, testing or spending time at the quarantine centres. Sharing similar views, a Sikh woman said she is praying for an early release from the centre. "I have had sleepless nights since reaching here two days ago. I want to return to the safety of my house," she said. The occupants, however, hailed the incharge of the centre, Sunit Singh, for his cooperative nature and effort to ensure that all facilities are provided to them. "I am doing my job. I know this is Ramzan and my guests are mostly Muslim. I am making sure they get fruit and juice at the dusk for breaking their fast," Singh, a tehsildar, said adding the centre was activated early this week and so far nearly 100 people have been accommodated here. For those fasting, Singh said he delivers extra meals to them at dinner time so that they can use it for 'Sehri' to start their fast.  He himself distributes water bottles, toothbrushes and toothpaste among them. Sweeper Subash Chander is the busiest person at the centre and keeps the place clean and safe. However, not everyone at quarantine centres is lucky as complaints of lack of facilities and mismanagement are pouring from various centres across Jammu region. Several videos, purportedly showing hundreds of labourers brought from outside Jammu and Kashmir and put up at Dalwas, Dharmound and Mangat-Khari quarantine centres in Ramban district, are being provided prepared meals and tea in polythene bags. These people are agitated over the treatment and demand that they be allowed to go to their homes if the government is not in a position to give them proper lodging and boarding facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-say-agitated-at-being-put-in-quarantine-centres-despite-having-valid-pass-to-travel-amid-lockdown-in-jammu-and-kashmir-835530.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Active coronavirus cases rise to 1,800 in UP; Recovery rate 43 per cent: Official||The number of active cases of coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh went up to 1,800 on Saturday, while nearly 1,400 people have been discharged so far, a senior official said. Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said the national recovery percentage was 30 per cent but the figure was 43 per cent in Uttar Pradesh. "It is a matter of satisfaction that people are recovering and returning home," he said. The number of active infection cases is 1,800 as against 1,761 on Friday, while the number of people who have fully recovered has risen from 1,387 to 1,399, the official said. Prasad stressed that community surveillance will play an important role in coming days with the return of tens of thousands of migrants. There was a need for the 'gram nigrani samitis' in rural areas and 'mohalla nigrani samitis' in urban areas to work strictly, he said. "All those returning (to the state) are being kept in 21 days' home quarantine and those returning from abroad are also being put in quarantine. There is a need to ensure that infection does not spread and all remain safe," Prasad added.  Over one lakh migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh stranded in different parts of the country following the coronavirus-induced lockdown will return to the state by Saturday night in 114 trains, according to officials. Appealing to the people to adhere to the lockdown rules which would save them from infection, Prasad stressed that steps like social distancing, sanitation including washing hands with soap and using face masks should be followed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/active-coronavirus-cases-rise-to-1800-in-up-recovery-rate-43-per-cent-official-835531.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Narco-terrorist with links to Kashmiri terror groups nabbed by NIA in Haryana||After being on the run for nearly a year, the National Investigation Agency on Saturday nabbed Ranjit Singh, a “notorious narco-terrorist”, from Sirsa as he was acting as a conduit of Pakistan-based terror groups in pushing drugs into India, the proceeds of which were used for terror activities. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), along with the Punjab and Haryana police arrested Singh alias Cheeta, a resident of Amritsar, in an intelligence-based operation from Sirsa in Haryana, the agency said in a statement. The NIA had registered a case in June last year and filed the first charge sheet against 15 people, including Singh, and four companies, in December the same year. The NIA spokesman, said in the statement, that an investigation into a drug case had led to the fact that Pakistan-based terrorist organisations were using narcotic trade to generate funds for terror activities in India. The proceeds of narcotic trade are transferred to Kashmir valley through couriers and hawala channel for terror purposes, it said. Singh is also the prime accused in the recent Hizbul Mujahideen terror funding module. The module was busted with the arrest of Hilal Ahmad Wagay, a resident of Nowgam, Awantipora of south Kashmir with Rs 29 lakh cash, by Punjab Police in Amritsar in April this year. This money was being transported to the Kashmir valley, which was to be handed over to Reyaz Naikoo, so-called operational commander of the terror group. Naikoo was recently killed by security forces in his village in Kashmir's Pulwama district. The case was taken over by the NIA on Friday and investigations have begun. Singh, along with co-accused Iqbal Singh, are the prime accused in the case related to seizure of 532 kg of heroin hidden in a consignment of rock salt imported from Pakistan. The seizure was made by the customs authorities at Attari on June 29 last year. Investigation showed that Pakistan-based entities were smuggling narcotics from Pakistan into the Indian territory by hiding it in sacks of rock salt imported from the neighbouring nation. This is done through an elaborate network of importers, customs house agents, transporters and the operation is financed through illegal international hawala channels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/narco-terrorist-with-links-to-kashmiri-terror-groups-nabbed-by-nia-in-haryana-835545.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Young women on 'mission fogging' in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur||Joining the efforts of the government to combat coronavirus, a group of young women equipped with a latest hi-tech machine is conducting fogging in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur district. The five women, aged between 18 and 22, have already covered six villages in the district and are also distributing masks and educating people about COVID-19. "We are volunteers of NGO 'Team Khalsa' and have managed to get the machine to conduct fogging, especially in remote areas which usually remain unattended," Gagan, the leader of the five-member group, told PTI. She said they have already covered Chhakhar, Vishal Jatta, Sambal, Sui and Kahjahir villages in the past one week. "We are targeting one village for sanitisation and awareness every day," Gagan said while distributing face masks in Cherry Swail village. Asked about the challenge and the response of their families, she said they are cooperating and appreciating their efforts. "We had a tough time convincing our parents for permission as usually men do this kind of job. But now our families are supporting us," she said. Udhampur district accounted for one coronavirus-related death and 21 COVID-19 cases. Out of these 21 cases, 19 have recovered. "A lot of girls feel motivated seeing us in action and express their desire to be part of our team which is very encouraging," Gagan said. All the women in the team are students and come from affluent families. "We leave our homes in the morning and undertake the hectic exercise till the dusk," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-young-women-on-mission-fogging-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-udhampur-835548.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Ensure dispensation of medicines from pharmacy resumes without delay: Delhi High Court to AIIMS||The Delhi High Court has asked the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to ensure that dispensation of medicines from its pharmacy, which was functioning in a limited capacity due to the coronavirus lockdown, resumes without any delay. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar asked AIIMS to work out the modalities and file a compliance report before May 14, the next date of hearing. The order came on a PIL claiming that outstation non-coronavirus patients who had come for treatment at AIIMS are not being provided medication from the hospital's pharmacy anymore due to the lockdown. The petitioner, Rachna Malik, further claimed that patients were unable to procure medicine, as there was no endorsement on their OPD cards permitting dispensation of medicines as the OPD of AIIMS, was closed due to COVID-19 lockdown. AIIMS told the court that its pharmacy has been made fully functional since May 6 and it operates from 10.00 am to 5.00 pm. It also told the court that it would devise a methodology to enable patients to obtain medicines from the pharmacy, in all such cases, where the medication prescribed requires continuous administration. "Let the modalities be worked out by the AIIMS within one day so that dispensation of medicines from the pharmacy can resume without any further delay," the bench said and listed the matter on May 14. The petition has claimed that on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, outstation non-coronavirus patients are not being provided medication that they were earlier receiving from the AIIMS pharmacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-dispensation-of-medicines-from-pharmacy-resumes-without-delay-delhi-high-court-to-aiims-835550.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Strict restrictions reimposed after traffic jam in Jammu and Kashmir's Bhadarwah||Police and paramilitary personnel were deployed in greater strength on Saturday to curb free movement, a day after some people under quarantine were caught in a traffic jam in Bhadarwah of Jammu and Kashmir's Doda district, officials said. Out of the total 20 districts in the Union territory, Doda and Poonch in Jammu division are coronavirus free with no reported case till date. Doda district was recently declared a green zone by the administration and simultaneously some relaxations in lockdown restrictions were announced following which people started resuming their normal activities and vehicles also started plying in different areas, including Bhadarwah town. However, alarm bells started ringing when a group of labourers, who are under administrative quarantine after being brought back from outside Jammu and Kashmir this week, were caught in a massive traffic jam in the middle of the main market while being taken to a hospital in the hilly town for COVID-19 testing on Friday, the officials said. Taking serious note of the incident and violation of compulsory social distancing directives, the officials said the district authorities on Saturday enforced a strict lockdown to restrict free movement of the people.  "We have been receiving reports of lockdown violations so we decided to enforce it completely and also restricted and diverted movement of traffic from the town," Additional District Commissioner Rakesh Kumar said. He requested the people not to pay heed to the rumours as there is no positive case reported from the district till date. The officer said the restrictions in the town would remain in force till May 17, the day when the nationwide lockdown is scheduled to end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-strict-restrictions-reimposed-after-traffic-jam-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-bhadarwah-835559.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||21-year-old married woman commits suicide in Rajasthan's Bundi||A 21-year-old married woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging at her house in a village in Bundi district on Saturday, police said. The deceased woman was identified as Uma Jangid (21), wife of Dinesh Jangid and a resident of Nayagaon village of Kapren town in Bundi district, SHO of Kapren police station Budhiprakesh Nama said. The woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling fan of her room on Saturday early morning while other members of the family were asleep, the SHO said. Prima facie, it appears that the woman took the extreme step due to family reasons, he opined. However, no suicide note was recovered from her possession. Uma got married to Dinesh in 2017. Her parents who had reached here after the death said their daughter did not have any complaints about her in-laws, the policeman said, adding that the couple did not have any child. The body was handed over to her family members after a post-mortem was conducted later in the day, Nama said. A case was registered under Section 176 (inquiry by a magistrate into the cause of death) of the CrPC and forwarded for the magisterial inquiry to the sub-divisional magistrate of Keshoraipatan, the SHO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/21-year-old-married-woman-commits-suicide-in-rajasthans-bundi-835569.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Maharashtra train accident: Only bodies of labourers reach home districts||They had started their journey on foot from Maharashtra hoping to reach Madhya Pradesh, but it was their bodies that reached their home districts of Shahdol and Umaria by special trains on Saturday afternoon. The bodies of sixteen migrant labourers who were mown down by a goods train in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district were brought to Jabalpur by two bogies attached to a special train. From Jabalpur, the coaches were further sent to Shahdol and Umaria, said a police officer. A bogie with five bodies reached Umaria around 3 pm, where district officials received them and sent them to their villages in ambulances, he said. The five deceased belonged to two villages Chilhari and Maman. Another bogie with 11 bodies reached Shahdol around 4 pm. Local Member of Parliament Himadri Singh and senior officials were present at the railway station. These 11 deceased belonged to the villages of Antoli and Shahargarh of Shahdol district. In both the districts, officials accompanied the ambulances carrying the bodies to respective villages, where the last rites would be performed. Sixteen migrant workers sleeping on rail tracks while returning to Madhya Pradesh were crushed to death by a goods train in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra in the early hours of Friday. The labourers, working in a steel factory in Jalna, left for their home state on foot. Exhausted, they slept on the tracks near Karmad, not knowing that traffic of goods trains had not ceased despite lockdown for coronavirus. Only four from the group of 20 survived; three of them were sleeping away from the tracks. Rendered jobless due to the lockdown and desperate to go to their native places, they were walking along the rail tracks apparently to escape police attention, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maharashtra-train-accident-only-bodies-of-labourers-reach-home-districts-835572.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh warns Pakistan against attempts to spread 'narco terrorism'||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh warned Pakistan on Saturday against its "persistent attempts" to spread narco-terrorism in India, asserting that the police force was "keeping a close watch" on anti-national activities across the border even during a crisis. “Our eyes are open to what Pakistan is doing,” Singh said, hours after the NIA arrested a "notorious narco-terrorist" who acted as a conduit for Pakistan-based terror groups. The central agency said in a statement that it, along with the Punjab and Haryana police, arrested Ranjit Singh alias Cheeta, a resident of Amritsar, from Haryana. It said the investigation in a drug case against Singh showed Pakistan-based outfits were using narcotic trade to generate funds for terror activities in India. Assuring people that no matter how much the force has been busy with COVID-19 duties, the Punjab chief minister said, the police was keeping a watch on the borders. "Pakistan is not letting up on its attempts to push drugs, weapons and drug money despite the COVID-19 crisis, clearly in an attempt to destabilise the state and disturb its peace, but we will not allow that to happen," he said. He congratulated the Punjab police, led by DGP Dinkar Gupta, for the arrest and the role played by his personnel in operations against Hizbul Mujahideen in Kashmir.  He referred to the arrest of Hilal, a close associate of the banned group's operations commander Reyaz Naikoo, who was killed by security forces in Kashmir. From Punjab police to BSF, everyone was on their toes to defeat the nefarious designs of Pakistan, said the chief minister, adding the state police force was working in a sustained manner to ensure that terrorists do not get away with their wicked plans. Terrorists and gangsters had "probably thought they could use the gap created by the diversion of resources and police manpower to COVID-19 duties to smuggle drugs and weapons to spread mayhem" in Punjab, but the Punjab police personnel were keeping a close eye on what was happening along the borders. "We will ensure that such anti-national elements are caught and put behind the bars, where they belong,” he said,  as per an official release here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-chief-minister-amarinder-singh-warns-pakistan-against-attempts-to-spread-narco-terrorism-835587.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: 5 discharged, active COVID-19 cases now 16||Five people were discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Raipur in Chhattisgarh on Saturday after recovering from the novel coronavirus infection, health officials said. Those discharged include two women and a five-year-old boy, an official informed. So far 43 people have been discharged while the number of active cases in the state is 16, he added. "Two women and a boy from Kabirdham, two men from Durg and Surajpur were discharged after two consecutive tests were negative for the infection. They will be kept in a quarantine centre as a precaution before they are allowed to go home," a public relations officer of AIIMS Raipur told PTI. Chhattisgarh COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 59; New cases nil; Deaths nil; Discharged 43; Active cases 16; People tested so far 23,629.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-5-discharged-active-covid-19-cases-now-16-835589.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Man held for raping, blackmailing 17-year-old in Rajasthan's Jhalawar||A 23-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping a girl on multiple occasions, recording the act and using it to blackmail her in Rajasthan's Jhalawar district, police said. The incident took place in a village under the Khanpur Police Station limits and the arrest was made on Friday, they said. The 17-year-old girl and her father had approached the Jhawalar SP with their complaint on Thursday, following which a First Information Report (FIR) was lodged under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, DSP and Circle Officer Bhanwar Singh Hada, who is investigating the case, said. The accused, identified as Saddam Hussain Pinjara, was on Saturday produced before a Jhalawar court which sent him to two days' police remand. In her complaint, the minor alleged that the accused, who is her neighbour, took her to an isolated place around three months ago and raped her at knifepoint and also clicked her pictures and recorded the act in his mobile phone, police said. The accused threatened to post the video and pictures of the girl on social media sites. Moreover, he threatened to kill the girl if she narrated the incident to her family. He allegedly raped the girl on some other occasions as well, they said. Jhalawar S P Rammurti Joshi ordered for immediate action in the matter, following which the police, after a medical examination of the minor, arrested the accused from his village on Friday, DSP Hada said. Police recovered the mobile which the accused youth had used for clicking obscene pictures and recording videos of the rape survivor, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-for-raping-blackmailing-17-year-old-in-rajasthans-jhalawar-835590.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||4 Shramik Special trains finalised for Chhattisgarh to carry stranded migrant workers amid coronavirus lockdown||Four 'Shramik Special' trains will be run to bring back people from Chhattisgarh stranded in other states due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, an official said on Saturday. They can also contact helpline numbers 0771-2443809, 9109849992, 7587821800, 7587822800, 9685850444, 9109283986 and 8827773986, the state government official added. "There will be one service each from Pathankot in Punjab to Champa, and from Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh to Bilaspur, while there will be two services from Sabarmati in Gujarat's Ahmedabad to Bilaspur. The departure dates of these trains will be announced soon," he informed. He said more trains could be run depending on the need.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-shramik-special-trains-finalised-for-chhattisgarh-to-carry-stranded-migrant-workers-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-835624.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi BJP seeks Arvind Kejriwal’s clarification over “underreporting”' of coronavirus deaths in capital||Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari on Saturday expressed concern over reports of "underreporting" of deaths due to Covid-19 in Delhi and asked Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to clear the air about it. In a joint Facebook Live session with Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, Tiwari said reports in newspapers have pegged deaths due to coronavirus in Delhi to more than 100 while the Delhi government has claimed only 66 deaths so far. "It’s a matter of extreme shame that the Delhi government is reportedly underreporting the figures of death due to Covid-19 to hide its failure. This is not the time to indulge in politics over a matter of public health," Tiwari said. The people of Delhi have a right to know the severity of the epidemic and the Kejriwal government should at least tell them the truth, he said. "It is shown by the Delhi government's health bulletin that 66 deaths due to coronavirus have been reported so far in Delhi, but today a news report has claimed that there were 116 deaths in Delhi," Tiwari said. He said the Delhi BJP has been seeking clarification from Kejriwal about the Covid-19 death toll in Delhi because people want to know the truth, he said. The cases of corona infection and deaths due to it in Delhi are increasing daily, but the chief minister has said the people should learn to live with it. Such statement does not help the people of Delhi in dealing with coronavirus spread, he stated. Bidhuri charged lack of adequate test and treatment facilities for corona infection in Delhi. "We urge the chief minister to strengthen the health system of Delhi. This is the time to deal with the coronavirus and not to shine through TV channels and advertisements," Bidhuri said. Under attack over the alleged lack of transparency and under-reporting of coronavirus deaths in the national capital, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said there is no reason to hide anything and no case will go unaccounted for. Jain said the Health Department has asked hospitals to send death reports and summaries at the earliest. “I have read the news today. There is no reason to hide anything. We have asked hospitals to send death reports or death summaries at the earliest. I give you guarantee that no case will go unaccounted for,” Jain told reporters. As per the latest figures of Delhi government, the city has recorded total 6,542 coronavirus patients and 68 Covid-19 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bjp-seeks-arvind-kejriwal-s-clarification-over-underreporting-of-coronavirus-deaths-in-capital-835636.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh reports fresh COVID-19 case, tally rises to 52||One more person tested positive for coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 52, officials said. The case was reported from Kangra district, they said. A person from Kangra district has tested positive at Tanda's Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Superintendent of Police Vimukt Ranjan said. The patient's details were not immediately available. With this, the number of active cases in Himachal Pradesh has risen to 10, with three each in Chamba and Kangra, two in Mandi, and one each in Una and Hamirpur districts, according to the officials. While 35 patients have recovered from the infection, three have died. Four people were shifted to other states for treatment. The fatalities include a 70-year-old Delhi resident who stayed at a guest house of a factory in Baddi in Solan and died at PGIMER, Chandigarh on April 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-reports-fresh-covid-19-case-tally-rises-to-52-835639.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi doctor suicide case: AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal arrested||The Delhi Police on Saturday arrested Aam Aadmi Party MLA Prakash Jarwal and co-accused Kapil Nagar in connection with the suicide case of a doctor here last month, officials said. Jarwal and Nagar were called for questioning on Saturday evening and later arrested, police said. On Friday, a Delhi court issued non-bailable warrant (NBW) against the MLA in connection with the case. The 52-year-old doctor, Rajendra Singh, had allegedly committed suicide in Durga Vihar in south Delhi on April 18, holding Jarwal responsible in his suicide note, following which police had registered a case against the legislator on charges of extortion and abetment to suicide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-doctor-suicide-case-aap-mla-prakash-jarwal-arrested-835640.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||35 Indians repatriated from Singapore quarantined at 4-star hotel in Greater Noida||Thirty-five Indians repatriated from Singapore have been accommodated at a four-star hotel in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida for quarantine in view of the COVID-19 outbreak, officials said on Saturday. These people returned to Delhi on May 8 on a special Air India flight after which they were brought to Gautam Buddh Nagar, where they are being monitored by medical teams till they complete the mandatory quarantine period, they said. Each person is being charged Rs 2,000 a day for a room at the Savoy Suites in Greater Noida and the cost includes food and taxes, the district administration said in a statement. "Some of the returnees belong to the lower income group and have expressed inability to afford the hotel expenses. These people have been offered the facility to shift to government-run quarantine centres," according to the statement. The administration said it has appointed officers to inspect the facilities being provided to the repatriated Indians, who were stuck abroad due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, and address their concerns, if any. "Some of the returnees wanted the centrally-controlled air conditioner to work but that service has been stopped on advice of medical experts. There is no provision for window AC in any room but each has a fan," it stated. Each person is provided with breakfast, lunch, snacks in the evening and dinner, the statement said, adding some people had raised concerns over the quality of the food which has been accordingly communicated to the hotel. "Free wi-fi internet service is also being provided within the hotel premises, while proper cleanliness is being ensured in the rooms as well as the entire complex," it added. Adjoining Delhi, Gautam Buddh Nagar in western UP has recorded 216 positive cases of coronavirus, including two deaths, till Saturday, even as 121 patients have recovered from the disease and got discharged from hospitals so far, according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/35-indians-repatriated-from-singapore-quarantined-at-4-star-hotel-in-greater-noida-835660.html
09-05-2020||North and Central||No reason to hide anything: Delhi health minister over 'under-reporting' of coronavirus deaths||With the Delhi government coming under attack over "under-reporting" of coronavirus deaths on Saturday, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said not a single case will go unaccounted for, as the total tally of cases in the national capital climbed to 6,542. Confusion prevailed over the number of COVID-19 deaths in Delhi, with data from four hospitals showing that 92 people succumbed to the infection as against 68 reported by the government. Jain said the hospitals have not sent detailed death reports of patients which have information such reason of fatality, name, age and other things, on the basis of which COVID-19 health bulletin is updated. He said the health department has asked the hospitals to send death reports and summaries at the earliest, so that the data can be promptly added to the bulletin. The health department has synchronised its 24-hr time cycle for the daily bulletin on COVID-19 cases with that of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), an official said. Till now, the department's 24-hr time cycle was from 4 pm. It will now be 12 midnight. According to its latest bulletin, no fresh death was reported due to the virus. Of the total cases in the city, 4,454 are active while 2,020 patients have recovered, it stated. Six more police constables tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. A 31-year-old police constable had died of COVID-19 earlier this week. The Delhi government has directed district administrations to release 2,446 Tablighi members from quarantine centres and ensure that they don't stay at any place except their residence. In a letter to deputy commissioners (administration), Delhi Disaster Management Authority's Special CEO K S Meena said all the 567 foreign Markaz attendees will be handed over to the Delhi Police. The move comes days after Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain ordered the release of Tablighi members who have completed their quarantine period at facilities here. The district magistrates will explore the possibility of sending the Tablighi members, who belong to other states, in buses to their native places following social-distancing norms and other protocols, Meena said. Meanwhile, opposition political parties trained their guns at the AAP government over the exact figure of coronavirus deaths. Congress leader Ajay Maken asked the Arvind Kejriwal-led dispensation it "to be more transparent" in reporting cases of the disease. It was a "matter of shame" that Delhi was witnessing "a sorry state of affairs" in the fight against the pandemic, he said. Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari said the chief minister should clear the air about the situation. "Reports of under-reporting of coronavirus deaths are a matter of concern. It is extremely shameful that to hide its failures, the Delhi government is reportedly concealing COVID-19 death figures. "This is not the time to for politics. People have the right to know about the severity of the epidemic and the Kejriwal government should tell them the truth," he said. Seeking to clarify the matter, Jain said, "There is no reason to hide anything. We have asked hospitals to send the death reports or death summaries at the earliest. I give you the guarantee that no case will go unaccounted for." The toll of 68 shared by the government in its health bulletin on Friday is based on data collected from 10 hospitals, including AIIMS, Safdarjung Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and Lady Hardinge Medical College. According to it, AIIMS (Delhi and Jhajjar) reported two deaths, Safdarjung Hospital reported four, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital 26 and Lady Hardinge Medical College had no fatalities till Friday. However, officials from these hospitals said the number of people who died due to coronavirus till Friday is higher than what is reflected in the Delhi government's bulletin. AIIMS (Delhi Trauma Centre and Jhajjar) has recorded 14 deaths, an official said. According to AIIMS Medical Superintendent Dr D K Sharma, the discrepancy could have risen because the government is only counting the fatalities from the Trauma Centre, which has been converted into a dedicated COVID-19 hospital and has not taken into account data from the Jhajjar facility. "They are calling us for the data. We have told them we are regularly sending the correct, updated figures. We don't see any reason why wrong figures are being reflected," said a senior doctor at Safdarjung Hospital, which has reported 23 COVID-19 deaths. Minakshi Bhardwaj, the medical superintendent of RML Hospital, which has reported 52 deaths, said, "We are providing them data regularly and correctly. It is up to them to incorporate it in their chart." Lady Hardinge Medical College Director Dr N N Mathur said the hospital has reported three deaths to the government. After the discrepancy in death toll came to light, Jain said, "If we had to hide data, we wouldn't have released Thursday's fresh COVID-19 cases which saw the highest single-day spike of 448 cases."  The health department has roped in three more private hospitals -- Fortis in Shalimar Bagh, Saroj Medical Institute in Sector 19, Rohini and Khushi Hospital in Dwarka -- with a total of 150 beds to treat COVID-19 patients. Two days after launching the e-token system, officials said they have so far issued around 4.75 lakh e-tokens for liquor customers. Under the e-token system, customers are given specific time for purchasing alcohol so that there is no violation of social distancing norms by people queuing up outside liquor stores.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-reason-to-hide-anything-delhi-health-minister-over-under-reporting-of-coronavirus-deaths-835679.html
09-05-2020||Opinion||Why govt must address the question of access inequity before making mobile apps mandatory during COVID-19||On May Day, the Ministry of Home Affairs issued guidelines pertaining to the extension of the lockdown. As part of these guidelines, the section which included instructions for workplaces stated that the Aarogya Setu app would be mandatory for all employees irrespective of whether it was a public-sector or private-sector operation. Moreover, the responsibility of ensuring compliance was placed on the “head” of the organisation. It remains unclear how the penal provisions referenced in the document are applicable in this case, whether the liability clause falls on the head of the organisation or on an individual employee.  We have since also seen further expansion of this mandate, with the Noida Police announcing penalties for anyone without the app installed on their smartphones. The Bengaluru Police too published a procedure to return to Karnataka from other states, which states that 'citizens have to mandatorily install Aarogya Setu on their phones henceforth.' The government has also announced an interactive voice response system-based solution under the 'Aarogya Setu’ branding. However, technologically it remains a different solution mainly providing a mechanism to self-report. It does not address contact tracing. The issues Several concerns have been raised about the implications of such an approach on multiple fronts. Privacy, and the risk of its evolution into a vehicle for mass surveillance, has been the most discussed one. Then there is the security aspect, and the potential information security risks to individual users as well as a large centralised database of citizen data. There is also the legal aspect, that is, whether the National Disaster Management Act confers the necessary powers on the government to make it mandatory, and the lack of a data protection legislation. Technological aspects have to do with the efficacy of contact tracing apps/algorithmic risk detection and the associated issues around false positives and false negatives. Finally, there is the transparency question: Opaque processes and the fact that the code has not been made open-source yet is worrisome.  The Ada Lovelace Institute has published a rapid review of technological responses to the pandemic titled, Exit through the App Store, which warns of the risks of “rushed deployment of technological solutions without credible supporting evidence and independent oversight.” On equity An aspect which is under explored is equity, or the lack of it. In designing public policy, equity is a crucial part of policy design. It deals with the social allocation of benefits and deals with the questions of 'who pays' and 'who benefits'. In the book Policy Paradox, Deborah Stone lists three dimensions and eight issues and associated dilemmas with each distribution method. Ultimately, this is a complex undertaking and no matter what criteria is for distribution, some group or the other will feel that they have been left behind by the policy. In this context, it is important to look at a mandatory national level-app from the lens of who might benefit and who may pay a cost by facing exclusion. It follows that internet access, smartphone ownership with the required feature-set become important criteria for the distribution of this 'benefit'. Note that they are certainly not the only criteria, but considering them helps establish a baseline. One must also consider that internet sharing is unlikely to work well for this use-case, and that happens more than we realise. And that even a significant number of people who have internet access do not have the luxury of staying connected all the time. Estimates suggest that there are around 450 million smartphones in India, but there is limited data by State/Union Territory or divided by rural and urban settlements. A useful proxy under these circumstances is data on the number of internet connections per 100 people, which TRAI publishes periodically. There have also been statements from analysts at CCS Insight and Counterpoint Research who estimate that between 50 to 70 percent of devices/people will be ruled out of such a solution. Such data can be combined with census data divided by urban and rural areas to estimate what pan-India distribution will look like. The maps estimate what percentage of people by State/Union Territory, may not have access to an Internet + Bluetooth Low Energy-based solution, under three conditions.  A) 50% of Internet Subscribers do not have access to a BLE-enabled phone  B) 40% of Internet Subscribers do not have access to a BLE-enabled phone  C) 30% of Internet Subscribers do not have access to a BLE-enabled phone  Note that the scales vary in each image. The numbers represent the estimate of people who may not have access to internet + Bluetooth Low Energy-based solution needed for most contact tracing apps It is worth pointing out that while TRAI's data suggests that in urban areas there are more than 100 internet subscriptions per 100 people, it cannot and should not be assumed that every individual residing in an urban area owns a compatible smartphone. This is more likely to be the case in low-income neighbourhoods. The end result will be an increase in data blind-spots and a reduction in any perceived efficacy of the solution. Additionally, since the disease continues to be stigmatised, there are incentives for people to report incorrect information too. And it is precisely here that the crux of the issue lies. With the app being made mandatory for every formally employed individual, and reports suggesting that it will be used as a 'pass' to access public/private spaces the risks of exclusion for those who are already vulnerable are significantly increased. A situation we can ill-afford as we try to rebuild from the economic costs the pandemic has already imposed. Also, with reverse-migration of migrants across the country underway, it is extremely important to index towards more equitable solutions, not less. It is, therefore, necessary that before we impose such mandates on people, we first take steps to address the underlying imbalance in access in any upcoming stimulus or recovery package.  (Prateek Waghre is a research analyst at The Takshashila Institution)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-govt-must-address-the-question-of-access-inequity-before-making-mobile-apps-mandatory-during-covid-19-834648.html
09-05-2020||Opinion||Why banks aren't ready for economic heavy-lifting this time around||On May 7, the banks deposited a total of Rs 8,19,783 crore with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Except for May 1, in the remaining days in May, the banks have deposited more than Rs 8 lakh crore with the RBI. Banks deposit the excess money they have with the RBI through what is called the reverse repo window. The RBI pays them interest on these deposits. This rate of interest is referred to as the reverse repo rate, and it currently stands at 3.75%. On February 20, banks had deposited just Rs 39,983 crore with the RBI under the reverse repo window. Clearly, in a period of a little over two and a half months since then, banks have ended up with more and more deposits, which they don’t want to lend, and are instead depositing with the RBI. In the second half of March, the banks deposited Rs 3.61 lakh crore every day on average. By the second week of April, this had jumped to Rs 7.24 lakh crore. In May, it has averaged Rs 8.28 lakh crore. Why is this happening? With economic activity crashing, the government is trying to take on the load of the spender of last resort. It has deposited money into women’s Jan Dhan accounts. It has brought forward the payments made under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme. This money has been withdrawn, spent and found its way back into bank accounts. This is one of the reasons for the spurt in the money being deposited through the reverse repo window, though not the only reason for it. In the normal scheme of things, banks would have lent out this money. But with the lockdown on, bank lending has collapsed. Vehicle sales have crashed. This means, banks haven’t been able to give out vehicle loans. The same is the case with home loans, consumer durables loans and so on. Over and above this, with social distancing norms in place, even someone who wants a loan may not be able to go to a bank and get one. Also, with most factories shut (now gradually opening up), businesses have been reluctant to borrow as well. Over and above this, many corporates are trying to use the current bleak scenario as an opportunity to get leaner and fitter. Given this, they clearly don’t have any appetite for bank loans. And finally, many corporates are already heavily leveraged. The Indian economy had been slowing down even before Covid-19 struck. And the current state of bank lending reflects the state of the economy. Given that a large part of the economy is shut, it is not surprising that lending by banks has gone the same way and they are parking a greater amount of deposits with the RBI. Also, banks are getting ready for the months to come, expecting a spurt in bad loans. Bad loans are largely loans on which repayments haven’t been made for a period of 90 days or more. Many businesses are likely to default in the months to come. Over and above this, as companies fire people, cut their salaries, freeze increments and postpone the joining dates of new hires, there is bound to be an increase in retail loan defaults as well. The current rate of default on retail loans is just 2%. But more people are likely to default on their home loans, vehicle loans, personal loans, consumer durable loans, credit card outstanding, etc. The fact that private banks are preparing for this can be concluded from the fact that while overall recruitments are under freeze, they are looking to hire people in their recovery departments. In this scenario, it is hardly surprising that banks aren’t willing to lend. One also needs to take into account the fact that banks, in particular public sector banks, are yet to come out of the mess they landed themselves in post-2011 onwards. In the aftermath of the financial crisis of 2008, public sector banks were encouraged to carry out an easy lending policy. This was done to ensure that the economy continued to grow. This easy lending did help perk up growth for a couple of years, but after that many corporates who had taken loans started to default. The banking crisis started in 2011, but it was recognised only in late 2014 and early 2015. The total amount of bad loans of public sector banks as of December 31, 2019, stood at Rs 7,16,652 crore. This has come down from a peak of Rs 8,95,601 crore, but is still a high number. Given this, it is hardly surprising, that the banks do not want to make the same mistake all over again. While the government may want the banks to do the heavy-lifting of getting the economy back on track, the fact of the matter is that the banks are clearly not in a position to do so. The banks clearly understand this. Which is why they are happy to deposit lakhs of crore of rupees with the RBI and earn a minuscule rate of interest of 3.75% on it, rather than lend that money out in the hope of earning a higher rate of interest. And that’s the long and short of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-banks-arent-ready-for-economic-heavy-lifting-this-time-around-835693.html
09-05-2020||Opinion||What’s in a name, did you say?||He wants to fill the world with robots,” Victor declared, pulling one earphone out for a moment. “And that is why he named his son that.” The three children were unanimous in their strident opposition to Elon Musk and Grimes naming their new-born son X Æ A-12. I wanted to understand why. “What do you mean ‘Why’?” Færie was aghast. “Imagine the anxiety and the discomfort the kid has to go through. I should know. You think a unique spelling is cool, but it’s not easy for the kid. No one will know how to pronounce his name.” My reply to her, as always, has been that she will be grateful to me years from now for giving her name a phonetically accurate spelling. Airy shared the outrage. She also had additional arguments. “It’s weird,” she declared. “But people should be allowed to have weird names.” I countered, knowing that she is big on individual freedom. “It’s not about his right to free expression, but about his wisdom in using it,” she replied, with a triumphant gleam in her eye. She had used one of my favourite arguments against me. She went on. “The poor kid is not even a day old and already the subject of thousands of memes.” I pointed out that “poor” is not a word I would use for a guy who was a millionaire even before he was born. She switched gears and turned to practical issues. “He won’t be able to fill up forms. Computers don’t accept numerical and special characters in the name field. Apostrophes and accent marks are already creating havoc.” I observed that for her, forms meant online forms. I could have pointed out the existence of paper forms but didn’t do so, to keep my tech-savvy reputation intact. Instead, I sought refuge in philosophy. Computers, I ventured, exist to serve humans and not the other way around, despite what the government-people, HR and customer service types would have you believe. Musk can name his son anything and the computer systems of the world ought to change to accommodate that. Victor was not impressed. He pulled one earphone out again. “You mean all the computer systems in the world must change just because one guy has strange characters in his name?” “Yes,” I said. “Why not? Are we going to allow the limitations of computer software to determine what we can or cannot do? If that were so, we wouldn’t have made it to the 21st century, and set our clocks back every year in order not to be bitten by the Y2K bug.” He gave me a look he had clearly inherited from his mother, put his earphone back on and lost further interest in my arguments. None of them were convinced. I reminded them, to no avail, of The Artist Formerly Known as Prince and how, in the early 1990s, he had changed his name to an unpronounceable symbol. “He did what he did of his own free will, unlike Musk’s new-born baby.” Right again, but baby can change his name to something else, no? Yeah, but only after going through 18 years of misery. I was going to lose this debate, despite winning on points. To me this conversation looked like the thinking fast and slow thing that Daniel Kahneman uncovered. When people encounter a name like X Æ A-12, they instinctively feel it is wrong. The fast brain jumps to a conclusion, the reasoning comes later. The slow brain that does the reasoning is enlisted to justify the position that fast brain jumped to. There’s no watertight reason why a person can’t be named X Æ A-12, but somehow “it’s still wrong”. There might be, it turns out, one mundane reason. California’s laws require names to consist of the 26 letters of the alphabet. I guess that settles it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-s-in-a-name-did-you-say-835694.html
09-05-2020||Opinion||When 'Sura' flows freely, even the gods are pleased||Drinking, or, as prim and proper academics and medical journals call it, ‘spirituous liquor’— was a big part of Indian courtly culture and poetry. The Vedic Sautramani sacrifice involves the brewing of a barley-based drink which is offered to the gods. You might even say we were microbrewing before it was cool. Did you know that Varuni, the goddess of wine, rose from the ocean as it was churned by the gods and demons? Accounts cannot agree about whether she married the gods or the demons, and whether she was pleasant or quarrelsome. Memories become hazy, after all, once Varuni has been involved. Nor was drinking the preserve of men. The Kamasutra suggests that women have the first right over drinks at parties. The Ramayana dedicates a long passage to describing the intoxicated women in Lanka. When Hanuman goes in search of Sita, he finds himself in the palace’s inner quarters, trying to locate Sita amidst thousands of women, drunk and happily asleep. Some are asleep with their musical instruments and others with their arms and legs intertwined around each other. Kalidasa says that in the kingdom of King Dilipa, even the wind would not dare lay a hand on women tipsy on the streets. Where then was all this liquor sold? We know that in Mauryan times, every village had a watering hole, which was announced by a flag waving on top. Over a hundred kinds of alcohol are known from literature, including those brewed from mahua flowers, from mangoes, and from prize grapes imported from Afghanistan. Most farces in Sanskrit involve plenty of drinking and the confusion that ensues. A Kapalika mendicant in Mattavilasa Prahasana praises Lord Shiva for creating a new route to liberation that involves drinking and having a merry time. Another Buddhist mendicant in the same text rues the Buddha’s prohibition of drinking. He is convinced that the instruction was inserted into the text later by someone spiteful and is determined to discover the authentic text to prove that it contains no such ridiculous instruction. Unfortunately, he has no such luck in the play. One famous character from mythology who really likes his drinks is Balarama, Krishna’s elder brother, who some say was an incarnation of Lord Vishnu. The Bhagavata Purana describes Balarama singing with female companions as he sips wine. When an ape called Dvivida (a demon in disguise, of course) arrives on the scene, grabbing Balarama’s drink, Balarama is so furious that he kills him in a trice. In fact, Balarama enjoys his wine so much that Varuni is said to be his wife. What’s more, one of the names for an alcoholic beverage in Sanskrit is ‘Halipriya’—Balarama’s favourite. So now you know your new favourite god!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/when-sura-flows-freely-even-the-gods-are-pleased-835695.html
09-05-2020||Opinion||The gesture of Nissar Ahmed||Hardly had the news of Nissar Ahmed’s death come, people started reaching for his poems turned into song: Nityotsava (“The Eternal Celebration”), a paean to Mother Kannada, Kurigalu Sir Kurigalu (“Sheep, Sir, We are Sheep”), a satire on how the rulers and the ruled had lost sense of direction, Yella Maretiruvaga (“When everything has been forgotten,”) a wistful recall of a past love affair. Unlike his modernist peers in Kannada literature, in the 1960s, Nissar Ahmed composed lyric poems. As he repeatedly recalled, “communicating” with the ordinary people was important for him. Not wanting commercial Kannada film songs to dictate popular tastes, he personally produced, Nityotsava, an album of his poems set to music by Mysore Ananthaswamy in 1978. The songs caught on. The world of light Kannada music (Sugama Sangeeta) embraced other poems of his over subsequent years and Nissar Ahmed was everywhere: school and college day functions, inaugural ceremonies, radio and television programmes. The Kannadiga NRI households he visited during his trips abroad, he has recalled, had the Nityotsava audio tape with them. He remained grateful for the affectionate place Kannadigas made for him in their minds. While the metaphors and cadences found in his poems on love, nature, the Kannada land, historical personalities, among others, show how much of an insider he was to Kannada society, his poems which express his feelings of alienation from the same society show the relationship to be a troubled one. His 1968 poem, Nimmodaniddu Nimmantaagade is a powerful instance. Its opening stanza goes thus: “Being with you, and yet not be one of you/To not give in when pulled/and to stay distinct/Despite being rooted in this soil/to have to raise my head as an alien, you see/It’s a very tough task.” Although the narrator’s identity remains unidentified, the poem is pitched towards the dynamics of exclusion from the nation. After ruing that “the cat hidden inside” the words of the dominant community had scratched at his integrity and spilt blood, the poet concludes: “The investigation done in my own presence/for elements of nationalism in the spilt blood/Facing that moment with a false smile/It’s a very tough task.” Relentless and unsparing, the suspicion of the dominant community has initiated against religious minorities a chain of violence whose murderous potential can be glimpsed even through the poem’s tone of gentle irony. Another poem, Anaataru (Orphans, 1972), also holds out a bleak vision. Addressing himself to a patriot, the poet hints that he hasn’t been able to afford to send his children to school and that their future lay in a remand home. Economic hardship, he connotes darkly, will likely push his children into petty crime. Another powerful poem, Savatiya Makkala Hage (“Like Step-Children”, 1982), asks a mother not to “regard” and “torment” Muslims like they were “her step-children.” Clarifying soon that the mother it invokes is India, the poem shares an anguish about the many discriminations facing Indian Muslims. While asking for their difficulties to cease, the poet also asks the mother to forgive “the misguided ones.” In a wide-ranging conversation recorded with noted Kannada literary critic, Rahamat Tarikere, in 2001, Nissar Ahmed repeatedly disavows any interest in taking a conflictual stance in his writings. “If we are pained about something, we need to share it with others and try to make them see it,” he said. “I don’t wish to criticise others.” His poems which bemoan social orthodoxy among Muslims, like Amma, Achara mattu Naanu (“Mother, Orthodoxy and I”) also share this non-confrontational stance. They are content to point at a difficulty and put their faith in the possibilities for reconciliation. Appearing among the columns he wrote for Tushara, the popular Kannada monthly magazine, during the early 90s, his essay on the Hadiths ended with the hope that it spurred readers to wish to become aware of the life and thought of Prophet Mohammed and the life-affirming philosophy of the Quran. His poems on Ugadi, the mischievous deeds of the child Krishna, and many others reveal his strong acquaintance with Hindu religion. And, his moving poem, Shilube Yeriddaane (“He has Ascended the Cross”, 1982), which sees Christ being crucified daily in courts, factories, prisons, hospitals and in the tiny dark homes of Dalits, shows a familiarity with Christian theology as well. Nissar Ahmed’s writings reveal a reaching out to the communities around him. They oblige us to return the noble gesture. (Note: All translations found above are mine)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-gesture-of-nissar-ahmed-835696.html
09-05-2020||Opinion||The ‘Locker Room Syndrome’: When does it end?||Last week, one controversy dominated the online space, where a bunch of teenage boys were trading pictures of nude women on their Instagram group as also messages about raping them. You know, what President #45 of the United States normalised as “locker room talk”. Social media took over and before you knew it, #BoisLockerRoom began trending. The group was soon taken down – our momentary fix in the age of social media – but it also gave rise to another hashtag, #GirlsLockerRoom, where messages women shared about finding men sexually appealing were used to lend support to the argument that it’s not only men who indulge in sexual fantasies. Because boys will be boys. That age-old logical fallacy: false equivalence -- women objectifying and fetishizing men is the same as young boys wanting to rape women. I received a WhatsApp forward of a young man (he could not have been more than 17) saying something like: “If she wants to stay safe, let her stay home. But if she wants to be a ho, then, it is not my problem”. I was struck by how deep this hatred for women is in that young man, at such a young age. This was clearly not someone from an uneducated family. He looked urban, street smart, educated, and well-off. Besides, he used the word ‘ho’. When and where was this sentiment sown in his mind? Reverse-engineering it points to many plausible explanations. Peer group/pressure. Exposure to the rape culture that rap songs glorify (‘ho’ gives you a clue). Porn. The objectification of women that is everywhere you look. But the most plausible of all: his home environment. You might take umbrage at this supposition, but there is no way you can ignore it. Likely, the home scenario is one where the woman (even if she is financially independent), by sheer dint of the fact that she is a woman, is secondary to the man of the house. And there's the foundation of the deep-rooted misogyny in his mind. Parents, we can do better. Which brings me to the workplace. During the earlier part of my career, a co-worker propositioned me, and I had the gumption (gasp) to reject him. He said he would ruin my career. I remember another incident, where a male supervisor, whom I respected and looked up to, ganged up with his male friends to bring me down a peg in an office gathering. This was in retaliation – something they likely thought was fun and benign – for having had dinner with someone in their fold, a dating prospect that never really took off. There is no way to ignore this: misogyny and patriarchy go hand in hand. As a logical human being, I do understand that not all men are this way. In my own circles, I have male friends who do not care for vaunted labels of ‘feminists’, because they organically are. But misogyny of this kind undergoes mutations and gets to only a grudging semi-acceptance of women in its patriarchal fold. It never really goes away. Assaulting a woman’s very being, either physically or verbally, is the male-centric world’s way of trying to control a woman’s mind. Want to get her to doubt herself? Body-shame her. Want to control her desires and keep them from manifesting? Question her morals. Want to bring her down at the workplace? Gun for her ego. This is the spectrum of toxic masculinity. It might not seem overt to you as men, but women bristle under this, have done so since the beginning of time, so let us womansplain it to you. For men, women ought to remain secondary to not rob their shine. Misogyny manifests as hatred and tendencies of violence towards women first, but while life sands a man’s instincts down to being a responsible adult with a family and a career, a part of the misogyny gets retained somewhere like a vestigial organ. A woman in possession of her own mind, of her own faculties, of her sense of self, is the scariest prospect for this macho world. For this fight for equality to fully manifest, men must see women as allies, and not as competition or secondary or undeserving of respect as fellow human beings. Until that day… boys will be boys.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-locker-room-syndrome-when-does-it-end-835697.html
09-05-2020||South||Vande Bharat Mission: Tamil Nadu people stranded in foreign nations return||As many as 359 people arrived here early from Dubai in two Air India flights as part of the government's Vande Bharat Mission to bring home Indian nationals stranded in various countries. Among the passengers was a Madurai based woman whose husband died in Dubai. The body was also brought in the aircraft and she headed to the southern temple town on road from here with her spouse's body. While the first flight saw arrival of 182 people -151 men, 28 women and 3 children- there were 177 people in the second aircraft (138 men and 39 women) and the flights arrived in the wee hours of today, airport officials and Greater Chennai Corporation said. The stranded people hail from Tamil Nadu and they were working in the United Arab Emirates. On Friday night, a flight from Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia arrived at Tiruchirappalli airport with about 200 passengers. On their arrival, nasal and throat swab samples were taken for coronavirus testing at the specially set up COVID-19 kiosks at the airport. Authorities deputed several teams of health workers attired in protective suits to screen and take samples from the returnees. While one group of people was lodged in the premises of an educational institution in suburban Melakottayur, two other groups of men and women got accommodated in two hotels here at Periyamet and Ekkaduthangal respectively. They would be in their respective places of stay for about 14 days, the authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vande-bharat-mission-tamil-nadu-people-stranded-in-foreign-nations-return-835402.html
09-05-2020||South||TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu urges PM Modi to set up scientific experts' committee to probe Vizag gas leak incident||A day after the Andhra Pradesh government constituted a five-member team to probe the Visakhapatnam gas leak incident, TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to set up a scientific experts’ committee to investigate the matter. In a letter to Modi, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) chief also commended the "quick response" of the central government in controlling the styrene vapour leak from the plastics manufacturing plant on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam that left 12 people dead and hundreds hospitalised on Thursday. Naidu suggested that the prime minister set up a scientific experts' committee to inquire into the gas leakage and the circumstances that led to the release of toxic vapours. A thorough investigation needs to be done to understand the health impact as the company claims that only styrene gas was leaked but there are conflicting reports of other toxic gases being leaked, he said. "The long-lasting impact on the health of those undergoing treatment is of serious concern. It is apprehended that the toxins emitted may cause permanent damage to the victims," he said. Naidu further said there is a need to closely monitor the ambient air quality in and around Visakhapatnam for understanding present and future impact. He also suggested roping in national and international experts for health assessment and accordingly taking immediate and long-term health measures. "This assessment would be helpful in giving compensation," he said. Naidu further said each patient needs to be monitored thoroughly on a long term basis and the authorities must generate electronic health records to help build confidence among the victims. Following the gas leak incident, the National Green Tribunal ordered LG Polymers India to pay interim damages of Rs 50 crore and issued notices to the company, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), state and centre. The police have registered a case of culpable homicide and causing grievous hurt against the management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-chief-n-chandrababu-naidu-urges-pm-modi-to-set-up-scientific-experts-committee-to-probe-vizag-gas-leak-incident-835434.html
09-05-2020||South||Situation 'normal' in gas leak village: Andhra govt||The Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday said the situation was "normal" in RR Venkatapuram village, where a styrene vapour leak from the LG Polymers plant claimed 12 lives and left over 300 people hospitalized with various ailments. Director General of Police D Gautam Sawang and Special Chief Secretary (Industries) Karikal Valaven inspected the plant and spoke to the LG management and later told reporters that "everything is normal and there is no need to panic." Temperature at the styrene storage tank, where the vapour leak occurred, has come down, as also the PPM (ambient air quality) level. "Definitely the air is also fresh and there is nothing to worry about. In the coming days, life will come back to normalcy," the DGP said. "Just to be on the safe side, as per protocol, people are being asked to stay away for 48 hours. That period will end tomorrow. Scientists and experts from different parts of the country, including New Delhi, are coming here. They will review the situation and give final clearance," he added. Valaven said temperature at the plant has come down, as well as the PPM level. "Experts from the Petroleum University, Indian Institute of Chemical Technology and others are coming here. After they inspect, we will take further required steps," the Special Chief Secretary said. Meanwhile, the LG management too issued a statement saying, "We are happy to confirm that the status-quo at the plant is brought under control this morning." It said a special task force has been set up to help victims and families to "resolve any issues" and provide every assistance to the bereaved families. "All (the affected) families will be contacted shortly. This team has the responsibility to provide every support for the deceased, medical supplies and household goods, and emotional management for psychological stability to all injured and victims," the company statement said. The company teams were working with the government to assess the impact of the damage caused and create concrete measures to deliver an effective care package that could be implemented immediately. The company assured that it would also "actively develop and promote mid-to-long term support programmes" that could contribute to the local communities. As the demand for closure of the plant became vociferous on Saturday, the LG management sought to assuage the feelings promising to "do our best" to resolve the situation and prevent any incident in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/situation-normal-in-gas-leak-village-andhra-govt-835464.html
09-05-2020||South||Five held in Kerala for holding prayers at mosque||Five people were arrested for allegedly conducting congregational prayers at a mosque here in violationofthe COVID-19 lockdown norms. A case was registered against five people for conducting evening prayers on Friday, police said. We received information that prayers were being conducted in the mosque, they said adding they were held at Eriyad Masjidul Bilal mosque here. On Friday, four people, including the president of a local temple trust, were arrested for allegedly conducting a religious recitation in a temple here in violation of lockdown restrictions. Though lockdown conditions have been eased in accordance with the Centre's guidelines, public gatherings, including functions, weddings, political events and religious gatherings were not allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-held-in-kerala-for-holding-prayers-at-mosque-835468.html
09-05-2020||South||TASMAC moves SC against order for online sale of liquor in Tamil Nadu||A day after the Madras High Court directed the closure of liquor shops in Tamil Nadu, the state-owned Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC) on Saturday approached the Supreme Court challenging the order.  In its petition, the state government contended the net effect of the order would be complete and indefinite standstill of liquor sale, resulting into grave losses to the state's revenue and commercial activity since all liquor retail was owned and operated by the TASMAC. The HC had on May 8 directed for only online sale and home delivery of liquor due to overcrowding seen at vends following the Union government's Ministry of Home Affairs' May 1 guidelines allowing sale of spirits subject to restrictions including social distancing.  Maintaining that the interim order was "factually untenable and legally unsustainable", the state government said the sale of liquor was a policy matter, falling within its domain.  The petition drafted by Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan further said the HC bypassed and misinterpreted the top court's order of May 8, 2020 by which a three-bench had declined to direct states to close down liquor stores pending the lockdown and left it to each state’s discretion to consider non-direct sale including online sale and home delivery of liquor. Asking the apex court to set aside the HC's order, the petitioner said since the Tamil Nadu Liquor (License and Permit) Rules, 1981 do not provide for online sales, the state has to amend the provision of the Tamil Nadu Liquor Retail Vending (In shops and Bars) Rules, 2003.   "It is submitted that the High Court cannot compel the state to amend the provisions of the said Rules," it said. It termed the HC's order as disproportionate, saying the state had made elaborate bandobast arrangements for crowd control. "Wherever there was overcrowding, prompt action was taken by the police and the TASMAC has also stopped sales at 12 (Twelve) such shops.  The overcrowding that  takes place at certain shops is something that all states have faced when re-opening their liquor stores after 41 days of lockdown," it said. The state government also pointed out the HC passed the order, ignoring that the fact e-payment and home delivery called for immense logistical coordination, supply chain management, and manpower, which made it all the more difficult in the present Covid-18 situation. "The extent of judicial overreach in the present case will have the effect of stultifying a major commercial activity," it said. It also pointed out there was no other state, where liquor was being sold exclusively through online means, with the exception of perhaps Maharashtra where the Covid-19 figures are three-four times that of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tasmac-moves-sc-against-order-for-online-sale-of-liquor-in-tamil-nadu-835481.html
09-05-2020||South||Put Electricity Act amendments on hold: TN CM to PM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to put the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act on hold till these were thoroughly discussed with state governments after the Coronavirus pandemic subsides. Recalling his earlier objections to the amendments, the Chief Minister said the proposed amendment bill sought to take away the power of the state government in deciding the constitution of the State Electricity Regulatory Commission, which is against the federal principles of the Constitution. In a letter to Modi, a copy of which was made available to the media, Palaniswami said the proposed amendments for which the Ministry of Power has invited comments from state governments, require detailed consultations with them and otherstakeholders. "You are aware that all states are currently pre-occupied with fighting the Coronavirus pandemic and will, therefore, require some time to give their detailed response to the proposed amendments. At the same time any hasty amendments to the Electricity Act may create hardship to the State power utilities, which are going through a severe financial crisis because of the present pandemic. As some of the provisions of the draftamendment bill are also likely to put the public to hardship, particularly during this crisis period, I am of the view that this may not be an appropriate time to bring in such sweeping amendments to theElectricity Act," he said in the letter. Hence, under the present circumstances, the PM should prevail upon the Power Ministry to put the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act 'in abeyance' till these are thoroughly discussed with the state governments after the pandemic subside. Recalling his letter dated November 12, 2018, the CM said he had pointed out that the proposedElectricity Amendment Bill will take away certain powers of the state government and at the same time seeks to bring significant changes in the existing Electricity Act. The changes include separating carriage and content in the distribution sector, which would make the power utilities in the public sector totally unviable. The proposed new draft bill seeks to privatise not just the supply of power to the end consumer through franchisees but to also privatise the entire distribution network, which would be highlydetrimental to the state utilities and against public interest, Palaniswami said. Further, despite the State's strong reservations, the new draft Bill continues to have provisions for the Direct Benefit Transfer of subsidyto consumers, particularly in the agricultural and domestic sector, he added. Implementing DBT in the electricity sector would work against the interest of farmers and domestic consumers and moreover, it has been the consistent policy of the government that the farmers shouldreceive free power. Hence the state government should be allowed to decide the mode of payment of such subsidy. Also, the proposed amendment bill seeks to take away the power of the State Government in deciding the constitution of the State Electricity Regulatory Commission, which is against the federal principles of the Constitution, Palaniswami said. Further, the move to set up a parallel authority, namely Electricity ContractEnforcement Authority at the Central level to handle all contractual issues would unnecessarily dilute the authority of the Central and State Electricity Regulatory Commissions and needs to be deleted, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/put-electricity-act-amendments-on-hold-tn-cm-to-pm-835482.html
09-05-2020||South||10th standard public exam will be held in Tamil Nadu, says state education Minister K Sengottaiyan||The 10th standard public examination will be conducted in Tamil Nadu after the COVID- 19 attack wanes and the resultant lockdown goes, state education Minister K Sengottaiyan said on Saturday. A decision on the exam would be taken based on the recommendations of a high-level education committee and getting concurrence from health officials, he said at Savakkatupalayam village near Gobichettipalayam where he distributed welfare schemes to 450 handloom weavers. The Minister said candidates appearing for the board exams would be seated in line with social distancing norms stem the spread of coronavirus. He said schools for the coming academic year would be re-opened only after the coronavirus attack blows over. He further said 2,000 mathematics teachers would be roped in to provide online training to students. Similarly, students keen on accountancy would be given online classes, he said. Replying to a query, the Minister said a decision on increasing the retirement age for state government employees from 58 to 59 was taken after consulting experts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/10th-standard-public-exam-will-be-held-in-tamil-nadu-says-state-education-minister-k-sengottaiyan-835499.html
09-05-2020||South||Telangana police to rollout AI-based system to check face mask norm violations||The Telangana Police will soon roll out an Artificial Intelligence (AI)- based system through CCTVs to check face mask norm violations. Describing it as a first such initiative in the country, State DGP M Mahendar Reddy has tweeted that the system shall be enabled shortly across the three police commissionerates of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda which cover Hyderabad and its suburbs. He said the initiative involved leveraging computer vision and deep learning techniques on closed circuit television (cctvs) "#AI based #FaceMaskViolationEnforcement is being rolled out by TS police. Leveraging ComputerVision & #DeepLearningTechnique being implemented on surveillance CCTVs across the cities is #FirstOfItsKind in INDIA. Shall be enabled shortly across the 3Commissionerates *Hyd,Cyb&Rck," he said. The state government, which has made wearing a mask mandatory in public places, on Thursday issued orders imposing Rs 1000 as fine for those not complying with it.  "In order to prevent transmission of COVID-19, it shall be mandatory for everyone to wear a face cover/mask in public places. Each violation shall attract a fine of Rs 1,000, an order issued by the state government has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-police-to-rollout-ai-based-system-to-check-face-mask-norm-violations-835525.html
09-05-2020||South||Pharmacist drinks botched chemical made for coronavirus treatment, dies||A pharmacist died and his boss was left hospitalised after the pair drank a chemical concoction they had developed in an effort to treat coronavirus, police said on Saturday. The men worked for a herbal medicine company and were testing their treatment -- a mix of nitric oxide and sodium nitrate -- at a home in southern Chennai. K Sivanesan, 47, died on the spot, said local police chief Ashok Kumar. His colleague Rajkumar was recovering from the poisoning. Kumar said Sivanesan bought the chemicals from a local market and developed the formula after conducting research on the internet. There are no approved medicines or vaccines for treating COVID-19, triggering a global race for a new drug for the disease that has killed nearly 300,000 people.  Nearly 60,000 cases have been detected in India, which has imposed a drastic nationwide lockdown in an effort to halt the spread of the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pharmacist-drinks-botched-chemical-made-for-coronavirus-treatment-dies-835554.html
09-05-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh to reduce retail liquor outlets to 2,934 by May end||After hiking liquor price by 75 per cent early this week, the Andhra Pradesh government has decided to reduce the number of retail liquor outlets, by a further 13 per cent, to 2,934 by this month end to curtail alcohol consumption and help people "move towards a better life." According to Special Chief Secretary (Revenue) Rajat Bhargava, the government has also taken a number of steps to check illicit distillation of liquor and inter-state trade of non-duty paid liquor. Now, the state government has also decided to constitute an independent Special Enforcement Bureau to deal with illicit liquor, with special focus on districts bordering neighbouring states like Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Odisha and Telangana. Retail liquor business in the state is currently run by the government, through the AP State Beverages Corporation Limited, and the number of outlets was brought down to 3,500 from 4,380 in August last year. With the latest decision, the number will drop further to 2,934, according to Bhargava. The state government, early this week, increased the liquor price by 75 per cent when shops were opened following the easing of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. "The government has taken a number of pro-active steps to further its commitment to reduce alcohol consumption and help people move towards a better life. It has been creating awareness among people on the harmful effects of alcohol consumption and the serious health burden it imposed. The reduction in the number of outlets is to restrict the availability of liquor and safeguard public health," Bhargava said in an order. He pointed out that the government eliminated a staggering 43,000 'belt shops' (illegal liquor vends) spread across the villageS in the state after the new liquor policy came into force last August. "We have also reduced the number of bars by 40 per cent, from 840 to 530, but the matter is now sub-judice. The good thing is, sale of liquor fell drastically by 24 per cent and beer by 55 per cent between October 2019 and March 2020," Bharagava said. He said the government has also taken a number of steps to check illicit distillation of liquor and inter-state trade of non-duty paid liquor. Now, the state government has also decided to constitute an independent Special Enforcement Bureau to deal with illicit liquor, with special focus on districts bordering neighbouring states like Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Odisha and Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-to-reduce-retail-liquor-outlets-to-2934-by-may-end-835574.html
09-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu further eases curbs, allows private firms to resume work||Easing curbs further in non-containment zones with riders like social distancing, the Tamil Nadu government on Saturday allowed private sector firms to resume work with 33 per cent work force and also permitted reopening of tea stalls to offer take away services from May 11. The government also extended the timings for groceries and vegetable shops from the present 5 pm till 7 pm, effective Monday, throughout Tamil Nadu. These outlets can start work from 6 am as usual. As regards standalone and neighbourhood shops in Chennai, they can function from 10.30 am till 6 pm as against the present cut off time of 5 pm, an official release here said. In all other parts of the state, these categories of shops can be open between 10 am and 7 pm. In Chennai city and suburbs, all private sector companies can resume work and operate between 10.30 am and 6 pm. In the rest of Tamil Nadu, the firms can work from 10 am to 7 pm. However, the workforce shall be confined to 33 per cent of the strength, the government said. As regards tea stalls, the government said they can work from 6 am to 7 pm. However, only take away services are allowed and people cannot congregate in the shops and social distancing must be maintained. The outlets should be sanitised five times a day and to avoid crowding, people must not be allowed to consume beverages inside the shops. "If the norms are not followed the tea shops will be closed down immediately," the government said. Petrol pumps in Chennai can work between 6 am and 6 pm and in rest of Tamil Nadu from 6 am till 8 pm, and 24 x 7 in national and state highways District Collectors, top officials of civic bodies and the police department have been asked to ensure compliance of norms like individual distancing, sanitisation and full adherence to Standard Operation Procedures. SOP includes maintaining individual distancing, carrying out disinfection work and trimming the workforce to 33 per cent to ensure a safe work ambience for employees. On April 23, the Tamil Nadu government had allowed rural employment guarantee tasks tied to irrigation and construction in non-containment zones of rural areas. It permitted the functioning of State and Central government offices for maintenance of essential services with attendance not exceeding 33 per cent of the total staff strength.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-further-eases-curbs-allows-private-firms-to-resume-work-835581.html
09-05-2020||South||Four more die of COVID19 in Tamil Nadu,toll now 44; 526 test positive||Four COVID-19 deaths were reported in Tamil Nadu on Saturday with the state recording 526 more positive cases, taking the total number to 6,535, the health department said. The deceased were all women with three hailing from the city and one from Ramanathapuram. With this, the death toll has gone up to 44, a health department bulletin said. Of the total 526 positive cases, Chennai continued to lead in the number with 279 followed by Villupuram 67 and Chengalpattu at 40. The bulletin said 1,867 positive cases are linked to Chennai's Koyambedu market,identified as a hotspot. While Chennai has 3,330 cases till date, 10 districts in Tamil Nadu have witnessed the number of positive cases crossing the three-digit mark. According to the bulletin, 1,824 patients have been discharged after treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-more-die-of-covid19-in-tamil-nadutoll-now-44-526-test-positive-835619.html
09-05-2020||State||Kalyana Karnataka migrant workers return home to a bleak future||Namadev, a resident of Hemla Nayak Tanda in Chincholi taluk, Kalaburagi district, is anxious about his future. A construction labourer, Namadev returned from Kalyan in Thane district of Maharashtra after the lockdown snatched away his livelihood. Now, he has nothing to do. Namadev is not an isolated instance but a common phenomenon right now.   Lakhs of labourers from the Kalyana Karnataka region — who migrated to Bengaluru, Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad and other cities in pursuit of jobs — have returned to their native places.  A majority of them eked out a living as construction labourers and by doing other unskilled jobs. Now, in their hometowns, they are sitting idle as there are no job opportunities in the region, which is also the most backward in the state. Sangeetha Kattimani, an economist, said that unemployment, summer heat and shortage of water were a curse on the region. “Since there are no options, they will have to work under the MGNREGA. The government should provide jobs under this scheme by increasing work days,” she told DH. As the region is known for its sweltering heat, the government should use them to plant saplings to increase the forest area, she suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalyana-karnataka-migrant-workers-return-home-to-a-bleak-future-835324.html
09-05-2020||State||Three Tablighi men from Chitradurga test COVID-19 positive post-recovery||Chitradurga district on Friday slipped to Orange Zone from Green after three people with travel history to Ahmedabad tested positive for COVID-19.  All three, part of a 33-member Tablighi Jamaat team from Chitradurga and Tumakuru, had contracted virus during their visit to Ahmedabad for a congregation. Post-recovery, they returned to Chitradurga and tested positive for the virus again. Chitradurga district had zero cases after the lone case reported in March last week was cured and discharged.  “On May 5, 15 people in a bus alighted at Chitradurga from Ahmedabad in Gujarat,” said Minister Suresh Kumar, in-charge of media briefings.  Gujarat has the third-highest number of COVID-19 cases in India.  Dr Tulsi Ranganath, District Surveillance Officer, Chitradurga, said, “All three infected are natives of Chitradurga, who had been to Ahmedabad to attend Tablighi Jamaat conference on March 8. They are part of 33-member team - 15 from Chitradurga and 18 from Tumakuru - which attended the conference and stayed there till April 14.” They were stranded at Ahmedabad due to the nationwide lockdown. Four of them had influenza-like illness, hence they were quarantined at a government hospital in Ahmedabad. All four tested positive for coronavirus and were shifted to the designated COVID-19 hospital. They were discharged post-recovery and were placed under a 14-day observation in a quarantine facility. Thereafter, all 33 Jamaat members from Chitradurga and Tumakuru returned home on a private bus. While 15 of them alighted in Chitradurga, the rest proceeded to Tumakuru. As per protocol, all passengers from outside the state were kept in 14-day institutional quarantine, Dr Ranganath said. “They came from a high-risk state like Gujarat that has high positivity rate. Hence we tested them. They were kept in a social welfare hostel called JMIT Corner. The samples were taken on May 6 and 8, it turned out positive. It was the same three who had tested positive earlier in Ahmedabad. The fourth person, who’d contracted virus in Ahmedabad, tested negative,” he said. We have suggested the Tumakuru district administration to test the 18 other passengers of the group along with the bus driver and conductor, the district surveillance officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-tablighi-men-from-chitradurga-test-covid-19-positive-post-recovery-835328.html
09-05-2020||State||Minister urges industries to be cautious||District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary urged all industries including chemical factories to exercise caution while reopening their plants that remained closed during the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. The security aspects and operational guidelines should be looked into by MRPL, BSF, MCF and other industries in the district. After the styrene gas leak at a polymer plant at Vishakhapattanam, the public are apprehensive in the district. Warning The minister said the public had filed complaints against liquor outlets for charging more than the MRP. Stringent action will be initiated against such outlets, he warned. Officials from excise department should keep a tab on all liquor outlets in the district and initiate steps to cancel the licenses of those who collect more than the MRP. Train services MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said the Centre is committed to providing train services for the labourers stranded in Dakshina Kannada district. “I have already spoken to Minister Suresh Angadi. The states should accept the stranded labourers and give their NoC for the same," he said. Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that over 20,000 labourers in the district had registered in Sevasindhu portal for travelling outside the state. Among them, 5,000 are from Jharkhand, 3,000 from Uttar Pradesh, 4,000 from Bihar. District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said that he had spoken to the chief minister and chief secretary on providing train services to the stranded labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/minister-urges-industries-to-be-cautious-835547.html
09-05-2020||State||2 lakh tonnes of ragi bought by govt from farmers: Minister||Food and Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah said that 2 lakh metric tonnes of ragi had been purchased from farmers by the government in the district so far and 96,000 farmers had registered for the scheme. He added that the Centre had ordered the purchase of an additional one lakh tonnes of ragi. He spoke after distributing food packs at Bugadanahalli village on Saturday to families affected by the lockdown. He said that the licenses of 150 fair price shops in the state that were not distributing supplies properly, were suspended. "Complaints that shop owners are cheating people have also been received from many places in the state," he added. He mentioned that 4.65 crore cardholders had been sold supplies during the lockdown. He also directed that migrant workers should also be given supplies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2-lakh-tonnes-of-ragi-bought-by-govt-from-farmers-minister-835610.html
09-05-2020||State||Gujarat moulvi recovers from CoVID-19, discharged from hospital||The moulvi (preacher) from Gujarat (P-447) who had tested positive for COVID-19 and was in the isolation ward of the district hospital, has recovered from the pandemic and was discharged on Saturday.  The preacher had come to Tumakuru on May 12 and was residing in a masjid in the city because of the country-wide lockdown. He has been treated for 14 days. The hospital staff garlanded him and discharged him.  "He will be placed in home quarantine. Because he is from a different state, his throat swab and sputum samples will be tested again after 28 days. If the samples test negative, then he will be sent home to Gujarat after seeking the permission of the government," said a Health official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gujarat-moulvi-recovers-from-covid-19-discharged-from-hospital-835612.html
09-05-2020||State||Trees felled for road widening||The felling of the trees to facilitate the widening of NH 173 (Kadur-Mudigere) continued. Several trees were felled near zilla panchayat office in Chikkamagaluru. The authorities have availed permission to fell 2,316 trees from Sakharayapattana to Chikkamagaluru to facilitate the work, said DCF N H Jagannath to DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/trees-felled-for-road-widening-835617.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: 36 new cases take Karnataka's tally to 789||36 new COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of infections in the state to 789, the health department said on Saturday. "36 new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon...Till date 789 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 30 deaths and 379 discharges," the department said in its midday situation report. The 36 new cases include- 12 from Bengaluru urban, seven from Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada, five from Davangere, three each from- Bantawal in Dakshina Kannada, Chitradurga and Bidar, and one each from Tumakuru, Davangere and Vijayapura. While most cases are contacts of patients already tested positive, three are with travel history to Ahmedabad, two are from a containment zone in Bengaluru, and one person's contact is under tracing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-36-new-positive-cases-take-karnatakas-tally-to-789-835431.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government announces financial aid to over 11,000 cobbler families||The Karnataka government has announced one-time financial relief of Rs 5,000 each to over 11,000 cobbler families in the state, whose daily life was affected by the COVID-19 induced lockdown. According to Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has announced one time financial relief of Rs 5,000 for each of these families. "Due to COVID-19 lockdown about 11,722 families involved in road side leather work, like mending chappals and shoes, are in financial distress and their daily life has been affected," he said on Friday. The compensation will be distributed to beneficiaries through Babu Jagjivan Ram Leather Industries Corporation, Karjol, who is also in-charge of Social Welfare department, said. A delegation of opposition leaders led by the leader of opposition Siddaramaiah had met Chief Minister Yediyurappa yesterday and demanded that people belonging to sections like goldsmiths, carpenters, cobblers, tailors and ironsmiths be considered under the package announced by the state government. The Yediyurappa government had recently announced Rs 1,610 crore relief package for the benefit of those in distress due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The measures announced as part of the package included compensation of Rs 5,000 each to thousands of washermen, barbers, autorickshaw and taxi drivers, whose daily life has been affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-announces-financial-aid-to-over-11000-cobbler-families-835465.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka ‘conditionally’ allows garment factories to run in red zone districts||Karnataka has permitted garment factories located in red zones, but outside containment zones, to resume operations at 1/3rd workforce.  Earlier, garment factories could operate only for the purpose of stitching Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits.  In an order, Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said all “recognised” garment factories that have an importer-exporter code (IEC) and those registered with the Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) can start operations with 1/3rd of the total workforce “subject to following standard operating procedures.”  Karnataka is home to over 5,000 units that are engaged in manufacturing of textiles, wearing apparel, dressing and dyeing of fur. It is estimated that over three lakh persons are employed in the garments sector.    In another circular, the government clarified that migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and others can hire and use buses provided by the KSRTC, NWKRTC, NEKRTC on “payment basis” for travel from Karnataka to other states with relevant permissions.  “Similar facility on payment basis may be made available by KSRTC, NWKRTC, NEKRTC, BMTC to transport workers to industries permitted under the issued guidelines (sic),” Revenue (Disaster Management) principal secretary TK Anil Kumar said in the circular.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-conditionally-allows-garment-factories-to-run-in-red-zone-districts-835489.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Education dept sets up helpline for fee-hike complaints||To address fee hike related complaints from parents, Karnataka state department of public instructions has set up a centralised helpline.  Despite an order from the department directing schools not to increase tuition fee for 2020-21 academic year considering the financial crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, some schools have been accused of issuing notices to parents increasing the fee. Following such complaints, the department has set up a helpline where parents can register their complaints. The parents/public have been asked to collect the acknowledgement number after registering complaint. Below are the details of the helpline. Helpline hour: 9.30 am to 6 pm (on working days)Number: 08023320311Mobile: 6364728784Email: centralhelplinesnr@gmail.com||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-education-dept-sets-up-helpline-for-fee-hike-complaints-835583.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to extend work hours, relax labour laws?||A video conference between Labour Secretary Captain P Manivannan and the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) set off speculations Saturday that the government will extend work hours and relax labour laws on the lines of some other BJP-ruled states. That Manivannan may have given some assurances to the CII came to light when the state chapter of the All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) expressed concerns on social media. With some of AICCTU’s representatives who have taken part in the meeting, the trade union tweeted: “Dear all, get set to work maybe 12-14 hours a day. Labour department told CII that the Cabinet approval for increasing the working hours to 72-100 hours is pending. This is a violation of the Factories Act which stipulates 48 hours per week…” Despite the Centre stating clearly that there should be no wage or job cuts at this time, the labour secretary told CII that even in such a scenario, action against companies would be taken after ascertaining whether the company is making profits, according to the Twitter thread. Also, the state government would apparently write to the Centre asking to reduce ESI/PF deductions, apart from stating that essential services companies could initiate action against employees who did not report to work, the trade union claimed, criticising the government for such a move.  When contacted, Manivannan clarified that the discussion on the extension of work hours was misconstrued. “The discussion was 100 additional work hours over four months. It was not about increasing it to 100 hours per week.” Moreover, the government had not arrived at any decision on any of these aspects and it was still at the level of discussion, he added. “They (the CII) had some concerns. I listened to them. We will work on them soon,” he said. Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar also said the government had not taken any decision either on the extension of work hours or on easing of labour laws at the moment.  The BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have announced the relaxation of their labour laws in a bid to give a fillip to economic activities that came to a standstill because of the COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-extend-work-hours-relax-labour-laws-835591.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Conduct SSLC exams smoothly, BEO directs headmasters||Block Education Officer K S Nagaraj Gowda on Saturday directed headmasters to upload results of examination of class 8 and 9 at Students’ Academic Tracking System. He chaired a meeting of the headmasters of government and government-aided schools. Gowda directed the headmasters to conduct the SSLC examinations smoothly. “Schools have been directed to declare the results of Class 8 and 9. The results should be uploaded online. Teachers should persuade children to watch SSLC lessons on Chandana television and Youtube channel. The department has conducted phone-in programme with SSLC students thrice to solve their problems,” he said. Gowda added, ”Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has hinted that SSLC examinations may be held in June. The headmasters should guide the students using the online platforms.” He also directed them to upload details of Akshara Dasoha scheme online. Funds had been released to buy two sets of uniforms for students. Top priority should be given to cleanliness. The government had made 100% mandatory for headmasters, clerks and Group D employees from May 4, he said. The headmasters should submit memorandum to gram panchayat for development works such as construction of compounds, he said. Headmasters’ Association president V Rudrappa, ECO Munirathnaiah and block coordinator Ramakrishnappa were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/conduct-sslc-exams-smoothly-beo-directs-headmasters-835606.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 cases in Karnataka jump to 794||Karnataka has reported 41 new cases on Saturday, five of which are from Hongasandra in Bengaluru, which DH had reported on Friday. As on May 9, the state has 794 cases. Of which, 377 are active. So far, 386 have been discharged, post-recovery. The COVID-19 fatalities in the state have remained 30. Bengaluru Urban recorded 12 new cases, including the five cases from Hongasandra, reported on Friday. Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada continued to see a flurry of cases. Davangere reported six while Tumakuru witnessed four fresh cases, after a brief lull. Chitradurga, Bidar and Bantwal town in Dakshina Kannada saw three new cases of COVID-19 each while Vijayapura and Chikkaballapur reported one case each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-jump-to-794-835649.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Six more Tablighi members from C'durga, Tumakuru contract coronavirus||Six more Tablighi Jamaat members, three each from Chitradurga and Tumakuru, with a travel history to Ahmedabad in Gujarat, have tested positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday. On Friday, three Tablighi members from Chitradurga, with a link to a congregation in Ahmedabad, had tested positive for COVID-19, post-recovery. The trio had contracted virus during their stay in Ahmedabad. All nine were part of a 33-member Tablighi Jamaat group from Chitradurga and Tumakuru. The members had returned home in a private bus in the third week of April.  Throat swab samples of three Jamaat members, aged 17, 26 and 34, have returned positive for the virus. All three are contacts of three members who showed the signs of relapse on Friday. With this, six of 15 Jamaat members from Chitradurga, with Ahmedabad link, have contracted COVID-19. Chitradurga was in green zone till May 7. But it slipped to Orange Zone with six cases in less than 36 hours. Three Jamaat members from Tumakuru, aged 27, 38 and 40, have tested positive for virus. All three, along with 15 others from the district, had travelled to Ahmedabad for a religious event. On return to district, five people were sent to Andhra after screening them for COVID-19 symptoms while 13 others were sent to a quarantine facility in Pavagad, said, Tumakuru Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar. Tumakuru also saw a 45-year-old from Sira (Patient 764) contract virus. The Sira man had recently visited COVID-19 hotspot Padarayanapura in Bengaluru. The district has seven active cases as on May 9. Infections swell in Bhatkal COVID-19 cases continued to mount in Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada. The port town on Saturday saw seven fresh cases.  Six of a family, including a one-and-a-half-years-old boy and two-year-old girl, contracted COVID-19. All six are primary/secondary contacts of Patient 659, an 18-year-old girl. A 68-year-old man is believed to have contracted virus from her daughter (P-740), a friend and a neighbour of Patient 659. A sudden surge in cases in the last three days has increased the district’s tally to 31 (20 active cases). The town has come to a standstill following a spike in COVID-19 cases. D’gere reports 6 cases COVID-19 hotspots in Davangere - Jalinagar and Imamnagar - continued to report fresh cases. On Saturday, the cotton hub of Karnataka recorded six more cases. Five of which are contacts of Patient 651, who died of COVID-19 on May 1. A 48-year-old man (P-776), a contact of P-553, a staff nurse of a CHC, also tested positive for virus. Bidar sees 3 new cases  After a brief lull, Bidar recorded three more cases on Saturday. A 30-year-old man, a resident of Mailoor Cross and a BRIMS staff; a woman from densely populated Pansal Taleem and a 12-year-old girl from Gholekhan areas in the city contractedcoronavirus. The BRIMS employee and the girl are the contacts of the previously diagnosed patients. The Health department personnel are investigating the woman’s source of infection.  The district authorities have stepped up screening and surveillance especially in the old city. Four testing centres in three wards of the old city saw heavy rush on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/six-more-tablighi-members-from-cdurga-tumakuru-contract-coronavirus-835650.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Haveri’s pilot flies for over 120 hrs for medical emergency||Kumar V Hiregoudar, a pilot and Vijayapura Sanik School’s alumnus flew the SpiceJet's Boeing 737 for more than 120 hours in the last 40 days to areas severely affected by novel coronavirus as part of the medical emergency. For Hiregoudar, a native of Haveri, flying for the medical emergency was a priority than bringing back his son and daughter stranded in America and Ukraine. There is no permission to visit these two countries for non-medical purposes. The 55-year-old former Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot flew to Singapore, Hong Kong, China, Bangkok, Colombo, Abu Dhabi, Kuwait and Philippines either to deliver or collect medicine. He is one of the pilots to voluntarily respond to the SpiceJet Chairman Ajay Singh’s call for medical emergency service. Hiregoudar said he wasn’t afraid to visit those destinations as he was flying for a cause. “It’s a state of mind. Fear vanishes if you convince yourself that you are serving for a cause,” he explains. After realising that adequate safety measures were in place against novel coronavirus inside the flight and at airports, his family members heaved a sigh of relief. Hiregoudar, who served with the IAF for more than 24 years and has 13,500 hours of flying experience over the last 34 years, faced challenges due to the accent of Chinese authorities in China. “It was tricky to land at the Hong Kong and a few other airports as I was landing there for the first time,” he explains. SpiceJet Head of Operations Gurucharan Arora and staff of the airports at destinations he landed ensured that he executed his tasks smoothly. He had to undergo several rounds of scanning and sanitising before and after boarding the plane. It was mandatory to wear personal protection equipment before landing in any airport abroad. The plane was disinfected before taking off in India and after landing at the airport abroad. Hiregoudar has a sense of fulfilment now. "The kind of fulfilment a pilot gets for rendering national service is unparalleled,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/haveri-s-pilot-flies-for-over-120-hrs-for-medical-emergency-835655.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CET dates to be finalised after CBSE time table||The revised dates for the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (CET) 2020 will be announced after the finalisation of CBSE class 12 examination time table. In the recent meeting, the Higher Education department has decided to take a call on the dates only after the publication of CBSE class 12 time table. “The CBSE has just said tentative dates. We are waiting for final the time table to decide on CET dates,” said a senior official of Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA). The KEA wanted to conduct exams in the second week of July, but as the CBSE has not yet given the final time table, the authorities have decided to wait for some more time to avoid clash. The CET 2020, originally scheduled to be held during April 2020, was postponed due to Covid-19 pandemic and the nation-wide lockdown. Over 90,000 students have registered for the test and the KEA has again extended the last date to submit applications online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cet-dates-to-be-finalised-after-cbse-time-table-835657.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: 'Zandu Balm' chilli fails to soothe Karnataka's Mundgod farmers||The green chilli farmers in the taluk are letting the crop wilt in the fields as they are not able to find a proper market for their produce due to the nationwide lockdown clamped to mitigate virus spread. The farmers in the region grow Tejaswini (414) variety of chilli, which is popularly known as Zandu Balm for its high pungency and also for the fact that it is used in making balm. The growers in Hungund, Agadi, Arishinageri, Nandigatta and Kundargi among other areas in the taluk have reaped a rich harvest of Tejaswini chilli cultivated on over 250 acres. This variety of chilli is in high demand in Maharashtra. Normally, the traders and balm manufacturers from Maharashtra buy the produce through middlemen in Haveri, Hubbali and Belagavi. But the coronavirus-enforced shutdown in Maharashtra has hit the chilli farmers of Mundgod hard. Growers of Tejasvini variety of green chilli poured out their woes to DH. “We are growing this variety of chilli for the past 3 to 4 years. We used to sell our produce at Rs 6,000 per quintal through the middlemen from Hubballi and Haveri. Crops are ready for harvesting but there are no takers. We have no option but to destroy the crop and prepare our lands for kharif season, rue Mundgod farmers Subhash Lamani, Mohan Harmalkar, Sikandar Hubballi, Shivaji and others. We spend a minimum of Rs 1,800 per acre for cultivating Tejasvini chilli. The sowing seeds alone costs Rs 40,000 per kg. The price of the chilli has crashed to Rs 1,200 per quintal. How can we sell the produce at such a low price? So, we have decided to raze the crop, Abdul Rasheed, a chilli farmer from the taluk, said. “Mumbai is reeling under Covid-19 pandemic. All markets are shut. The city will take a few months to return to normal. The Tejasvini variety of chilli grown this year will go waste. What to do...?,” Yallappa Melinamani, a farmer who broke down while pointing towards chillies strewn all over the place in his field, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-30-zandu-balm-chilli-fails-to-soothe-karnatakas-mundgod-farmers-835658.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to seek ICMR nod for lung biopsy of COVID-19 victims||In a bid to provide critical patients with more effective care and bring down mortality rates, Karnataka is seeking Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) permission to conduct lung biopsies of COVID-19 victims. “We will be applying to ICMR to seek permission to lung biopsies and clinical autopsies on those who have died due to COVID-19. This will help in providing critical patients with more effective care and bring down mortality rates,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare, in a statement. In the event of a surge in cases, post-lockdown, the state is planning to involve private medical colleges and private institutions to handle cases and will provide doctors with a checklist to follow regarding COVID-19 treatment.  Pulse oximetry Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, said, “Our team of expert doctors has recommended the use of pulse oximeters for all patients, and the necessity of routing all patients through the Critical Care Support Team (CCST). They have also suggested that people with lung issues should be tested for COVID-19.” In order to reduce the burden on government hospitals, tests can be taken from private hospitals as well. The CCST expert panel will conduct a training session with the team of experts in districts to discuss patient management. The health department has advised districts to procure two or three high flow nasal cannula systems for patients and suggested non-invasive ventilation for patients as well. “We have instructed all district health officers to nominate nodal and sub-nodal officers to monitor and collect details of ICU patients, patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and the critically ill on a day-to-day basis. We have also made necessary arrangements for the CCST to conduct training for COVID-19 teams in designated hospitals on current treatment protocols. We have also formed district committees to streamline their interactions with the CCST for better patient care,” said Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar. Bhaskar chaired a high-level meeting with officials from the health department to assess the functioning of tele-ICU unit, CSST and discuss steps to reduce the mortality rate in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-seek-icmr-nod-for-lung-biopsy-of-covid-19-victims-835661.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Costly' train journey further adds to migrants' woes in Karnataka||Migrant workers who survived the last two months without pay or even a proper meal are being made to pay about Rs 1000 or more for their journey home as the Railways has left them to the mercy of the state government. Labourers who spoke to DH said the trains, run under the brand name ‘Shramik Seva’, are unaffordable. “This is not Seva. I travelled to Udaipur in general coaches by changing trains as the sleeper coaches are costly. Now they were asking me to pay more than Rs 1,100. I and my friend gave Rs 500 to a truck driver. We have reached Solapur now,” Manyalal Pemji, a construction worker, told DH. The average fare for travelling to Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan is about Rs 900. The railway has been charging an additional Rs 50 for superfast trains. On top of this, the labourer has to pay Rs 140 as bus charges to reach them to the railway stations in Chikkabanavar and Malur. Labourers do not have a choice. “The BMTC has been entrusted with the responsibility of transporting the labourers. Since the buses are plying to Malur and Chikkabanavar with less than 50 per cent occupancy to ensure social distancing and return without passengers, we are charging Rs 140,” he said.  Radha Singh, a labourer who was stranded at Kempegowda Bus Station, asked the reason for differentiating between labourers from Karnataka and other states. “The state government ran free buses for them. Why couldn’t they help us. The lockdown has turned us into destitutes,” he said. Singh said most of his savings have been spent on food and other expenses over the last two months. "We didn't receive salary for 45 days as we have not done any work," he said. Senior officials in the railways confirmed that the Union ministry decided to charge for the operation of the trains. “When the matter took political colour, the issue was discussed at the Railway Board and even escalated to the ministry. However, it was decided to continue charging for the transportation,” an official said. Another official said some states have come forward to pay for their workers. "Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Manipur, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and even Jammu and Kashmir governments have already deposited money with railways as payment for trains being received from several states. However, states that are receiving a majority of labourers have not come forward,” he said. Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha have not come forward to pay for the journey of labourers returning from various places, including Karnataka. To a question as to why Karnataka has not funded their journey, an official from the labour department said: “They should be transported free of cost. We will recommend the same to the government.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/costly-train-journey-further-adds-to-migrants-woes-in-karnataka-835678.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Researchers document Indian grey wolf first time in C’nagar||A rare Indian grey wolf (Canis lupus pallipes) has been documented in the forests of Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary in Chamarajanagar for the first time by a team of researchers led by conservationist Sanjay Gubbi of Mysuru-based Nature Conservation Foundation (NCF). While camera trapping for the study of leopards, the rare sighting of Indian grey wolf in the Southernmost forest landscape of the state was documented by the team comprising Sandesh Appu Naik, Girish MN, Gnanendra, Poornesha HC and others. The species was camera trapped in Kothnur Range of Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary on the early morning of April 7, 2020. This is perhaps the first-ever photographic evidence of wolf presence in Chamarajanagar district. This record also documents the southernmost limit of wolf presence in Karnataka,” Gubbi told DH The Karnataka Forest Department’s data indicates the wolf inhabits in isolated patches across arid regions of Koppal, Raichur, Ballari, Haveri, Tumakuru and other districts. “With the sighting, all four canid species found in Southern Indian (Dhole- wild dogs- Indian wolf, Jackal and Bengal fox) have been documented in Chamarajanagar district,” he said. Indian gray wolf mostly survives in grasslands, scrub forests and is rarely seen in dry deciduous forests. “Even though the species is distributed widely, it is threatened due to habitat loss and retaliatory killing. Indian wolf numbers are suspected to be lesser than that of tigers and they are protected under schedule-1 of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972,” one of the researchers said. Previous studies in Chamarajanagara district in Cauvery and Malai Mahadeshwara Hills (MM Hills) Wildlife Sanctuaries, Biligiri Ranga Temple (BRT) and Bandipur Tiger Reserves did not document the Indian grey wolf. The documentation has also established that all the four large mammals belonging to the dog family in South India have now been documented in Chamarajanagar district. The study on leopards yielded valuable information about other species. The study documented the presence of honey badger in 2014. The researchers also recorded a new population of chinkara in Tumkur district in 2015. The easternmost limit of brown mongoose was documented in BRT Tiger Reserve in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/researchers-document-indian-grey-wolf-first-time-in-c-nagar-835685.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mysuru fought Covid, came up trumps||Mysuru district - which is in the red zone with a total of 90 positive cases, no casualties-and recovery of 86 patients - has some good news amid the crisis. The remaining four are also on the path of recovery, thanks to the deft handling of the situation by the officials concerned. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, who led the team of officials, told DH that it was the success of teamwork, courage and commitment of government personnel, people’s representatives, volunteers, NGOs, corporates and industries which made this possible. As on May 9, a total of 4,976 persons had been observed and out of the 5,081 samples tested, 4,757 completed 14 days of quarantine. Among the 90 infected persons, 74 were related to the Nanjangud-based Jubilant Generics of Jubilant Life Sciences, 10 were related to Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, two SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection) cases and two belonged to Kerala. Out of the four patients still under treatment, one is related to Delhi and three to Jubilant. Only one more person related to Jubilant is under quarantine and is yet to be tested. Thus, testing of a full circle of the infected persons, and their primary and secondary contacts is almost complete. “Till May 9, as many as 215 persons from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra have entered Mysuru. They have been quarantined in community halls. If they can afford to pay the bills, they will be accommodated in hotels. Community halls with proper facilities and hotels have been identified in all taluks for quarantine, as the number of people coming in is expected to increase over the next week. Soon, those returning from foreign nations will also land in Mysuru. Thus, the officials are both vigilant and also prepared,” he said. DHO speaks Speaking to DH on the patient trail, District Health Officer Dr R Venkatesh said: “The first Covid-19 case in Mysuru was identified on March 21: a 35-year-old man, who had travelled from Dubai. He was designated as P20. The second case, P27, reported on March 23, was a Kerala-based man in his mid-40s, who also travelled from Dubai. The third case, P52, a 35-year-old man with no travel history, was reported on March 26. It was the first case linked to Jubilant. The last confirmed case was on April 29 and the first patient was discharged on April 7.” The DC said, “The availability of the District Hospital, which was formally inaugurated in February, came as a bonus for isolation of Covid patients. However, it was just a structure. Before detection of any case in Mysuru, we had begun preparations and started equipping the hospital since mid-March. We procured some beds from KR Hospital of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute, Epidemic Disease (ED) Hospital and also from Chamarajanagar District Hospital. Seventeen new ventilators were bought. The State government allowed us to spend from the District Relief Fund, to equip the hospital for the emergency,” he said. Abhiram added, “Effective vigilance at check-posts also helped the spread of the infection. As members of the Tablighi Jamaat of Delhi were intercepted at Bannur check-post, on Mandya district border, they could be isolated and treated. Besides, the further spread was checked”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mysuru-fought-covid-came-up-trumps-835688.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||‘It was a challenge, deftly handled by team work’||Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, who is credited to have successfully led the combat against Covid-19 in Mysuru, said: “It was a challenge, but it was deftly handled by team work”. Sankar said, “Initially we were concentrating on foreigners and foreign-returnees, but the detection of the first case relating to Jubilant on March 26 came as a surprise. It also posed a big challenge. In fact, it was and is a mystery even today”. “As it was an unforeseen situation, a discussion with the officials concerned was held and we acted swiftly. We screened nearly 750 of the total 1,483 employees of the company on March 27 itself and sent them for home quarantine, immediately. A survey of the remaining employees was held. The role of DHO Dr R Venkatesh, his team of healthcare professionals, SP C B Ryshyanth and his team and revenue department officials in tracing them was immense”. “We created a cluster containment zone, which was a new concept, comprising Nanjangud town and neighbouring villages, covering nearly 60,000 people. We replicated the Kalaburagi model and created a single entry point and a single exit point and diverted the national highway to Tamil Nadu via T Narsipur,” Sankar said. “When the number of positive cases related to Jubilant started increasing, we were worried. But, we put a contingency plan in place. In the last week of March, we were ready to take up to 600 patients. Materials to meet their needs were purchased. There were also plans to set up make-shift hospitals, like in China, and some community halls were short-listed for the purpose,” the DC said. “Teams of officials were formed and were trained by experts for their delegated responsibilities,” he said. One of the positive things about the whole exercise is that people have realised that only the government machinery can deliver in times of crisis or a pandemic. All government officials, and also Asha workers, rose to the occasion, they delivered their best, with courage and commitment,” said Sankar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/it-was-a-challenge-deftly-handled-by-team-work-835689.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Task Force defers ‘radical’ new containment idea||The Covid-19 task force has deferred making a decision on a new containment plan. Instead of an entire locality or area, only individual houses or buildings reporting Covid-19 cases will be sealed-off or locked down under the new plan. The Covid-19 task force comprises Health Minister B Sriramulu, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar.  The plan, deemed “too radical for now”, should be revisited later. Hence, it was deferred, according to sources. “Why should neighbours or those in the locality suffer just because a house has Covid-19 cases? A house having cases may be made a strict containment zone,” one of the members reportedly suggested. The idea was suggested following the Centre allowing home isolation and treatment of ‘very mild and mild’ Covid-19 cases. The argument was that specific houses could be made in containment zones. It was needed to live with Covid-19 as people couldn’t live under lockdown. Another proposal floated was that international passengers scheduled to arrive in the state should be kept under home quarantine.  There was stiff opposition to both the ideas resulting in them being deferred “at least till the end of the month.”  “Even for mild cases of Covid-19, home isolation is not advisable unless, of course, the numbers go up astronomically high,” Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar told DH.  According to sources, the government is wary of the Covid-19 numbers going up. “The Centre’s permission to allow home isolation of mild Covid-19 cases is with reference to states that are struggling to deal with the numbers like Maharashtra,” a minister in the task force said.  Two opinions emerged at the meeting. Some favoured freeing up of economic activities, while others were against taking risks. The government is already pushing for Bengaluru to be divided into zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/task-force-defers-radical-new-containment-idea-835698.html
09-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||These hotels show service to poor is service to God, literally||These hotels show service to poor is service to God, literally A handful of rice saved every day to be donated at a later date to Annapoorneshwari Temple in Horanadu, near Kalasa, has inspired two hoteliers in Dakshina Kannada to offer lunch to the needy during the Covid-19 lockdown. The routine in Venu Tiffin Centre in Surathkal begins with keeping a bowl of rice aside for the goddess. “The raw rice saved in this manner is usually donated along with some money to the temple during our annual visit,” says proprietor Venugopal Pai. During the initial days of lockdown, Pai saw migrant labourers and destitutes struggling to get food. Moved by their plight, Pai decided to cook the rice he had stored in the name of the goddess and serve it to the homeless in his canteen. “Initially, we cooked food for about 200 people,” he recollected. “But soon it was extended to 660 people with the support of associations like Rotary Club,” Pai said. Another hotelier Hariprasad Shetty too utilised the rice kept aside for the temple to serve hot meals to the destitutes. Every day, rice and sambar are cooked for more than 500 people in the hotel kitchen, which is then packed and distributed to those who are hungry. His hotel, Shri Ganesh, is located in Pandeshwar, Mangaluru. Impressed by the efforts of the hotel located close by, Pandeshwar Chief Fire Officer Thippeswamy lent a vehicle to transport the food packets from the hotel to Town Hall. He motivated other officers to donate money to the hotelier. Other fire stations in Moodbidri, Bantwal, Beltangady, Sullia and Puttur too donated rice to help Shetty. This helped him reach thousands of people. People have come forward to volunteer in packing and distributing food.  Entrepreneur Sai Giridhar who owns the hotel building says feeding the poor is similar to the act of donating rice to the Goddess. Giridhar supported Shetty by waiving the rent for April and May. “Many homeless collect food packets from him regularly,” says Anand Naik, a donor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/these-hotels-show-service-to-poor-is-service-to-god-literally-835703.html
09-05-2020||West||Mumbai: 2 police officers, constable injured in chopper attack||Two police officers and a constable were injured after a 27-year-old man attacked them with a chopper in south Mumbai early today, police said. Karan Pradip Nayar, resident of Silver Oaks estate near Breach Candy, attacked the policemen who were on routine 'nakabandi' duty at 1.30 am, senior police inspector of Marine Drive police station Mrityunjay Hiremath told PTI. The policemen, all deployed at the Marine Drive police station, received injuries on their shoulders and hands and were taken to the state government-run JJ Hospital, he said. "When our policemen saw the man walking with a large chopper near the Pransukhlal Mafatlal Hindu Swimming Bath and Boat Club, they tried to stop him. He ran away and they chased him. When they tried to catch him, he attacked them with the chopper," Hiremath said. Nayar, an architecture graduate, has been arrested, the police officer said, adding a case has been filed against him under various sections of the IPC, including 307 (attempted murder) and also the Arms Act. DCP Zone 1 Sangramsinh Nishandar reached the spot immediately after the incident and made arrangements for the medical treatment and accommodation of the injured policemen, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-2-police-officers-constable-injured-in-chopper-attack-835391.html
09-05-2020||West||Maharashtra government must tackle coronavirus spread at Arthur Road Jail: HC||The Bombay High Court directed the Maharashtra government to take an appropriate policy decision to tackle the spread of COVID-19 at Arthur Road Jail in central Mumbai. At least 77 inmates and 26 personnel of Arthur Road Jail tested positive for coronavirus early this week. Justice Bharati Dangre on Friday was hearing a bail application filed by Ali Akbar Shroff, one of the inmates at the prison, seeking temporary bail on medical grounds. In his order, Justice Dangre noted that the situation was precarious and in such a contingency, the state government and the policy makers should take a decision. "If it is true that more than 100 patients have tested positive in Arthur Road Jail, then it is for the authorities to ensure that other inmates, who are presently lodged in the jail, are not infected by the virus on account of overcrowding," the court said. The authorities must remember that inmates had the right to a safe and healthy environment even when they were incarcerated, Justice Dangre said. The court directed the state government and prison department to take appropriate steps. "There is always a hope and expectation that the jail authorities are sensitive to the prevalent situation," the court said. The bench noted that there were several inmates above the age of 60 and others who suffered from ailments. "Under such circumstances, it is open for the state government and jail authorities to take appropriate policy decision to tackle the situation to keep all inmates safe and ensure that they contain the spread of virus in the jail," the court said. Shroff's counsel Aabad Ponda argued that the inmate suffered from diabetes, hypertension and high blood pressure, and hence, needed to be kept safe to ensure that he does not contract the infection. The court, however, rejected Shroff's plea after noting that no imminent health impediment was reflected in his case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-must-tackle-coronavirus-spread-at-arthur-road-jail-hc-835400.html
09-05-2020||West||States like Odisha, West Bengal unwilling to take back migrants, says Maharashtra Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat||Maharashtra Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat on Saturday expressed concern over the stand taken by several states to not take in migrant workers who were stranded in Maharashtra due to the COVID-19 lockdown. In a statement, Thorat, who is also the state Congress president, alleged that arbitrary decisions taken by many states regarding migrant workers had worsened the situation. The Maharashtra government was making every possible attempt to send stranded migrants back to their hometowns, but several states were not willing to take in their own citizens, the minister claimed. Thorat demanded that the Centre intervene in the matter and give clear guidelines to all states before the situation worsens. There were nearly 10 lakh migrants in Maharashtra who wished to return to their home states and so far, 32 trains had been operated from the state, he said. Thorat further claimed that there were several workers from West Bengal and Odisha who wanted to return to their hometowns, but these states were unwilling to take them back. The Odisha government had decided to accept only those who had tested negative for COVID-19, while the process laid out by the Tamil Nadu government to take back their workers was complicated and time consuming, he said. "Initially, Uttar Pradesh had also refused to take back its citizens, but now they have revised their decision and we have started sending them back," he said, claiming that the Gujarat and Karnataka governments had also refused to take in their workers. The Bihar government, who was cooperating until a few days ago, has now stopped entry to migrants, despite the fact that the Congress was willing to bear travel expenses of these workers, the minister alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/states-like-odisha-west-bengal-unwilling-to-take-back-migrants-says-maharashtra-revenue-minister-balasaheb-thorat-835407.html
09-05-2020||West||Man commits suicide after killing wife, minor son in Bikaner||A man committed suicide by hanging himself after allegedly killing his wife and a minor son in Bilniyasar village in the district, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred in the Jasrasar police station area, where the man, identified as Suresh, allegedly thrashed his wife Suman (35) and an 11-year-old son in a fit of rage over some issue on Friday night, they said. After killing them, he allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself, the police said. His wife was working as an auxiliary nurse midwife at a local sub-health centre. She was living in a government quarter, they said. The bodies were shifted to a hospital and the matter is being probed, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-commits-suicide-after-killing-wife-minor-son-in-bikaner-835409.html
09-05-2020||West||Unable to forget scene of accident, says survivor of Aurangabad train tragedy||One of the survivors of the tragedy in which 16 migrant workers were crushed to death by a goods train in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra on Friday, says he cannot come to terms with what happened after he saw his companions dying in front of him. Shivmaan Singh, who is now travelling back to his native place in Madhya Pradesh in a train along with the bodies of his 16 companions, said that he has not been to sleep after the accident as the disturbing images of the tragedy kept coming to his mind. "After the tragedy stuck on Friday morning, so many things happened. Although I was exhausted and tired, I could hardly sleep at night as the gory images of the accident kept coming to my mind. I am not able to forget the tragedy that unfolded before me," Singh told PTI. "After the news of the train accident broke, my family members tried calling me repeatedly. But my phone was off as its battery was discharged," he said. "After the accident, we were busy in helping the officials in identifying the victims and replying to their queries," Singh added. Singh and 19 others were working in a steel manufacturing in Jalna, a district adjoining Aurangabad, and were walking home in Madhya Pradesh amid the coronavirus- enforced lockdown. They decided to rest on the tracks near Karmad, around 30 km from Aurangabad, after walking for about 36 kms. However, they were run over by the goods train coming from Jalna at 5.15 am. While 16 of them died, four others survived. Recalling the incident, Singh said, "I was walking a little slower than others due to the pain in my legs. When we reached the place of incident, we slept as we were very tired. I was sleeping a little distance away. But when I heard a sound of a fast-approaching train, I woke up. I tried to raise an alarm. However, everything was over in a matter of seconds." Another survivor, Veerendra Singh, said, "We had applied for travel passes a week ago in our home state, but didn't get any response. My wife and children are at my native village. We had decided to set off on our journey till Bhusawal on foot."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/unable-to-forget-scene-of-accident-says-survivor-of-aurangabad-train-tragedy-835419.html
09-05-2020||West||Vizag gas leak: Tension at LG Polymers plant as villagers protest demanding its closure||Mild tension prevailed at the LG Polymers at RR Venkatapuram village near here as villagers staged a protest on Saturday demanding immediate closure of the plant. A styrene vapour leak from the plastics manufacturing plant caused the death of 12 people on Thursday. Many villagers, who were provided shelter in Visakhapatnam after the vapour leak, returned to the village on Saturday morning, raising slogans against the factory management and demanding its closure. A large police force was present near the factory as DGP DG Sawang was scheduled to visit it. The police tried to prevent the villagers from going near the plant but the latter ran past the former and staged a sit-in protest near the factory gate. Police immediately took the protesters into custody and whisked them away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vizag-gas-leak-tension-at-lg-polymers-plant-as-villagers-protest-demanding-its-closure-835421.html
09-05-2020||West||Migrant workers clash with police in Gujarat's Surat||Demanding a return passage to their home states, hundreds of agitated migrant workers clashed with the police at Mora village in Gujarat's Surat district on Saturday, an official said. Over 40 workers were detained, after hundreds of them clashed with the police and pelted stones at police vehicles in Mora village near the industrial town of Hazira, the official said. Protesting workers demanded that the district administration arrange for their travel back to their hometowns in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, among others, he said. Most of these labourers worked in industrial units at Hazira and lived in Mora village, the official said, adding that the police had cordoned off the area and tightened security there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/migrant-workers-clash-with-police-in-gujarats-surat-835428.html
09-05-2020||West||Not upset over not being nominated: Pankaja Munde on Council polls||BJP leader Pankaja Munde has said that she was not upset over not being nominated by the party for the upcoming Legislative Council election. In a tweet, Munde asked her supporters not to get demoralised. "We both are there for each other and have the blessings of saheb (father Gopinath Munde)," she said. The former BJP minister, who lost the Parli seat in last year's assembly polls to her cousin and NCP leader Dhananjay Munde, said she was not upset over not being given a ticket for the May 21 biennial elections. "You called up my mother and sister (Beed MP Pritam Munde) to express your dismay. I did not take calls because I had nothing to say. I am not upset. My best wishes to the four party candidates," she said. A party source said that senior BJP leader Eknath Khadse, who was keen on representing the party in the Council, is upset over not being considered. The BJP has fielded former NCP MP Ranjitsinh Mohite, lesser-known faces like Gopichand Padalkar, Praveen Datke and Ajit Gopchhade for Council polls. The four candidates filed their nominations on Friday. The Council election is being held for nine seats, for which the electoral college is the 288-member Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. The election assumes importance as Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will be among the candidates from the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/not-upset-over-not-being-nominated-pankaja-munde-on-council-polls-835439.html
09-05-2020||West||Drones disinfect Ahmedabad after clashes over coronavirus lockdown||Drones hovered over the pandemic-stricken city of Ahmedabad on Saturday spraying disinfectant on the streets, hours after security forces clashed with residents who flouted a toughened lockdown. The city of 5.5 million people has become a major concern for authorities as they battle a surge in coronavirus deaths and cases across India. Ahmedabad accounts for 343 of the almost 2,000 deaths reported nationwide and just under ten percent of cases registered. Other cities in Gujarat state have also been badly hit. Drones sprayed from the air while fire engines and other city vehicles toured the empty streets sending out clouds of cleaning agent onto roads and the outside of buildings. "We have started a massive exercise to spray disinfectant in all zones of the city," said the city's acting chief administrator Rajiv Gupta. India has been in the grip of the world's biggest lockdown since March 25, which was made stricter in Ahmedabad on Friday because of the accelerated spread of the virus. Hundreds of paramilitaries kept people off the streets and virtually all stores have been closed for at least a week. On Friday night, security forces fired tear gas at stone-throwing residents who ventured out. At least 15 people were arrested and the police presence was stepped up Saturday. Authorities have insisted the pandemic crisis is under control and have started to ease restrictions in many parts of India to let agriculture and some companies get back to work. Experts however have warned of an increasing toll despite the lockdown.  The virus is spreading particularly quickly in major cities such as Mumbai, New Delhi and Ahmedabad. And experts say the toll numbers are higher than reported because of the lack of testing and poor accounting for deaths. While the number of deaths is low compared to the United States and the worst-hit European nations, health specialists say India's pandemic curve may only peak in June and July. Shamika Ravi, an economic advisor to the government who has become a much-followed commentator on the pandemic's spread, said Saturday that the "infection is way ahead of our knowledge" in Gujarat and Maharashtra, which includes Mumbai, because there is not enough testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drones-disinfect-ahmedabad-after-clashes-over-coronavirus-lockdown-835442.html
09-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Sion Hospital dean transferred days after video of COVID-19 patients lying next to dead bodies surfaced||The shunting out of Dr Ingle comes a day after the Maharashtra government abruptly transferred BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation's Commissioner Praveen Pardeshi as Additional Chief Secretary of Urban Development Department.  Dr Ramesh Bharmal, former Dean of BYL Nair Hospital, is taking over as the chief of Sion Hospital, one of the biggest civic-run hospital. Following a massive furore over the macabre video expose carried out by BJP MLA Nitesh Rane, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar had visited the hospital and ordered a probe into the lapses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-sion-hospital-dean-transferred-days-after-video-of-covid-19-patients-lying-next-to-dead-bodies-surfaced-835458.html
09-05-2020||West||COVID-19: AIIMS experts guide doctors at Ahmedabad hospital||Experts from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences visited the civil hospital in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city on Saturday and interacted with frontline staff amid concerns over the rise in COVID-19 fatalities. The city's COVID-19 mortality rate stands at 6.5 per cent, which is almost double that of the country's death rate of 3.3 per cent. AIIMS director and pulmonologist Dr Randeep Guleria and Dr Manish Soneja of AIIMS' department of medicine, flew in on a special Indian Air Force plane on Friday, an official said. The duo visited the civil hospital and met doctors and staff, who were attending to COVID-19 patients and offered them guidance, the release stated. Principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi also interacted with frontline medical staff at the hospital, which has the highest number COVID-19 patients in the city. The AIIMS doctors were also scheduled to visit Sardar Vallabhai Patel Hospital in the city. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani had urged Union Home Minister Amit Shah to arrange for the visit from experts who could guide doctors involved in treating coronavirus patients. As of Friday, Gujarat's COVID-19 count stood at 7,403 cases, of which 5,260 were from Ahmedabad district alone, while of the 449 deaths in the state, 343 were from the city.  At least 204 patients have died in the city's civil hospital, while 92 succumbed to the infection at Sardar Vallabhbhai Hospital. The state government has also roped in private intensive care experts in the state to guide the civil hospital staff about ways to bring down the mortality rate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-aiims-experts-guide-doctors-at-ahmedabad-hospital-835470.html
09-05-2020||West||Goa govt may allow reopening of music classes, state libraries||The Goa government may allow holding of music classes and reopening of some state-run libraries in a phased manner on the condition of maintaining strict social distancing norms, Art and Culture Minister Govind Gawade said on Saturday. However, resumption of dramas and other entertainment events will be allowed only after monsoon gets over. The state-run Kala Academy will also reopen once the rainy season gets over, he told PTI. Goa is classified as a green zone with no coronavirus positive case as of now. Meanwhile, Gawade said the overall budget of the state Art and Culture department is likely to be slashed by almost 30 per cent as part of fiscal measures being adopted for kick-starting the economy, which is affected by the COVID situation. He also said that demand made by various artists seeking monthly remuneration cannot be approved. Some professional artists and theatre personalities had raised a demand for a package with chief minister Pramod Sawant and Gawade, saying they had left with no resources in view of cancellation of public programmes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-may-allow-reopening-of-music-classes-state-libraries-835505.html
09-05-2020||West||4 held in Gujarat for spreading rumour about Amit Shah's health||The Ahmedabad Detection of Crime Branch (DCB) on Saturday booked four persons for allegedly sharing a screenshot of a fake tweet in the name of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and spreading fake information about his health on social media platforms. Police said that all four have been detained and are being questioned. Special Police Commissioner, DCB, Ajay Tomar in a press conference said that four persons have been booked for spreading false information with regard to the health of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. He identified the suspects as Sarfaraz Memon, 40, and Firozkhan Pathan, 48, both residents of Ahmedabad, Sajjadali Nayani, 56, and Sirajhussain Virani who are from Bhavnagar. One of the suspects from Bhavnagar is said to be a freelance journalist.  Incidentally, barely half-an-hour after Tomar's news briefing in Ahmedabad on detention of suspects, central home minister Amit Shah tweeted a message from his Twitter handle, saying that "For the past many days some friends have spread misinformation about my health on social media. People have even tweeted wishing for my death." Shah's massage, also being spread by BJP workers in Gujarat, says, "being a home minister of the country, I was busy till late last night and couldn't look into it. When I finally saw it, I thought to let people enjoy the fictional thoughts and that’s why I didn’t clarify. However, lakhs of workers from my party and well-wishers have expressed their concerns, which I can’t overlook, that’s why I want to clarify that I am completely healthy and I do not suffer from any disease.” Meanwhile, during the press conference, Tomar told reporters that "We are trying to ascertain who influenced these accused to spread such fake message and how did they create it." In a press release, the DCB has stated, “In the name of home minister Amit Shah fake message was created at a time of the pandemic when home ministry has undertaken the leadership and working in the country, spreading fake message in the name of home ministry is an attempt to create an atmosphere of fear in the public."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4-held-in-gujarat-for-spreading-rumour-about-amit-shahs-health-835523.html
09-05-2020||West||Coronavirus patient kills self at Mumbai hospital||A 60-year-old man who had tested positive for coronavirus committed suicide at a hospital in suburban Andheri on Saturday, police said. The patient was found to have hanged himself with his pajamas from a steel rod on the ninth-floor terrace of the hospital on Saturday afternoon, a police official said. He might have been suffering from anxiety or depression after being diagnosed with coronavirus, leading to the suicide, the official said. A case of accidental death was registered at MIDC police station and further probe was on, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-patient-kills-self-at-mumbai-hospital-835604.html
09-05-2020||West||Maharashtra reports highest single-day coronavirus deaths, cases surpass 20,000||On a day when Maharashtra marked the two months of COVID-19 pandemic outbreak, the western Indian state's tally surpassed 20,000 and reported a death toll of 48 on Saturday.  This sounded alarm bells as two persons have died in Maharashtra every hour and one in the financial capital of Mumbai - in the last 24 hours. The state's tally of positive cases now stands at 20,228 and 779 deaths.  As far as Mumbai is concerned, the progressive total is 12,864 while with addition of 27 deaths, the toll has shot up to 489. The silver lining is that 330 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the figure to 3,800 of those who have been recovered and sent back home. The first COVID-19 case was detected on March 9 when a Pune-based couple, who during the last week of February visited Dubai,  tested positive.   The first death was reported in Mumbai, on May 17,  when a 64-year-old person,  with a travel history to Dubai,  passed away. The Mumbai-Pune belt comprising two huge metropolitan areas has over 18,000 cases and 650 plus deaths.    The financial capital of Mumbai has emerged as the epicentre of Covid-pandemic in India. India's first case in Kerala was reported in Kerala on January 30 - but the first case in Maharashtra was reported only 38 days later  - and since then the cases have jumped in this western Indian state - reaching to rather alarming levels. The Maharashtra government is preparing for the worst and this is indicative of the fact that several makeshift hospitals,  isolation and quarantine facilities are coming up. Two Wuhan-type hospitals are coming up,  one at the Bandra-Kurla Complex in Mumbai and another in Thane.  "We have to change our lifestyles and the way we work and entertain. Physical distancing has become the order of the day," Maharashtra chief minister  Uddhav Thackeray has been repeatedly saying in his webcast messages. Change in outlook and perception would be the order of the day now.  "People will have to follow physical distancing, use masks, carry water, sanitisers and soap with them," said Dr Suhas Pingle, chairman,  action committee,  Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra State.  Maharashtra's health minister Rajesh Tope says that in a fortnight's time, the cases would decline. "In 15 to 20 days,  we expect the cases to go down.  We have increased surveillance in congested areas," he said,  adding that the spread in places like Dharavi and Worli is a concern and being tackled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-highest-single-day-coronavirus-deaths-cases-surpass-20000-835634.html
09-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra allows free intra-state bus travel from May 11||The Maharashtra government has decided to make available its bus services free of cost from Monday to facilitate travelling of people stranded in various parts of the state to their homes during the lockdown period, Transport Minister Anil Parab said on Saturday. The State Transport (ST) bus service will be made available on the condition of fulfilling certain conditions to ensure that coronavirus does not spread to other parts of the state, a statement said, adding that people include labourers, students and pilgrims. People living in containment zones, however, will not be eligible to avail the service, the minister said. In case of the people, stuck in cities having police commissionerates, and desirous to return to their home districts/talukas by ST buses, they will have to get the permission of the nodal officer concerned (deputy commissioner of police) for undertaking the journey, it said. At other places, the people willing to travel to their homes will need to secure permission from district collectors/tehsildars, the statement said. A list of 22 such people will be submitted to the ST by the nodal officer concerned and a bus will be made available accordingly.  Those wishing to travel at personal-level can avail a permission through a portal that will be activated on Monday onwards, it said. On receiving the permission, such individuals can apply for travelling online with details (and also upload the permission received). A bus will be arranged for 22 such individuals accordingly. Parab also said that there will be only one person allowed to sit on a seat, and that each commuter will have to wear a mask and clean his/her hand while getting into the bus. The buses will be disinfected using sanitisers and all the rules relating to social distancing will be observed during the journey. The buses will not halt at any eatery or food joint during its run given the lockdown and hence, the passengers should arrange for their food accordingly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-allows-free-intra-state-bus-travel-from-may-11-835647.html
09-05-2020||West||Mumbai airport all set to welcome Indians back home||Following the initiative taken by the Government of India for facilitating the return of 14,800 Indian nationals stranded abroad, GVK-MIAL, that manages the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will cater to around 2,350 Indians in the span of seven days, starting Sunday.  The airport is all set to support the initiative and has put together a Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs) to ensure the safety of the passengers.  The repatriation operations will see CSMIA catering to 10 flights and 6 transit flights in the course of 7 days, welcoming stranded Indian nationals from countries such as U.K., U.S.A., Singapore, Malaysia, Bangladesh, and Philippines commencing with 4 flights on Sunday. The CSMIA will be complying with the government guidelines during the repatriation where the airport will ensure the safety and wellbeing of the passengers, right from the time the flight lands at CSMIA and passengers disembark the aircraft till they leave the terminal building.  Two dedicated aerobridges have been identified for repatriation flights, along with provision of proper infrastructure to the APHO for the screening of passengers before entering the Immigration area. Furthermore, passengers will need to maintain a physical distance of a minimum of 2 meters through distinctive markings laid out at the airport and are required to wear face mask and hand gloves during the entire course of their journey. In addition, the airport has set-up 30 immigration counters for undertaking the necessary procedures and ensuring quickest clearance of the arriving passengers.  Besides, CSMIA is making special arrangements for the stranded Indian nationals arriving at the airport by arranging F&B facilities for the passengers in the arriving hall. The airport will be undertaking preventive measures by disinfecting the baggage before loading on the conveyor belt and providing sanitized baggage trolleys to the passengers along with hand sanitizers being stationed across various touchpoints at the airport.  Arriving passengers will also be escorted by CISF personnel until they are handed over to the state authorities. CSMIA will be operating with 1/3rd of its staff who will be provided with all essential PPEs such as face mask, hand gloves, sanitizers, as per the directive by the MOHFW. The airport maintenance staff will continue to follow the comprehensive cleaning procedures to efficiently sanitize and disinfect the terminal building including the vital areas where human hands come to play such as elevator buttons, escalators, railings, amongst others. Furthermore, the APHO, Immigration, Custom, and CISF personnel who would be coming in direct contact with the arriving passengers, will be provided with face shield and all appropriate PPEs for the protection and safety of the individuals. The arriving passengers need to strictly follow the protocols issued by the Government at all times, which include wearing of masks, environmental hygiene, respiratory hygiene, hand hygiene, amongst others. For the benefit of the passengers, limited number of Forex and Sim card outlets will be made operational at the airport so that passengers can download and install “Aarogya Setu” app on their mobile phones prior to proceeding on quarantine. Provisions have been made in the eventuality that any symptomatic passenger is identified at the airport; the passenger would be immediately isolated and moved to the separate area earmarked for the purpose. Additionally, designated airport ambulances have been kept on standby to shift the symptomatic passengers to designated isolation centres. The Maharashtra Government has made arrangements for asymptomatic passengers from Mumbai to be moved to identified quarantine facilities like hotels depending on their preference while those from outside Mumbai will be transported by the state to their respective district headquarters for institutional quarantine. For this purpose, Government of Maharashtra has also established a Help Desk at the airport to guide the arriving passengers.  CSMIA has facilitated total repatriation of over 8500 passengers with 51 evacuation flights since March 25th to May 09th. CSMIA facilitated evacuation flights to destinations such as Tehran, Zurich, Bali, Addis Ababa, Paro, London, Atlanta, Singapore, Paris, Frankfurt, Kenya, Muscat and Tokyo by working closely with the aviation community as well as the respective embassies. The airport also witnessed the arrival of Air New Zealand for the first time in Mumbai. Of the total repatriation flights facilitated by CSMIA, Atlanta saw over 2000 passengers evacuated with a total of 08 flights operated by Delta Air Lines, highest to any destination from Mumbai during this lockdown period. London was the other destination with 6 flights operated by Air India and 2 flights each by Virgin Atlantic and British Airways. Furthermore, the national carrier Air India operated 6 flights from CSMIA to destinations like Frankfurt, Paris and London, amongst others. CSMIA is working relentlessly to help stranded passengers return to their home countries and is taking adequate measures for their safety and wellbeing. The airport has put up a stringent screening process right from the time passengers arrive at the airport to the time they leave the terminal building. Post the Government announcing the extension of the lockdown in India following the outbreak of coronavirus and suspension of commercial passenger flight, the airport has been operating with a curtailed staff and working endlessly to handle cargo, charter, medical evacuation, military flights and freighter services. CSMIA continues to take all the necessary steps to provide top-notch security, gold class services and numerous facilities, making it one of the frontrunners in the Indian Aviation Industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-airport-all-set-to-welcome-indians-back-home-835663.html
