10-05-2020||Comment||Experiences of Mysore state ||"The strong hand of government must always be in evidence and continue to interfere whenever any section of the community tries to take advantage of the difficulties of the public". This was the stern warning issued to traders and businessmen by Diwan M Visvesvaraya while addressing the Dasara session of the Representative Assembly on October 17, 1918, during the early days of the Influenza pandemic (also known as "Spanish flu") in the princely state of Mysore.  The influenza pandemic of 1918 claimed up to 70 million lives around the world until it unexpectedly disappeared in 1919.  In India, it cost at least 12 million lives though some estimates by scholars put the death toll around 20 million. A few months of influenza resulted in more deaths than nearly 20 years of plague in many Indian provinces.  The epidemic struck the country at a time when it was least prepared to cope with the calamity. The total failure of the monsoon, scarcity of food supply, inadequate medical facilities and shortages of health personnel, together created a miserable situation in many parts of India.   It is important to look back and see the challenges encountered by the administration in colonial India, drawing specifically from the experiences of the state of Mysore, considered as one of the better administered 'progressive' princely states in British India. The research on archival records available both in India and England and Census data provides us with interesting historical perspectives on the administrative challenges of tackling the pandemic a century ago in an Indian state.  Influenza made its first appearance in a mild form in Bangalore city in July 1918 but disappeared soon without causing any significant loss of life. It reappeared in the middle of September and spread with lightning speed throughout the state. According to government records, the total number of incidents was 8,83,491 and the death toll amounted to 1,66,391. The 1921 census for Mysore revealed that the number of deaths per 1,000 in 1918 was about 30 whereas in the previous year it had been 10 and for 1919 it was only eight— a good indication of the severity of the pandemic in this part of south India. Apart from increased mortality, influenza also affected the spirit of celebrations at the most important annual events of Mysore—the Dasara festival celebrations and exhibition. In fact, chief secretary to government C S Balasundaram Iyer issued an order directing the temporary structure for the exhibition to be placed at the disposal of the president of the Mysore city municipal council, for opening a provisional dispensary for the treatment of influenza patients.    In many places, entire families were affected and there was no one to attend to the wants of the patients, prepare food or collect medicines. Many officials fell sick and died. At one point, even the chief secretary himself and most of his office staff were suffering from influenza. In most areas, people accepted western medicines readily. However, in some places, they were most unwilling to take the medicines prescribed by the government.   At the meeting of the Bangalore city municipal council on October 5, 1918, it was observed that the so-called ‘mysterious fever’ of Bombay had been imported into Bangalore and had widely spread in the city. It was reported that the attendance of the patients at the municipal dispensaries had doubled and that there were long lines of waiting for patients at private dispensaries and chemist shops.   The government Anna Chathra was fixed as the central issuing station for the relief parties to obtain their supplies and to proceed to their divisions. The internal administration of the drug Thymol was undertaken both as a routine treatment and as a prophylactic.  The Public Health Institute in Bangalore provided the necessary medical advice on the types of treatment.  Special ward A special ward was opened in the Epidemic Disease Hospital in Bangalore to prevent overcrowding. As the disease spread, accommodation was found to be insufficient. Considering the magnitude of the problem, the government decided to open a new temporary influenza hospital.  The hospital under canvas came into instant existence on October 30 at the municipal garden.  The 1918 Influenza pandemic in India accounted around a fifth of total deaths in the world,  causing widespread havoc disrupting the lives and the economy.  However, the impact of this pandemic, including mortality,  varied considerably across the provinces.  In Mysore state, the well-organised administrative machinery and the existing health and sanitation infrastructure made it possible to minimise the calamity.  Instructions from the chief secretary and the guidelines from the senior surgeon and sanitary commissioner provided the general framework for the relief measures. Required financial support was granted by the princely government to the two municipalities and the districts. The entire administrative machinery was geared through coordinated efforts to face this public health challenge, which was remarkable.  Daily messages and weekly reports were sought from the lower rungs of the administration to monitor the ground situation. Many officers were able to evoke trust and civic responsiveness from the public while keeping in view the cultural sensibilities and beliefs of the masses. The stern measures enforced by the Mysore administration to regulate the price of essential food grains and the free supply of essential goods and medicines helped to overcome a famine-like situation.   However, in many rural areas, relief measures were not successful. Nevertheless, these concerns were freely expressed in Assembly discussions and newspaper reports, and the princely government was receptive to these complaints.   The century-old experience of princely Mysore in combating the influenza pandemic provides very useful lessons - a combination of strong administrative measures, strict monitoring of public health and sanitation services, well-organised relief operations, and the involvement of civilians and community organisations. (The writer is Professor at International Institute for Population Sciences, Mumbai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/experiences-of-mysore-state-836030.html
10-05-2020||First Edit||Fuel prices: One-sided affair||India is witnessing the strange situation of auto fuel prices ruling at the highest levels when international crude prices are at their record lows. Last week, the government hiked excise duty on petrol by Rs 10 a litre and on diesel by Rs 13 a litre at one go. The effective excise duty on petrol has gone up to about Rs 33 per litre and on diesel to about Rs 32, and this takes the total incidence of taxation on fuel to 70% of the retail price. No other essential commodity is taxed so heavily. The hike has not had an impact on retail prices but it has completely neutralised the fall in crude prices. This means that the fall in prices has not benefitted the consumer, and the government has kept all the gains to itself. This has been pointed out a number of times but the government’s policy has not changed.   The hike in duties is expected to mop up nearly Rs 1.6 lakh crore in additional revenue this fiscal. The government hopes that this will help it cushion the fiscal problems arising from the additional expenditure to be incurred as part of the fight against Covid-19. All economic activities, including industry, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and others like banking will need a stimulus from the government. This is expected to take the fiscal deficit above 4.8% of the GDP, about 35% about the budgetary target. This may change if the lockdown is extended further. But the government has put its own financial needs and imperatives above those of the people, without considering that there is a fair need to share the oil bonanza with the people. Such sharing might actually help the economy.    Cheaper fuel would put more disposable money into the hands of people. It will also reduce the prices of goods and services as oil is a price influencing input. Those who produce goods and services will benefit because of greater demand, and this will act as a natural stimulus to the economy. Lower fuel prices meanlower cost of production, which makes the economy more competitive and more attractive for investment. In any case, the principle behind the deregulation of petroleum prices was to link them to the market and benefit the consumers when the international prices are down. Now, it has become a one-sided affair with the consumer being made to bear the burden of higher prices without a chance to benefit from lower prices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/fuel-prices-one-sided-affair-836028.html
10-05-2020||In Perspective||Development process sans catalyst||It is indeed heart-warming to observe the collaborative efforts of the government, civil society organisations (CSO) and citizens in attempting to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Chanting the mantra of togetherness, CSOs plunged into action on the ground and expanded the reach of humanity.  The government initiated an exclusive website to onboard CSOs officially. Our political leaders also called for solidarity, and participation of CSOs for aiding relief to the needy.  While this being the story on one part, another arm of Union government had released the draft Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Amendment Rules, 2020 for people’s comments. In consideration with the proposed amendments, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) doesn’t seem convinced on the importance of CSOs in the development of the nation, neither in the history, nor with the contemporary evidences. But for long, CSOs have strived as a catalyst in expediting the development process, be it for eradicating polio from India, reducing the prevalence of HIV, pioneering the concept of women self-help group for poverty alleviation at the micro level or plating a pivotal role for bringing progressive public policies at the macro level.  Omission of Trusts and Societies: The CSR ecosystem is proposed to take a substantial shift as the amendments prescribe a change in the eligibility of entities who undertake CSR activities. The proposed draft rule 4(1) clarifies that the CSR implementation can be undertaken either by Section 8 companies or any entity that is established under the Act of Parliament or State Legislature, thereby omitting the role for civil society organisations registered as Trusts, Societies and under other legal provision. Entities such as Trusts, Society or Section 8 Companies are eligible for tax exemption u/s 12AA of Income tax, donations to all three entities are eligible for tax deduction u/s 80G and all three are eligible to register under FCRA 2010. Neither income tax nor the MHA (under FCRA) offers preferential treatment towards Section 8 – for company over other organisations.   The sole mention of Section 8 companies or entities would result in the mushrooming of new Section 8 companies to become eligible to avail CSR activities. Also, most Section 8 companies seldom have community experience of the grassroots functioning. The omission of organisations registered under trusts and societies is certainly a discriminatory move. If there is any genuine reason, the sector deserves an explanation at least.   The draft amendment proposes through Rule 4(3) that a company can engage international organisations for designing, monitoring, evaluation, and even for implementation of the CSR projects, following prior approval of the government. It is a known fact that international organisations would not have the geographical reach.  Therefore, their focus of work might get limited around the companies’ establishment and urban areas to their convenience.  Prior approval To manage their absence at the grassroots, international agencies would have to depend on local organisations for programme implementation. This might only add another layer leading to an unnecessary increase in operational expenditures, reducing investments that benefit the primary stakeholders.  Furthermore, the method of seeking the mentioned prior approval is not laid down in the draft.  The thematic or technical know-how is not just enough to take up developmental activities. It mainly requires the competence of working with community and understanding its dynamics. Knowledge and respect towards culture, practices and rights of the community should be at the core while serving the community.  The total amount spent by India Inc through its CSR in the recent fiscal report was Rs 8,691 crore. The CSR money spent across the four financial fiscals (up to 2018) was around Rs 50,000 crore and the unspent amount is higher at Rs 60,000 crore during the same period. This shows that CSR investment towards development projects needs a serious improvement. The contribution of CSR funds towards CSOs is significant amidst the declining foreign funding of recent times.  While CSR investments may seem insignificant in front of philanthropic and government contributions to the development sector, it has inspired to innovate, and leveraged the use of information technology to respond to developmental challenges effectively. Importantly, the CSO’s overhead expenditure, which is crucial for sustenance are complimented by CSR grants which has been curtailed by other donor agencies.  India’s committed CSOs have been working with limited or no resources. Responsible corporate houses have been supporting these CSOs despite any statutory mandate due to their understanding of the importance and ethos of CSOs. Development practitioners appreciate the move of government to regulate CSR investments. The regulation has certainly made corporates to consider the CSR expenditures as a development investment as it is considerate sum now. This is good as it makes every stakeholder accountable.  The new era of CSR has contributed many new solutions for age old problems with the changing causality. The CSOs have been the forerunners of bringing about progressive changes in the society. This should only be further harnessed and not jeopardised.  (The writer is Executive Director, Grassroots Research and Advocacy Movement (GRAAM), a public policy think-tank and CSR consulting organisation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/development-process-sans-catalyst-836029.html
10-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Three fresh case coronavirus cases in Karnataka's Kalaburagi||Three fresh COVID-19 positive cases were reported in the Kalaburagi district on Sunday, taking the total tally to 70, which includes six deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/three-fresh-case-coronavirus-cases-in-karnatakas-kalaburagi-835769.html
10-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Brothers beheaded over sand extraction rivalry||Due to rivalry over illegal sand extraction, miscreants beheaded two brothers near Monatagi cross near Ankalagi village of Jewargi taluk on Saturday night. According to police sources, the deceased have been identified as Yallalinga Taragonda (41) and Gangappa Taragonda (35), residents of Ankalagi village. Bhutale, their relative, is said to be behind the murder. River Bhima flows near Ankalagi village. Bhutale and Yallalinga used to have frequent quarrels over extraction of sand from the river. Elders of the village had pacified them several times. On Saturday night, they picked up a quarrel again over the same issue. Bhutale beheaded Yallalinga with sickle and an axe. Gangappa, who tried to come to the rescue of his brother, was also chased and beheaded, police said. “Bhutale, armed with the blood-stained axe, came to the village and was shouting on the roadside that he beheaded two people. Be careful,” the villagers said. The police suspected the involvement of seven to eight people in the double murder as the accused alone cannot commit the crime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/brothers-beheaded-over-sand-extraction-rivalry-835772.html
10-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Yenepoya hospital first in Dakshina Kannada district to get nod for COVID-19 tests||The Yenepoya Medical College Hospital at Deralakatte here has become the first private hospital in Dakshina Kannada district to get coronavirus (COVID-19) testing approval. The laboratory at the hospital has received the nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct tests for COVID-19, a release here said. Dakshina Kannada will now have two centres for coronavirus tests, the first one being the district Wenlock hospital, the designated hospital for Covid-19. ICMR has approved 33 testing centres in the state of which 21 are government hospitals and 12 are private hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yenepoya-hospital-first-in-dakshina-kannada-district-to-get-nod-for-covid-19-tests-835753.html
10-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Boy killed in lightning strike in Bidar district||An 11-year- old boy was struck dead by lightning at Byalahalli (K) village in Bhalki tauk in Bidar district on Sunday morning. The deceased has been identified as Ahamed Ismail. The incident occurred when he went to the field along with his grandfather. A complaint has been registered in the Dhannur police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/boy-killed-in-lightning-strike-in-bidar-district-835764.html
10-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga records 8 COVID-19 cases||Shivamogga, which has been a green zone since the lockdown was enforced, recorded eight COVID-19 cases on Sunday. He also made it clear that these were linked with the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi. Of the nine, eight are from Shikaripur and one from Thirthahalli. People need not panic as they had been quarantined and they are under treatment, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-records-8-covid-19-cases-835766.html
10-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Yenepoya Hospital gets ICMR nod for coronavirus testing||Yenepoya Medical College Hospital in Deralakatte has received a nod from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct tests of the samples of COVID-19. As many as 82 samples were taken up for tests in the laboratory on the first day. Yenepoya Hospital is the first private hospital in Dakshina Kannada district to get ICMR approval for COVID-19 RT-PCR. With this, the district will now have two centres for COVID-19 testing - Wenlock hospital and now Yenepoya Medical College Hospital. Approval of a new testing facility will help in getting quick reports of COVID-19 tests, as it will cater to samples collected from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts. This will also ease the pressure on government testing centre at Wenlock hospital. After a detailed assessment by a team from NABL,  the ICMR gave its approval to start the testing. The Yenepoya COVID-19 RT-PCR laboratory is well equipped with state-of-the-art real-time PCR machine, bio-safety cabinets, a cold centrifuge etc. It has 12 medical microbiologists and technicians who are trained in molecular diagnostics. The laboratory is currently running the tests in two shifts and plans to make it functional round the clock if the sample loads increase further. About 240 samples can be tested at the new facility per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yenepoya-hospital-gets-icmr-nod-for-coronavirus-testing-835852.html
10-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Lockdown violations: police book 135 cases||City traffic police are acting tough against the violators of lockdown guidelines and booking cases against them. Despite warnings, many are reluctant to follow the guidelines and flouting norms.  The police registered a total of 135 cases in three days and collected Rs 1.66 lakh fine from the vehicle riders for violating the norms. The police registered a total of 43 cases and collected a fine of Rs 78,000 in a single day on May 6. Similarly, on May 8, 48 cases were booked and  Rs 48,000 fine collected from the vehicle users for flouting the norms. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) S N Sandesh Kumar told that the police have intensified the drive against the violators from Wednesday. “We are imposing fine against the people using vehicles after 12 noon. The people must follow the norms without fail,” he said. The ACP said the people are allowed to use vehicles till 12 noon. The people must not use vehicles after 12 noon unless emergency. However, the people can walk to purchase groceries and other items. The ACP urged the people not to come out of the houses unless it is necessary. The police have issued passes to the essential services vehicles and strict action will be taken against the people violating the norms, he warned. It has to be recalled that city police commissioner had urged the citizens to abide by the lockdown rules and warned of seizing the vehicles, if they are brought out after 12 pm. The commissioner asked the people not to travel for more than two km from their respective house. The commissioner had ordered closure of grocery shops after 6 pm and only emergency services are allowed after 6 pm. However, goods carrier, vehicles supplying essentials, medical emergency vehicles were allowed to move with passes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lockdown-violations-police-book-135-cases-836020.html
10-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Elected representatives should not mislead people'||MP A Sumalatha, along with a team of officials, visited Jaginakere village in Santhebachahalli hobli in K R Pet taluk, where two Covid-19 positive cases has been reported, and instilled confidence among the villagers, on Sunday. She stressed on maintaining cleanliness and hygiene, and the importance of using masks, sanitisers and hand wash. The villagers complained that they were not being distributed any food kits, and how the people of other villages suspect them while accompanying the cattle to the veterinary hospital, because of two positive cases in the village. Sumalatha assured supply of food kits and directed the tahsildar to deploy a veterinarian to visit the village. She explained that they need not fear as the samples of those in contact with the positive patients have turned negative. Sumalatha offered special pujas to the Kalabhyraveshwara swami temple in Nagamangala taluk and also paid a visit to Adichunchanagiri seer Nirmalanandanatha Swami and sought his blessings. Speaking to reporters later, Sumalatha said, it is not right for the elected representatives to send wrong messages to the people about quarantine. The doctors, police personnel and the officials have been working hard to combat the virus. We should not overburden them, she opined. Moreover, this is not the time to politicise the issue. It is wrong to say that Covid-19 spreads through quarantine centres. The people should be careful till a vaccination is discovered for the virus, she said. Commenting on MySugar factory Sumalatha said, "In my opinion the factory should be resumed. It is not important whether it is run by the government or a private organisation. It should benefit the farmers. Only that is important. The farmers should be paid on time." Sumalatha distributed food kits sponsored by Manmul at Thattahalli in the taluk. Later, she visited Sathenahalli, which is under seal down. The MP explained about the importance of maintaining social distance, when there was rush to receive kits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elected-representatives-should-not-mislead-people-836023.html
10-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Finally, street lights on ORR functional||Finally, the street lights on the Outer Ring Road (ORR) are glowing, following the intervention of District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar and Urban Development Minister B A Basavaraj. The lights were defunct due to an issue between Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) in connection with taking up maintenance and paying electricity bill. Following the non-payment of electricity bill, Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation was not supplying power. In a meeting, the minister assured of paying the electricity bill of Rs 1.15 crore and also directed Cesc to supply power with immediate effect. The six-lane ORR, measuring 44 km, has a total of 2,168 electricity poles and 1,268 lights, under MCC. The remaining are under the limits of various gram panchayats and MUDA. It has to be recalled that it was a long-pending issue. When G T Devegowda was district in-charge minister in JD(S)-Congress coalition government, he had made several attempts to resolve the issue. But, it remained unsolved. Later, previous district in-charge minister V Somanna also tried to solve it. Somanna had advised the MCC and MUDA to share the bill. But, it was not implemented. Due to lack of lighting, crime rate was a little high on the stretch. Even the rate of accidents were high due to lack of lighting. The lights were glowing only during Dasara. MUDA developed the ORR and handed it over to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). But, ORR lacks maintenance of lights as neither MCC nor MUDA were ready to take up the responsibility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/finally-street-lights-on-orr-functional-836025.html
10-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Women need political representation||Atrocities on women would end only if 33% reservation was granted to women in the Assemblies and the Parliament became a reality, said K C Reddy Sarojamma Welfare Foundation secretary Vasant Kavitha Reddy. She was speaking there on Sunday at International Mother’s Day. “Atrocities against the women will end if women get power to frame laws. The governments should be committed to prevent the atrocities against women,” she said. Women should be economically independent. Men should put pressure on ensuring representation to women in politics, she sad. District Congress president Chandra Reddy recalled contributions of K C Reddy, the first chief minister of the State. Local leaders K Jayadev, Satish Reddy, Murali and Prasad Babu were present||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/women-need-political-representation-835957.html
10-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Mumbai police ASI who died on Friday tests positive||The samples of an assistant sub inspector attached to Vinoba Bhave Nagar police station in Mumbai who died on Friday have tested positive for novel coronavirus, officials said on Saturday. He died in the early hours of Friday after being admitted in a civic hospital on Wednesday with COVID-19-like symptoms, an official said. "He was also a diabetic. His samples returned positive on Friday evening. This is the fourth COVID-19 death in Mumbai police. Some 350 personnel in the metropolis' force have tested positive for the virus so far," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-mumbai-police-asi-who-died-on-friday-tests-positive-835717.html
10-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 10, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-10-2020-edition-835722.html
10-05-2020||National||DH Toon: Is Aarogya Setu a bridge too far?||Amid concerns over privacy and surveillance, citizens are demanding that the source code of the Aarogya Setu app be made public. The #OpenSourceAarogyaSetu chorus is growing. Important as they are, privacy and transparency are not the only concerns about the government’s latest technological fix for a problem – in this case, the problem of tracing who has the coronavirus and who they have been in contact with.  These apps have been watched warily by academics, researchers and advocates who work on healthcare, technology and privacy. However, as the only democratic country to make the contact tracing app mandatory for a large section of its population, it is more important than ever to look at whether the use of this app is actually in India’s interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-is-aarogya-setu-a-bridge-too-far-835723.html
10-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 10||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 67,113 as of May 10.  States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 2,197  Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 19,357 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-10-835724.html
10-05-2020||National||DH toon: In coronavirus fog, government's exit strategy from lockdown unclear||Holding that the fight against COVID-19 cannot be just from the PMO, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday asked the prime minister to devolve power and make the states partner in decision-making. Gandhi also asked the government to tell the people what criteria it would use to open the lockdown or continue it post May 17, as the transition out of it is a serious challenge before the country. “After May 17th, what? and after May 17th, how? What criteria is the government using to judge how long the lockdown is to continue?,” Congress President Sonia Gandhi asked addressing a meeting of chief ministers of party-ruled states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-in-coronavirus-fog-governments-exit-strategy-from-lockdown-unclear-835726.html
10-05-2020||National||Chawl caves in at Mumbai suburbs||A three-storied chawl structure at Kandivli, in the western suburbs of Mumbai, caved in on Sunday. While six persons have been rescued so far, five to six are still feared trapped under the debris. The part of the Deepjyot Chawl at Laljipada in Kandivli West caved in around 5 am.Teams of Mumbai fire brigade and NDRF have rushed to the spot. Massive rescue and relief operations are underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chawl-caves-in-at-mumbai-suburbs-835733.html
10-05-2020||National||Forts conservation is a big challenge in Maharashtra ||Maharashtra has 400-odd forts - the highest in India. Of these, 49 are protected by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and 51 by the Maharashtra government's Directorate of Archaeology and Museums.In the post-COVID-19 scenario, the conservation of forts is going to be a major challenge, says Dr Tejas Garge, Director, Directorate of Archaeology and Museums."In the pandemic situation and thereafter, the priorities of the government would be different. We have to look at community involvement in conservation of forts," Dr Garge said on Saturday during an online lecture on 'Conservation of Forts', hosted by the India Study Centre Trust (INSTUCEN).According to Dr Garge, some of those solutions can be worked out at the government level. "Like joint forest management committees, we can have similar set-ups at the village level to conserve and protect forts...a small fee can be charged from visitors," he said.As part of the diamond jubilee celebrations of Maharashtra, the INSTUCEN Trust completed a week-long e-certificate course on 'Forts & Fortifications' that was addressed by eminent expert on forts Dr Sachin Joshi."The course took people close to the forts during lockdown and once it is over, I am sure more and more people would like to take a closer look at this heritage," said Dr Mugdha Karnik,  managing trustee of INSTUCEN Trust.Dr Garge pointed out that he has 51 forts under him.  "Some forts are big, some are small...they are in hills,  plain land,  jungles,  coasts and islands.... one one has to add up the length of fortification, it is in several kilometers.... its huge," he said. "There are constraints like budget and manpower... conservation is everyone's responsibility," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/forts-conservation-is-a-big-challenge-in-maharashtra-835735.html
10-05-2020||National||NDMA issues guidelines for restarting industrial activities to avoid Vizag-like tragedy||Days after 11 lives were lost to a gas leak in a factory in Visakhapatnam, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has issued fresh guidelines for factories reopening during and after COVID-19 lockdown, advising them not to scale up production in the first week itself and instead run on trial basis. NDMA Member Secretary J V V Sarma shared the guidelines with states on Saturday, which also stipulates 24-hour sanitisation of factory premises, temperature checks of all employees twice a day, providing face protection shields along with masks and Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), creating physical barriers to ensure physical distancing within the work floor and dining facilities. "Due to several weeks of lockdown and the closure of industrial units during the lockdown period, it is possible that some of the operators might not have followed the established SOP. As a result, some of the manufacturing facilities, pipelines, valves, etc. may have residual chemicals, which may pose risk. The same is true for the storage facilities with hazardous chemicals and flammable materials," the guidelines said. When an unexpected event occurs, managing rapid response becomes challenging, it said adding that the district administration should ensure that Industrial On-Site Disaster Management Plans are  in place and compliance of Standard Operating Procedures for safe re-starting of the industries during and after the lockdown. The industrial units should consider the first week as the trial or test run period; ensure all safety protocols and should "not try to achieve high production targets" while restarting the unit, the NDMA said. Employees should be made aware of the need to to identify "abnormalities like strange sounds or smell, exposed wires, vibrations, leaks, smoke, abnormal wobbling, irregular grinding or other potentially hazardous signs" which indicate the need for an immediate maintenance or if required shutdown. The guidelines specify that 24 -hour sanitisation of factory premises should be ensured. Factories need to maintain a sanitisation routine every two-three hours, especially, the common areas that include lunch rooms and common tables which will have to be wiped clean with disinfectants after every single use. Factories that work 24 hours at full production capacity should consider one hour gap between shifts, except plants requiring continuous operations. Managerial and administrative staff should work one shift at 33 per cent man power as per the guidelines already issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. "While deciding which particular people to be included in 33 per cent at any given point of time, overriding priority should be given to personnel dealing with safety," it said.    Employers should also ensure that there is no sharing of tools or workstations "to the extent possible" and they should provide additional sets of tools, if needed. "Workers involved in dealing with hazardous material must be skilled and experienced in the field. No compromise on deployment of such workers should be permitted when an industrial unit is opened up," it said. Providing a "scenario plan" on discovering a positive case, the guidelines said that factories should arrange accommodation to isolate workers while the human resources department in the unit should help manage the whole process for workers to undergo a mandatory14-day quarantine. On supply and storage of goods, it said factories should sterilise boxes and wrapping brought into its premises, isolate and sanitise finished goods as appropriate and deliver goods in shifts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ndma-issues-guidelines-for-restarting-industrial-activities-to-avoid-vizag-like-tragedy-835738.html
10-05-2020||National||'Majority South Asians are descendants of Harappans'||Majority of South Asians today are descendants of Harappans, says veteran archaeologist Prof Vasant Shinde."The genetic evidence coupled with archaeological evidence indicates continuity till today," said Prof Shinde, former Vice Chancellor,  Deccan College, Pune, on Saturday.Delivering a lecture online on 'Rakhigarhi Excavation',  hosted by the Nehru Science Centre,  Mumbai, he reiterated that studies have been conclusive that the Harappan culture and civilisation was developed by "indigenous people".The research from Rakhigarhi, which is part of the Indus Valley Civilisation, also lead to the 'Out of India Theory' - and after the paper was presented last year,  it has led to a larger debate."There was no Aryan invasion or migration but movement was happening throughout from the beginning of agriculture in South Asia....neither Steppes pastorals nor Iranian farmers  contributed to the South Asian ancestry," he said.Located around 150 kms north-west of Delhi, Rakhigarhi  in Hisar district of Haryana, is the focal point of studies of Prof Shinde and his team.Prof Shinde has lead the excavation team at Rakhigarhi, which has been in the news for quite some time particularly for their findings on the “Out of India”, migration theory which in a way also has suggested that there is a flaw in the Aryan or Steppe migration theory, which has been the established norm until now. Making a presentation,  he said that India in a way is an "ethnic museum". He pointed out that the samples collected were taken to the laboratory of Deccan College and subjected to anthropological examination, CT scanning,  paleoparasitology, sampling, craniofacial reconstruction, stable isotope analysis and DNA analysis.According to him,  in Rakhigarhi samples they found that Harappans were not carrying any genetic signatures from Iranian-related ancestry. Genetically, Steppe introgression has not happened until 1000 BCE. Mixing with Steppes was gradual and not sudden and thus rejects the invasion or replacement of the local South Asian with Steppes. "Most Indians have read about Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro.It is rather unfortunate that not many are aware of the vast expanse of the spread of the Indus Valley Civilisation, which included many more sites which are now in India. Rakhigarhi is one of them," said Shivaprasad Khened,  the Director of Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai.Prof Shinde said that it was also evident that there was a significant movement of Harappans towards Central Asia. There is presence of Harappan-like ancestry in Turkmenistan and Iran contemporary to Mature Indus Valley era.The genetic results also indicate that Vedic knowledge was indigenous and not brought by so-called Indo-Aryans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/majority-south-asians-are-descendants-of-harappans-835741.html
10-05-2020||National||Mother’s Day: Home and beyond, finding a partner for the pandemic||He hops off a helicopter, whips off his shades and makes a dash through the grounds towards his home to give his mother a surprise, but there she is, waiting at the door with a ‘pooja thali’ in her hand. That admittedly cheesy scene between Shah Rukh Khan and Jaya Bachchan from the blockbuster Hindi film “Kabhi Khushi Kabhi Gham” was playing in Sonali Puri’s mind when she was on a Mumbai-Jammu flight to give her mother a surprise last month. Her mother was at the door just as she had imagined but instead of a ‘thali’ was a hand sanitiser! “Good hygiene is a blessing in times of coronavirus, my mother told me,” laughed the 37-year-old. That was in mid-March, a few days before the coronavirus forced lockdown began on March 25. And home in Jammu is where Puri still is, the short vacation turning into extended mother-daughter downtime, both recalibrating their equations as they spend focused time with each other after years. This Mother’s Day, the first time in years perhaps that Puri has been home for the day, she said she is just happy she managed to spend this stressful lockdown period with her mother. “I don’t remember spending this much time with my mother in the past 10 years. We play cards – she still cheats -- watch old movies, cook, sing, dance and of course fight too. Everything like old times.   “The best thing is that with her being around I can be the child again, and with me being around she gets to be the mother again. Even the otherwise stressful work-from-home is not that bad with her around,” said Puri, a recruiting professional.   The nationwide lockdown was first extended till May 3 and then till May 17 with a few relaxations built in.   The uncertain weeks have seen everyone across the spectrum of income, age and gender trying to hold on to their ‘constants’ in life. While lives all over are upended, home is the anchor – few like Puri are at home, lakhs of others such as migrant workers are taking unbelievable risks to get there and many are stranded longing for the day they’ll finally be there. For Puri and many others like her, home is where family is, or maybe just where mother is. Those in connected India not in the same physical space in this lockdown period are reaching out to their mothers with many asks. Some are calling their mothers for recipes, some for advice and discussing the day’s events and others to just vent to a sympathetic listener who always understands.   People have a whole laundry list on why mother makes for the best lockdown partner ever – even in absentia.    The pandemic has turned him into a “mamma’s boy”, admitted 27-year-old Ramansh Billawria, a lawyer in Delhi.   Grocery shopping, recipes, bargaining with vendors and even basics like, “what is done first, dry mopping or wet mopping?”, Billawria is calling his mother in Pathankot in Punjab incessantly.    “I recently shifted to New Delhi for my job. Just when I thought I was coming to term with the pace of the city, the city as well as the country went into hibernation mode.   “I have lost the count of calls I made my mother during the lockdown. Had I been her I would have stopped taking the calls. Thank god, she is not like me. I have promised to treat her with Spanish eggs – the one dish I learned without her help -- whenever I meet her next,” said Billawria.    For Simi Gupta, 35, who is expecting a child this July, to not have her mother by her side in the last two months of her pregnancy is “unthinkable”. But this is reality and she is trying to cope with it, hoping that the lockdown is lifted soon and her mother can come from Agra to be with her when the baby is born.   “A daughter needs her mother the most during pregnancy. It’s not about work or anything else. Her mere presence can do a world of good. My husband and I are making umpteen video calls to her, checking about every minute thing related to the baby," said Gupta, a Haryana-based teacher.    "Moreover, with the fear of COVID-19 all over, her being here would have brought a much needed sense of calm to me and my family,” she added.   For Mother’s Day, her seven-year-old twin daughters with some help from their father are making cards for both -- their mother as well as their grandmother.  “The other day, one of my daughters came to me and said we will celebrate once the chotu is outside you and nani is inside our house,” Gupta recalled with a smile.   It doesn’t really matter how old you are.   Vandana Thapa, a homemaker in her 40s, is worried about her mother’s health, a dialysis patient, and is desperate to meet her.   “It is for the first time in many years that my daughter and I are here in Delhi and not spending the summer holidays with my mother and father in Dehradun,” she said.   The comfort of being home is special, say men and women of all ages. Juggling house work, office pressures and the stress of living through a pandemic is tough. But a call from home or to home can puncture the stress balloon.   (May 10, Sunday, is Mother’s Day).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mother-s-day-home-and-beyond-finding-a-partner-for-the-pandemic-835748.html
10-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Skill shortage poses big challenge to India's economic revival||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-skill-shortage-poses-big-challenge-to-indias-economic-revival-835761.html
10-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: First batch of 88 nurses from India arrive in UAE||The first batch of 88 nurses from India arrived in the UAE to help the country's stretched healthcare professionals amid a surge in the number of COVID-19 infections in the Gulf nation that has crossed 17,000, according to media reports. The Ministry of Health and Prevention said the UAE reported 624 new cases on Saturday, taking the total number of infections to 17,417. The number of fatalities reached 185 after 11 deaths were reported on the day. The nurses, who are from Aster DM Healthcare hospitals in the states of Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra, will be put under quarantine for 14 days after which they will be assigned to various field hospitals as per requirement, the Khaleej Times reported.  They arrived on a special flight at the Dubai airport on Saturday. India's Ambassador to UAE Pavan Kapoor said that this would further strengthen the long-standing friendship between the two countries. "India and the UAE are showing how a strategic partnership translates into concrete cooperation on the ground in dealing with this pandemic. Helping a friend in need is the motto of cooperation between our two countries," he said.  According to a report in the Gulf News, the arrival of the nurses was facilitated in a tie-up with Aster DM Healthcare group, with the support from the Indian Consulate and the UAE's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. India's Consul General Vipul said, “It is yet another example of strong India-UAE bilateral ties and reflects deep understanding of problems faced by expatriates as well as UAE nationals in the UAE.” "We feel extremely proud to be a part of this joint initiative in providing relief for COVID-19 patients in different facilities," he said. Azad Moopen, Founder Chairman and Managing Director of Aster DM Healthcare, said, the group felt duty bound to assist UAE by bringing their medical professionals from India for best possible healthcare delivery to citizens, residents and visitors during the COVID-19 situation. Humaid Al Qutami, Director-General of the Dubai Health Authority said, “This initiative is testimony to the relationship shared by the two nations and it highlights the close collaboration between the government and the private health sector. The Indian nurses, who specialise in working in the intensive care unit, said that they are happy to be part of the initiative, the report in Khaleej Times said. Royin Mathew Thomas, one of the nurses in the delegation, said it is his duty to serve people, and so is happy to help the UAE battle the pandemic as part of this special delegation from India. Dipika Suraj Khavale had to leave his 2-year-old child back in India to be part of the team.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-first-batch-of-88-nurses-from-india-arrive-in-uae-835765.html
10-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Special train with 1,140 migrants leaves for Jharkhand||A special train carrying 1,140 migrant workers stranded here in the lockdown has left Mangaluru railway station for Jharkhand. Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel and Vedavyas Kamath, MLA, were present at the railway station on Saturday night when the train left. Kamath said the workers who had registered on the state governments Seva Sindhu portal were brought to the railway station in Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation buses. A health check-up was carried out before they boarded the train. The district administration also provided food packets and water to the migrants at the station. Three more trains will leave from Mangaluru for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Jharkhand soon, he said. Meanwhile, in a statement, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu P Rupesh said train services are being arranged for migrant workers who have registered their names on the Seva Sindhu portal. The workers will be informed when trains are arranged to their destinations and they need not throng the railway station unnecessarily, she said. Around 20,000 workers have so far registered themselves online, including 5,000 from Jharkhand, 3,000 from Uttar Pradesh and 4,000 from Bihar.  Hundreds of migrant workers had on Friday staged a protest at the central railway station here, demanding that they be sent back home. The workers went back to their camps only after district authorities and police gave them assurance that trains will be arranged in three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-special-train-with-1140-migrants-leaves-for-jharkhand-835767.html
10-05-2020||National||Amid lockdown, MP govt reshuffles 50 IAS officers||In a major administrative reshuffle amid the lockdown, the Madhya Pradesh government has transferred 50 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, including some additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and a former chief secretary. This is the first major bureaucratic rejig by the BJP-led state government since Shivraj Singh Chouhan became chief minister in March this year. As per the order issued on Saturday night, former chief secretary Gopal Reddy has been posted as chairman of the revenue board at Gwalior, I C P Keshari as vice chairman of the Narmada Valley Development Authority, Vinod Kumar as additional chief secretary (ACS) of the general administration department and J N Kansotia as ACS of the animal husbandry department, official sources said. Besides, Anupam Rajan is posted as principal secretary of the public relations and higher education departments. The government has removed P Narhari as commissioner of the public relations department and replaced him with Sudam P Khade. Narhari has now been made managing director of the marketing federation and will continue as commissioner of the urban development and administration department. As per the order, Sanjay Shukla is posted as principal secretary of the industrial policy and promotion department, replacing Rajesh Rajora, who is transferred as principal secretary of the labour department. Neeraj Mandloi is posted as principal secretary of the public works department, replacing Malay Shrivastava, who is now posted as principal secretary of the public health engineering department. Forty other senior IAS officers, including two who suffered from COVID-19 and later recovered, have also been transferred, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-lockdown-mp-govt-reshuffles-50-ias-officers-835768.html
10-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: 10 migrants set off on foot from Pune for hometown in UP||Left without jobs and desperate to return home amid the lockdown, 10 migrant labourers have set off on foot from Pune in Maharashtra for their native place hundreds of kilometres away in Uttar Pradesh. The Pune administration has asked the officials concerned to make necessary arrangements for such migrants at hotels and halls available on highways in the district and set up camps for them, in the wake of the death of 16 migrant labourers after being run over by a goods train in Aurangabad. The 10 migrant workers, all natives of Allahabad district in Uttar Pradesh, started walking to their homes from Pune on Saturday evening after losing their jobs and finding to difficult to sustain their livelihood here. "We all were working as construction labourers in Pune. Now we don't have food to survive. Therefore, we have started for our native place in Uttar Pradesh," one of the labourers from the group said.  Pune District Collector Naval Kishore Ram has ordered tehsildars and block development officers to immediately set up labour camps along the main roads where migrants may be walking towards their destinations, zilla parishad CEO Ayush Prasad said on Sunday. "The camps would be set up at roadside hotels and wedding halls at reasonable distance from each other on three roads leading to Nashik, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. The tehsilar would decide the number and location of camps based on the requirement. We are expecting at least 35 camps in the district," he said. At each camp, there would be facility of water, toilets, safe place to stay, food and basic medical care, including facility of checkup for flu-like symptoms, he said.  Migrants can also register online through the state's 'Aaple Sarkar portal' to access transport facilities being provided by the government, the official said. Adequate police security would also be deployed at the camps for the safety of migrants, women and children and an official would also be appointed as the camp manager, he said. The camp expenses would be met through the state disaster relief fund, he said, adding that each taluka has been given Rs 10 lakh to Rs 20 lakh as advance to provide relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-10-migrants-set-off-on-foot-from-pune-for-hometown-in-up-835776.html
10-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: India sends medical assistance to five friendly nations||India has sent medical assistance to the Maldives, Mauritius, Madagascar, Comoros and Seychelles by a naval ship following separate requests from these countries for help in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. The Ministry of External Affairs said Indian naval ship Kesari is carrying medical teams, essential medicines and food items to the five countries in line with India's "time-tested" role as the first responder to any crisis in the region. "Responding to their requests for assistance in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic, India has sent Indian Naval Ship Kesari to Maldives, Mauritius, Madagascar, Comoros and Seychelles, carrying on board two medical assistance teams, consignments of Covid related essential medicines and essential food items," the MEA said in a statement.  It said the medical assistance teams will be deployed in Mauritius and Comoros to help their governments deal with COVID-19. The team for Comoros will also help the country in tackling dengue fever. <iframe src="https://anchor.fm/deccanherald/embed/episodes/Pandemic-Podcast-Skill-shortage--a-challenge-for-Indias-economic-revival-in-post-Covid-era-edrquj" height="102px" width=100% frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe> "The ship will deliver consignments of COVID-19 related essential medicines to Mauritius, Madagascar, Comoros and Seychelles and about 600 tonnes of food items to Maldives," the MEA said.  In addition, a special consignment of Ayurvedic medicines is also being sent to Mauritius. "The consignments meant for Madagascar and Comoros also includes Hydroxychloroquine tablets, which have already been sent earlier to Mauritius, Maldives and Seychelles," the MEA said. The ship has been sent under India's 'Mission Sagar' launched to help the friendly countries deal with the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-sends-medical-assistance-to-five-friendly-nations-835781.html
10-05-2020||National||Lockdown: Air India flight brings home 239 Indians from United Kingdom||An Air India flight landed here from London at 1.30 am on Sunday carrying 239 Indians from the UK who were stranded there due to suspension of commercial passenger air services and the subsequent lockdown, an official statement said.  In addition to this, two more repatriation flights -- one each from Singapore and Manila ( Philippines) -- are expected to arrive in Mumbai on Sunday, it said.  While the flight from Singapore (AI 343) will be carrying  243 passengers, the Manila-Mumbai flight (AI 387) would bring back 241 Indian nationals from the South East Asian country, as per the statement.  "1st flight 2 #Mumbai landed- crew interaction less with the passengers. Protective kit was given 2 all-along with snack n meal kept on the seat beforehand. Next #quarantine. Watch the space," tweeted a passenger on the flight.  "Reached Mumbai safely from UK. Thank you so much to @airindiain @HCI_London, @NISAU_UK, @MEAIndia," another passenger tweeted. The Mumbai airport authorities, in a statement on Saturday, said the arriving passengers with symptoms will be moved to isolation centres. Asymptomatic passengers residing in Mumbai will be moved to quarantine facilities like hotels, while those from outside the city will be transported by the state to their respective district headquarters, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-air-india-flight-brings-home-239-indians-from-united-kingdom-835787.html
10-05-2020||National||350 Shramik Special trains run so far, around 3.6 lakh migrants ferried: Indian Railways||The Indian Railways has operated 350 Shramik Special trains since May 1 and ferried home more than 3.6 lakh migrants stranded in various parts of the country amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, officials said.  While 263 trains have already reached their destinations, 87 are still on the run. Forty-six more trains are in the pipeline, it said.  Every Shramik Special train has 24 coaches, each with a capacity of 72 seats.  However, only 54 people are allowed in a coach to maintain social distancing norms and the middle berth is not allotted to any passenger.  While the railways has not yet announced the cost incurred on the special services, officials indicate the national transporter has spent around Rs 80 lakh per service.  The government had earlier stated that the cost of the services has been shared on a 85:15 ratio with states. Since the Shramik Special train service started, Gujarat has remained one of the top originating stations followed by Kerala.  Among the receiving states, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh remain the top states. Earlier, the railways drew flak from opposition parties for charging for these services.  In its guidelines, the railways have said the trains will ply only if they have 90 per cent occupancy and the "states should collect the ticket fare".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/350-shramik-special-trains-run-so-far-around-36-lakh-migrants-ferried-indian-railways-835788.html
10-05-2020||National||Lockdown brings change in buying behaviour, more older people hop onto digital tech: Survey||The coronavirus lockdown has brought a sea change in the buying behaviour of many Indians, such as purchasing vegetables and other consumables without asking for prices, far from the old habit of asking 'dhaniya' or 'mirchi' free from vendors, according to a survey by Enormous Brands. The web-based survey, conducted between March 30 and April 22, took feedback from 3,737 respondents in cities including Delhi-NCR, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune and Ahmedabad. It found that there has also been a sharp increase in adoption of digital technology by older people to join the e-commerce bandwagon for ordering items like milk, grocery and home essentials and paying through wallets and UPI. The study also found that COVID–19 has helped in forming an opinion for pushing the 'Make in India' agenda, with 42 per cent believing that "there is an active and deliberate attempt by China to spread COVID across the world for economic gains" which has led to a strong anti-China sentiment. "The stay-at-home mandate has changed the behavior and attitudes of many Indians. Indians who were born and brought up asking for 'dhaniya' or 'mirchi' free from the vegetable vendors are now buying vegetables and other consumables without asking the prices. Stay-at-home orders have thus caused visible major shifts in people's behavior," said the survey. Around 42 per cent of respondents claimed they buy vegetables and other consumables without asking for prices, which is a drastic shift from a universal value-conscious, penny pinching Indian mentality, it added. The Enormous Brands surevy also found that India's older population adopted digital technology faster during the lockdown, with as much as 47 per cent higher adoption among elders (55-65 years) of e-commerce for ordering milk, grocery and home essentials and paying through wallets/UPI. "The banks have been promoting internet banking for over a decade, in just the last month the data suggest that first time users have increased by 28 per cent. The maximum shift of 33 per cent is among the (elderly) age group," it said. With lockdown forcing people at home, one of the the obvious choices to spend time is television watching. The study found that TV viewership grew from strength to strength during lockdown, shining over OTT platforms. It found that 43 per cent saw cable TV as the primary entertainment in the high-income households and 13 per cent across the sample size re-activated their DTH/cable subscription, it said. "Interestingly, 'news' has emerged as the new GEC (general entertainment category). A staggering 64 per cent of TV viewing time across the TV viewing population is spent on the news channels, while 43 per cent believe that news reporting is unbiased and 27 per cent believe that there is a clear indication that few news channels are pro a particular political party," the survey said.  Commenting on the findings, Enormous Brands Managing Partner Ajay Verma said, "The young Indian population is behaving very differently from other parts of the globe. The study suggests a high level of optimism even in a situation that has brought the entire world in a lock-down and also showcased that households feel confident about the revival of the Indian economy." This study was conducted to help brands understand how the current situation is moulding the habits, behaviour and attitudes of Indians, he added. As per the survey, newspapers are poised for a strong return, with 74 per cent of the respondents saying they missed their daily newspaper. While 29 per cent have moved to reading newspapers online, only 4 per cent would unsubscribe from the hard copy.  "Looks like the newspaper is a habit like coffee that has grown on the Indian palette, making it difficult to part with," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-brings-change-in-buying-behaviour-more-older-people-hop-onto-digital-tech-survey-835793.html
10-05-2020||National||BPRD prepares manual for investigators to tackle fake news during coronavirus||The Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) wants police officers to look to adopt the latest cyber investigation methods and procedures for curbing the spread of and prosecuting the sources of fake news and misinformation. "Digital news has brought back and increased the usage of fake news or yellow journalism. Fake news is written and published usually to mislead with the intent to damage an agency, entity, or person, and/or gain financially or politically, often using sensationalist, dishonest, or outright fabricated headlines to increase readership," it said.  "The extensive spread of fake news has the potential to gravely impact individuals as well as the society at large. Therefore, fake news detection in cyberspace has become an important issue for law enforcement agencies," according to the manual 'Fake News and Disinformation: How to Spot and Investigate'.  The manual identified textual posts as the major source of false information, saying many messages or website links one received may contain hoaxes or fake news. Investigators should look for spelling mistakes in such reports as well as whether the headline supports the visuals or captions.  "Fake news spreading agencies and people may opt for images as tools to make the content viral. In this scenario, someone may misrepresent a photo with misleading text, or morph the photo with deep fake tools," it warned. On fake videos, it said such content "carries a false message, hatred, communal violence etc to spread panic" and shared the screenshot of a fake video where Muslims were portrayed licking plates and spoons to spread COVID-19 to buttress the point. Sharing reports about a purported audio clip of Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad where he is accused of asking his supporters to violate lockdown norms, the manual also warned that "viral/fake news-mongers may create voice content"  in the present scenario and spread it across the social networking channels.   Interestingly, Delhi Police on Friday denied a news report which said the probe has indicated that the audio clips circulated in the name of Maulana Saad were doctored. The manual warned that photos, audio recordings, and videos can be edited to mislead the recipient and the investigators should look at "trusted news sources" to verify whether the story is being reported elsewhere. "When a story is reported in multiple places, it is more likely to be true," the manual said. Investigators should look for putting things out of context even while sharing of genuine content, misleading use of information to link an issue or individual, content impersonated with false or made-up sources as well as genuine information or imagery manipulated to deceive with a doctored photo. It also warned against satire or parody posts where the intention is not to harm but has the potential to fool people.  “Deceptive headlines, opinions presented as facts, distortions, made-up facts and neglected details" as well as "pseudo-experts, imagined experts and misrepresented experts" are another area to watch, the manual said. How to Identify Fake News? • False Connection - when headlines, visuals or captions do not support the contents• False Context - when genuine content is shared with false contextual information• Misleading Content - misleading use of information to link an issue or an individual• Impostor Content - when genuine contents or sources are impersonated with false or made-up sources• Manipulated Content - when genuine information or imagery is manipulated to deceive, as with a “doctored” photo• Fabricated Content – False news content is designed to deceive and harm• Satire or Parody - No intention to cause harm, but has, the potential to fool||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bprd-prepares-manual-for-investigators-to-tackle-fake-news-during-coronavirus-835794.html
10-05-2020||National||Coronavirus outbreak: Air India schedules 7 commercial flights to repatriate nationals from the US||Some of the Indian nationals stranded in the US due to COVID-19 related international travel restrictions will fly back home on Sunday on a non-scheduled commercial flight from New Jersey to Mumbai and Ahmedabad, even as authorities said another five flights have been arranged to repatriate others still stuck in the country. Beginning May 9, Air India has scheduled seven non-scheduled commercial flights from the US to India facilitating the return of Indian nationals, who could not travel due to COVID-19 restrictions, the Indian Embassy in Washington had said in its advisory on Wednesday night. The first flight took off from San Francisco on Saturday to Mumbai and Hyderabad. The Air India flight from Newark Liberty International Airport in New Jersey will fly on Sunday, taking back Indian nationals to Mumbai and Ahmedabad under India's biggest ever repatriation exercise named ‘Vande Bharat Mission’. Another flight from Newark will fly on May 14 to Delhi and Hyderabad. All passengers will be required to undergo medical screening before boarding the flight and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to travel. All passengers on arrival in India will be medically screened and would have to download and register the Aarogya Setu app.  Further, all passengers will need to undergo a 14-day mandatory quarantine on arrival in India in institutional facilities on payment basis as per the protocols framed by Government of India. Highly placed sources in the Indian Consulate in New York said that it "has been a relentless and non-stop work" to coordinate the repatriation exercise and authorities "are going out of their way to make sure not even one seat on the flight goes vacant" since a large number of Indians are stranded in the US due to various reasons and they are "desperate" to go home. Priority is being given to stranded passengers, terminally-ill patients, passengers with medical concerns and students. The sources said that while flights from New Jersey were only supposed to take passengers from states that fall under the jurisdiction of the Consulate in New York, special arrangements have been made to ferry four terminally-ill patients from Houston.  Apart from the two flights from New Jersey, two flights have been scheduled from Chicago on May 11 (to Mumbai and Chennai) and May 15 (Delhi and Hyderabad). The solo flight from Washington DC on May 12 will fly to Delhi and Hyderabad. Sources said that some people who had initially registered to return to India on the flights later balked and changed their plans as they did not want to undergo the two-week mandatory quarantine on arrival in India. Sources said the repatriation exercise could be expanded to countries where there is high demand. Under the 'Vande Bharat' Mission, India has already repatriated its citizens from the Gulf and the UK. Nearly 15,000 Indians are expected to return on special Air India flights from 12 countries in the coming days. The sources said efforts were being made to reach out to the Indians stranded in the US. The Indian Consulate here has been assisting several students by helping them with accommodation and essential services after their university and college dormitories closed down. Indian Consulate sources said they were facing a number of challenges in the repatriation exercise. People share credit card details with pizza companies but now they are reluctant to share details when the Consulate and Air India authorities are working round-the-clock to help them, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-outbreak-air-india-schedules-7-commercial-flights-to-repatriate-nationals-from-the-us-835795.html
10-05-2020||National||Kerala: Shops remain shut, vehicles off the roads as total lockdown on Sundays comes into force||Shops remained shut and vehicles were off the roads in Kerala as the state government's order on total shutdown on Sundays came into force since morning as part of the efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The Left government had on Saturday night issued an order on "total shutdown across the state on Sundays" while exempting shops selling essential items and essential services. While Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, had said on Friday that Kerala had "flattened the curve" after the state registered cases in single digits, two new cases-- expatriates who had returned to the state from Abu Dhabi and Dubai on Saturday, hadtested positive, causing concern as overfour lakh people had registered with the NORKA portal wanting to return to the state. Roads remained empty across the state and shops were closed, except those selling essentials, including milk and medicines. Hospitals, labs and media among others will be permittedto function on Sundays. With a view to prevent the spread of COVID-19, improve the quality of life, reduce the carbon emissions, protect the environment and greenery of the State, the Standard Operating Protocols (SOPs) for lockdown would be observed on Sundays across the State, the order by Chief Secretary Tom Jose said. "Sundays will be observed as total shutdown days until further orders," it said. The order permits functioning of departments, agencies and activities connected with containment of COVID-19, movement of goods vehicles, agencies in the field of waste disposal, take away counters of hotels can remain open from 8 am to 9 pm, and online delivery platform till 10 pm. "Movement of persons on Sundays are allowed only for health emergencies, government servants on emergency duties and persons engaged in activities connected with COVID-19 containment, persons involved in the activities from exempted in the order, priests and other religious persons responsible for conducting rituals in worship places," the order said. Movement of persons, if case of any exigencies, will be allowed only with the travel passes obtained from District Collector or police authorities concerned, the order stated adding certain major roads of Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode will also remain closed on Sundays. Kerala was among the first states in India to report the deadly virus infection, but it has also earned global praise for having effectively managed to tackle the crisis by being among the states with much higher recovery rates and much less-spread outbreak so far. Vijayan said the new cases wasa "warning" to those returning to the home state from abroad and other states to be on the alert. He also said there is a need to strengthen "our mitigation efforts and preventive measures". For several days in the recent weeks, the state had reported either nil or just 1-2 fresh cases. There areonly 17 active cases now, with485 people out of the total COVID-19 cases of 505 recovering. Three, including a four-month-old baby girl lost their lives to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-shops-remain-shut-vehicles-off-the-roads-as-total-lockdown-on-sundays-comes-into-force-835797.html
10-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to discuss coronavirus lockdown future strategy with CMs on May 11||With just a week left for the Lockdown 3.0 to end on next Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a detailed interaction with chief ministers on Monday to discuss the future strategy as opinions are divided on further extending the lockdown as cases are spiralling. The Prime Minister’s Office tweeted on Sunday that PM Modi is to hold the fifth meeting via video- conference with state chief ministers at 3 PM on Monday afternoon. The Prime Minister’s meeting with the chief ministers is happening a day after Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, chaired a meeting with chief secretaries and health secretaries of all states and Union territories to review their status of COVID-19 management through video conference. While a section believes that the lockdown arrangement should continue till the curve is flattened, another view is gaining dominance over the virus and in this fight for lives, livelihood should not get destroyed altogether as during the 54-day lockdown ending next Sunday, economy has already gone into tailspin with massive job cuts and industrial closedown. Before the PM interacts with chief ministers, some of the states have already indicated their preference for further lockdown. Telangana has increased lockdown till May 29 while Maharashtra has also dropped indications to this effect.  Some states are favouring a zone-wise lockdown instead of locking out the entire state. Migrant movement has come out to be a huge issue in the Lockdown 3.0 and the death of 16 migrants by a goods train in Maharashtra has evoked a nationwide outrage.    In the meeting with chief secretaries, Cabinet Secretary Gauba at the outset noted that more than 350 Shramik special trains have been run by railways carrying 3.5 lakh migrant workers. He requested the state governments to cooperate with railways in running more Shramik special trains. The State Chief Secretaries informed about the situation in their states. They also said that while protection is required against COVID-19, the economic activities also need to be stepped up in a calibrated manner. In the meeting, the Cabinet Secretary also emphasised that movements of doctors, nurses and paramedics should be totally unhindered, and all steps be taken to facilitate and protect Corona Warriors. The Prime Minister had earlier called for re-imagining efficiency and providing a “new work culture” by a “youthful nation like India” in the COVID-19 times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-discuss-coronavirus-lockdown-future-strategy-with-cms-on-may-11-835805.html
10-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: 28 states, UTs ban smokeless tobacco products, spitting||Over 25 states and union territories, including Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Assam and Delhi, have banned the use of smokeless tobacco products and spitting in public places in view of COVID-19, official sources in the Union health ministry said. The ministry had on April 1 asked all states to prohibit the use and spitting of smokeless tobacco in public places to prevent the spread of coronavirus. "Chewing smokeless tobacco products, paan masala and areca nut (supari) increases the production of saliva followed by a very strong urge to spit. Spitting in public places could enhance the spread of the COVID-19 virus," the ministry had said in a letter to chief secretaries of all states and UTs. "22 states and six UTs have banned the use of smokeless tobacco products and spitting in public places during the COVID-19 epidemic," an official source said.  Public health experts have welcomed the move by the central government to ban the use of tobacco products and spitting in public places to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection. "We applaud the government of India for taking the timely step of imposing a ban on the use of tobacco products and spitting in public places to prevent and control the spread of COVID-19 virus," said Bhavna Mukhopadhyay, Chief Executive, Voluntary Health Association of India.  "To protect their health and reduce risk of severe COVID-19 symptoms, we urge all smokers and tobacco users to quit, especially at this critical time,"  Mukhopadhyay said.  There is a growing evidence that smoking increases risk of contracting COVID-19, Prof Pratima Murthy, Professor and Head, Department of Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences said, adding smoking worsens lung function and reduces immunity.  "Smokers who develop COVID-19 infection have more complications and greater risk of fatality. Even if a person is not affected by coronavirus infection it is a good time to stop smoking. This improves immunity and can improve lung function within a few months," Murthy said. States like Assam, Chandigarh, Delhi, Jharkhand,  Haryana, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh among others are also penalising violators for spitting tobacco in public places.   "The ministry of health and state health departments should promote quitting tobacco maximally through electronic and social media to take advantage of the situation in which tobacco users are away from their usual triggers to use tobacco- shop, co-workers, stress, etc. and being at home, majority have the social support needed to quit," said Dr Rakesh Gupta, Consultant working for Tobacco Cessation.    "Hence, an opportunity exists to increase the quit rate for the country amid COVID-19 crisis," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-28-states-uts-ban-smokeless-tobacco-products-spitting-835806.html
10-05-2020||National||Lockdown: PIL in HC to take steps for protection, welfare of sex workers, LGBT members||A PIL has been filed in the Delhi High Court, seeking direction to the Centre and the AAP government to take steps for protection, social security and welfare measures, including food, accommodation and medicines, for sex workers and the LGBT community during the lockdown. The plea is scheduled to come up for hearing on Monday before a bench of justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal. The plea seeks effective measures to provide financial aid, food, shelter and medicines to sex workers and LGBT community members in Delhi to ensure their survival during the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19 and to constitute a committee for rehabilitation of sex workers. Petitioner and advocate Anurag Chauhan said the PIL was filed for the welfare of sex workers and members of the LGBT community who do not have access to financial aid during the lockdown. The plea also seeks a direction to the authorities to take steps to exempt them from paying rent and also to set up a separate helpline to counsel them and address their problems during the period of the pandemic. The petitioner said he had given a representation to the Delhi chief minister and the lieutenant governor on May 2, highlighting the grievances of the sex workers and the members of the LGBT community but no steps were taken. "There is no particulars or details found regarding grant of any financial aid and scheme to sex workers and LGBT community people by the Delhi government, despite exercise of due diligence by the petitioner and other people in the society," the plea said. It said the COVID-19 lockdown has adversely affected all sections of the society, be it rich or poor, and one such section was of sex workers, who are struggling everyday to survive as the present situation has led to a financial crisis and a lack of basic amenities for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-pil-in-hc-to-take-steps-for-protection-welfare-of-sex-workers-lgbt-members-835808.html
10-05-2020||National||NGOs for disabled facing severe financial crunch as funds get diverted for tackling COVID-19||Several NGOs working in the disability sector are facing severe financial crunch as most of the funds and donations they would earlier get has been diverted towards tackling the COVID-19 crisis. Prashant Verma, general secretary, National Association for the Blind, says he could just pay 65 per cent salary to his employees in the last two months due to financial crunch and if no fresh donations are made he does not have any money to pay his 120 staff members this month. "We feel as if we are at the end of the line," he told PTI. Verma said his organisation used to get grants from many companies under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and even from individuals, especially during March as it was the end of the financial year. "But this year we didn't get any money. Some of the companies, which even committed to us, are saying that this time they have to think about their own survival. Many individuals (who earlier donated) don't have money to support us. A lot of the money is diverted to COVID-19," he said. As per the Census 2011, in India, 2.68 crore people were 'disabled', which was 2.21 per cent of the total population of the country. Madhu Singhal, social activist and founder of organisation serving people with disabilities Mitra Jyothi, shares similar concerns. "This is a very new situation for us and it has just been one month but we will face difficulty in the coming months because we know the coronavirus crisis will not get over soon. We are dependent upon CSR funds and general donations but there has been no donation at all in the past one month," Singhal said. "Maybe we can manage for the next few months but after that we are not sure what we will do. We are a 30-year-old organisation and we have some funds but fully running the organisation is a very big problem," she said. Anil Mudgal, founding member of Arushi, which is an organisation working with people with disability, said whatever funds his organisation used to get has completely stopped. "We don't know what will happen from next month. We are tense. We are looking for different ways (to sustain)," he said. Chetan Sharma, managing trustee of Udbhav Foundation, said another issue is that the profits of companies have been affected due to the coronavirus crisis and many have stopped making CSR contributions to NGOs working in the social sector. "We are not able to understand how to sustain ourselves. Everyone's priority is coronavirus. We are not getting any funds and on humanitarian grounds we cannot ask our employees to go. it is a very big issue for us," Sharma said.  "Earlier, every sector used to get its contribution accordingly but now all the focus is on coronavirus. We fully understand it is the priority of the hour but it should not be at the cost of others," he noted.   Bhushan Punani, executive secretary, Blind People's Association, however, believes that there is a need for these NGOs to diversify themselves and modify their approach as per requirement of the time. "In my organisation, we are known for relief work. Whenever there is a disaster we work towards providing relief and (in view of COVID-19 crisis) we have been involved in distributing masks and anaj kits and we have been getting funds so it is up to NGOs to change their area of work according to time," he said. Punani said that if NGOs do not get into anything related to COVID-19 relief work then their funding will be very adversely affected. "My understanding is that NGOs also need to modify their approach as per requirement of time. Nobody can dispute the fact that COVID-19 is the biggest tragedy humanity has ever seen," he said. The money requirement for COVID-19 is huge so any corporate or individual will be tempted to contribute towards it, Punani noted. COVID-19 has claimed 2,72,578 lives worldwide and infected 39,07,055 people. In India, 2,109 people have died of the deadly virus lives and 62,939 people infected. Corporates from various sectors and individuals have made contributions to different funds established for COVID-19 relief operations.   The government has also set up a public charitable trust under the name 'PM CARES Fund' in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngos-for-disabled-facing-severe-financial-crunch-as-funds-get-diverted-for-tackling-covid-19-835818.html
10-05-2020||National||Delimitation Commission writes to LS Speaker, presiding officers of assemblies to name associate members||Setting in motion the process for redrawing parliamentary and assembly constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland, the Delimitation Commission has written to the speakers of Lok Sabha and assemblies of the four northeastern states to name associate members of the panel. Jammu and Kashmir at present has no legislative assembly. It is a union territory with a provision of a legislature. Members of Parliament and legislative assemblies of states, for which the Delimitation Commission is set up, are drawn in as associate members to assist the panel in its task. Election Commission functionaries aware of the development said the delimitation panel met recently where the decision was taken to write to the Lok Sabha Speaker and presiding officers of state assemblies to name associate members. The Delimitation Commission also asked the Election Commission Secretariat to obtain latest census data from the Registrar General of India of "up to the lowest administrative unit", a senior functionary said. Asked whether the coronavirus-induced lockdown has delayed the work of the Delimitation Commission, a functionary said the panel remains "undeterred" and continues with its task. The government had on March 6 constituted the Delimitation Commission, to be headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai, to redraw Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and the northeastern states of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Nagaland. Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and state election commissioners of Jammu and Kashmir and the four states will be its ex-officio members. The commission will delimit the constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir in accordance with the provisions of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, and of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Nagaland in accordance with the provisions of the Delimitation Act, 2002, a Law Ministry notification earlier said. Delimitation is the process of fixing limits or boundaries of territorial constituencies in a country or a province with a legislative body. According to section 60 of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, "...the number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir shall be increased from 107 to 114...." Out of these, 24 seats are in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. So effectively, the seats will go up from 83 to 90, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora had explained recently when reporters had asked him about the delimitation process in Jammu and Kashmir. The union territory of Jammu and Kashmir came into being on October 31, 2019 after the state was reorganised and bifurcated into two union territories, Ladakh being the other. On February 28 this year, the government had cancelled its earlier notifications which deferred delimitation in Assam, Nagaland, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh due to security issues, saying the exercise could be carried out "now" as the previous circumstances cease to exist. The cancellation of the notifications had paved the way for delimitation in the four northeastern states. The "order" issued by the Legislative Department of the Law Ministry had said "it appears that the circumstances that led to the deferring of the delimitation exercise" in Assam, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland "have ceased to exist and that the delimitation of the constituencies as envisaged under the Delimitation Act, 2002 could be carried out now". It said now the President, satisfied that the circumstances that led to the deferring of the delimitation exercise have ceased to exist, "is pleased to rescind the notification...dated February 8, 2008." A Delimitation Commission was set up under the Delimitation Act, 2002 to readjust the division of each state and union territory into territorial constituencies for the purpose of Lok Sabha and state assembly elections on the basis of census figures of 2001. The commission completed the delimitation exercise and the Delimitation Order, 2008 in respect of all the states, except in these four northeastern states. The job of delimitation is assigned to a high power body. Such a body is known as Delimitation Commission or a Boundary Commission. "In India, such Delimitation Commissions have been constituted four times -- in 1952 under the Delimitation Commission Act, 1952, in 1963 under Delimitation Commission Act, 1962, in 1973 under Delimitation Act, 1972 and in 2002 under Delimitation Act, 2002," according to the EC website. The Delimitation Commission in India is a high power body whose orders have the force of law and cannot be called in question before any court. These orders come into force on a date to be specified by the President. The copies of its orders are laid before Lok Sabha and the state legislative assemblies concerned, "but no modifications are permissible therein by them", the EC website said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delimitation-commission-writes-to-ls-speaker-presiding-officers-of-assemblies-to-name-associate-members-835822.html
10-05-2020||National||Arvind Kejriwal says Delhi COVID-19 deaths 'very less' but 75% cases asymptomatic or showing mild symptoms||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said 75 per cent of COVID-19 cases in the city are asymptomatic or showing mild symptoms, and asserted that the number of serious patients and deaths caused by the infection is "less". "The number of serious patients is less. The number of COVID-19 -19 deaths is very less," he said, a day after his government was attacked for "under-reporting" the deaths. On Saturday, Congress leader Ajay Maken sought more transparency from the Kejriwal government and Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari urged the chief minister to "tell the truth", saying people have a right to know about the severity of the outbreak. Officials of the 10 hospitals treating COVID-19 patients have said the number of people dead due to the virus is higher than what the Delhi government's bulletin reflects. A confusion has prevailed over the exact number of deaths as the data from four hospitals showed that 92 people succumbed to the infection against 68 reported by the government till Friday. However, Kejriwal said on Sunday that 73 people have died due to the virus. He said Delhi has reported 6,923 coronavirus cases, out of which 2,069 have recovered, while 91 patients are in ICU and 27 are on ventilator support. It has been observed that 82 per cent of people dead were above the age of 50, Kejriwal said, requesting senior citizens to take precautionary measures against the infection. "Out of 6,923 COVID-19 patients, only 1,476 are admitted to hospitals," he said, adding that the rest are getting treatment at their homes and COVID-19 care centres. Addressing an online briefing, Kejriwal said those asymptomatic or showing mild symptoms need not to be admitted to hospitals and can be provided treatment at home. "Our team makes inspection of their home to ascertain whether social isolation can be observed or not. Our teams are in regular touch with such people and if needed, family members of affected person can contact officials," he said. If there is no sufficient space at home to ensure social isolation, the government sends the patient to a COVID-19 care centre where he/she can stay for 14 days, he said. He said the government has attached the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital with two-three five-star hotels where frontline warriors, infected by COVID-19, are being treated. "It pained me when I heard that the Opposition was criticising our move. I want to ask you whether corona warriors should not be given better facility," he said. This is not the time to do politics but time to work together against the virus, the AAP chief said. He said his government is requisitioning ambulances of private hospitals to meet the shortage. "It doesn't mean that these private ambulances can not provide service to their attached hospitals. They will have to be pressed into government services when we require the same. I hope with this move, there would be no shortage," he said. Kejriwal also appealed to migrant workers to not leave Delhi. "If anyone wants to leave, the government will make arrangements, but don't leave on your own. We have sent two trains to Madhya Pradesh and Bihar recently," he said. On Sunday, 150 migrants, who were sheltered at a Delhi government facility in Nehru Vihar amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, were sent to their home state Punjab by bus. Kejriwal said his government is in talks with Centre to arrange more trains for migrants. "Migrant labourers are still on the road, trying to get to their homes. Their condition is very unfortunate since they are walking for days. They have not eaten for days They are carrying children on shoulder... This makes me feel all governments and all systems have failed," he said. It is very disappointing to see people walking without food or help, the chief minister said. He urged the people of Delhi to stay wherever they are as the lockdown will be lifted soon. "This lockdown is going to end soon, and everything will be back on track. You will get employed again because everything will start running again. Please do not leave Delhi," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arvind-kejriwal-says-delhi-covid-19-deaths-very-less-but-75-cases-asymptomatic-or-showing-mild-symptoms-835831.html
10-05-2020||National||Despite COVID-19, hopeful that Monsoon Session can be held on time: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla||The Monsoon Session of Parliament, which normally begins in the last week of June or in the first week of July, may still be held on time, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Sunday, amid concerns that the coronavirus pandemic may delay its start. Last year, the Monsoon Session ran between June 20 and August 7. The Speaker underlined that it was a testing time due to the COVID-19 crisis, but expressed hope that the session could be held as per normal schedule. “Despite COVID-19 crisis, I am hopeful that session could be held on time. But it will also depend on the situation prevailing at that time,” Birla told PTI. Asked whether it will be possible to hold the session if there are strict social-distancing norms still in place in June-July, Birla said a way out could be found when that situation comes. Birla, on whose initiative a control room was set up in Lok Sabha and state assemblies for better coordination between states in helping people, said this experiment turned out to be very successful as elected representatives from different states got in touch with each other and helped people from their respective constituencies who are stuck in other places. “MPs cutting across party lines reached out to people and helped them during this pandemic-forced lockdown. They should be praised and I thank them,” he said. Complimenting the country’s central leadership for “effectively handling” the crisis, Birla said, “During this testing time, the leadership of our country got support from people and it also responded back by proactively handling the situation and working as per their expectations.” Alongside the national leadership, chief ministers of various states have also very diligently handled the situation, he said. Experts have opined that the session could be delayed until the last week of September, as the Constitution allows a maximum six-month gap between two consecutive sessions. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Budget session had to be ended prematurely on March 23, over 10 days ahead of its last scheduled sitting on April 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-covid-19-hopeful-that-monsoon-session-can-be-held-on-time-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-835832.html
10-05-2020||National||Centre's financial stimulus "not sufficient"; fiscal deficit may go up to 14 %: former RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao||Maintaining that the combined fiscal deficit of the Centre and states may go up to 13-14 per cent this fiscal, former RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on Sunday said the financial stimulus announced by the Centre on March 26 on account of lockdown to contain spread of COVID-19, is "not sufficient". Speaking at a webinar titled "The Challenge of the Corona Crisis - Economic Dimensions", organised by the city-based Manthan Foundation, Subbarao said the Centre needs to cap its borrowings as the open ended borrowings will have negative consequences such as pushing interest rates high. "The government announced the fiscal support package of 0.8 per cent of the GDP. Is that sufficient? No, it is not sufficient when it was announced on March 26. It looks even lesser now. In fact, the government needs to spend more. And spend more on three things. The first item of expenditure is to enlarge and expand the livelihood support," Subbarao said. He said that since March 24, when the lockdown was imposed nationwide, millions of households have become vulnerable and therefore livelihood support has to be extended to many more families as most of their savings have dried up. "The government needs to cover more households, give more per household and give for much longer per household. That is the first challenge on the government expenditure," he said. The Finance Ministry unveiled a Rs 1.70 lakh crore economic package on March 26 involving free food grain and cooking gas for the poor for the next three months. Subbarao said it is quite clear that the government needs to spend more as it is a moral and political imperative. In order to spend more, the government needs to borrow more. He said he disagreed with the view that since this is an extraordinary and unusual crisis, therefore the government should not tie itself by setting up borrowing limits. "The combined fiscal deficit of the centre and state governments for this fiscal year as budgeted is 6.5 per cent of the GDP. Because of the loss of revenue on account of the lockdown, because of the decline in the nominal GDP on account of the lockdown, the fiscal deficit will go beyond 10 per cent of the GDP. The additional borrowings will now take the fiscal deficit to the range of 13 to 14 per cent of the GDP. That is exceedingly high and will have all the negative consequences of high fiscal deficit," he opined. According to him, the domestic financial sector, which is under deep stress, will be under "deeper stress" by the time the COVID-19 crisis ends, though he sees some silver linings in the situation such as plummeting crude prices and bumper agri yield. Stressing that the world has to live with coronavirus for some time, Subbarao said both centre and states are working in tandem to contain the pandemic. "The dilemma (of lives and livelihood) is the sharpest for India, given our weak medical infrastructure and high population density. Any gaps in prevention can mean loss of millions of lives. On the other hand, a stringent lockdown to control the pandemic can mean millions of livelihoods. This is a very difficult balancing act. Particularly for India, as our economy is in bad shape, Subbarao said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-financial-stimulus-not-sufficient-fiscal-deficit-may-go-up-to-14-former-rbi-governor-duvvuri-subbarao-835836.html
10-05-2020||National||Bhusaval Division of Indian Railways exporting onions to Bangladesh||The Bhusaval Division of Central Railways, a renowned transport hub for onions, is now exporting the vegetable to Bangladesh.  The first rake of onions departed from Lasalgaon on May 6. Ever since the COVID-19 pandemic broke out, the Railways have announced relaxation of demurrage and wharfage charges, distance restrictions for booking of mini rakes and two-point rakes, standard rake composition etc. Intensive marketing meetings were conducted by the Commercial and Operating departments with prospective loaders through video conferencing. This resulted in starting of export traffic of onions to Bangladesh - Darsana, Benapole and Rohanpur stations. The Bhusaval Division loads onions to various stations in the Indian Railways such as Futuha, Dankuni, Changsari, Malda Town and Chitpur. The second and third rake of onions were dispatched to Darsana in Bangladesh from Kherwadi and Niphad. Six more rakes are likely to start the journey soon from Lasalgaon to Darsana in Bangladesh. All possible assistance is being provided to the loaders by coordinating with the district administration. During loading, social distancing measures and sanitation practices as mandated by the central and state governments are being observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhusaval-division-of-indian-railways-exporting-onions-to-bangladesh-835837.html
10-05-2020||National||Yadav Singh case: HC bench dismisses plea after CBI questions court's territorial jurisdiction||The Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court has "dismissed as withdrawn" a habeas corpus petition seeking the release of former Noida chief engineer Yadav Singh after the CBI raised objections on territorial jurisdiction of the court in the matter. Singh, former chief maintenance engineer in Noida, is in judicial custody since February 11, 2020 after the CBI arrested him in the third case of corruption registered against him on January 17, 2018. Besides the latest corruption case wherein he is accused of favouring companies of friends and associates in doling out lucrative contracts in Noida, the CBI has booked him in two other corruption cases. These cases pertain to misusing his official position to favour firms in awarding contracts worth over Rs 1,000 crore in Noida and amassing illegitimate assets worth over Rs 23 crore. The agency had produced 62-year old Singh before the Ghaziabad Special court after his arrest which sent him to judicial custody. His bail petition was rejected by the special court on April 17, 2020. His son, Sunny, approached the Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court with a habeas corpus petition alleging that Yadav Singh has been wrongly incarcerated as only 60 days of judicial custody is permissible under Section 167 (2) of Code of Criminal Procedure and that the duration expired on April 10, 2020. A habeas corpus writ petition is filed before a competent court to secure release of a person from illegal detention. He also claimed that the maximum sentence for the charges for which Singh has been booked is seven years. The Supreme Court, in its order on March 23, had suggested the states to consider release of undertrials booked for punishments for such period in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The petition was heard by a bench of Justices Karunesh Singh Pawar and Pankaj Kumar Jaiswal recently through video conferencing where the CBI strongly countered the arguments of the petitioner. It said the territorial jurisdiction over Ghaziabad Special court is of Allahabad High Court hence, the matter should be heard by it and not by its Lucknow Bench. The agency also said there was no question of illegal detention as the accused was produced before the special court which remanded him to judicial custody. It said the accused was not in CBI custody. After hearing the arguments of the CBI, the bench noted, "A counter affidavit has been filed by the CBI wherein an objection has been raised regarding territorial jurisdiction of this Court." "Though a detailed rejoinder affidavit has been filed, but during the course of arguments, learned counsel for the petitioner very fairly prays for withdrawal of this writ petition with liberty to file a fresh petition at Allahabad along with the pleadings exchanged before this Court in this petition," it said. In view of the aforesaid, the writ petition is dismissed as withdrawn with liberty to file a fresh petition at Allahabad along with the pleadings exchanged before this Court in this petition so that no delay will occur in praying for grant of interim relief, it said. The agency had booked Yadav Singh on January 17, 2018 for corruption after conducting a preliminary enquiry on the orders of the Allahabad High Court. The agency had already booked him in the two corruption cases previously. During the course of enquiry, the agency had found that he had allegedly favoured five companies belonging to his friends, associates and family members in awarding huge contracts in Noida.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yadav-singh-case-hc-bench-dismisses-plea-after-cbi-questions-courts-territorial-jurisdiction-835844.html
10-05-2020||National||Ballia authorities ask Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh to inquire into migrants' train fare complaints||The district administration here on Sunday asked Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh governments to look into complaints made by migrant workers that they had to pay train fare to return their home in Uttar Pradesh. Over 1,140 migrant labourers from West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh reached Ballia district of Uttar Pradesh on a special train in the morning and some of them complained that they had to shell out Rs 1,000 to board the train. On Saturday, labourers returning from Rajkot in Gujarat had also claimed that they were charged Rs 725 train fare. Sub Divisional Magistrate Sarvesh Kumar Yadav said, "Authorities here have informed the Gujarat administration and Andhra Pradesh government in this regard through a letter and on phone. Along with this, it has been requested to initiate action against Gujarat Police and Government Railway Police." Of the total 1,145 migrants who returned from West Godavari, 270 are from Ballia, while rest are from Deoria, Kushinagar, Maharajganj, Ghazipur and Mau, he said. "The migrant labourers were medically screened on their arrival and provided water and food packets. They then boarded 55 buses and left for their respective destinations," the SDM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ballia-authorities-ask-gujarat-andhra-pradesh-to-inquire-into-migrants-train-fare-complaints-835847.html
10-05-2020||National||Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba seeks cooperation of states in running trains for transportation of stranded migrants||Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Sunday sought cooperation of the state governments in running special trains for transportation of stranded migrant workers from different parts of the country to various destinations and said as many as 350 such trains carrying 3.5 lakh labourers have been run so far. The cabinet secretary's appeal came a day after the West Bengal government and the Centre engaged in a war of words over running the 'Shramik Special' trains to the state. Gauba made the appeal during a video conference, attended by chief secretaries and health secretaries of all states and Union territories, convened to review the status of COVID-19 management. "At the outset, the cabinet secretary noted that more than 350 'Shramik Special' trains have been run by the railways carrying 3.5 lakh migrant workers,” an official statement said. "He requested the state governments to cooperate with the railways in running more 'Shramik Special' trains," it said. The cabinet secretary took note of the cooperation of the states in the Centre's 'Vande Bharat Mission' to bring back stranded Indians from abroad. He emphasised that movements of doctors, nurses and paramedics should be totally unhindered and all steps be taken to facilitate and protect "corona warriors". The chief secretaries briefed about the situation in their respective states and said that while protection is required from COVID-19, economic activities also need to be stepped up in a calibrated manner, the statement said.  Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday had accused the West Bengal government of not allowing trains to ferry stranded migrants to their home, but the state refuted the charge, saying 6,000 migrants had already returned and 10 trains carrying more labourers would arrive soon. Soon, the railway officials had rejected the claim by the state government. TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee also had accused Shah of spreading a "bundle of lies' and challenged him to prove his allegations or apologise, prompting the BJP to hit back by saying that the state government was only making arrangements to bring back people from a particular community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-secretary-rajiv-gauba-seeks-cooperation-of-states-in-running-trains-for-transportation-of-stranded-migrants-835848.html
10-05-2020||National||India needs 'whole-of-govt approach' to confront strategic uncertainties: Army Chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane||The time has come for India to adopt a "whole-of-government approach" in decisively confronting the "strategic uncertainties" looming on its horizon as well as non-traditional threats like pandemics, Army Chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane has said, strongly pitching for broadening the country's national security doctrine. Talking about complex geo-political power play in India's neighbourhood, Gen Naravane said the Indian armed forces are determined to "cement" the country's reputation as a net security provider in the region. "There is an entire spectrum of strategic uncertainties that looms on the horizon and a whole-of-government approach is the need of the hour to deal with them," the Army Chief told PTI. Though Gen Naravane did not elaborate, his comments came in the backdrop of Pakistan-supported Taliban's aim for a role in power structure in Afghanistan and China's persistent efforts to expand military ties with countries like Sri Lanka, Nepal, Myanmar and the Maldives. "In dealing with issues of global nature, the armed forces with their inherent capabilities and capacities will cement India's reputation as a net security provider in the region, taking security as a holistic concept," Gen Naravane said. India is learnt to have been worried over the extremely fragile and dynamic situation in Afghanistan after the US sealed a historic deal with the Taliban providing for withdrawal of American troops from the war-ravaged country. The Army Chief further said that India needs to broaden its understanding of national security and must examine non-traditional threats like pandemics "de-novo" as they have the potential to inflict severe damage on the country. "We need to act and prepare ourselves accordingly." He said the "traditional threats" facing India remained "unabated" and the armed forces are fully geared up to deal with them. Gen Naravane said that there has been no let up in Indian Army's "posture" while guarding the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China because of the coronavirus pandemic. The LAC is the de-facto border between the two countries. "Along the LAC, patrolling continues as before though we have put the ceremonial border personnel meetings on hold. There is also greater reliance on hotlines," he said. The Chief of Army Staff said the effort has been to adhere to the directives issued by both the governments following two informal summits between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping. "As far as our deployment along the border with China is concerned, the focus is on mutual understanding and respect for the sanctity of LAC and ensuring that no untoward incident takes place due to our differing perceptions of the LAC," he said. "Our focus has been to ensure all misunderstandings are mitigated amicably through discussions and existing mechanisms," Gen Naravane said. The India-China border dispute covers 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas. Gen Naravane said troops deployed along borders in remote and high altitude areas are at minimum risk of getting infected by the coronavirus as the areas are inaccessible to ordinary people. He said only troops who are medically validated as being coronavirus-free are being allowed to replace the personnel deployed in key formations and frontiers. "You have to keep in mind that in most of these places, due to the nature of deployment and living arrangements, social distancing is not feasible. However, wherever possible, social distancing and hygiene measures are being strictly enforced," he said. Gen Naravane said ensuring safety of his force from the pandemic is his foremost priority as the Army will be able to assist the country in dealing with the challenge if the troops are fighting fit. "The need for maintaining social distancing and hygiene norms assumes significant importance in the forces because of the higher density of personnel living inside barracks and the increased attendant possibility of the virus spreading within the forces," he said. He said all the units and formations have been issued comprehensive instructions to maintain social distancing wherever feasible and adhere to highest hygiene standards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-needs-whole-of-govt-approach-to-confront-strategic-uncertainties-army-chief-gen-manoj-mukund-naravane-835851.html
10-05-2020||National||UP offers easy loans, transparent rules to MSMEs; aims at 90 lakh new jobs in existing units||Hoping to revive its coronavirus-hit economy, the Uttar Pradesh government said Sunday it will generate 90 lakh new jobs in existing MSME units and encourage entrepreneurs to set up more small industries by offering loans on easy terms. Ninety lakh people could get employment if one job is added to the workforce of each of the existing 90 lakh micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the state, according to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Apart from this suggestion, Adityanath on Sunday asked officials to prepare a “detailed action plan” to motivate entrepreneurs to set up new MSME units. Loan fairs will be organised in every district from May 12 to May 20, a government statement said, promising credit on “generous terms”. It also said rules will be relaxed and “made transparent” for new MSME unit owners. An official said banks have also been told to give loans to existing units so that they can expand their workforce. In recent days, the UP government has said it is working on plans to generate about 20 lakh jobs for migrants returning home from other states due to the nationwide lockdown imposed after the coronavirus outbreak. Earlier, the state Cabinet has also approved an ordinance putting on hold several labour laws for the next three years, hoping that this will help revive industry. Adityanath said the coronavirus crisis has offered the state an opportunity. “We will accept this as a challenge and make the state the hub of the MSME sector,” a press statement quoted him as saying. He indicated that the plan is to provide employment “at the local level at minimum capital.” "It is my commitment that this sector in Uttar Pradesh will achieve its glory as before,” Adityanath said. He said Uttar Pradesh has a very rich history of MSMEs, and the one district, one product plan is proof of this. Adityanath said bankers will give loans on easy terms to every entrepreneur setting up a new unit. Announcing the loan fairs, for which entrepreneurs can apply online, he said bankers have been given instructions on these at a meeting of the State Level Bankers Committee. "Officials should motivate more entrepreneurs to set up units of micro, small and medium industries in the state. Prepare a detailed action plan as soon as possible for this,” he said. “Despite the recession, this sector has contributed significantly to the growth of per capita income of the state in the last three years. We will further increase the per capita income through this,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-offers-easy-loans-transparent-rules-to-msmes-aims-at-90-lakh-new-jobs-in-existing-units-835853.html
10-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Ujjain near Indore shocks with 19% death rate||Even as Indore in Madhya Pradesh continues to be among the country's most worrisome coronavirus hotpots, a city some 54 kilometres from here, Ujjain, is making health officials uneasy as the latter's death rate from the infection as on Sunday stood at a whopping 19 per cent, far higher than the 3.35 per cent national average. Ujjain, famous for the Mahakal Temple and a city with seven lakh inhabitants, has seen 45 of 237 COVID-19 patients succumbing to the infection, the death rate being a shade below 19 per cent at 18.9 per cent, as per official data. Among those who have died are a police inspector and a BJP corporator, leading to major political parties pointing out to the city's creaky health infrastructure, and the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government responding by shunting out the district collector and the superintendent of police. The BJP corporator had even made social media videos of the poor medical care available at a private hospital here. Speaking to PTI, new Ujjain Collector Ashish Singh said, "We are trying to bring down the death rate by improving health care facilities here. We have launched several measures to identify people infected with the virus and to quarantine them. We are hopeful the curve will flatten in a fortnight." Ujjain has no government hospital and a private one - RD Gardi Hospital, with 750 beds, has been designated as a COVID-19 facility. A 100-bed hospital in Indore has also been earmarked to treat COVID-19 patients from Ujjain, officials said. With local leaders from both the ruling BJP and Congress claiming the facilities and treatment at RD Gardi Hospital were below par, and several videos on this making the rounds of social media, the state government has placed Additional Collector Sujan Singh Rawat as nodal officer of the private facility. "We are bettering facilities at RD Gardi Hospital and issues concerning doctors and staff have been resolved," Rawat said. He said 70 per cent of the patients who died did so within 72 hours of admission in the hospital, suggesting that some of them may have been brought for treatment too late. Most of the deceased in Ujjain also had comorbidities, mostly ailments of the heart and lungs, he added. Initial coronavirus test reports also came in late which compounded the problem, some other health officials said. Meanwhile, Vikas Sharma, a priest at Mahakal Temple, said prayers were being offered daily to ensure the virus outbreak comes to an end. The temple has been shut for devotees since March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ujjain-near-indore-shocks-with-19-death-rate-835854.html
10-05-2020||National||NSCN (K-YA) militant nabbed in Assam||An NSCN (K-YA) militant was nabbed by security forces in Assam's Sivasagar district and arms and ammunition were seized from his possession, a Defence spokesperson said on Sunday. Acting on a tip-off, a joint team of the Indian Army and the Assam Police apprehended the militant from Singphan Reserve Forest along the Assam-Nagaland border on Saturday, a statement issued by Defence Public Relation Officer (Guwahati) Lt Col P Khongsai said. The apprehended cadre of the proscribed outfit has been identified as 37-year-old Laipa Konyak from Namsa village in Mon district of Nagaland, it said. A .22 bolt action rifle and five cartridges were seized from the insurgent, the statement said. "It is suspected that the individual was actively involved in extortion activities in the region," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nscn-k-ya-militant-nabbed-in-assam-835855.html
10-05-2020||National||From cycling to walking, migrants take all means to go back home||As COVID-19 situation mushrooms and economy slides, migrant workers from Mumbai and its larger metropolitan area continue to risk lives and go back homes. The lucky ones managed to board the Shramik trains, many travelled in trucks and tempos in cramped conditions while some are cycling and walking. Over the last two days, several videos and photos of migrant workers and their families going back home has gone viral on social media. People have been seen walking with small luggage along the tracks of Mumbai's suburban network and on the Eastern Express Highway and Western Express Highway,  the two arterial roads of Mumbai. "The Centre and all the state governments need to work out a solution that can be effectively implemented and with a pace," said Pankaj Jaiswal,  the general secretary of Mumbai-based Uttar Pradesh Development Forum,  who has been regularly corresponding with Centre,  railways and state governments. Veteran social and RTI activist Anil Galgali said that the Prime Minister's Office, Railway Ministry and State governments must ensure a workable solution. "Tickets must be online and the middlemen,  brokers and so-called social workers need to be weeded out," he added. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said it is pathetic to see people walking on roads with small kids. Last week,  an autorickshaw driver form Mumbai,  Jagdish Singh, and two others,  travelled 1,800 kms to his village in Juanpur in Uttar Pradesh. "It took us three days to reach our hometown. On way,  we saw several people walking. It was a difficult thing to be seen,  people walking in summer," he told his acquaintance in Mumbai. He is under mandatory quarantine period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-cycling-to-walking-migrants-take-all-means-to-go-back-home-835861.html
10-05-2020||National||Roll-out of Integrated Battle Groups delayed due coronavirus pandemic: Army Chief M M Naravane||Army Chief Gen M M Naravane has said that a comprehensive "test-bedding" of the Integrated Battle Groups (IBGs) was concluded but its roll out has been delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Army planned to introduce the IBGs, comprising a mix of infantry, artillery, air defence, tanks and logistics units, as part of a far reaching revamp of its war fighting capability, particularly along the borders with China and Pakistan. "The roll out of the IBGs has been delayed due to the outbreak of the pandemic and the need to divert critical resources towards containment efforts," the Army Chief told PTI. "However, I can assure you that we will roll out the IBGs in the requisite time frame as the conceptual groundwork has already been laid out and extensive test-bedding had already been carried out prior to the outbreak," he said. The Army Chief also said that there could be some disruptions in defence production and procurement in the wake of the pandemic, but it will be a "temporary phase". After years of deliberations, the Army decided to raise the IBGs along the borders with China and Pakistan that will help it carry out swift strikes in case of a war. Each IBG will be headed by a Major General and comprise around 5,000 troops. Ahead of Chinese President Xi Jinping's visit to India in October, the Indian Army carried out the "Him Vijay" exercise in Arunachal Pradesh primarily to test the effectiveness of the IBGs in mountain combat exercise. Each IBG would be modelled on specific operational requirement considering the topography as well as threat perceptions. Asked whether the financial burden triggered by the pandemic will have a bearing on the Army's long pending military procurement programme, he said it may have some impact in the short term. "Defence production and procurement are elaborate and long drawn processes involving integration of various systems and subsystems and dependent on global supply chains. Due to the pandemic, there could be some disruptions, but I see this as a temporary phase," he said. At the same time, Gen Naravane said there have been "numerous buffers" which will be leveraged to fast track production once the situation normalises "as it is a matter of when and not if".  Though indigenous manufacturing will be impacted, he said, its magnitude will be much lower. "We are therefore reviewing our contracts and procurement plans in detail to ensure that delays are minimised and local vendors are not affected greatly and are in continuous dialogue with all stakeholders," the Army Chief said. He said the Indian Army has invested heavily in indigenisation of supply chains and inventory over the last few years. "So this crisis will not affect us as adversely as other countries. Most of our ongoing procurement are under 'buy Indian' categories from Indian industries which retain adequate reserves of assemblies/sub-assemblies from foreign suppliers to cater for contingencies," Gen Naravane said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/roll-out-of-integrated-battle-groups-delayed-due-coronavirus-pandemic-army-chief-m-m-naravane-835864.html
10-05-2020||National||21 Indians from Uzbekistan brought to Delhi||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Sunday said 21 Indians from Uzbekistan have arrived in Delhi and the flight will be carrying back Uzbek nationals and Indian medicine assistance to Tashkent. "21 Indians from Uzbekistan have just arrived in Delhi on board UZB 3561. The flight will be carrying back Uzbek nationals and Indian medicine assistance to Tashkent. Good work by Team @amb_tashkent  under Ambassador @santjha #VandeBharatMission," Jaishankar said in a tweet. The Indians have been brought back under the government's Vande Bharat Mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/21-indians-from-uzbekistan-brought-to-delhi-835877.html
10-05-2020||National||Home quarantined cancer patient dies in UP's Deoria, samples taken for COVID-19 test||A 55-year-old cancer patient who was home quarantined in Uttar Pradesh's Deroria after returning from Mumbai three days ago died on Sunday. The health authorities have taken his samples for coronavirus testing, though no infection symptoms were found. Chief Medical Officer Dr Alok Pandey said Visham Singh (55), a resident of Haraiyya Basantpur village, was a cancer patient who was undergoing treatment in Mumbai. On May 7, he came to Deoria from Mumbai after which he was home quarantined, the CMO said, adding that Singh died on Sunday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-quarantined-cancer-patient-dies-in-ups-deoria-samples-taken-for-covid-19-test-835879.html
10-05-2020||National||Lightning strikes Ambala jail premises, no loss of life or property||Lightning struck at the Ambala central jail premises on Sunday when heavy showers accompanied by strong winds lashed the city, but no loss of life or damage to property was reported. Heavy showers lashed Ambala and several other parts of Haryana Sunday morning. Jail officials said lightning struck the godown located besides the kitchen of the prison. Some of the bags of grain stored in the godown were damaged, but there was no loss of life or damage to the building, they said. A lightning arrester has been fitted in the jail premises to protect from the damaging effects of lightning, the officials said. Superintendent of the jail, Lakhbir Singh Barar said a few bags of grain were partially damaged due to lightning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lightning-strikes-ambala-jail-premises-no-loss-of-life-or-property-835880.html
10-05-2020||National||PIL in SC seeks revoking order on sale of liquor||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to states to disallow sale of liquor in order to prevent chaos being created due to mass gathering around shops which might defeat the purpose of the national lockdown, clamped to contain COVID-19. Advocate Rajeev Kumar Ranjan sought a stay on the operation of the order of the Ministry of Home Affairs of May 1 that allowed the sale of liquor. This made people throng to shops, thus flouting social distancing norms. The petitioner contended allowing sale of alcohol was clearly infringement of Article 21 of the Constitution, which provided the right to life to every person throughout the country. "The order for allowing mass gathering in such numbers could affect the citizens of the country and their family members and by and large the whole society," his plea claimed. It contended that the situation, where thousands of citizens gathered without any social distancing measures, could be lethal in terms of human lives and all the advantage of the lockdown would be lost. The petitioner wanted the top court order to revoke the order allowing sale of alcohol till the pendency of lockdown caused by the COVID-19 pandemic was over and normalcy in the society returned. He also pointed out that the number of positive cases across the country have been rising and the downward trend was yet to set in. In such circumstances, thousands of thirsty tipplers crowded liquor shops, forcing the police resort to lathicharge and shut shops in some places. Acting on a separate PIL, the top court had, on Friday, May 8, said that states may consider indirect sale and home delivery of liquor due to apparent failure to enforce social distancing at shops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-sc-seeks-revoking-order-on-sale-of-liquor-835883.html
10-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: 366 Shramik Special trains run so far, around 4 lakh migrants ferried, says Indian Railways||The Indian Railways has operated 366 "Shramik Special" trains since May 1 and ferried home around four lakh migrants stranded in various parts of the country amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, officials said. While 287 trains have already reached their destinations, 79 trains are in transit, they said. Out of these 287 trains, 127 terminated in Uttar Pradesh, 87 in Bihar, 24 in Madhya Pradesh, 20 in Odisha, 16 in Jharkhand, four in Rajasthan, three in Maharashtra, two each in Telangana and West Bengal, and one each in Andhra Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, the officials said. These trains have ferried migrants to cities like Tiruchchirappalli, Titlagarh, Barauni, Khandwa, Jagannathpur, Khurda Road, Chhapra, Balia, Gaya, Purnia, Varanasi among others. Every Shramik Special train has 24 coaches, each with a capacity of 72 seats. However, only 54 people are allowed in a coach to maintain social distancing norms and the middle berth is not allotted to any passenger. While the railways has not yet announced the cost incurred on the special services, the officials indicate that the national transporter has spent around Rs 80 lakh per service. The government had earlier stated that the cost of the services has been shared on a 85:15 ratio with states. Since the Shramik Special train service started, Gujarat has remained one of the top originating stations followed by Kerala.  Among the receiving states, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh remain the top states. Earlier, the railways drew flak from opposition parties for charging for these services. In its guidelines, the railways has said the trains will ply only if they have 90 per cent occupancy and the "states should collect the ticket fare".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-366-shramik-special-trains-run-so-far-around-4-lakh-migrants-ferried-says-indian-railways-835885.html
10-05-2020||National||Piyush Goyal appeals states to allow functioning of special trains||With several states making delay in giving approval for running Shramik special trains to transport stranded people, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday appealed to all states to permit the operation of trains so that the stranded can reach home in the next three to four days. "As per the directions of Hon''ble PM @NarendraModi ji, Railways is fully geared up to run 300 Shramik Special trains everyday at short notice since the last six days", Goyal tweeted. "I appeal to all the states to give permission to evacuate and bring back their stranded migrants so that we can get all of them back to their homes in the next 3-4 days itself," the Minister tweeted.  The Minister's appeal comes after a day of Home Minister Amit Shah writing to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to allow such trains to run. The railways has a  capacity to run around 300 trains per day ferrying around 20 lakh migrants in a maximum of five days. However, they said, clearances from states are not forthcoming, especially from states like West Bengal and Rajasthan, which till now have accepted the least number of such trains despite being a significant number of migrant population. As on May 10, the railways operated a total of 366 Shramik Special trains. To operate each train, Railways required written permission from sending and receiving states. The sending states have to make arrangements for identifying and boarding the passengers while receiving states have to make facility for quarantine passengers. The Railways is only acting as carrier and it runs the trains once it gets approval from the states. Out of total cost of operation of a train, Railways is bearing 85 per cent while state government bearing 15 per  cent. The West Bengal government on Saturday claimed it had given clearance to eight trains to run carrying its migrants home. Four of these trains, it said, were to depart on Saturday, which did not. Of the total trains, Uttar Pradesh received maximum trains of 127, followed by Bihar (87), Madhya Pradesh (24), Odhisha (20) and Jharkhand (16). The special  trains have ferried migrants to cities including Titlagarh, Barauni, Khandwa, Jagannathpur, Khurda Road, Prayagraj, Chhapra, Balia, Gaya, Purnia, Varanasi, Darbhanga, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Jaunpur, Hatia, Basti, Katihar, Danapur,Muzzaffarpur and Saharsa. "In each Shramik Special Trains, maximum around 1,200 passengers are allowed to  travel observing social distancing. Proper screening of passengers is ensured before boarding the train. During the journey, passengers are given free meals and water", the Railways said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/piyush-goyal-appeals-states-to-allow-functioning-of-special-trains-835891.html
10-05-2020||National||Maharashtra: 6 test positive, Nanded COVID-19 cases touch 51||The number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra's Nanded district, some 250 kilometres from here, touched 51 after six people tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunday, health officials said. Of the 51 patients, 32 are being treated in Punjab Bhavan and Yatri Niwas and 11 in Shankarrao Chavan Medical College and Hospital. All six who tested positive on Sunday reside at the NRI Yatri Niwas, an official said. Several people who had gone to Punjab after visiting the Gurdwara Hazur Sahib and Langar Sahib here had tested positive for novel coronavirus after which the two religious places were sealed. "The 51 COVID-19 patients include the Punjab returned drivers as well as stranded pilgrims," Civil Surgeon Neelkanth Bhosikar told PTI on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-6-test-positive-nanded-covid-19-cases-touch-51-835894.html
10-05-2020||National||Shivraj Chouhan has populist ideas but deficient in administrative skills: Congress MP Vivek Tankha||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has populist ideas but is deficient in administrative skills, Congress parliamentarian Vivek Tankha said on Sunday, criticising the handling of COVID-19 situations in the BJP-ruled state. Asserting that bureaucracy was inefficient to manage this kind of medical emergency, he suggested involvement of private sector in the management of the crisis across the country. “Shivraj Singh Chouhan is not equipped to deal with such kind of medical emergency. He has populist ideas but is deficient in administrative skills,” Tankha, a Rajya Sabha member from Madhya Pradesh, said. He said the Madhya Pradesh government must take urgent steps to ensure that migrant workers of the state return to their homes safely from wherever they are besides allowing those stranded in the state to move to their respective native places. Expressing condolences over the loss of lives of 16 migrant workers in Maharashtra's Auranagabad, Tankha said it is the responsibility of the state to take care of its citizens or domicile. The workers were walking along the railway tracks to reach their home in Madhya Pradesh. Overcome with exhaustion, they slept on the tracks. They were mowed down by a goods train on Friday. Meanwhile, Tankha's son, Varun, and his lawyer friends from Madhya Pradesh and Delhi have started an online portal www.rahatcorona.com to help the stranded people of the state. “We will be providing this service free of cost to help people of Madhya Pradesh stuck within the state or outside the state,” Varun Tankha, a lawyer by profession, said. He said as the country is under the lockdown, his team will coordinate with the authorities concerned to provide the desired help to the stranded people. “The aim of this initiative is to ensure that no migrant or stranded person faces any hardship,” Varun added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shivraj-chouhan-has-populist-ideas-but-deficient-in-administrative-skills-congress-mp-vivek-tankha-835897.html
10-05-2020||National||Rajinikanth opposes reopening of liquor shops in Tamil Nadu||Nearly a week after the Tamil Nadu government decided to open the TASMAC liquor shops, a move now stayed by the Madras High Court, politician and film icon Rajinikanth has finally broken his silence over the issue.   While asking the AIADMK government to look for “other sources to generate income for the state”, Rajinikanth told the ruling party that it has to “stop dreaming of coming to power again” if it decides to open liquor shops in the state. The statement by Rajinikanth, who is yet to come out clear on when he will launch his political party to fight the 2021 Assembly elections as announced earlier, comes a day after the Tamil Nadu government moved the Supreme Court against the high court’s order to close all liquor shops that were reopened on May 7. “The government should forget about its dream of coming to power again if it reopens TASMAC shops at this juncture. I appeal to the government to look for other sources of income to fill the coffers,” the actor wrote on his Twitter handle.   The Tamil Nadu government reopened TASMAC shops on May 7 after over 40 days but the high court struck down the move saying the conditions imposed by it were not followed at the liquor outlets. The verdict was delivered on a batch of petitions filed by advocates and a functionary of actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam. Rajinikanth’s comments are being seen as yet another indication that he might not take the actual political plunge. In his last media interaction, the actor had spoken about emerging as an “alternative” to the two Dravidian majors – DMK and AIADMK – but put the onus on the people for him to take the political plunge. “To talk about the dream of a party which he considers as an opponent doesn’t augur well for an aspiring politician. This is yet another indication that Rajinikanth might just not come out of his closet and take the political plunge,” a political analyst, who did not want to be named, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajinikanth-opposes-reopening-of-liquor-shops-in-tamil-nadu-835899.html
10-05-2020||National||Time for textiles industry to reorient, stop seeking packages, says Smriti Irani||Union Minister Smriti Irani on Sunday asked the textile industry to reorient itself and not depend on financial packages from the government as its finances are already under strain due to coronavirus pandemic. "It is time for the industry to introspect. The textile industry had been looking for packages or supports. "Now, it is time for a new direction and new thinking. The industry has the capability. If they reorient themselves, they would not require to depend," Irani said in an interaction with members of Merchants' Chamber of Commerce and Industry through a webinar. She cited example of making PPEs for doctors and other healthcare personnel in the last one-and-a-half months. Textile company JCT group in Punjab had sought support to ferry the samples of PPEs to a laboratory in Aurangabad for testing during the lockdown and the government had helped the firm for this, she said. More such interventions were made, Irani said. She told the members of the city-based industry body that "money you expect is public money and now citizens demand details of each penny (spent)". "The government's job is making policy and provide support," the textiles minister said. The government has been doing its best to support all, she said, adding that the Reserve Bank of India has already given relaxations and banks are supporting businesses to tide over the crisis. Irani said the textiles ministry is in discussion with the West Bengal government to work out a plan to help the jute industry. Farmers need 4,500 million tonne of certified jute seeds to improve quality of the golden fibre, and only a part of this is available now, she said. "The National Jute Board is looking at ways to improve quality of jute. The industry has to route its profits towards modernisation to improve quality of jute," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-for-textiles-industry-to-reorient-stop-seeking-packages-says-smriti-irani-835900.html
10-05-2020||National||Lawyers move SC for opening chambers||Two lawyers have filed a plea in the Supreme Court for allowing opening of their offices and physical filing of petitions, saying most of them were not well versed with e-filing and were at disadvantageous position. Petitioners Pradeep Kumar Yadav and Vishal Thakre, in their joint petition, contended the Union government had already issued directions on May 4 for opening of the offices with 33 per cent strength. The Supreme Court and Delhi High Court should allow opening of the registry and lawyers chambers, for effective discharge of their professional duties allowed under the Constitution and the Advocates Act, they said. "The advocates are facing economic hardship due to this extension of lockdown and are not in a position of to maintain themselves and the support staff," they also said. They also wanted issuance of special permission for advocates to commute in the National Capital Region (NCR) areas to their respective chambers so that their work should not be affected. "Numerous advocates practicing at the Supreme Court of India and the High Court, residing surrounding areas of Delhi, are not being permitted by authorities to commute across borders, affecting their right to livelihood and others like clerk, peon, typist and other employees," they said. Besides, the petitioners said during the lockdown, the Supreme Court was accepting PDF versions of the fresh petitions and the size limit of the petitions was fixed as 5 MB. When a file is converted into PDF including the signatures and annexures, the size of the file goes beyond the limit, so it should be raised from 5 MB to 20 MB, they pleaded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-move-sc-for-opening-chambers-835903.html
10-05-2020||National||For this Uttar Pradesh family, coronavirus lockdown proves to be a blessing in disguise||Sadanand, a migrant worker, had started off on a bicycle from Punjab’s Patiala along with his wife and two children for his native place in Uttar Pradesh’s Ambedkar Nagar amid the coronavirus lockdown on April 29. But he had to halt his journey in Haryana’s Ambala on the same day as his three-year-old son developed some health complications. Sadanand approached police on the Haryana-Punjab border for medical assistance, which took the child to Ambala Chief Medical Officer Dr Kuldeep Singh. Later, doctors found that the child had a hole in his heart. Now, Sadanand considers himself fortunate that his son’s ailment was detected before he reached his village in Uttar Pradesh. “I consider myself lucky that I was stranded during the lockdown and it came as a blessing in disguise,” he says. Initially, the child was sent to a private hospital in Punjab. Sadanand did not have enough money, so he came back to Ambala as he was told that the treatment was expensive. The child was then admitted to the Mission Hospital, Ambala City, for further medical investigation and treatment. Hospital director Dr Sunil Sadik said after several tests, they reached a conclusion that the child required an immediate surgery. The hospital has been providing free lodging and meal to the family for the past one week. Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel, who had come to the hospital to inaugurate a blood donation camp, announced to contribute Rs 31,000 for the child’s treatment on behalf of his NGO. He assured to arrange the rest of the amount as the cost of treatment was estimated to be Rs 3.5 lakh. In the meantime, the Rotary Club, Ambala, came forward and announced to bear a major portion of the cost. The child will be taken to a private hospital in Panchkula on Monday, where he will be operated upon. Sadanand says if he had returned to his native village, no such financial assistance would have been immediately possible and the child's life could have been in danger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-this-uttar-pradesh-family-coronavirus-lockdown-proves-to-be-a-blessing-in-disguise-835904.html
10-05-2020||National||Noida: COVID-19 tally rises to 218, 135 discharged; recovery rate 61.92%||Two more people, including an octogenarian woman, have tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar, taking the number of cases in the district to 218, officials said on Sunday. On a brighter note, 14 more patients got discharged from a hospital after treatment for COVID-19. With this, the number of people cured of the disease in the district reaches 135 and that of active cases comes down to 81, the officials said. "Total 33 reports have been received in the last 24 hours of which two were positive and the rest negative for COVID-19," District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said, adding that the number of confirmed cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar stands at 218. The new patients are a 40-year-old man and an 80-year-old woman, both from Noida's sector 22, the officer said in a statement. Also, 14 patients – six women and eight men – were discharged from the Sharda Hospital on Sunday after successful COVID-19 treatment, he said. "So far, 135 of the 218 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 81 active cases in the district," the surveillance officer said. The recovery rate of patients is 61.92 per cent, as per official statistics of the district administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/noida-covid-19-tally-rises-to-218-135-discharged-recovery-rate-6192-835908.html
10-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Act swiftly to pep up economy, DMK tells AIADMK govt||The DMK on Sunday asked the AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu to take expeditious steps to revive the economy and include representatives of sectors including micro, small and medium enterprises and parties in a high level committee tasked to guide the government to overcome COVID-19 challenges. The Dravidian party president M K Stalin, wanted appointment of representatives of agriculture, weaving and fisheries besides political parties that have representation in the Assembly to apanel headed by former Reserve Bank of India governor C Rangarajan. On May 9, the government notified constitution of a high level panel headed by Rangarajan, former Governor of Reserve Bank of India in which economists, experts and officials will be members. An important aspect of the Terms of Reference (ToR) is a mandate to suggest measures to help important sectors of the economy to overcome the impact of COVID-19 pandemic, identify specific reform measures to be taken up by the State government to support and promote the growth of important sectors of the economy. The 21-member panel will examine fiscal challenges facing the state owing to the pandemic and suggest the way forward to improve its fiscal position. The committee has been tasked to submit its report to the government within three months. Welcoming the setting up of the panel, he wondered as towhy representatives of a host of sectors like MSMEs and elected representatives were not appointed to the panel. Stalin, who is also the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly batted for an interim report in a month and initiation of expeditious remedial measures to pep up the economy. The State budget's (2020-21) applicability to the present context has got altered to a large extent in view of the pandemic and the government should deliberate about planning afresh, he said in a statement here. To revive economy and industrial growth, and to help people return to normalcy, efforts should be made 'at least from now on' for coordination at all levels and Chief Minister K Palaniswami must get onto 'implementation mode' realising the 'duty and responsibility,' he said. Asking the government to take efforts on a war-footing on the economy front, he assured DMK's "constructive support' as the main opposition party to the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-act-swiftly-to-pep-up-economy-dmk-tells-aiadmk-govt-835910.html
10-05-2020||National||Exapts disappointed as repatriation flight from Doha to Kerala capital is cancelled||For 180 odd Keralites who reached Doha airport on Sunday morning eager to return home it turned out to be a disappointing day with the Air India Express repatriation flight being cancelled and rescheduled as permission for landing in the Qatar capital was not given. The flight, which was to have left from the Karipur Airport in Kozhikode to airlift the passengers from Doha and bring them here,had not been given landing permission from the Interior Ministry of Qatar following which it has been cancelled, Thiruvananthapuram District Collector K Gopalakrishnan said. "It has been re-scheduled for Tuesday. We are in regular contact with the Indian embassy," he told reporters here. All the 181 passengers, including 15 pregnant women and children,had already reached the Doha airport by 11 am to take the flight as they were directed. According to A Revathy, a passenger, who was booked on the cancelled flight, said it was disappointing that after the long wait they could not take the flight. Only after relatives of some passengers from Kerala called them and enquired, Doha airport officials told them that the flight had been cancelled,she told a television channel. India has started the repatriation of its citizens stranded in various countries, especially expatriates from Kerala in Gulf nations, since Friday and around 1,500 people have already arrived in the state by air and sea route. In anticipation of the arrival of the flight, the airport and district authoritieshere conducted thirdmock drill on Sunday morningand completed all preparations to receive the passengers from Qatar, returning home after being stranded there due to the coronavirus lockdown. The collector said they had not received details, as of now, on why the landing permissionhad not been received. The flight was to have left from Kozhikode airport around 1.30 pm to Doha and reach the state capital at 10.45 pm. Meanwhile, Congress MP Adoor Prakash shot off a letter to Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri stating that the last minute cancellation of the flight was "disappointing". "The reason for last minute moment cancellation of this flight is not clear. It is very disappointing for our citizens including, pregnant women and those who require immediate treatment" stranded in Qatar," Prakash said in the letter. He also wanted immediate steps for operation of the flight from Doha without further delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exapts-disappointed-as-repatriation-flight-from-doha-to-kerala-capital-is-cancelled-835915.html
10-05-2020||National||DRDO lab develops UV system to sanitise gadgets, currency notes||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed an automated and contactless ultraviolet sanitisation cabinet to sanitise electronic gadgets, currency notes and papers, the Defence Ministry said on Sunday, as the country fights the COVID-19 outbreak. The system, Defence Research Ultraviolet Sanitiser (DRUVS), provides a 360-degree exposure of ultraviolet rays to objects placed inside the cabinet. Once the sanitisation is done, the system goes in sleep mode, hence, the operator need not wait or stand near the device. It is developed by DRDO's Research Centre Imarat (RCI) lab and works on contactless operation, which is very important to contain the spread of the virus, the ministry noted. The ministry noted that the DRUVS has been designed to sanitise mobile phones, iPads, laptops, currency notes, cheque leafs, challans, passbooks, paper, envelopes, etc. India has been under a lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected more than 62,900 people and killed around 2,100 in the country till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-lab-develops-uv-system-to-sanitise-gadgets-currency-notes-835918.html
10-05-2020||National||SC to take up plea by Arnab Goswami against fresh FIR||The Supreme Court is going to consider on Monday a plea by Republic TV's Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami for quashing a fresh FIR registered against him at Mumbai on May 2 in relation to a show telecast on April 14-15. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah would also take up a plea by the Maharashtra government to take a "serious cognisance" of endeavour made by Goswami to allegedly interfere with the investigation and browbeat police officers in an FIR lodged against him for promoting enmity among others. The top court had on April 24 granted him interim protection of three weeks and stayed any coercive actions against him in over 100 FIRs registered across the country. However, it had asked him to cooperate in one FIR initially registered in Nagpur and subsequently transferred to Mumbai. The cases were triggered after Goswami on April 21 questioned Congress president Sonia Gandhi's silence in the lynching of two Hindu seers and their driver in Palghar on April 16. However, on May 2, a fresh case was lodged against him with Pydhonie Police Station, Mumbai, based on a complaint filed by one Irfan Abubakar Shaikh with regard to a programme on "fake migrant crisis in Maharashtra in relation to gathering in Bandra". In his writ petition, Goswami said the instant FIR was a part of a well-coordinated and orchestrated, widespread and malicious  campaign to coerce and harass him by the Mumbai Police, the Congress party and Maharashtra government. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government also approached the top court to restrain Goswami from "abusing" interim protection of three weeks granted to him on April 24. It claimed the tweets and debate by his TV showed that he was not cooperating with the investigation and on the contrary interfering with it. "By making personal allegations against the Mumbai Police commissioner, the petitioner is trying to intimidate the policy by implying that he will spare nobody and will launch an investigation against the police officers," it alleged. Goswami had already faced over 12 hours of questioning by the Mumbai police earlier this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-take-up-plea-by-arnab-goswami-against-fresh-fir-835923.html
10-05-2020||National||No COVID-19 case reported in 10 states, UTs in last 24 hours: Harsh Vardhan||No COVID-19 case has been reported in 10 states and Union territories in the last 24 hours and the recovery rate has increased to over 30 per cent, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday, asserting that India was moving fast on the path of success in the fight against the pandemic. According to health ministry data, 1,511 COVID-19 patients recovered in the last 24 hours -- the highest number of recoveries recorded in one day. India carried out 86,000 tests for COVID-19 on Saturday and India's testing capacity now stands at 95,000 samples per day, Vardhan told reporters after inspecting a COVID-19 care centre in the Mandoli area in the national capital. India had started from one laboratory and now there are 472 laboratories testing for COVID-19, he said. There are 4362 corona care centres across the country where 3,46,856 patients with mild or very mild symptoms can be kept, he said. "We are moving fast on path of success in the fight against COVID-19. The doubling rate for the last three days is 12 (days). The recovery rate has crossed 30 per cent. Out of around 60,000 COVID-19 patients, about 20,000 have recovered and gone home," Vardhan said. "Our mortality rate is still at 3.3 per cent.... In the last 24 hours, there has been no case in 10 states and Union territories. There are four states or Union territories where there has not been a single case till now," Vardhan said. India has total 36 states and Union territories. He also said that central teams are being sent to Delhi and nine states to assist their governments in managing the outbreak. The states where teams are being sent are Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and West Bengal. The government is making all efforts at every level to ensure that no stone is left unturned in the fight against COVID-19 anywhere and states are given all help they need, Vardhan said. "The Central government has distributed 72 lakh N95 masks and 36 lakh personal protective equipment kits to the States so far," he said. Vardhan also hailed the "corona warriors" for their untiring efforts in the fight against coronavirus. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,109 and the number of cases climbed to 62,939 in the country on Sunday, registering an increase of 128 deaths and 3,277 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-covid-19-case-reported-in-10-states-uts-in-last-24-hours-harsh-vardhan-835929.html
10-05-2020||National||25 fresh cases in Jammu and Kashmir, COVID-19 tally climbs to 861||Twenty-five more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, bringing the number of cases to 861 in the union territory in Jammu and Kashmir reached 861, officials said. The fresh cases include a nurse and three contacts of a doctor who had earlier tested positive for novel coronavirus, the officials said. While 23 new cases are from the Kashmir Valley, two are from Jammu region, they said. The officials said the number of cases in Jammu and Kashmir has now reached 861. "Of the total number of cases, 790 are in Kashmir, while 71 are in the Jammu region," they added. Among the fresh cases are a nursing staff at Super Speciality Hospital Shireen Bagh here and three contacts of a COVID-19 positive doctor of the same hospital, said Dr Salim Khan, Nodal Officer, COVID-19 at Government Medical College Srinagar. He said a person from Kupwara, who has travelled from Jammu by road but was intercepted by police and then sampled at TRC here, has also tested positive. An employee of Government Medical College here has also tested positive, Khan said. The officials said while there were 469 active cases in the union territory -- 454 in Kashmir and 15 in Jammu -- 383 patients have recovered from the infection. The UT has witnessed nine coronavirus-related deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-fresh-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-861-835931.html
10-05-2020||National||Bihar records sixth death; 44 migrants out of 49 positive cases in last 24 hrs||The latest figures in Bihar should be a cause of worry. Of all the 49 positive cases recorded in the State in the last 24 hours, 44 are migrants. Besides, Sunday saw the death of sixth COVID-19 patient in Bihar, who, too, incidentally was a migrant and had returned to Patna from Ghaziabad (near Delhi) a couple of days back. “The 60-year-old patient was quarantined after his return from Delhi but was admitted to Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) on May 8 after he complained of lungs problem. He died on Sunday,” said a Health Department official. Meanwhile, the total coronavirus positive cases in Bihar has now increased to 646. But more worrying is the sharp increase of COVID-19 patients who have come from outside the State. In the last one week, more than one lakh migrant workers have arrived in Bihar in 85 Shramik Special trains, with each carrying around 1200 passengers.    Till Friday, 96 migrants had tested positive out of total 597 positive cases in the State which essentially meant that 16 per cent COVID-19 patients were migrants. However, alarm bells rang on Sunday when Bihar’s Principal Secretary, Health, Sanjay Kumar tweeted: “Of the 49 who tested COVID-19 +ve yesterday, 44 are migrants who have come from different parts of the country.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-records-sixth-death-44-migrants-out-of-49-positive-cases-in-last-24-hrs-835933.html
10-05-2020||National||61 more COVID-19 cases detected in Punjab; total now 1,823||Sixty-one more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Punjab on Sunday, taking the number of confirmed cases in the state to 1,823, officials said here. Of the fresh cases, 35 are in Rupnagar, eight each in Amritsar and Fatehgarh Sahib, seven in Mohali and one each in Moga, Kapurthala and Patiala, as per a medical bulletin issued here. With nine more patients discharged from hospitals, the number of those cured of the infection rises to 166 in the state. Five patients in Jalandhar, two in Mohali and one each in Mansa and Pathankot were discharged after being declared fully cured, the bulletin said. Amritsar continued to top the COVID-19 tally in the state with 295 cases, followed by Jalandhar (175), Tarn Taran (157), Ludhiana (125), Gurdaspur (116), SBS Nagar (103), Mohali (102), Patiala (97), Hoshiarpur (90), Sangrur (88), Muktsar (65), Moga (57), Rupnagar (55), Faridkot (44), Ferozepur (43), Bathinda (40), Fazilka (39), Fatehgarh Sahib (36), Pathankot (29), Kapurthala (25), Barnala (21) and Mansa with 20 cases, as per the bulletin. Thirty-one fatalities have been recorded so far, it added. Two patients are critical and on ventilator support, the bulletin stated. A total of 40,962 samples have been taken so far for testing in the state. Reports of 3,845 samples are awaited.  There are 1,626 active cases in the state as of now, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/61-more-covid-19-cases-detected-in-punjab-total-now-1823-835934.html
10-05-2020||National||14 more succumb to COVID-19 in West Bengal, toll crosses 100 mark||The death toll from COVID-19 crossed the 100 mark in West Bengal on Sunday with 14 more people succumbing to the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the fatalities to 113, a state government bulletin said. The state also reported 153 fresh cases, the highest in a day so far. Of the 14 deaths, Kolkata alone accounted for 10. West Bengal has so far reported 1,939 coronavirus cases of which 1,337 are active cases. As many as 4,046 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and a total of 43,414 since the outbreak of the viral disease, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-west-bengal-toll-crosses-100-mark-835935.html
10-05-2020||National||Delhi govt warns of action against hospitals for delay in reporting COVID-19 deaths; issues SOP||Facing criticism for "under reporting" COVID-19 deaths, the Delhi government on Sunday warned hospitals and other health facilities of strict action in case of any delay in reporting of coronavirus fatalities and also issued an SOP. Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev issued the order along with the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) under which all COVID-19 hospitals and other facilities will e-mail a 'death report' to the district and state surveillance units everyday by 5 pm. In the order, Dev said it has come to the notice of the government that public and private hospitals (both COVID-19 dedicated and non COVID-19 hospitals) are not reporting deaths caused by the virus in a timely and regular manner. It has also been observed that despite repeated reminders, the death summaries of the deceased are not being provided to the death audit committee leading to submission of "incorrect or delayed reports". Officials of the 10 hospitals treating COVID-19 patients have said the number of people dead due to the virus is higher than what the Delhi government's bulletin reflects. "Every COVID-19 hospital and other health facilities will appoint nodal officers who will ensure timely communication of deaths. MS (medical superintendent)/MD (medical director) / Directors of all concerned hospitals will ensure this on a daily basis without fail," Dev said in the order. If there is a delay in reporting of deaths, the MS, MD or nodal officer of the 'defaulter hospital' will have to file a written explanation, the official order said. "Even if no death has happened, even then a NIL report shall be furnished by email to IDSP Cell for the compilation of death data," Dev said. The death audit committee will meet daily at 5.30 pm for examining the death report due to COVID-19, it stated, adding that the committee will examine and see all the relevant documents and after due diligence will declare "death due to COVID-19 or otherwise". “Non-compliance will be viewed seriously and strict action as per the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act as well as other relevant laws will be taken against the defaulters without any further notice," the chief secretary said. On Saturday, Congress leader Ajay Maken had sought more transparency from the Kejriwal government while Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari urged the chief minister to "tell the truth" about COVID-19 deaths in the city, saying people have a right to know about the severity of the outbreak. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that said 75 per cent of COVID-19 cases in the city are asymptomatic or showing mild symptoms, and asserted that the number of serious patients and deaths caused by the infection is "less". "The number of serious patients is less. The number of COVID-19 -19 deaths is very less," he said, a day after his government was attacked for "under reporting" the deaths. A confusion has prevailed over the exact number of deaths in the national capital as the data from four hospitals showed that 92 people succumbed to the infection against 68 reported by the Delhi government till Friday. However, Kejriwal said on Sunday that 73 people have died due to the virus in the city. He said Delhi has reported 6,923 coronavirus cases, out of which 2,069 have recovered, while 91 patients are in ICU and 27 are on ventilator support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-warns-of-action-against-hospitals-for-delay-in-reporting-covid-19-deaths-issues-sop-835938.html
10-05-2020||National||India readies 6.5 lakh beds to fight COVID-19||As COVID-19 cases mount, India has readied more than 6.5 lakh beds at 7,740 facilities across 483 districts to meet the challenge posed by the outbreak. With migrant workers returning to their home states in huge numbers and Indians stranded abroad returning, this infrastructure is expected to witness its toughest test in the days to come. At a review meeting called by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Sunday, officials from Bihar flagged concerns over the migrant workers spreading infections in the state and cautioned that all districts in the eastern state, which has largely remained unaffected, could turn into red zones. As on Sunday, health authorities have identified 7,740 facilities across 483 districts to attend to COVID-19 patients. These facilities are part of the Centre’s three-tier approach in treating patients with the infection. “There are 6,56,769 isolation beds – 3,05,567 beds for confirmed cases, 3,51,204 beds for suspected cases, 99,492 oxygen supported beds, 1,696 facilities with oxygen manifolds and 34,076 ICU beds,” a health ministry statement said. As of Sunday morning, India had 62,939 confirmed cases of COVID-19, an increase of 3,277 in a single day, while the death toll increased sharply by 128, to 2,109. A DH COVID-19 Tracker put the confirmed cases at 64,555 and total deaths at 2,133 at 7:30 p.m. on Sunday. On the brighter side, 19,358 persons have recovered from the infection since the first case was reported in the country on January 30. “Based on the active COVID-19 confirmed cases being treated as on date, we have noticed that only 2.48% of these cases have required ICU facility, only 1.94%of them have required oxygen support while mere 0.40% have required ventilator support,” Health Minister Harshvardhan said. He said 10 smaller states and Union Territories – A&N Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Goa, J&K, Ladakh, Manipur, Odisha, Mizoram and Puducherry – had not reported a fresh case in the last 24 hours. Moreover, Sikkim, Nagaland, Daman & Diu, and Lakshadweep have not reported a single case till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-readies-65-lakh-beds-to-fight-covid-19-835948.html
10-05-2020||National||BoisLockerRoom: Girl sends message of rape threat to test friend's character||The 'BoisLockerRoom' case took a turn with Delhi Police on Sunday claiming that one of the leaked conversations of an Instagram group about sexually assaulting a student was actually a personal chat between a girl hiding behind the identity of a boy to a friend to test his character. The leakage of conversations in 'BoisLockerRoom', a group in popular App Instagram where school and college students shared morphed images and sexually explicit chats, had enraged people for its misogynistic content. During investigations, police had earlier arrested an 18-year-old boy, who was the admin of the 'BoisLockerRoom', besides detaining a minor who was also a member of the group. More than 24 students connected with the case have been interviewed or questioned and their devices have been seized have been sent for forensic analysis. Some of the screenshots that were shared in social media showed comments like "I will rape her easily" while some others threatened to leak nude photos of girls who unravelled the group. Later, the Instagram account was deleted while it re-emerged in a different avatar while some others moved to Snapchat. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy said efforts are being made to identify remaining members of the group. Instagram has so far shared "partial information" about three Instagram accounts involved in such chats, Roy said. During investigations, Roy said in a press statement, among the various screenshots of 'BoisLockerRoom' shared on social media platforms was the screenshot of a "one-to-one" Snapchat conversation where one 'Siddharth' was suggesting a plan of an "aggravated sexual assault of a girl" to another boy. "Investigation has revealed that the alleged Snapchat conversation is actually between a girl (sender) and a boy (receiver) in which the girl is sending chat messages through a fictional Snapchat account named 'Siddharth'. Using the fake identity of a male person, she suggested in the chat, a plan to sexually assault herself," Roy said. He said the girl's purpose was to check the "reaction of the boy and the strength of his character, especially when someone talks bad things about the girl herself". However, the boy refused to be part of any such plan and stopped communicating with 'Siddharth'. The boy then took a screenshot of the chat and informed his friends, including the girl who actually sends him the message without knowing the real story. The girl, Roy said, did not reveal to him or any other friends that she was behind that particular chat and why she did that. "One of the other recipients of the screenshot, however, posted it as an Instagram story for some time, from where it started circulating in connected social media accounts of friends, schoolmates, etc. When the Bois Locker Room Instagram screenshots were revealed to others and started circulating on social media, the alleged Snapchat conversation also got mixed with it due to its sensational nature and due to its availability in different student groups," Roy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boislockerroom-girl-sends-message-of-rape-threat-to-test-friends-character-835953.html
10-05-2020||National||AIIMS doctor removes protective gear to save critical COVID-19 patient; advised 14-day quarantine||A senior resident doctor of AIIMS has been advised 14-day quarantine after he took off his protective gear and put himself at grave risk to save a critical coronavirus patient while shifting him to the Intensive Care Unit, a senior official said. “Zahid Abdul Majeed, a native from Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir, was not even able to break his (Ramzan) fast when he was called for shifting a COVID-19 intubated patient to the ICU in the AIIMS Trauma Centre, which has been converted as a dedicated COVID-19 hospital,” Srinivas Rajkumar T, General Secretary, AIIMS Resident Doctors' Association, New Delhi said. The incident took place inside an ambulance around 2 am on May 8. When Majeed reached the ambulance, he noted difficulty in ventilating the patient and suspected ‘accidental extubation’. "I immediately decided to re-intubate. Owing to poor visibility through the PPE inside the ambulance, I decided to remove the goggles and face shield, and then re-intubated the patient as any delay would have led to imminent death of the patient," he said. Majeed did not think twice before taking full-blown aerosol exposure from the patient and got exposed to the highest possible viral load just to deliver his duty, Rajkumar said. It is important that the people of this country understand that we have a common enemy in COVID-19 and we have to be united against the enemy and not fight among ourselves. Have empathy for patients, fellow workers, health care providers and every living being around you, the official said. "Zahid Abdul Majeed has been a compassionate doctor dedicated to his work. The RDA AIIMS appreciates the dedication of all residents who have stood in solidarity in the fight against the virus in spite of shortcomings and less than ideal work conditions all over the country. “Senior doctors should appreciate their work and keep their morale high, take their feedback seriously and improve the working conditions," Rajkumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-doctor-removes-protective-gear-to-save-critical-covid-19-patient-advised-14-day-quarantine-835954.html
10-05-2020||National||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr tests COVID-negative, but condition remians critical||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr, a triple Olympic gold medallist, whose condition continued to remain critical, on Sunday tested negative for coronavirus. "His COVID-19 report is negative," the 96-year-old's maternal grandson, Kabir told PTI. Balbir Sr was admitted to Fortis hospital at Mohali on Friday evening with complaints of pneumonia. "His condition is still critical, he continues to remain on ventilator. Though slightly better than what he was upon admission to the hospital, he is not yet stable," Kabir said. Balbir Sr was taken to the private hospital from his residence in Sector 36 in Chandigarh, where he lives with his daughter Sushbir and Kabir. Balbir Sr was running high fever on Thursday night. Initially, the family tried to manage by giving him sponge baths at home but his conditions didn't improve so they shifted him to the hospital. In January last year, Balbir Sr was discharged from PGIMER, Chandigarh after spending 108 days in the hospital, where he underwent treatment for bronchial pneumonia. "It is an unparalleled achievement and credit to his grit that he could recover at the age of 95 from the scenario of bronchial pneumonia and near cardiac failure that he was initially admitted with," Prof Jagat Ram, Director PGIMER had then said when the former India captain was discharged.   During the 2012 London Olympics, the iconic centre forward was honoured as the only Indian among 16 chosen Olympic legends across modern Olympic history. His world record for most goals scored by an individual in the men's hockey final of the Olympics still remains unbeaten. He had scored five goals in India's 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Helsinki Games. He was conferred with the Padma Shri in 1957 and was also manager of India's only World Cup winning team in 1975.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hockey-legend-balbir-singh-sr-tests-covid-negative-but-condition-remians-critical-835959.html
10-05-2020||National||Open letter against Pulitzer prize to two Kashmir-based photojournalists||More than 100 personalities from different walks of life have written an open letter to the Pulitzer board objecting to the award given to two Kashmir-based photojournalists and said by awarding them the jury is promoting journalism of lies, misrepresentation of facts and separatism. Channi Anand, Mukhtar Khan and Dar Yasin are the three Indian photojournalists who were given the 2020 Pulitzer Prize in the Feature Photography category for their coverage on Kashmir. In the open letter written to the administrator, board and jury of the Pulitzer Prize 2020, they raised objection to the award given to Khan and Yasin, claiming that both used the term “India controlled Kashmir” in captions of their pictures. Underlining that the purpose of the Pulitzer Prize is to encourage free journalism, the letter states, “Ironically, by giving the prize to photographers like Dar Yasin and Mukhtar Khan, you are promoting journalism and photography of lies, misrepresentation of facts and separatism." The letter said the name of Channi Anand has not been included in the letter because his photo does not malign India and unlike the other two photojournalists, it does not use the term Indian controlled Kashmir. In the letter, the objection has also been raised against the usage of the phrases such as "contested territory of Kashmir” and India revoked its independence, executed through a communications black out in the citation of the award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/open-letter-against-pulitzer-prize-to-two-kashmir-based-photojournalists-835964.html
10-05-2020||National||Biggest single day COVID-19 spike in West Bengal||West Bengal witnessed its biggest single-day spike on Sunday both in terms of deaths directly due to COVID-19 and number of fresh cases. With 14 new deaths in the last 24 hours, the number of deaths directly due to the virus went up to 113. Earlier 72 patients have died in the state due to co-morbidities. The number of cases also saw its highest increase in a single day in the state with 153 cases in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state stands at 1939 out which 1337 are active cases. Kolkata continued to remain on top in terms of deaths and fresh cases. Currently, there are 614 active cases in the city and 74 have died directly due to COVID-19. There have been 52 deaths in the state capital due to co-morbidities.   So far 417 patients have been discharged in the state after being cured and 43,414 samples have been tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biggest-single-day-covid-19-spike-in-west-bengal-835965.html
10-05-2020||National||India sends teams to help states with coronavirus containment efforts||By Divya Patil India’s health ministry will send a team of experts to assist with containment efforts for the coronavirus epidemic in the ten worst-affected states as the nation struggles to curb the outbreak amid the world’s most expansive lockdown. Each team will consist of a senior ministry official, a junior government official and a public health expert, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said in a statement. Maharashtra, whose capital Mumbai has emerged as the epicenter of the virus in India, as well as Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Rajasthan are among the ten states where the ministry is dispatching the teams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sends-teams-to-help-states-with-coronavirus-containment-efforts-835972.html
10-05-2020||National||Tamil Nadu workers stuck in Maharashtra reach Trichy by special train||Nearly 1,000 workers from Tamil Nadu, stranded in Maharashtra, reached Tiruchirappalli on Sunday by a special train, a senior Southern Railway official said. As workers belonging to other states and stuck in Tamil Nadu have been leaving for their respective states, 969 men arrived at Tiruchirappalli from Pandharpur in Maharashtra. "Shramik Special from Pandharpur (Maharashtra) arrived at Trichy at 11:50 am with 969 passengers belonging to Tamilnadu. District and Railway authorities received them after letting them go through health formalities. They proceeded to their native districts by buses arranged by the district officials," Southern Railway General Manager said on his twitter handle. On Saturday, special trains were operated from a couple of cities in Tamil Nadu to various destinations. A train left for Jagannathpur in Odisha from here with 1,038 passengers, and another ferrying 1,126 people to Danapur in Bihar departed from Katpadi (Vellore). Also, 2,280 people (1,140 passengers in each train) began their journey to Jaunpur and Akbarpur, both in Uttar Pradesh, by two separate trains from Coimbatore. On May 8, a train was operated to Saharsa in Bihar from Coimbatore with 1,140 guest workers.  "Wish all of them have a safe journey. I am glad they will be with their family soon," Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami had said. Thermal screening of passengers was done at the railway stations and people were requested to maintain individual distancing throughout their journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-workers-stuck-in-maharashtra-reach-trichy-by-special-train-835973.html
10-05-2020||National||COVID-19: India displays its maritime might in response to China’s moves in Indian Ocean||From a not-so-subtle display of its maritime might, while repatriating its citizens stranded in the Maldives to sending a navy ship with food and medicines to help Madagascar, Comoros, Seychelles and Mauritius to deal with the COVID-19 crisis, India is responding to China’s bid to spread its tentacles in Indian Ocean region.  The Indian Navy ship, INS Jalaswa, reached Kochi on the south-west coast of India on Sunday, bringing home 698 citizens, who got stranded in the Maldives due to the travel and transport curbs enforced to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. It was escorted by the other warships of the western fleet of the Indian Navy during its voyage from Male to Kochi – sending out a message to China’s People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN), which of late deployed research vessels, underwater drones as well as its 35th Task Force in the Indian Ocean. The Indian Navy warships are likely to repeat the show-of-strength during the INS Magar’s voyage from Male to Kochi, repatriating 200 more citizens, who were stranded in the Maldives. The INS Jalaswa and INS Magar are likely to continue what New Delhi named as Operation “Samudra Setu” – bringing back home in the coming days more citizens from the Indian Ocean archipelago to Thoothukudi on the south-east coast of India.    New Delhi also sent another Indian Navy vessel, INS Kesari, to the Maldives and four other Indian Ocean nations – Mauritius, Comoros, Seychelles and Madagascar – with teams of healthcare professionals, medicines and food onboard to help them respond to the COVID-19 crisis.  The rendezvous between INS Jalaswa and other warships on Saturday was intended to reassert India’s naval prowess in the Indian Ocean in response to the Chinese PLA Navy’s move late last month to deploy its 35th Task Force in the region with the stated objective of patrolling the sea lanes to protect vessels from pirates. The task force will have altogether 690 naval personnel, with the missile destroyer Taiyan and frigate Jingzhou joining counter-piracy patrol in the Indian Ocean for the first time. New Delhi has of late been also worried over reports of China deploying a fleet of underwater drones (Unmanned Underwater Vehicles) in the Indian Ocean. The drones were launched by China’s survey vessel Xiangyanghong-06 in December and recovered in February. The stated objective of deploying the drones was conducting scientific research, but they can also be used for military purposes – like detecting and neutralizing underwater mines and helping submarines sail through. The Chinese PLAN’s moves in the region prompted the Indian Navy to issue a statement on April 14, asserting its preparedness to respond to any security threat and stating that it had not lowered its guard in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis and its maritime surveillance aircraft continued scanning the Indian Ocean region for any potential threat. The Indian Navy in September 2019 spotted and chased away China’s research vessel Shiyan 1 in the Exclusive Economic Zone of India near the Andaman and Nicobar islands. New Delhi is however aware that four or five research vessels of China can be spotted in the Indian Ocean, of course beyond the EEZ of India, at any given time. Besides, the Chinese PLAN also deployed submarines in the Indian Ocean, including Shang class Type 093 nuclear-powered ones.      India has also reached out to other nations in the Indian Ocean region to help them deal with the COVID-19 crisis, in order to reassert its role as the “first responder” and to counter China’s bid to push what the Chinese President Xi Jinping recently referred to as “Health Silk Road” initiative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-displays-its-maritime-might-in-response-to-china-s-moves-in-indian-ocean-835976.html
10-05-2020||National||172 control rooms sets up across Jammu to prevent forest fires||The forest department has established 172 control rooms across Jammu region for prevention and control of forest fires, an official spokesperson said on Sunday. The department has also started a toll free number -- 18001807181 where people can share information on forest fires, the spokesperson said. On getting information, the concerned control room and staff would be alerted to ensure immediate response towards dousing the fire and prevent damage to forests and other life forms, the official said. Forest fires witness an increase during this time of the season every year due to rising temperatures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/172-control-rooms-sets-up-across-jammu-to-prevent-forest-fires-835977.html
10-05-2020||National||Coronvairus Lockdown 3.0: Indian Railways to resume services from May 12||Indian Railways on Sunday announced its plan gradual restarting of passenger train operations from  May 12 initially with 15 pairs of trains (30 return journeys). These trains will be run as special trains from New Delhi Station connecting Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi, the government said in a statement.  Following this set of special trains, railways will start more special services on new routes, based on the available coaches after reserving 20,000 coaches for COVID-19 care centres and an adequate number of coaches being reserved to enable operation of up to 300 trains every day as “Shramik Special” for stranded migrants, said a statement from railways. "Ticket booking counters at the railway stations shall remain closed and no counter tickets (including platform tickets) shall be issued. Only passengers with valid confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the railway stations," the statement said.  However,  passengers have to wear face cover and undergo screening at departure.  Only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the train, the statement said. The railways suspended passengers and sub-urban railways services on March 23. It halted operation of over 13 500 trains across the country to fight against COVID-19 pandemic. The railways also stopped the booking of tickets.  However, it only operating only freight trains transporting essential commodities were operating. From May 1 onwards Shramik special trains are being operated to ferry stranded people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronvairus-lockdown-30-indian-railways-to-resume-services-from-may-12-835982.html
10-05-2020||National||7,740 dedicated COVID-19 health facilities in 483 districts identified: Union Health Ministry||A total of 7,740 dedicated COVID-19 facilities in 483 districts have been identified, the Union health ministry said on Sunday, asserting that adequate health infrastructure is in place to fight the pandemic. The public health facilities dedicated to COVID-19 management are categorised into three categories -- Dedicated COVID Hospital (DCH), Dedicated COVID Health Centre (DCHC) and Dedicated COVID Care Centre (DCCC). As on Sunday, 7,740 facilities in 483 districts have been identified in all States/Union Territories that include hospitals and facilities of the State/UT governments as well as the central government, a health ministry statement said. There are 6,56,769 isolation beds, 3,05,567 beds for confirmed cases, 3,51,204 for suspected cases, 99,492 oxygen-supported beds, 1,696 facilities with oxygen manifold and 34,076 ICU beds, it said. All the States/UTs have been requested by the central government to notify and upload the assigned three types of COVID dedicated facilities on their websites for public information and 32 States/UTs have already uploaded the information while the rest are in the process of doing it. In view of the need for further increasing the testing capacity for COVID-19 at National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the procurement of a high-throughput machine as per the recommendations of an Empowered Group was approved. The Cobas 6800 testing machine has been successfully installed at NCDC here, the statement said. NCDC is providing support for testing of samples from Delhi, NCR, Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir and various other states, as per need. Presently the testing capacity at NCDC is about 300-350 tests per day and with Cobas 6800, which has a capacity to test around 1,200 samples in 24 hours, the capacity at NCDC will be significantly enhanced. So far, a total of 19,357 people have been cured, including 1,511 patients who recovered in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said. This takes the total recovery rate to 30.76 per cent. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,109 and the number of cases climbed to 62,939 in the country on Sunday, registering an increase of 128 deaths and 3,277 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the ministry. The health ministry has also explained the basis of classification of COVID-19 dedicated facilities into the three categories. The Dedicated COVID Hospitals are hospitals that offer comprehensive care primarily for those who have been clinically assigned as severe. These hospitals shall have fully equipped ICUs, ventilators and beds with assured oxygen support. These hospitals shall have separate areas for suspect and confirmed cases. The Dedicated COVID Hospitals shall serve as referral centres for the Dedicated COVID Health Centres and the COVID Care Centres. The Dedicated COVID Health Centres are hospitals that offer care for all cases that have been clinically assigned as moderate.  The DCHCs shall have separate areas for suspect and confirmed cases. These hospitals shall have beds with assured oxygen support and every DCHC is mapped to one or more Dedicated COVID Hospitals. The COVID Care Centres shall offer care only for cases that have been clinically assigned as mild or very mild cases or COVID suspect cases. These are makeshift facilities which may be set up by the States/UTs in hostels, hotels, schools, stadiums, lodges, etc., both public and private. These facilities shall have separate areas for suspected and confirmed cases. Every DCCC is mapped to one or more DCHC and at least one DCH for referral purposes, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7740-dedicated-covid-19-health-facilities-in-483-districts-identified-union-health-ministry-835985.html
10-05-2020||National||NIV develops antibody detection test for COVID-19||Scientists at the Pune-based National Institute of Virology have developed and validated an indigenous antibody detection test for COVID-19 and partnered with an Indian pharma firm for its mass-scale production. The test named as ‘COVID Kavach Elisa’ detects IgG antibodies in a blood sample and has been validated at two sites in Mumbai and found to have high sensitivity and specificity. “The robust indigenous IgG ELISA test for antibody detection developed by ICMR-NIV, Pune will play a critical role in surveillance of proportion of the population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus infection,” Health Minister Harshvardhan said. An official statement said the test has an advantage of having much higher sensitivity and specificity as compared to the several rapid test kits which have recently flooded the Indian market. ICMR has transferred the technology to Zydus Cadila for mass-scale production of the ELISA test kits. “Zydus has proactively taken up the challenge to expedite the approvals and commercial production of the ELISA test kits so that they can be made available for use at the earliest,” an official statement said.  It said the test will have the advantage of testing 90 samples together in a single run of 2.5 hours. Moreover, ELISA-based testing is easily possible even at the district level as the kit has an inactivated virus. “There are also minimal bio-safety and bio-security requirements as compared to the real-time RT-PCR test,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niv-develops-antibody-detection-test-for-covid-19-835987.html
10-05-2020||National||NSG medical staff contracts COVID-19; over 745 active cases in CAPFs||A medical staff of the elite counter-terrorism force NSG has contracted the coronavirus disease even as the five central paramilitary forces saw at least 93 new cases taking the total among them to over 745. This is the first COVID-19 case in the commando force raised for special counter-terrorism and anti-hijack duties. Officials said the personnel was posted at the NSG hospital at its garrison in Gurgaon's Manesar and was quarantined immediately after he showed symptoms such as fever. He has been admitted to the referral hospital of the Central Armed Police Forces in Greater Noida. The NSG is a federal contingency force under the Union Home Ministry apart from the five CAPFs -- CRPF, BSF, CISF, ITBP and SSB. As per the data available with PTI, these forces reported 93 cases on Sunday, taking their total to over 745 active cases. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police, that guards the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control with China, reported 56 new cases, all from a camp in Delhi. The mountain-warfare trained force now has 156 active cases. The Border Security Force and the Central Industrial Security Force reported 18 fresh cases each over the last 24 hours. While 16 cases in the BSF were reported from a unit in the border state of Tripura, the CISF saw 17 new cases from its contingent that guards the Mumbai international airport. CRPF, the country's largest paramilitary force with 3.25 lakh personnel, reported one fresh case, taking the tally of its active COVID-19 cases to 233. The Central Reserve Police Force has major cases coming from its two battalions based in Delhi. The Sashastra Seema Bal, which has a strength of 80,000 personnel and mans the Nepal and Bhutan frontiers, reported no fresh case and has the least 18 active coronavirus cases. These forces, with a combined strength of about 10 lakh troops, and the NSG are takers for various security duties including border guarding and combating terrorism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nsg-medical-staff-contracts-covid-19-over-745-active-cases-in-capfs-835991.html
10-05-2020||National||Senior BJD leader & WODC chairman Subhas Chauhan dies||Senior Biju Janata Dal (BJD) leader and Chairman of the Western Odisha Development Council (WODC), Subash Chauhan died at a private hospital here on Sunday following a prolonged illness. He was 54. Chauhan, who was undergoing treatment for liver ailment was a bachelor and breathed his last in the morning, family sources said. Closely associated with the RSS and VHP for many years, the former national Convenor of the Bajrang Dal had quit the BJP and joined the Biju Janata Dal in the run-up to the 2019 general elections. Chauhan was subsequently appointed the chairman of WODC in September last year. A host of dignitaries including Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and Union Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi condoled the demise of Chauhan describing it as a big loss for the state. Expressing deep grief, Patnaik said the contributions made by Chauhan for the welfare of the people will always be remembered by all in the state. Praying for peace for the departed soul, the chief minister in a message conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family. Union Petroleum and Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said he had worked with Chauhan for many years and the state has suffered a big loss in his passing away. Sarangi, Union Minister of State for MSME, Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, described Chauhan as a kind hearted and friendly leader who devoted his life to selfless service of the people. BJP national Vice President and former MP Baijayant Panda said Chauhan was a great organiser and his death was an irreparable loss for Odisha politics. "Saddened to learn of the untimely demise of Subash Chauhan Ji .. A promising public career cut short in its prime," Panda said in a message. Describing Chauhans demise as a huge loss for Odisha, state Transport Minister Padmanabha Behera said, "We are deeply saddened by his untimely demise. He was a great organiser and leader." Chauhan was the state unit president of Hindu Jagran Manch from 1995 to 2000, In 2001, he was made convenor of Hindu Jagran Sammukhya and from 2003 to 2006 Chauban was convenor of the Bajrang Dal in Odisha. From 2006 to 2007 Chauhan worked as Zonal Convenor of Bajrang Dal before being appointed co-convener of the Bajrang Dal at the national level in 2008. He was appointed the national convenor of the Bajrang Dal in July 2010 and held the position till October 2012. The untimely death of Chauhan is a great loss to the state of Odisha, leader of opposition in Odisha Assembly, Pradipta Naik said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-bjd-leader-wodc-chairman-subhas-chauhan-dies-835992.html
10-05-2020||National||Vande Bharat Mission: Five AI repatriation flights handled by Delhi airport on Sunday||Delhi airport on Sunday handled five Air India repatriation flights under Vande Bharat Mission from cities like London and Riyadh, said officials. Air India is to conduct a total of 64 flights between May 7 and May 14 under Vande Bharat Mission, which aims to bring back Indians stranded abroad amid the the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. "On Sunday, Air India operated three flights out of Delhi -- one each to London, Chicago and Riyadh. While the Riyadh flight was empty, the flight to London had around 69 passengers. The Delhi-Chicago flight had 329 passengers," the officials stated. Passengers are being charged for seats on these repatriation flights. "Under the Vande Bharat mission, there were two flights that arrived in Delhi. While the flight from Riyadh had 138 passengers, the flight from London had 313 passengers," the officials noted. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected more than 62,900 people and killed around 2,100 people in the country till now. All scheduled commercial passenger flights have been suspended for this lockdown period. However, cargo flights, medical evacuation flights and special flights permitted by the aviation regulator DGCA are allowed to operate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vande-bharat-mission-five-ai-repatriation-flights-handled-by-delhi-airport-on-sunday-836001.html
10-05-2020||National||Plasma therapy to treat serious COVID-19 patients at Rajasthan hospital shows 'promising' results||Plasma therapy started by Sawai Man Singh (SMS) medical college here to treat serious coronavirus-infected patients has delivered "promising" results so far, a top doctor at the facility said. The therapy has been successfully given to three patients and two more are likely to be administered the same soon. The team of doctors is encouraged with the results, Principal and Controller of SMS medical college Dr Sudhir Bhandari said. Bhandari, who is heading the team which is performing COVID-19 plasma transfusion since last week at the hospital, said three successful therapies have been conducted and the results were "promising". "So far, we have conducted three successful COVID plasma therapies and all the three patients are showing improvement in their clinical state, oxygen saturation and D-dimer levels," he told PTI. "This has given a ray of hope," he added.  A D-dimer test is a blood test that can be used to help rule out the presence of a serious blood clot. Bhandari said the convalescent plasma therapy is being conducted as per the protocol of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and with the permission of the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI). The therapy aims at transfusing plasma (component of blood) containing antibodies donated by a recovered COVID-19 patient to the serious coronavirus patients harbouring an active infection. The patients are given the dose of 200 ml of plasma on two consecutive days, he said. Elaborating on the therapy, Bhandari said the donors of plasma are the COVID-19 patients who have recovered after 21 to 28 days of their illness. Repeat testing is done on recovered patients and when found negative, they are found to be suitable donors. Antibody detection rapid test is also done that shows wether protective antibodies have formed in the recovered patients, he said. "After that, their plasma is obtained for donation and infused into blood group of matched recipients, who are suffering from active corona infection," he said. Bhandari said convalescent plasma or immune globulins has been used as an adjunct therapy to improve the survival rate of COVID-19 patients, whose condition continue to deteriorate despite treatment. He said several studies have shown a shorter hospital stay and lower mortality in patients who are treated with convalescent plasma.  "One possible explanation for the efficacy of convalescent plasma therapy is that the antibodies from convalescent plasma might suppress viremia (the presence of viruses in the blood) by mopping up the inciting viral antigens," he said. Bhandari said standard treatment protocols are being followed in addition to standard medical supportive treatment while treating the COVID-19 patients. "We used Hydroxychloroquine and antiviral Lopinavir 400 mg and Ritonavir 100 mg for the first time in COVID positive patients which ignited thought process and many research trials for treatment of Covid-19 cases."  Convalescent plasma has previously been used against viral illnesses such as rabies, hepatitis B, polio, measles, influenza and Ebola. It was also used in the outbreaks of MERS and SARS-1, where faster viral clearance following convalescent plasma therapy was observed, he said. Bhandari said plasma therapy is a form of passive immunisation, unlike a vaccine, which produces active immunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plasma-therapy-to-treat-serious-covid-19-patients-at-rajasthan-hospital-shows-promising-results-836005.html
10-05-2020||National||Need effective response to overzealous PILs: Ravi Shankar Prasad to law officers||Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sunday told law officers that there must be an effective response to "overzealous" PILs filed during challenging times like the coronavirus lockdown. Interacting with law officers including Attorney General K K Venugopal and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta via video, Prasad also said that the decision-making process of centre and states on issuing guidelines under the Disaster Management Act needs to be "trusted" as it was arrived on after several rounds of consultations involving the prime minister, the chief ministers and top bureaucrats working in central and state governments. "The law minister in particular highlighted that during these challenging times overzealous PILs needs to be avoided. Though one cannot stop anyone from filing cases, there must be an effective response to these types of interventions," a law ministry statement said. At the meet, Solicitor General Mehta explained the nature of cases being filed and the orders being passed by the Supreme Court from time to time, which has upheld the guidelines issued by the government and the action taken. It was felt that in view of the seriousness of the pandemic, court proceedings through video conferencing may remain a norm for some time to come, the statement said. Prasad emphasised on taking this challenge as an opportunity to make digital systems in justice delivery more robust.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-effective-response-to-overzealous-pils-ravi-shankar-prasad-to-law-officers-836006.html
10-05-2020||National||AI Express first evacuation flight: Tense to happy passengers, captain's impromptu message||Mixed expressions on the faces of passengers. Some tense faces at the time of boarding turned happy after landing of the plane. And an impromptu message from the captain that garnered many likes on social media. In a way, these aspects sum up the expectations and relief of stranded Indians abroad as Air India Express ferried 181 people, including four infants, from Abu Dhabi to Kochi on Thursday evening. It was also the first flight under the 'Vande Bharat Mission' wherein nearly 15,000 Indians, stranded in different countries, are to be brought back to the country. "From the cockpit, I could see... there were mixed faces, (some) thrilled, happy... more of a mixed reaction," Anshul Sheoran, who piloted the Abu Dhabi-Kochi flight, told PTI. There were some passengers who had medical conditions and wheelchair requirement. "Then I thought of a passenger announcement. It was impromptu (message)... there was no time to think about," the pilot said referring to the nearly three-minute onboard announcement and added that he also wanted to give the message of "we are coming back home". Air India Express and Air India together will be operating 64 flights to different parts of the world till May 13. The first flight -- IX 452 -- came to Kochi on May 7. Deepak Menon, the lead cabin attendant on that flight, said lots of passengers thanked the crew after the flight landed. "While boarding, they (passengers) were little tense... after landing they were very much happy. They said thanks, we are proud of you...," he said. There were four cabin crew members and two pilots on the flight that was operated by a Boeing 737 aircraft. "I thank everyone for their wishes and prayers... Also, I am extremely grateful to my family and neighbourhood. I got support from them also," Menon said. There have been instances of airline crew members not being allowed or not treated properly by residential associations and societies amid fears of coronavirus infections. Personally, the crew wore Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for nearly five hours. When asked whether he has any particular message for passengers, Sheoran remarked that he just wanted to say that they are in safe hands and would get them back home soon. "We will live up to national expectations, like always," he added. After requisite tests for COVID-19 and following necessary safety protocols, crew members will be back for their next flight. As Sheoran said in the announcement, "we are all dressed in hazmat suits as per the safety protocol but we will still be wearing our warm smiles underneath".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ai-express-first-evacuation-flight-tense-to-happy-passengers-captains-impromptu-message-836008.html
10-05-2020||National||Delhi school teacher involved in distributing ration, husband die of COVID-19||A contractual woman teacher of a North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run school and her husband have died after contracting coronavirus, the civic body said on Sunday. She died on the night of May 4 in a hospital where she was admitted since May 2. Her COVID-19 test report came positive on May 5, according to a statement by the civic body.   The 45-year-old woman teacher's husband also died of COVID-19 on May 3. The couple is survived by two young sons. Their home has been sanitised twice, it said. The Delhi BJP and Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh have demanded that the AAP government pay Rs 1 crore ex gratia to the family members of the teacher. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation said the "file for compensation to the family is being moved" by it. The teacher, who was deputed for distribution of ration under a Delhi government scheme, had last come to work on April 18. She was supposed to come to work again on April 25 but didn't, an NDMC official said. Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari expressed grief over the death of the teacher. "She died while on duty of distributing ration in Burari. The Delhi government should give compensation of Rs one crore and job to one of her family member," he said. Ram Niwas Solanki, general secretary of Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh, also demanded a compensation of Rs one crore for the kin of the deceased teacher. Meanwhile, a malaria Inspector of Karol Bagh zone has tested positive for COVID-19. He was taken to LNJP hospital and after preliminary check-up he was discharged with advice of home-isolation, an official said.  Nineteen of his contacts have been traced and all have been advised home quarantine since they all are asymptomatic as of now, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-school-teacher-involved-in-distributing-ration-husband-die-of-covid-19-836014.html
10-05-2020||National||Miss you with every breath Ma: Sushma Swaraj's daughter Bansuri on Mother's Day||"Miss you with every breath Ma," were the words with which Bansuri Swaraj, the daughter of former External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, remembered her mother on the occasion of Mother's Day. Bansuri shared the picture with her mother on Twitter in which Swaraj is seen hugging her young daughter. "Happy Mother's Day @SushmaSwaraj. Miss you with every breath Ma," Bansuri tweeted. Swaraj passed away at the age of 67 on August 6 last year after suffering a cardiac arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/miss-you-with-every-breath-ma-sushma-swarajs-daughter-bansuri-on-mothers-day-836019.html
10-05-2020||National||Doctor suicide case: Delhi court sends AAP MLA to four days' police custody||A Delhi court on Sunday sent AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal to four days' police custody in connection with a case of alleged suicide of a doctor in south Delhi last month. Metropolitan Magistrate Neetika Kapoor allowed the police plea for custodial interrogation of Jarwal and co-accused Kapil Nagar. The court said that the custodial interrogation of the accused was necessary. “The investigation is at an initial stage and the recovery of the documents of the extortion is yet to be effected from the accused persons and the rule of the tanker mafia was yet to be ascertained in the case,” the judge said. In its plea, police said ten days' custody was required of the accused. The application was opposed by advocate Irshad, appearing for the AAP leader, who said that the politician had been falsely implicated in the case and was willing to cooperate with the police in the investigation as and when he will be called by them. The court had on May 8 issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against Jarwal and Nagar in connection with the case. Both the accused were arrested on Saturday. The 52-year-old doctor, Rajendra Singh, had allegedly committed suicide in Durga Vihar in south Delhi on April 18. In his suicide note, he had held Jarwal responsible for taking the extreme step, following which police registered a case against the legislator on charges of extortion and abetment to suicide. Jarwal represents Deoli assembly constituency. In the FIR, it is alleged that Singh, who was also in the business of water supply with the Delhi Jal Board since 2007, had been threatened and intimidated for extortion by Jarwal and Nagar. The Delhi Police had on Thursday questioned Jarwal's father and brothers in connection with the case. A case of extortion and abetment to suicide had been registered against Jarwal, Nagar and others at the Neb Sarai Police Station based on a complaint by the doctor’s son -- Hemant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctor-suicide-case-delhi-court-sends-aap-mla-to-four-days-police-custody-836026.html
10-05-2020||National||'Controversial' social media post: Delhi Minority Commission chairman submits laptop to police||Delhi Minority Commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan on Sunday submitted his laptop to a police team probing a case against him for his "controversial" social media post, officials said.  An FIR was registered against Khan on April 30 under sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth) of the IPC after police received a complaint from a resident of Vasant Kunj, they said. A notice was sent to Khan on Saturday under section 91 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to hand over his device used for making the "controversial" social media post, a senior police officer said.  "I received a Delhi Police notice on Saturday to submit my device used in making Twitter and Facebook posts. I submitted my laptop to the police today. But, I have said in writing that I am doing it under duress, because there is no record of tweet or social media posts in the device itself and it is online only. Also, I don't understand why they wanted my device because I have accepted that I wrote the tweet and still stand by it," Khan told PTI over phone. In the FIR, the complainant alleged that Khan's post was provocative and seditious and intended to cause disharmony and create a rift in the society, the police said, adding that the case was being investigated by the cyber cell of the Special Cell.  However, Later, Khan also sought an apology while the BJP demanded his removal from the commission. "I realise that my tweet was ill-timed and insensitive in view of our county facing a medical emergency and fighting an unseen enemy. I apologise to all whose sentiments were hurt," Khan had said in a statement earlier, referring to the COVID-19 pandemic. He had said that his tweet on April 28, thanking Kuwait for taking note of the "persecution" of Indian Muslims, in the context of the northeast Delhi violence, has "pained" some people which was never his intention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/controversial-social-media-post-delhi-minority-commission-chairman-submits-laptop-to-police-836037.html
10-05-2020||National||Manmohan Singh in AIIMS, Congress says he is fine||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was on Sunday night admitted to AIIMS after he complained of chest pain and uneasiness. Manmohan Singh developed a reaction to the new medication and his health condition being investigated further, hospital sources told PTI, on Monday. The 87-year-old economist-turned-politician has been admitted to the cardio-thoracic ward of the premier healthcare institute and not the intensive care unit. "He had developed mild fever and complained of uneasiness. He is under the observation of doctors," a Congress functionary told DH. Congress sources said Singh was doing fine and all his medical parameters were normal. Singh had undergone bypass surgeries in 1990 and 2009 and a stenting procedure in 2004. A man of few words and calm demeanour, Singh was one of the longest-serving prime ministers having served two consecutive five-year terms, a feat achieved only by Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manmohan-singh-in-aiims-congress-says-he-is-fine-836039.html
10-05-2020||National||Modi govt's firm measures saved India from 'worst' of COVID-19 pandemic: BJP||The BJP on Sunday said "proactive and firm" measures taken by the Modi government have "saved" India from the "worst" of the coronavirus pandemic. The party said while India crossed 60,000 COVID-19 cases in 101 days, smaller countries like the UK, Italy, Spain, Germany and the US took 40-65 days to report the same figure. Citing official numbers, the BJP also tweeted that the recovery rate of patients in India is much higher than other countries with more than 60,000 cases. "India has taken 101 days to cross 60K COVID cases whereas smaller countries like UK, Italy, Spain, Germany and US had taken 40-65 days to report the same figures. "India's proactive and firm measures taken under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi have saved us from the worst!" it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govts-firm-measures-saved-india-from-worst-of-covid-19-pandemic-bjp-836040.html
10-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Air India aircraft departs from London for Bengaluru with 323 Indians||An Air India aircraft departed from London for Bengaluru on Sunday with 323 Indian citizens, who were stranded in the United Kingdom due to the travel and transport curbs imposed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. The Air India flight from London is the first one to arrive at the Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru after the Union Government launched the Vande Bharat Mission on May 7 to facilitate the repatriation of the citizens in foreign countries around the world. “Air India's evacuation flight for Bengaluru takes off with 323 stranded Indians on board. Shubh Yatra,” the High Commission of India in London posted on Twitter at 4:43 p.m. (Indian Standard Time) on Sunday, along with a picture of the departing aircraft. Apart from paying for travelling on the Air India aircraft, the returnees will also have to pay for accommodation at the facilities in Bengaluru where they would have to stay quarantined at least for the next 14 days. While many Indians stranded across the UK are keen to return, the High Commission of India prioritized the ones, who had compelling reasons to return, like job loss, expiry of short-term visas, old age, medical emergency, pregnancy and death in the family.  Some of the stranded Indians, however, missed the flight from London to Bengaluru even after being short-listed by the High Commission for India in London for it.   “Dear @HCI_London, my wife and I were shortlisted but we could not come from Belfast to London due to the short notice. Are there more flights to Bangalore planned in the future? Can we still take those flights? Thanks,” Sriharsha posted on Twitter. He and his wife were at Belfast in Northern Ireland and could not travel to the Heathrow Airport in London on such a short notice as the UK itself too remained under lockdown. The High Commission of India in London assured him that it would try to accommodate him and his wife in subsequent flights from the UK capital to Bengaluru. “I have received a payment link yesterday evening for today's flight to Bengaluru. I am staying in the North part of Scotland, and it is impossible to travel so far in very short notice. Because of which I have missed flight,” Sunil Kumar Kotrashetti tweeted to the High Commission of India in London||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-air-india-aircraft-departs-from-london-for-bengaluru-with-323-indians-836050.html
10-05-2020||National||INS Magar departs from Male port after evacuating 202 Indians||INS Magar departed from Male in the Maldives on Sunday for Kochi in Kerala with 202 Indian nationals, the Indian Navy said. INS Jalashwa, the first ship carrying evacuees from the Maldives under ‘Operation Samudra Setu’ reached Kochi harbour on Sunday morning with 698 Indian citizens, the Navy said in a statement. INS Magar, designed for landing operations, had made all necessary logistic, medical and administrative preparations at her base port in Kochi to comfortably accommodate civilians before setting sail towards the Maldives. "A total of 202 personnel have embarked the (INS Magar) ship, which includes 24 women, two expectant mothers and two children. One of the men, who hails from Tamil Nadu, has a fractured leg,” the statement said. While heavy rains at Male made conditions difficult, the ship made arrangements to ensure the safety of people, the Indian Navy stated. "An entirely separate section of the ship with essential facilities like food and washrooms has been prepared to accommodate the evacuees, and a separate mess has been allotted for ladies, infants and senior citizens," it mentioned. The evacuees have been divided into groups to avoid crowding at common areas like the dining hall and bathrooms, the Navy noted. Air India is operating 64 repatriation flights from May 7 to May 14, while the Navy has deployed two ships as India rolled out a massive evacuation plan on Tuesday to bring back thousands of its nationals stranded abroad due to the coronavirus lockdown. From the Gulf countries to Malaysia and the UK to the US, the multi-agency operation christened ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ will see the state-owned airline operate non-scheduled commercial flights till May 14 to ferry around 15,000 Indian nationals from 12 countries. Under the mission, the Navy had launched the Operation Samudra Setu (Sea Bridge) under which it dispatched two ships to Male to commence the first phase of the evacuation operation from May 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ins-magar-departs-from-male-port-after-evacuating-202-indians-836072.html
10-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus lockdown: Government should allow private vehicles to ferry migrants, says Sanjay Raut||Senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the Maharashtra government should give permission to private vehicles for ferrying migrant labourers to their native places during the lockdown. Raising concern over migrant workers setting off for their hometowns on foot, Raut said they were falling sick and some have also died. "The labour class is walking back home, this is not a good picture. Their children are with them. Railways is not ready to operate trains for them. The state government should give permission to private vehicles to ply," Raut tweeted. "People are falling ill while walking. Some have died. Even then their walking hasn't stopped, the Rajya Sabha member further said. Sixteen migrant workers sleeping on rail tracks while returning to Madhya Pradesh were crushed to death by a goods train in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra in the early hours of Friday. The labourers, rendered jobless due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, had set off for their homes on foot along the rail tracks apparently to escape police attention. On March 28, four migrant labourers were crushed to death when a speeding tempo ran over them on Mumbai-Ahmedabad Highway in Maharashtra's Palghar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-government-should-allow-private-vehicles-to-ferry-migrants-says-sanjay-raut-835747.html
10-05-2020||National Politics||Promote all school students next year or use internal assessment mechanism instead of exams: Kapil Sibal||With uncertainty looming over the 2020-2021 academic session of schools in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, former Human Resource Development Minister Kapil Sibal on Sunday said either all students barring those in Class 12 be promoted or an internal assessment mechanism be put in place to save them from examination stress next year. The senior Congress leader also suggested that courses can be reduced both in schools and universities and the teaching time lost in the 2020-21 session due to the pandemic could be made up in the next year with extra effort from both the teacher and student communities. Various universities will also have to take a decision on whether or not to delay the academic session and they have the autonomy to take a call and a decision cannot be forced on them, Sibal told PTI in an interview. The University Grants Commission (UGC) has issued guidelines to universities that the new academic session for freshers will begin from September while for the existing students from August. However, it has said the guidelines are advisory in nature and varsities may chalk out their own plans according to the COVID-19 pandemic prevailing in their areas. Asked about the uncertainty looming large over the 2020-21 academic session in schools which are shut and holding online classes, Sibal said going forward there could be two options that can be considered for school students barring those in Class 12. One way is to promote everybody and take some extra classes when the pandemic is over as well as ensure students complete their course in the next class, Sibal said. "The other way is that if you are confident that your teachers will make an objective assessment of the student community which a majority of them might, then you leave it to them and the school to make the internal assessment and promote those to Class 11 who have done well (or to the next class for students of other classes)," he said, asserting that it would save the students from the examination stress. He, however, cautioned that internal assessment may throw up problems of subjectivity and objectivity has to be ensured. It is finally up to the Human Resource Development (HRD) Ministry to decide on such issues, he added. Innovative ways should be found so that students are not punished for what they are not in control of, said Sibal, who was the HRD Minister from May 2009-October 2012 in the UPA-II government. As the HRD minister, Sibal had spearheaded a reforms process in the education sector under which it was decided to abolish compulsory CBSE Board exams for Class X. However, in 2018 the CBSE reverted to the mandatory examination for Class 10. Asked about pending classes 10 and 12 CBSE as well as other board exams, the Rajya Sabha member said, "I think as far as Class 10 board exams are concerned there should be a re-think. For Class 12 board exams, I think that in the light of the pandemic, the university calendar for the year should change and in that context let's hope for the lockdown to be over and then the exams can be conducted." On competitive examinations like the JEE and NEET, Sibal said the current situation of the pandemic has put the students from the poor and marginalised sections of the society at a disadvantage. "Remember that there is a divide in this country and it always works against the poor and the marginalised. When you have these competitive exams and there is already this divide, it hurts the poor and the marginalised even more," he said. Engineering entrance JEE-Mains is scheduled from July 18-23, while medical entrance exam NEET is scheduled on July 26. The JEE Advanced will be held on August 23. "Whether they should be held in July I can't say, it is for the HRD Ministry to decide.... But I believe you will further reduce the chances of those whose chances are already minimal in these exams," he said. Sibal also asserted that difficulties would be aplenty going forward as social distancing in packed schools is almost impossible and the lack of digital connectivity across the country would result in online teaching putting the poor and rural populace at a disadvantage. "We are in a big bind. If this pandemic were to last for a year and a year-and-half, the student community is going to be distressed further... I don't think the kind of social distancing that we are talking about is possible in our school environment," the senior Congress leader said. There is lack of digital connectivity and, therefore, it is not possible for students to be educated through the digital mode, Sibal said. Digitisation will give advantage to those privileged schools that have connectivity, he said. In this context, Sibal said he had suggested as the then HRD Minister, the introduction of the Aakash tablet, which was to be made available to students in educational institutes across the country, with the idea of making students digitally savvy and provide schools with fiber-optic connectivity to allow access to new sources of knowledge. "If this concept had been accepted and this government in the last six years had invested in connectivity as far as education is concerned, we would not have been faced with this problem today," said Sibal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/promote-all-school-students-next-year-or-use-internal-assessment-mechanism-instead-of-exams-kapil-sibal-835830.html
10-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus lockdown compounding woes of poor, PM Narendra Modi must intervene to prevent starvation deaths: A K Antony||Senior Congress leader and former Defence Minister A K Antony on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene immediately to prevent starvation deaths in the country in the wake of the nationwide lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Noting that the situation on the ground was "very difficult", the Congress leader said it was high time the prime minister announced a relief package for the poor and a financial stimulus for the economy. "The situation is very difficult. The prime minister must intervene immediately. Otherwise, there would be deaths due to hunger and starvation," Antony told PTI. He also urged the prime minister to take care of the problems of the migrant labourers, the poor and vulnerable sections of society and provide them with a relief package that includes food and cash. He also demanded an economic stimulus package for reviving the country's economy and putting it back on rails. "It is high time the prime minister should intervene and come out with a relief package for the poor people and an economic stimulus package for the industry," he said. Seeking early action on this front, the former defence minister felt the economic activity in the country was totally shut due to the lockdown and if timely steps are not taken it could be too late. "Otherwise, there will be a total economic crisis in the country," he felt. Antony also wrote to the prime minister expressing concern over the serious situation in the country and saying that unless there is immediate government intervention, there would be many deaths because of hunger and starvation. "These deaths would outnumber the casualties because of COVID-19. This is a tragedy that should be avoided at all costs," he told the prime minister. He also said that as seen across the world, if unchecked, this virus could bring the entire healthcare system to its knees, and cause innumerable loss of lives. The Congress veteran said though he supported the lockdown earlier, the restrictions are creating economic woes that are being compounded on a daily basis. "Therefore, this difficult period requires the government to provide a steady financial helping hand to our citizens," he said. He said Indians, most of them young are already in extreme financial as well as mental duress because of the deteriorating economic situation and the resultant closure of any fresh employment opportunities. Income and wages of crores of our citizens including our farmers, daily wage workers and those in other informal sectors who together make up over 80 pc of India's workforce, as well as our enterprises starting from the SMEs are seeing significant fall during these distress times, he said.  Antony also felt that crores of migrant workers who are moving back from their workplace to their native villages will struggle for employment opportunities in their home localities with limited economic activities. "The first financial package that was announced by the finance minister did provide partial relief, but the current circumstances demand a far more comprehensive and substantial economic relief and stimulus package at both an individual as well as institutional level at the earliest," the former defence minister told the prime minister in his letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-compounding-woes-of-poor-pm-narendra-modi-must-intervene-to-prevent-starvation-deaths-a-k-antony-835889.html
10-05-2020||National Politics||'Where has Mamata gone?' asks BJP as West Bengal battles COVID-19||The opposition BJP in West Bengal took shots at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday, alleging she has "gone into hiding" even as her ministers are shouting hoarse to blame the Centre on issues relating to COVID-19 outbreak. BJP national general secretary Rahul Sinha alleged Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha was also not seen in public even as the state was battling the unprecedented situation. BJP's state president Dilip Ghosh claimed that the chief minister has "gone into hiding" even as her ministers are shouting themselves hoarse to blame the central government over several issues relating to the COVID-19 situation and the plight of migrant workers of the state stuck in other parts of the country. He added that the railway ministry has arranged eight special trains for bringing back people of Bengal stranded in other states. "Amid the coronavirus crisis in the state, where have the chief minister and the chief secretary gone? There is no communication or statement from either of them in this situation," Sinha alleged. He said the chief minister and the chief secretary should take a firm grip over the government in the present crisis wherein hundreds of people have contracted the disease in the state and many have succumbed to the contagion. West Bengal has 1,786 confirmed cases of coronavirus, with the death toll nearing 100, Home Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/where-has-mamata-gone-asks-bjp-as-west-bengal-battles-covid-19-835907.html
10-05-2020||National Politics||What is happening to migrant labourers is greatest human tragedy of our times: Congress||The Congress on Sunday urged the government to show more empathy to migrants and protect them during a crisis, saying what is happening to them is "perhaps the greatest human tragedy of our times". Instead of presiding over the plight of migrant labourers, the government should rescue them as they have been left with no choice but to walk hundreds of kilometres to return home, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said. She said almost 50 days into the coronavirus lockdown "we continue to wake up to see heart-wrenching visuals" of people without footwear and food walking to their homes. Visuals of pregnant women, little children, people atop a goods truck, those crushed to death while walking home on railway tracks have been deeply worrying, she said. "What is happening to our migrant labourers is perhaps the greatest human tragedy of our times," Shrinate said. At an online press conference, she asserted that migrant labourers were hit the worst by the pandemic as they were given only a four-hour notice for the lockdown. The Congress leader said the migrants are forced to stay where they were, have lost jobs and do not have money or food. "There were millions of migrant workers who were left stranded all across the country, no measures were taken to rescue or protect them. And even today, we see many of them walking home. "How can we Indians be fine with the worst human tragedy unfolding right before our eyes? On last count till May 8, as many as 42 migrant workers had lost their lives, who is responsible for this," she said. Shrinate said at a time of crisis, this "most insensitive government" decided to charge jobless migrant labourers money for rail tickets as well. "The BJP has continued to play petty politics and both the railway ministry as well as the central government have tried to block the assistance offered by Congress," she said. "We urge the government to earnestly announce proper rescue and relief measures for migrant labour," she said. Raising questions on the government's actions, she asked, "Why is the government not doing anything for migrants?" "Why has the PM-Cares Fund been put in quarantine instead of using money for those who are most adversely impacted? How much has been collected in the fund and when will it be used? It's time this insensitive government wakes up to the plight of migrant labour and decisively acts to protect them," the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/what-is-happening-to-migrant-labourers-is-greatest-human-tragedy-of-our-times-congress-835951.html
10-05-2020||National Politics||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray wants MLC polls unopposed: Sanjay Raut on 'extra' Congress nominee||A day after the ruling Congress announced its second nominee for the May 21 election to nine seats of the Maharashtra Legislative Council, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has conveyed the polls should be "unopposed", senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Sunday. Thackeray, who is not a member of either Houses of the state legislature, is one of the nominees for the elections, which became necessary after terms of the sitting MLCs ended on April 24. He, however, parried the questions on whether the Congress, an alliance partner in the Sena-led state government, fielding another candidate could lead to voting by MLAs, who forms the electoral college for the MLC elections. "A similar question needs to be asked to BJP which has fielded four candidates. Like the Congress, the BJP has also fielded one extra candidate. "Instead of asking the Congress to bring down its nominations from two to one, you should also ask the BJP that why it has fielded a fourth candidate," he said. As the Congress had earlier decided to field only one candidate for the May 21 elections, there were nine candidates in the fray for as many seats. But on Saturday evening, state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat tweeted that Rajkishore alias Papa Modi will be party's second candidate besides Rajesh Rathod, a Jalna zilla parishad member whose name was announced from Delhi. Thorat said he was confident that both will win. Modi is the party's Beed district unit chief. The 288-member Maharashtra Assembly forms electoral college for the polls, and a candidate needs 29 votes to win. The Congress has 44 MLAs. The last day of filing nomination is May 11, scrutiny of nominations will take place on May 12 and the last date of withdrawal of papers is May 14. The Shiv Sena and NCP, other two ruling alliance partners, have so far announced two candidates each, while the opposition BJP has announced four candidates. Thackeray and incumbent deputy Chairperson of the Legislative Council Neelam Gorhe are the nominees of the Sena while Shashikant Shinde and Amol Mitkari are the candidates of the NCP. Former NCP MP Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil, Gopichand Padalkar, Praveen Datke and Ajit Gopchhade are the nominees of the BJP, which has the highest 105 MLAs. The BJP nominees filed their nominations on Friday. Thackeray will be filing his papers on May 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-wants-mlc-polls-unopposed-sanjay-raut-on-extra-congress-nominee-835955.html
10-05-2020||National Politics||Uddhav Thackeray set to be elected unopposed to Upper House||The crucial Maharashtra Legislative Council polls is all set to be unopposed. Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray is one of the contestants and he will make his debut as a legislator, nearly six months after he took over the charge of the state. He would be the second legislator from the Thackeray family,  the other being his son Aditya,  who is the state's Environment, Tourism and Protocol minister. There is a total of nine vacancies in the Council. The names of 10 candidates have been declared by political parties for the nine seats. On Sunday evening the Congress decided not to field Rajkishor Papa Modi, a day after his name was announced by the Maharashtra unit of Congress. The decision was taken after the three ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi partners  - Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress met in Mumbai. The Congress has settled for one seat and the candidate is Rajesh Rathod. The Shiv Sena,  besides Thackeray,  has named Dr Neelam Gorhe,  the deputy chairperson of the Council. The Sharad Pawar-led NCP has given tickets to Shashikant Shinde and Amol Mitkari.  The BJP has fielded four candidates Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil, Praveen  Datke, Gopichand Padalkar and Dr Ajit Gopchhede. Datke is the Nagpur city BJP president while Dr Gopchade hails from Nanded and the state president of BJP's medical cell. "The election to nine seats of Maharashtra Legislative Council is going to be unopposed. Taking into view the nomination of chief minister and the COVID-19 situation,  the Congress has decided not to field its second candidate," Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said thanking Maharashtra Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and public works minister Ashok Chavan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uddhav-thackeray-set-to-be-elected-unopposed-to-upper-house-835962.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Five migrant labourers killed, 13 hurt as truck overturns||At least five migrant labourers were killed and 13 others injured when a truck in which they were travelling overturned in Madhya Pradesh's Narsinghpur district, a police official said on Sunday. The accident took place near Patha village on Saturday night when nearly 20 migrant labourers were going in the truck to Jhansi and Etah in Uttar Pradesh from Hyderabad, Additional Superintendent of Police Rajesh Tiwari said. Five labourers were killed and 13 others were injured after the mangoes-laden vehicle overturned, he said. The injured persons were admitted to the district hospital for treatment, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-five-migrant-labourers-killed-13-hurt-as-truck-overturns-835725.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi government asks DMs to release 2,446 Tablighi Jamaat members||The Delhi government has asked district magistrates to release 2,446 Tablighi Jamaat members from quarantine centres and ensure that they do not stay in any other place except their homes. The district magistrates will explore the possibility of sending those Tablighi members, who belong to other states, in buses to their designated places in accordance with social distancing norms and other protocols, DDMA Special CEO K S Meena said in a letter to deputy commissioners (administration). As man as 567 foreign attendees of the congregation held in Delhi's Nizamuddin area in March, will be handed over to the police, Meena said. "They (foreign Jamaat attendees) will be handed over to police in connection with several violations like visa violation," a government official said on Saturday. Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain had recently ordered the release of Tablighi members who have completed their required quarantine period in centres and tested negative for COVID-19. "Out of such people belonging to Delhi, who could be released as per prescribed guidelines should be issued passes to travel from the quarantine centres. "Under no circumstances, the aforesaid persons should be allowed to stay in any other places including mosques," Meena said in the letter. In respect of those Tablighi members belonging to other states, it should be ensured by the nodal officer and the area ACP that such people reach their place of residence, he also said. "The DC should also inform the respective resident commissioner of their states in respect of each and every movement of such persons from Delhi," the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) Special CEO said. Thousands of Tablighi Jamaat members had been taken out of its Markaz (centre) in Nizamuddin, where they had gathered for a religious congregation, and quarantined as the area became a major hotspot after a number of members tested positive for coronavirus. On March 31, the Delhi Police's Crime Branch had lodged an FIR against seven people, including Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, on a complaint by Station House Officer, Nizamuddin, for holding the congregation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-asks-dms-to-release-2446-tablighi-jamaat-members-835734.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||34 more test positive for COVID-19 in Bihar, total count 629||At least 34 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Bihar, raising the total count in the state to 629, a top health department official said on Sunday. Of the 34, 11 hail from Begusarai, seven each from Saharsa and Madhepura, five, including a woman, from Rohtas, two from Darbhanga and one each from Khagaria and Araria districts, Sanjay Kumar, the principal secretary of the state health department, said. "We are ascertaining the infection trail. These are yesterday's results received late in the night," Kumar said, adding that seven out of 34 patients were minors. Barring Jamui, all 37 districts in the state have reported coronavirus cases. The number of active cases in the state currently stands at 306. Altogether, 318 people have recovered so far. Bihar has witnessed five COVID-19 fatalities -- one each from Rohtas, Munger, Vaishali, East Champaran and Sitamarhi districts. All five of them had pre-existing ailments. Munger has accounted for the maximum number of cases in the state at 102, followed by Rohtas at 59, Buxar at 56 and Patna at 52. The number of samples tested so far has climbed to 32,767.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/34-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar-total-count-629-835757.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Former Chhattisgarh CM Ajit Jogi slips into coma, says doctor||Former Chhattisgarh chief minister Ajit Jogi, who was admitted in a private hospital here after suffering a cardiac arrest, has slipped into coma, a senior doctor attending him said on Sunday. Jogi's neurological activity is "almost nil" and he is on ventilator support at the Shree Narayana Hospital, where the 74-year-old Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) head was admitted on Saturday afternoon after he fell unconscious at his residence here, he said. "His heart functioning is normal at the moment. The blood pressure has been controlled by drugs. But there was disruption in oxygen supply to his brain after the respiratory arrest yesterday, that possibly led to damage to his brain. In medical parlance it is called hypoxia," the hospital's medical director Dr Sunil Khemka said in a bulletin. "As of now, Jogi's neurological activity is almost nil. In simple words, we can say he has slipped into coma. He is on ventilator. We are making all efforts to improve his health, but the situation is worrisome at present," he said. In the next 48 hours, it will be assessed how Jogi's body is responding to medicines, the official said, adding that the leader is being treated by a team of eight specialist doctors. A bureaucrat-turned-politician, Jogi, currently an MLA from Marwahi seat, served as the first chief minister of Chhattisgarh from November 2000 to November 2003 in the then Congress government, after the formation of the state. He parted ways with the Congress in 2016 after he and his Amit Jogi got embroiled in a controversy over the alleged fixing of bypoll to Antagarh seat in Kanker district in 2014. He subsequently formed his own outfit JCC (J).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-chhattisgarh-cm-ajit-jogi-slips-into-coma-says-doctor-835773.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Five more people die of coronavirus in Delhi, tally climbed to 6,923||Delhi recorded five more deaths due to coronavirus, while 381 fresh cases of the virus were reported, the city government said on Sunday. With the fresh cases, the virus tally in the national capital has climbed to 6,923. Between midnight of May 8 and midnight of May 9, five fresh fatalities due to the virus were reported, taking the death toll to 73, the government said in its health bulletin. While there are 4,781 active cases of the virus in the city, 2069 patients have so far recovered from COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-more-people-die-of-coronavirus-in-delhi-tally-climbed-to-6923-835775.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Authorities lift 62 food samples for screening in Jammu and Kashmir||Authorities in Jammu and Kashmir carried out nearly 1,000 surprise inspections and lifted 62 samples of different food items for screening since the beginning of this month, an official spokesperson said on Sunday. The special drive by the Food Safety Wing of Food and Drugs Administration Department was necessitated amidst growing concern that some unscrupulous traders can take advantage of the lockdown imposed by the government due to the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. "During the special drive, commenced on May 1, the enforcement staff carried out 996 inspections, lifted 62 samples of different food items like mustard oil, til oil, spices, milk and dates, and destroyed food items, which included vegetables, fruits, milk amounting to Rs 25,000," the spokesperson said. He said four Food Business Operators (FBOs) were also fined for violating the Food Safety and Standards (FSS) Act.  The drive also led to seizure of 560 kg ghee and 91 kg of spices after lifting statutory samples that have been sent to the Food Testing Laboratory for ascertaining the quality of the items, the spokesperson said. In April, the Food Testing Laboratory carried out analysis of 147 samples, out of which 46 have been declared substandard or misbranded, he said, adding that action against the concerned FBOs would be initiated as per the procedure laid down under the FSS Act. He said the exercise was carried out to ensure availability of safe and wholesome food to the end user. Commissioner, Food and Drugs Administration, Shakeel-Ur-Rehman, had issued instructions to the enforcement staff to conduct inspections of all FBOs in the supply chain to ensure strict compliance of the guidelines issued by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) practices during COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-authorities-lift-62-food-samples-for-screening-in-jammu-and-kashmir-835785.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases in Indore rise to 1,858, death toll reaches 89||The number of COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district rose to 1,858 after 78 more people tested positive for the disease in last 24 hours, a senior health official said on Sunday. Also, two more people died of coronavirus in last two days, taking the death toll in the state's worst-hit district to 89, Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia said. "An 85-year-old woman and a 69-year-old man died due to the disease at a private hospital in the last two days, the official said. Both the victims hailed from the district's Mhow town and were also suffering from other health conditions, including hypertension.  Jadia said 78 more people tested positive for coronavirus in the district in last 24 hours, taking the number of such cases to 1,858 from 1,780. So far, 891 people have been discharged after recovery, he added. The COVID-19 fatality rate in Indore stood at 4.79 per cent as of Sunday morning, as per an analysis of the data.  On April 9, the death rate here was 10.33 per cent, but has sharply declined since then. Curfew is in force in the city limits and strict lockdown has been enforced elsewhere since March 25, after the first COVID-19 patient was found in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-in-indore-rise-to-1858-death-toll-reaches-89-835789.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Scary look, demonic laughter to frighten people flouting lockdown rules in Madhya Pradesh town||Clad in black embellished clothes, crowned with a golden headgear and wielding a mace, this coal worker disguised as the god of death will be seen frightening the people found flouting lockdown norms in a small mining town. Accompanied by his trusted aide Chitragupt, Yamraj will descend on Parasia town in the Chindwara district of Madhya Pradesh famous for both mining and Pench National Park and take to task all those people found defying the lockdown rules brazenly. With the social distancing often going for a toss and people not adhering to rules, a group of workers of Coal India arm Western Coalfields Ltd (WCL) decided to organise street plays to urge people to guard themselves from the deadly coronavirus. The street plays -- a joint initiative of WCL Pench Area and Parasia police station coordinated by 'MITRA' volunteers of the company -- were performed for two weeks last month, and will resume next week. Besides Yamraj and Chitragupt, the plays also feature Yamdoot -- agents of the god of death -- as well as a police inspector and a nurse. "Yamraj brings a scary image to mind. People picturise him as a fearsome-looking man. So in order to terrify people who are breaking the lockdown rules and not maintaining social distancing, I thought that I should play the god of death," says Mohan Singh Thakur, employed as senior head chainman with WCL. His colleague Vinod Kumar Mandloi plays the role of Chitragupt, Yamraj’s secretary-cum-accountant who keeps a record of all good and bad deeds of mortals. In this street play, Chitragupt asks Yamraj to give strict punishment to all those not following the lockdown rules as the flouters "fall in the category of sinners". "With the rapid spread of the virus in our country the situation has become very grim. So through such street plays we can bring awareness among people and do our bit to help defeat COVID-19," Mandloi, who is employed as a tripman with WCL, said. Chitragupt also asks Yamraj to send his messengers Yamdoot disguised as healthcare workers and police personnel to protect people who are following the lockdown rules. "We have categorised those following rules as holy souls," he explained. The play also conveys to the people the pain the country's frontline warriors like doctors, nurses and policemen are undergoing in these trying times. With overworked Indian medical professionals facing social stigma over coronavirus, another WCL worker Poonam, through her role of a nurse, tells the public that "these doctors and nurses are no less than a god as they have put their lives at stake to save others." Donning a police uniform, Usha Verma, a security guard with the coal company, makes people realise about the sacrifice being made by all law enforcers. "In this battle against the virus, our policemen have put their lives at stake so that we are safe," says Verma. According to Vivek Kumar Singh, Deputy Manager (HR), WCL, there was no issue at all during the entire initiative as the local police provided all the support and marched with the team. The artistes, he said, also received overwhelming applause from the residents in every area they covered. On account of the encouraging response from the people, the artistes will again be seen performing the street plays from Monday, he said. MITRA is a volunteering group of employees of WCL working for the betterment of quality of life, community service and vibrant work culture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scary-look-demonic-laughter-to-frighten-people-flouting-lockdown-rules-in-madhya-pradesh-town-835809.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court questions Haryana govt over remission policy, seeks response in two weeks||The Supreme Court has questioned the Haryana government over a policy of granting remission to life-term convicts aged 75 years or above, saying it appeared to be in "conflict" with a provision of law. The apex court has directed the state government to respond within two weeks on whether such a policy, which the court said appeared running counter to section 433-A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), could be framed under Article 161 of the Constitution. While Article 161 of the Constitution deals with the power of governors to grand pardons and to suspend, remit or commute sentences in certain cases, section 433-A of the CrPC relates to restriction on these powers in certain cases. Section 433-A of the CrPC also says that a convict shall not be released from jail unless he had served at least 14 years of the imprisonment if he has been sentenced to life for an offence that entails maximum of death sentence or in cases where capital punishment has been commuted. The issue came up before a bench of Justices U U Lalit and Dinesh Maheshwari which was hearing an appeal in a criminal case, The bench was informed about a policy which stated that on the occasion of August 15, 2019, the Governor of Haryana had granted special remission to certain prisoners who were undergoing sentence. As per the policy, special remission could be granted to those, including male convicts of 75 years or above who were sentenced for life and have completed eight years of the actual sentence. "In terms of the aforesaid policy, those convicts who stood convicted for life sentence and are above the age of 75 years (in case of male convicts) and have completed 8 years of actual sentence, are entitled to be conferred the benefit of remission," the bench noted in its May 8 order. "Prima facie, the aforesaid policy appears to be in conflict with Section 433-A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973," the bench said. "Whether a policy could be framed under Article 161 of the Constitution of India, which would run counter to the mandate of Section 433A CrPC, and whether all individual cases in which benefit was granted in respect of the aforesaid policy were placed before the Governor of the state and whether facts of individual cases were considered by the authority before granting benefit of remission," the bench asked. It issued notice to the state government on these questions and directed it to file a response within two weeks. The top court has listed the matter for further consideration on July 6. As per the policy placed before the apex court, remission would not be granted to those prisoners who have been sentenced to death and their sentences have been commuted to life term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-questions-haryana-govt-over-remission-policy-seeks-response-in-two-weeks-835826.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Almost half of Delhi cases reported in May||COVID-19 cases in the national capital surged towards 7,000 mark on Sunday by adding 381 new cases while five more deaths were reported taking the total toll to 73. With this, the capital now has 6,923 cases and May alone accounts for almost half of the cases reported in the capital. On Saturday, 224 cases were reported. As per official statistics available till 12 AM of May 9, this month has recorded 3,408 or 49.22 per cent of the total cases. The capital recorded its first case on March 2 while it had crossed the 6,000 mark on May 8. 49 people have recovered, as the number of recoveries rose to 2,069, leaving 4,781 still under treatment. Of those active cases, the number of those in home isolation has risen from 937 to 1,428, as they are mild cases. On May 1, Delhi had reported 223 cases which saw an increase to 386 on May 2. The capital reported 349 cases on May, 206 on May 5, 428 on May 6, 448 on May 7 and 338 on May 8. So far, Delhi has conducted tests on 93,810 people.   Seeking to find positives in the results, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said only 1,476 among the 4,781 active cases are in hospitals while other cases are either asymptomatic or have very mild symptoms and in home isolation. 91 people are in Intensive Care Units (ICU) and 27 on ventilators.  "Around 75% of the cases are asymptomatic or have very mild symptoms. On the directions of the central government, we are making arrangements for such cases to be treated at home. Our team will visit their homes, inspect their premises for a separate room to see if isolation can be practiced there, issue advisories for the family members. If everything is found satisfactory, these cases are advised home isolation, and all necessary facilities for isolation are provided to them at their homes," he said. Amid complaints on non-availability of ambulances, he said he has been intimated often that people have to wait for hours for ambulances to arrive. "On Saturday, we have issued orders for the requisition of private ambulances for government services. These ambulances should be available for government duty as and when required, along with continuing to operate for their hospitals as well," he said. Kejriwal also said he was disappointed with the opposition for questioning the government decision to provide special facilities to COVID-19 warriors while on treatment.  "I want to appeal to everyone, this is not the time to do politics but to work collectively for the people and the nation in these tough times. Please help each other, work together against these issues, and work for the society," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-almost-half-of-delhi-cases-reported-in-may-835849.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Byculla women's jail inmate tests positive for coronavirus||A 54-year-old inmate of Byculla women's jail here has tested positive for coronavirus, a prison official said on Sunday. She was referred to the government-run J J Hospital a few days back after her oxygen saturation level fell below 90 per cent. During the treatment, she was tested for coronavirus which came out negative on Friday, he said. However, her second test conducted on Saturday came out positive for COVID-19, the official said. She is undergoing treatment at St George Hospital here, he added. The new case comes two days after a doctor attached to Byculla jail tested positive for coronavirus. Earlier, 77 inmates of Arthur Road Jail here and 26 staffers were found to have contracted the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/byculla-womens-jail-inmate-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-835870.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||9 Jamaat members from Delhi urge CM Arvind Kejriwal to facilitate their return from UP||Under quarantine in Uttar Pradesh's Deoband for more than 40 days, a group of 9 Tablighi Jamaat members from Delhi have urged Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to facilitate their return home following the Saharanpur administration's nod to release them upon completion of the requisite quarantine period. The group members have claimed that they did not participate in the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in the national capital in March and their coronavirus tests conducted by the Uttar Pradesh government last month have come out negative. Residents of Darya Ganj, Karol Bagh, and Okhla in the national capital, the nine had arrived in Deoband in the last week of February and were sent to different quarantine centres after a number of Tablighi Jamaat members tested positive for COVID-19 at the Delhi Markaz in March. "For more than 40 days now we have been in different quarantine centres here (Deoband). The district administration here is ready to release us but Delhi's borders with Uttar Pradesh have been sealed," a group member who did not wish to be named told PTI over phone from Deoband. “We are anxious to go back home but are afraid that we will get stuck at the border,” he added. In a letter to Kejriwal, the group said that they possess all certificates and documents from the authorities in Saharanpur for their travel to Delhi and have even arranged their own transport. "We have filled a form provided by camp authority for permission to go to Delhi by our own conveyance. We request you to allow us to enter Delhi," the group said in the letter. A senior officer of the Saharanpur district administration said that if a person has completed his/her qurantine period, he or she can go home on their own. "There are many people who are stuck here (UP)… a state-to-state level agreement is necessary for the movement of such people. However, those willing to go home on their own after completion of required quarantine period can do so,” the official said. On Saturday, the Delhi government had asked district magistrates to release over 2,000 Tablighi Jamaat members from quarantine centres and ensure that they do not stay in any other places except their homes. The Delhi government had said that it would also facilitate ferrying of Markaz attendees from other states to their native places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-jamaat-members-from-delhi-urge-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-facilitate-their-return-from-up-835872.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Active COVID-19 cases rise to 1,884 in Uttar Pradesh: Official||The number of active cases of coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh rose to 1,884 on Sunday, while 1,504 patients have been discharged so far, a senior official said. Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said 84 more people have tested positive for the disease. On Saturday, 1,365 samples were tested in 273 pools, he told reporters. The official said the Medical Education Department, on the directives of the chief minister, has devised a 'mentor institute system' which doctors can use to seek guidance for treating COVID-19 patients. "If doctors at the Medical College Meerut face any difficulty, they can speak to experts at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow," he said. The Medical College in Kanpur, which caters to patients from central UP, can consult the King George Medical University in Lucknow,. Similarly, the Medical College in Prayagraj can seek advice from the BHU's speciality team.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/active-covid-19-cases-rise-to-1884-in-uttar-pradesh-official-835875.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Cops jostle at UP-Rajasthan border over movement of migrant workers amid coronavirus lockdown||Two sub-inspectors were injured as UP and Rajasthan policemen jostled over the homeward journey of migrant workers at the Mathura border on Sunday, officials said. Migrant workers, allegedly aided by the Rajasthan policemen, were trying to enter Uttar Pradesh without registering with the authorities concerned, they said. Despite the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown, the workers tried to enter UP through Jajampatti border under Magorra police station limits allegedly with the support of Rajasthan police personnel and two UP sub-inspectors got injured while trying to control the situation, said Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover. From the past few days, some private buses were de-boarding migrant workers near the border in Rajasthan. On Sunday morning, they tried to enter Uttar Pradesh and were allegedly aided by some policemen from Udyognagar police station of Rajasthan’s Bharatpur district, officials said. On receiving information about the incident, Mathura DM Sarvagya Ram Mishra and the SSP reached the spot. Later, the district magistrate and SSP of Bharatpur also joined them. The officers brought the situation under control and it was decided that only officially registered migrant workers from Rajasthan would be allowed to enter UP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cops-jostle-at-up-rajasthan-border-over-movement-of-migrant-workers-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-835901.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||167 trains carried over 2 lakh migrants from Gujarat: Official||Of the total 364 Shramik special trains that were run across the country till Saturday midnight, as many as 167 originated from Gujarat, in which over two lakh migrant workers were ferried to their home states, a senior government official said on Sunday. Ashwani Kumar, Secretary to Gujarat chief minister, while sharing the data related to the Shramik trains that were run from different states till Saturday midnight, said that around 46 per cent of these trains started from Gujarat, the highest for a state. He said that the trains that started their journey from Gujarat, carried over two lakh migrants to different states, including Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. "Till Saturday midnight, 45 Shramik special trains originated from Maharashtra, 36 from Punjab, 25 from Telangana, 24 from Kerala, 20 from Rajasthan, 14 from Karnataka, and 11 from Haryana," he said. In addition to this, 56 more trains will carry around 67,200 migrant workers to their home states from different parts of Gujarat, including Ahmedabad, Sabarkantha, Viramgam, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. Some of these trains have already started their journey early on Sunday, while some others will leave by Sunday evening, he said. "With this, the number of migrant workers reaching their home states from Gujarat would be 2,68,800," Kumar said. "It is the result of the government's preparation and commitment to ensure the migrants safe return to their home states," he added. Of the 56 trains running on Sunday, 42 are going to Uttar Pradesh, five to Madhya Pradesh, three each to Bihar and Odisha, and one each to Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, and Jharkhand, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/167-trains-carried-over-2-lakh-migrants-from-gujarat-official-835911.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Man arrested for killing minor sister-in-law in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar||An eight-year-old girl was beaten to death by her brother-in-law in a village here, police said on Sunday. The incident took place in Habibpur village under the Phugana police station on Saturday, they said, adding that the accused was arrested while he was trying to dump the body in a forest area. According to Circle Officer Somender Negi, a case was registered against the accused, identified as Sandeep Saini, and the body sent for autopsy. An investigation is underway, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-arrested-for-killing-minor-sister-in-law-in-uttar-pradeshs-muzaffarnagar-835912.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||General patients facing difficulties at Dharamshala Zonal Hospital: Congress leader||Congress leader Sudhir Sharma on Sunday alleged that general patients at Dharamshala Zonal Hospital were facing difficulties after it was identified as a medical facility for COVID-19 cases. Sharma said it is very important to make the necessary arrangements for COVID-19 cases but the hospital administration should also take care of the general patients. In order to deal with the situation, proper arrangements should be made for OPD patients so that they do not face any inconvenience, the senior Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/general-patients-facing-difficulties-at-dharamshala-zonal-hospital-congress-leader-835928.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt issues SOP for hospitals on reporting coronavirus deaths||Facing criticism for "under-reporting" COVID-19 deaths, the Delhi government on Sunday issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for hospitals and other health facilities in the city on reporting fatalities due to coronavirus. Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev issued an order along with the SOP under which all COVID-19 hospitals and other facilities will e-mail a 'death report' to the government by 5 pm every day. Dev also warned of strict action if any delay in reporting of fatalities is found. Officials of the 10 hospitals treating COVID-19 patients have said the number of people dead due to the virus is higher than what the Delhi government's bulletin reflects. "Every COVID-19 hospital and other health facilities will appoint nodal officers who will ensure timely communication of deaths," Dev said in the order. If there is a delay in reporting deaths, the medical superintendent, medical director or nodal officer of 'defaulter hospital' will have to file a written explanation, the official order said. On Saturday, Congress leader Ajay Maken sought more transparency from the Kejriwal government while Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari urged the chief minister to "tell the truth" about COVID-19 deaths in the city, saying people have a right to know about the severity of the outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-issues-sop-for-hospitals-on-reporting-coronavirus-deaths-835960.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur readies to receive people returning to Union Territories by special trains||Authorities in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur district on Sunday said all necessary arrangements have been put in place to receive thousands of local residents who are returning from various parts of the country by special trains. The first such train with 1,000 passengers left Chikkabanavara station in Bengaluru for Udhampur Railway Station this afternoon, officials said. They said the train is expected to reach Udhampur railway station on Monday morning. It also marks the first passenger train movement in Jammu and Kashmir during the coronavirus-driven nationwide lockdown which came into force on March 25, leaving a large number of local residents stranded in various parts of the country and abroad. "All necessary arrangements have been put in place to receive the Jammu and Kashmir residents who are being brought back to their homes through special trains from various parts of the country," Udhampur District Development Commissioner Piyush Singla told PTI. Officials said all returnees have to be tested for COVID-19 and undergo institutional quarantine. If test reports come out negative, they will be sent for home quarantine for 14 days, they said. The railways proposed to run about 50 trains during the next 20 days for Jammu and Kashmir from different states to bring back home the stranded people. All the trains will land at Udhampur Railway Station only from where the people will be sent to their home districts in SRTC buses. Singla said magistrates along with other staff members have been deployed to receive these passengers at the platform and guide them for online registration by the data entry operators deputed there through a specially designed app. Singla said the administration had made arrangements for refreshment, packed meals and water bottles besides sanitization tunnels were also established and adequate number of sanitizers made available for the use of the passengers. On Saturday, the Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam visited Udhampur and reviewed the arrangements for deboarding of passengers at the platform and their subsequent departure to their home districts. The Chief Secretary asked the officers to ensure greater coordination at all levels so that all the arrangements and logistics work smoothly. He also stressed the need to strictly adhere to all the prescribed guidelines, especially maintaining social distance during deboarding to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Another train is likely to leave Goa railway station for Udhampur later this evening, the officials said, adding the registration was underway for students, migrant workers and stranded residents when last reports were received. Meanwhile, the administration also dispatched 97 residents of Srinagar and Ganderbal districts who were stranded in Jammu due to the lockdown. The stranded people were picked up by SRTC buses from Sunjwan, Bathindi and Sidhra and were transported to their districts in central Kashmir, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmirs-udhampur-readies-to-receive-people-returning-to-union-territories-by-special-trains-835970.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh govt to bear treatment cost of 2-yr-old heart patient detected with COVID-19||The Himachal Pradesh government will bear the cost of the treatment of a two-year-old coronavirus positive girl who has been diagnosed with a hole in the heart, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday. The CM said her heart-related ailment can only be treated with major surgery and keeping in view the economic condition of her family, the Himachal government decided to bear the cost of her treatment within or outside the state. Meanwhile, an official said the girl's mother was allowed to accompany her to a Kangra hospital for coronavirus treatment. They belong to Chamba district of the state.   The girl was admitted to Tanda’s Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College after she tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, Chamba Deputy Commissioner Vivek Bhatia said. The girl had contracted the disease from his father, who tested positive for it on Wednesday. He had been to Solan's Baddi and samples of his all contacts, except that of his daughter, tested negative for the infection on Friday. As an extraordinary case, the girl's mother was allowed to accompany her taking all precautions, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-govt-to-bear-treatment-cost-of-2-yr-old-heart-patient-detected-with-covid-19-835994.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||SC to pass order on plea for 4G internet services in Jammu and Kashmir||The Supreme Court would on Monday deliver its judgement on a plea for restoration of 4G internet services in Jammu and Kashmir. The Centre and the Union Territory administration have opposed it, saying terrorists might use it to threaten the national security. A bench of Justices N V Ramana R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai would pronounce its order on petitions filed by NGO 'Foundation for Media Professionals' and others. The court had on May 4 reserved its order in the matter. During the hearing, the petitioners claimed absence of 4G internet services affected students' studies as schools were not able to hold video conferencing. Their counsel also claimed the citizens right to access medical help was seriously jeopardised. Attorney General K K Venugopal, for his part, had submitted that there were specific orders stating that restrictions in internet speed was required for national security. "This is about protection of the lives of the entirety of the population of Jammu and Kashmir.  Yesterday, there were some tragic events (at Handwara). These men could easily take videos of the troop movements. The enemy could know the troop movements if they had 4G internet," he had said, indicating towards the encounter. Venugopal also said such plea must be examined against larger interest of national security. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the UT administration, submitted after complete lockdown imposed on abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution, landline was first started, followed by 2G internet services. "These decisions are taken at the ground level and orders are not passed in mechanical manner," he said. Mehta also pointed out broadband connection were available. These landlines could not be used for anti national activities. The petitioners, however, said in 1990s, the number of terrorist activities were more, even though there was no internet. They said the government was not able to show any direct nexus between terrorist activities and 4G network. Another petitioner, Private Schools Association J and K, said private schools were under government directions to provide education via video-conferencing, which got impeded in absence of 4G internet services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-pass-order-on-plea-for-4g-internet-services-in-jammu-and-kashmir-835997.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Eleven migrants on way home die in separate incidents in Madhy Pradesh||Eleven migrant labourers died and 14 others injured in the last 24 hours in separate incidents like fatigue due to walking a long-distance and a road accident in four districts in Madhya Pradesh, police said on Sunday. The deaths were reported from Narsinghpur, Barwani, Sagar and Shajapur districts. Almost all the deceased were travelling to Uttar Pradesh either from Maharashtra, Hyderabad or Karnataka amidst the coronavirus-induced lockdown. In Narsinghpur district, six migrant labourers were killed and 14 others injured, one of them seriously, when the truck in which they were travelling overturned near Patha village, around 40 kms from the district headquarters on Saturday night, Additional Superintendent of Police Rajesh Tiwari said. The victims were headed towards Jhansi, Etah and Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh from Hyderabad in Telangana, he added. "While five labourers died on the spot, two critically injured were rushed to a hospital at divisional headquarters Jabalpur- for treatment, where one of them died around 6 pm on Sunday," Tiwari added. Thirteen others, who suffered injuries in the accident, including the truck driver, are undergoing treatment at the (Narsinghpur) district hospital. They have been quarantined, he said. In Barwani district, three migrants, who began their journey on foot from Mumbai to Uttar Pradesh, died due to exhaustion on Saturday afternoon near Sendhwa, located on Madhya Pradesh-Maharashtra border, police said. Two more deaths were reported from Sagar and Shajapur. The deceased trio in Barwani aged between 42 to 55 years, an official said. A doctor at Sendhwa civil hospital, where two of the three labourers were taken, said dehydration and fatigue due to scorching heat might led to heart attack, which might be the cause of their deaths. A labourer walking towards UP from Karnataka died in Sagar. He collapsed on ground by Sagar-Kanpur national highway on Saturday evening, police said, adding that he was declared dead at a hospital, an official said. "As per his Aadhaar card, the deceased was identified as Rambali (31), a resident of Siddharthnagar district in Uttar Pradesh," Sagar Superintendent of Police Amit Sanghi said, adding that the family of the deceased has been informed. Another labourer who died in Shajapur district on Saturday evening has been identified as Ramroop (35), police said, adding that he was returning to his hometown in Basti district of UP on a mini truck from Maharashtra when he took ill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eleven-migrants-on-way-home-die-in-separate-incidents-in-madhy-pradesh-836043.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Seized liquor missing from Haryana godown: Anil Vij says case needs in-depth probe||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Sunday said a huge stock of liquor missing from a godown in Sonipat district is not an ordinary theft case and an in-depth probe is needed to uncover those involved in it. "This is not any ordinary theft case. Since when all this has been going on, with whose backing, from where the liquor was coming, how much excise theft took place as liquor from other states was also found, who all officials are involved, all this needs an in-depth probe," said Vij. This is why I have recommended a senior IAS officer to head the SIT to probe the case, the minister reasoned. Vij said he has already recommended to the chief minister that the three-member SIT should be headed by a senior IAS officer for a thorough probe looking into all possible angles involved in the case. Vij has given names of senior IAS officers Ashok Khemka, Sanjeev Kaushal and T C Gupta, requesting Chief Minister M L Khattar to pick up any one of these officer to head the SIT or suggest a name on his own. Besides, Vij said other members of the SIT will be IPS officer Subhash Yadav and Additional Excise Commissioner Vijay Singh. A huge stock of liquor had gone missing from two godowns — one under police and the other one under excise department's supervision, in Sonipat district and this could not have happened without the connivance of officials, Vij had said earlier. The Haryana police on Saturday seized Rs 97 lakh in cash, two pistols and three mobile phones besides a sports utility vehicle following a raid in a house to nab the prime accused in the case of missing huge liquor stocks from two godowns in Sonipat. The Sonipat police raided the house of accused Bhupinder Singh, but he managed to escape, said officials. However, later on, he surrendered before the police. The two godowns in Sonipat from where the liquor stock was reported missing are stated to belong to accused Bhupinder Singh's wife. The raid at the Chandigarh flat was conducted two days after Vij had questioned the rational of keeping seized liquors in “godowns, owned by a person (Bhupinder Singh), who is facing 8-10 cases of liquor smuggling”. Meanwhile, Vij sought to clear the air after he had said that Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala had not spoken to him on this matter (liquor going missing) and he does not know what the JJP leader had told the media about this. "When I said this, some people tried to project it as if there was some fight between the BJP-JJP on this. There is no such issue. When I said that Excise department had not registered a FIR (into liquor stock going missing), that did not mean that we (BJP and JJP) have differences," said Vij. Vij, a senior BJP leader, holds portfolios such as home, health, urban local bodies, in the Khattar government. His party runs a coalition government with the JJP, whose chief Dushyant Singh Chautala is deputy chief minister and holds 11 portfolios, including excise. Vij had earlier said that while police department, which is under him, had registered the FIR after liquor stock from their godown had gone missing, the Excise had not given complaint despite the face that stock had gone missing from their godown as well. However, main opposition Congress on Sunday while referring to alleged lack of coordination between the Khattar's ministers on a critical issue, said, "this shows administrative and policy paralysis in Haryana". "Dushyant Chautala says he had told Home Minister for probe (into liquor stock going missing), Vij says Dushyant has not spoken to him. Vij requests CM to pick up a name of IAS officer for SIT, but that request is pending for four days," Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters through video conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seized-liquor-missing-from-haryana-godown-anil-vij-says-case-needs-in-depth-probe-836049.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||50,000 stranded Jammu and Kashmir residents have returned to Union Territory: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Sunday said around 50,000 residents of Jammu and Kashmir stranded in different parts of the country due to the ongoing lockdown have returned to the Union territory so far. Singh also said two trains -- one from Bengaluru and the other from Goa -- were on their way to Udhampur, while around 20 buses carrying students from Madhya Pradesh and other places have reached Jammu and Kashmir. As many as 48,000 people have returned to Jammu and Kashmir by road through the Lakhanpur entry point in Kathua district in addition to those coming by train or air. The total number of people returning to the UT could be over 50,000, he said in a statement here. Singh said more people of Jammu and Kashmir would be able to return in the coming days as all other modes of transport might open soon. The Union Minister of State for the PMO said the return of those held up abroad has also begun under the Vande Bharat Mission.  Singh, who hails from the UT, appealed to all those from Jammu and Kashmir who are held up in different parts of the country to be patient and assured that everybody would be able to return home since the process of movement has already started. "The urge to reach home is quite natural and understandable but it is an unusual situation as all of us know," he said. Allaying all misgivings or misinformation that there was any favouritism or pick-and-choose in bringing back those who were held up outside, the minister said a clear criteria was being followed, as per which labourers or migrant workers in hard-pressed situations or students in distress were being given priority. As far as the sick or the emergency cases are concerned, the minister said they were also given special passes to travel. "We have to learn to make a distinction between movement by necessity and movement by choice," he said. Singh disclosed that even some of his friends, colleagues and their families, who were held up due to the lockdown and were keen to get back to Jammu and Kashmir, have been requested to stay back for a while. This, he said, is a small gesture of giving up the convenience for the sustenance of a fellow human being who is in greater need.  The minister said the administration was under tremendous pressure to facilitate the travel on different routes while following the guidelines of social distancing. He appreciated the cooperation rendered by the passengers and the public, and hoped that it would continue in the days to come as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/50000-stranded-jammu-and-kashmir-residents-have-returned-to-union-territory-jitendra-singh-836060.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Withdraw appointment of Passey as LNJP Hospital Medical Director, Centre tells Delhi govt||The Centre has directed the Delhi government to withdraw the appointment of Dr JC Passey as the medical director of the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Narayan Hospital immediately owing to his age. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare sought a clarification on the matter from the Delhi government within 10 days. The letter by the ministry was issued on May 4. Passey was appointed as the medical director of the Delhi government-run hospital on March 26. He attained the age of 62 years on June 26, 2018. The Ministry order dated October 9, 2018, specifically mentioned that administrative unit/ministry concerned may ensure that officers having attained the age of 62 years will not be assigned the charge of administrative posts, and they will be retained in non-administrative posts till their retirement/superannuation etc. "In spite of the instructions, Passey has been appointed to an administrative post," the letter said. The appointment of Dr Passey as Medical Director, LNJP Hospital is "to be withdrawn immediately" and "he be posted to a non-administrative post", it said. The LNJP Hospital is a dedicated COVID-19 facility in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/withdraw-appointment-of-passey-as-lnjp-hospital-medical-director-centre-tells-delhi-govt-836066.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||Gujarat COVID-19 cases up by 398 to 8195; death toll 493||Gujarat on Sunday reported 398 new COVID-19 cases and 21 deaths, including 18 from Ahmedabad alone, taking the total case count to 8,195 and the number of fatalities to 493, a state Health Department official said. The state has also reported a sharp jump in the recovery of COVID-19 patients, with 454 patients getting discharged from hospitals on Sunday, based on the revised discharge policy. The total number of the recovered patients now stands at 2,545, the official said, adding that Gujarat has a higher discharge rate compared to Punjab, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Odisha, Delhi and Chandigarh. Of the 21 deaths, 18 were from Ahmedabad, and one each from Anand, Bhavnagar and Surat, said Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi. "Thirteen of 21 deceased were suffering from comorbid conditions," she said. While Ahmedabad reported 278 new cases, Surat reported 41 cases, Vadodara 25 and Gandhinagar 10 of the total 17 districts that have reported fresh cases on Sunday, the official added. Total COVID-19 cases in Ahmedabad district went up to 5,818. Explaining the rise in the number of the recovered patients, Ravi said that asymptomatic cases or those having mild symptoms can be discharged from hospitals after ten days without conducting any tests, as per the revised discharged policy. "As many as 454 patients recovered and discharged from state hospitals on Sunday. The patient discharge rate in Gujarat, which was 15.58 per cent on May 1, has more than doubled to 32.64 per cent in just nine days," said Ravi. Ravi said Gujarat now has 5,157 active cases, 31 of whom are on ventilator and in serious condition, whereas others are stable. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 8,195, new cases 398, deaths 493, number of discharged people 2,545, active cases 5,157 and people tested so far 1,13,493.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gujarat-covid-19-cases-up-by-398-to-8195-death-toll-493-836069.html
10-05-2020||North and Central||3 yoga teachers held for sexually harassing Japanese woman in Rishikesh||Three yoga teachers were arrested here on Sunday for allegedly sexually harassing a Japanese woman, police said. The woman had lodged a complaint at the Muni ki Reti Police Station on Saturday accusing the trio working at a yoga school in Aam Bagh area here of pressurising her to have sex with them, Kotwali Police Station in-charge Ritesh Shah said. The accused were arrested from their residence on Sunday on the basis of the complaint, he said. They were identified as Harikishan (43) from Amritsar, Chandrakant (32) from Raiwala in Dehradun and Somraj (23) from Chamba in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-yoga-teachers-held-for-sexually-harassing-japanese-woman-in-rishikesh-836073.html
10-05-2020||Oasis||Isolation with involvement||“No man is an island...” wrote John Donne, an English poet, priest and lawyer, in 1624. The assertion, which is followed by lines expounding that statement, appears in a devotional treatise. Those five words have passed into proverbial use and are frequently quoted. The message is clear. None of us is self-sufficient enough to manage without our fellow human-beings; nor should we selfishly ignore them. As members of the global community, we are all interdependent. What does Donne’s categorical catchphrase mean to us during the present pandemic? Should we huddle together with a few whom we cherish? Confronting a common concern, we should not confine our attention to family and friends. Rather, we must look beyond them, especially when large sections of society are enduring harsh deprivation. We may not be able to tackle complex logistical challenges, but we can certainly make a difference. It is heartening to hear of youngsters helping the homeless and feeding starving animals.  Elderly folk are especially vulnerable, and not only to the coronavirus. They suffer from anxiety about the lack of immediate access to essentials. It is even harder for those living alone. They would welcome reassuring calls or messages. One wonders what John Donne would have thought of social distancing as a preventive measure. The danger of contagion was not unknown to him. He was familiar with the dreaded plague that swept through London at periodic intervals, killing thousands on each visit. Despite seeing death on that stupendous scale, he cautions us against regarding it with indifference. ‘Never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee,’ is his conclusion to the previously mentioned ‘island’ passage. Referring to the grim knell sounded at funerals, he endorses empathy. That was four hundred years ago when the means of communication now available to us were nonexistent. Unlike Donne and his contemporaries, we can stay safe indoors and still do a lot for people, far and near. The need of the hour is isolation with involvement!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/isolation-with-involvement-836036.html
10-05-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus contact-tracing apps mean spying, end to data privacy||This will have important consequences for the relationship not just between citizens and governments, but also between consumers and businesses. It hasn’t gone unnoticed that enthusiastic adapters of such software are in East Asia where, as MIT Sloan School of Management professor Yasheng Huang and others note, “a collectivist spirit may encourage civic-minded embrace of and a more willing compliance with governments’ infection control.”  But while cultural differences can help explain the beginning, the end game may be more universal: power and profit. Safely restarting economies will require governments to restore trust in people mingling in factories, offices, cafes and trains. It can supposedly be done with data more granular than what can be obtained from cellphone networks. Hence states want access to phones, with or without informed consent. Turning the clock back will be hard, if not impossible. The Singaporean app records physical proximity in an anonymized form on smartphones. Minimal data is stored on servers. Only if a user falls sick are his contacts tracked and alerted. Given that it’s been less than two years since the revelation that Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s health records were hacked, I’d hesitate to brand the experiment as foolproof.  But it’s at least a voluntary exchange. India’s app is anything but. As the country tentatively reopens after a 43-day lockdown, it’s been made mandatory — first for public-sector employees and now for private-sector workers. Company bosses are liable to ensure their workers download the app, though nobody is accountable for misuse of data. Just as the Sept. 11 attacks irrevocably shrank personal freedoms as security-at-all-costs became a policy driver, Covid-19 will erode privacy in the name of public health. The potential market is immense for instruments far more intrusive than Big Brother’s telescreens. Richard Brooks, a computer engineering professor at Clemson University in South Carolina, told Bloomberg News: “If the ability to track social contacts exists to stop a contagion, I can guarantee you it will be used to track the spread of dissent.” An Israeli court verdict that banned Shin Bet, the internal security agency, from using its Covid-19 tracking app shows the discomfort societies have with handing over a shiny, new lever of control to governments. Europe’s data protection laws will try to ensure that the emergency collection and processing of personal information is conducted with accountability, and for a limited purpose. The British parliament’s human rights committee says it isn’t convinced that the National Health Service’s proposed tracing app protects privacy. Tracing in Korea went overboard in the early days, when the authorities released so much data that anonymous patients became identifiable — and got harassed. A strong data protection law forced Korea to limit disclosure.  The bottom line: Where they exist, robust institutions could still offer resistance. In most other places, the individual’s autonomy has already become a virus casualty. Poorer countries where consumers have only recently started going online will see states insist on devices that come with pre-loaded tracking apps. More information will reside on central servers than epidemiologists have asked for or need. But who will stop the juggernaut?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-contact-tracing-apps-mean-spying-end-to-data-privacy-835786.html
10-05-2020||Opinion||Off the record: May 10, 2020||Third time’s the charm?  Rahul Gandhi’s increased media engagement during the lockdown triggered buzz about his impending return as Congress President, a post he quit after the second consecutive loss to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Rahul, however, dismissed any other explanation for his increased media presence, including his conversations with economists Raghuram Rajan and Abhijit Banerjee. While Rahul maintains that he just wanted to give people a glimpse into the “interesting” conversations he has with the thought leaders, Congress leaders have embarked on a campaign to present him as an alternative to Modi, yet again. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi Bidding adieu Ace diplomat Syed Akbaruddin hung his boots and he did it with a “Namaste” – the traditional greeting of India. He was India’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations till April 30 and ended a 35-year-long illustrious career as an Indian Foreign Service officer came to its end. And, with the UN headquarters under lockdown, he bowed out with a video-conference with the United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres. “In the Indian tradition, when we leave or when we meet, we don’t stay hello or shake hands, we say ‘Namaste’,” Akbaruddin said, with his hand folded. “So, before I end, I want to say ‘Namaste’ to you”. His stint as the envoy saw New Delhi succeeding in getting Security Council to impose sanctions on Jaish-e-Mohammed’s leader Masood Azhar despite roadblocks created by China. Anirban Bhaumik, New Delhi  Slight confusion In Assamese, maach means fish. This confused a man in North Assam’s Udalguri district recently, when he visited a government hospital with a fish after a nurse asked him to come with a mask. The man thought he was infected with coronavirus as he was suffering from fever and cough. “As he was not wearing a mask, the nurse asked him to come with a mask for medicines. But the man thought she asked him to come with a fish. He went to the market and came back with a fish. This evoked laughter among the nurses and other staff there,” a health department official in Udalguri said. The nurse then gifted him a mask and provided medicines. Sumir Karmakar, Guwhati  Hypocrisy on liquor Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s six-month-old sermons on ‘pernicious’ effects of liquor consumption have boomeranged on him. When the previous Kamal Nath government changed excise policy to allow more liquor vends in the state, Shivraj was all fire and brimstone. He released a video statement full of forebodings about imminent doom of the state due to the Congress government’s ‘greed for ramping up excise revenue’ at the expanse of the peoples’ lives. Shivraj Singh’s government is now batting to open liquor shops amid lockdown. The state government even threatened to “find alternative ways’ to sell booze to the tipplers if the liquor contractors don’t abide by the excise department’s order to immediately open their shops. The contractors’ finally yielded. Now it is Kamal Nath’s turn to expose what the former chief minister said ‘sheer hypocrisy “of his predecessor. In a statement, the Congress leader wondered aloud what happened to Shivraj Singh’s pledge to work for keeping the state liquor-free.  Rakesh Dixit, Bhopal Muted marriage   Underworld don and former MLA Arun Gawli’s daughter, Yogita, got married to Marathi actor, Akshay Waghmare. The marriage was an extremely low-key affair--and was held in Dagdi Chawl, the bastion of Gawli--who has been jailed for life in a murder case. He is currently under parole. Because of the lockdown, the two families kept it a low-key affair. When Yogita’s siblings Geeta and Mahesh got married, grand events were organised. Geeta is a three-time corporator from Agripada in Mumbai’s civic body. The wedding rituals were performed at the of the family deity, Shri Shambhunarayan, located inside Dagdi Chawl. Yogita, is the third of the Gawli siblings. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/off-the-record-may-10-2020-836035.html
10-05-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus has given chance to change development model||The COVID-19 pandemic has infected nearly 40 lakh people in 185 countries till May 9, 2020, and led to mortality of over 2.75 lakh persons worldwide. In over five and half months, the virus has spread across the world and impacted severely at various levels.  The countries which were well-equipped with missiles to safeguard their sovereignty were caught off-guard and were ill-equipped to deal with the microbes. Incidentally, it also brought to light lack of preparedness and the importance of investment in the area of basic healthcare.  COVID-19 has severe implications in the areas of business, employment, livelihood, economy, international relations, and as prominent industrialist and philanthropist Ratan Tata put it, the virus has created a serious existential challenge for the human race. The first nationwide lockdown was announced on March 25 and was eventually extended till May 17. Although lockdown has successfully checked spikes in cases and prevented community spread to a great extent, it has also created severe hardships for the migrant population, be it inter-state or intra-state migration. Some instances of the gathering of migrants in many states are indicative of not only desperation to reach home but also of prevailing insecurity over jobs and uncertainty over the future. As lockdown is gradually lifted, stranded migrants would begin their journey to their respective states and homes. The 10 tribal-dominated states would face the severe challenge of reverse migration post-lifting of the lockdown. It is even more critical in the light of a study by Lucas Chancel, a prominent economist, who has highlighted that income inequality in India now is at its highest level since 1922. It is even graver in the light of NSS (National Statistical Survey) data of unemployment which is highest since 1977.  According to the data released by the think-tank, Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the unemployment rate surged to nearly 9% from 8.74% in March 2020. As per a Global Hunger Report 2019, India stands at 102 among 117 countries.  It is therefore important to understand and foresee what challenges and way forward can tribals face in the midst of the challenging economic scenario, worrying employment indicators, grave hunger and the socially fragile situation on account of losing a livelihood. Research study at IIT-Bombay has revealed migration as one of the important 13 different types of coping mechanisms that tribes in Maharashtra rely on while dealing with hunger and starvation. In the absence of income from migration, tribals would be staring at loss of livelihood and consequently loss of purchasing power which is likely to make them vulnerable further. Migration was found to be liberating as it provides opportunities to improve the migrants’ socio-economic situation, positively alter labour relations and wages, and mitigate the exploitative relationships at the grass-root level. Migration is one of the important coping mechanisms through which people have improved their social life and social status and addressed their aspiration for the future.  What are some of the options that can help in ensuring entitlements, improving livelihood and safeguarding interests of the tribal communities? For 2020-21, the government has allocated  Rs 61,500 crore for MGNRGA scheme, which is lower than last year’s revised estimates of Rs 71,001.81 crore by 13.4%.  Keeping in mind the catastrophic effect of reverse migration in rural areas as well as on tribals due to the pandemic, the government should increase the budget for MGNREGA substantially and should at least provide 200 man days of work instead of 100 in order to compensate wage loss due to absence of migration.  Imminent hunger Such provisioning would lead to increasing purchasing capital and enable communities and households to cope better with likely imminent hunger. Efforts should also be made to include pastoral communities, landless and other excluded communities with the objective of creation of income-generating asset. Agriculture and allied sector contributes $265 billion - that is 15% of the GDP - and employs over 60% of workforce. As per the Central Statistical Office, agriculture sector reported a low growth of 2.9% in 2019-20. Tribal livelihood depends greatly on forest-based resources and agriculture-based livelihood.  Agriculture-based social enterprises’ promotion has a huge potential of providing sustainable livelihood for small and marginal farmers who constitute 87% of peasants in the country. Investment in building social enterprises among tribals coupled with strengthening supply chain and thereby ensuring access to products would be key in the context of tribal development particularly in the light of tribals’ lack of control over their own productive resources. Poverty and backwardness are major issues confronting tribal communities. Gainful employment within the region can prevent forced migration to cities besides improving the standard of living of local communities.  In terms of addressing loss of jobs, agriculture-based entrepreneurship would create self-employment, address structural poverty-related issues and enable families to come out of poverty and hunger in a sustainable way. In addition to this, it is equally important to take cognizance of the issues related to land, landlessness, food insecurity, inclusive development and capacity building along with sustainability. COVID-19 has offered us an opportunity to bridge the gap between `India and Bharat’ and thereby introspect deeply on kind of centralised urban-centric development model we have pursued over the years. Would we learn lessons and reflect on sustainable, decentralised model of development for tribal and rural population of the country? Time, political will and power dynamics would be able to answer this in the coming months and years.  (The writer is a researcher, development-cum-CSR practitioner who is engaged in promotion of social enterprise among `People at the Base of Pyramid’)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-has-given-chance-to-change-development-model-836034.html
10-05-2020||Right in the Middle||The tale of my city||Ever since my birth here, Bengaluru has been called a ‘paradise’ for various reasons. I have been living in the city throughout, walking up and down the traffic-free streets, enjoying the cool breeze, pleasant fragrance of the flowers from the trees next to the road and friendly greetings from the passers-by.  Alas, it’s all history now!  With the construction going on in all major roads, either for flyovers or for metro, walking is forbidden. We still walk, mostly in parks, and on roads out of necessity, but only when the threat of traffic has decreased. One day, my family had an appointment with a senior officer. It was a short walk from my house to his place, yet we chose to go by car.  Due to the time of the day, our estimate was that there wouldn’t be much traffic and we would reach the destination quickly. We were proved wrong --the roads were already choked.  We were initially hopeful of making it on time, but with passing time, we found ourselves stuck in a jam. Th wait was frustrating and as a result, we decided to park on any immediate side lane we saw and walk the rest of the distance, lest we should miss our appointment. Once our feet on the road, we realised what a bad choice it was!   What was originally a pavement was now a trench, dug up for laying some ‘pipes’ and ‘cables’. Heaps of mud were piled on the side of the road, making walking impossible.  We dared to cross over to the other side of the road amidst the madly honking cabs and bikes, only to find the pavement on the other side was occupied by vendors making dosas and omelettes, with customers making a beeline to grab breakfast.  With watchful steps, we moved forward only to find a huge garbage truck parked adjacent to the pavement to collect tons of garbage on the pavement! To circumvent this we had to dodge to the centre of the road risking our lives against the zooming two-wheelers whose favourite place to ride is the pavement.  After a three minute waiting at the signal, we crossed the road, reached our destination, puffing and panting, hair dishevelled, dress crumpled! Having learnt our lesson, we have located places that are at a walking distance to meet basic requirements. We have also become compulsive online shopping addicts!  What more do we need, as a prospective retired couple? Despite all the odds, I still love my city!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-tale-of-my-city-836033.html
10-05-2020||Second Edit||Locust: Fast, strong action must||While the country is battling COVID-19 pandemic, there is another threat of international origin and proportions looming over the country. Warnings have been issued about a major attack by armies of locusts on the farms in the north-western states and in the peninsular region in the coming weeks. Some areas in the Jaisalmer district of Rajasthan saw locust attacks last week from across the border in Pakistan. The Rajasthan government has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take up the issue at the international level, involve the UN and draw up an action plan soon to counter the threat. This is because the threat may be much more serious than in the previous years as much larger swarms of the insects originating in the Horn of Africa, Iran and north-western Pakistan are likely to strike this year.  The destruction that locusts cause to crops is very big, and so precautions and preventive measures have to be taken. The locusts can be fought only by applying pesticides and chemicals to the plants at the right time. Since very large areas of farmlands may face the threat from millions of insects, spreading over several sq km in the sky, there is the need to produce adequate quantities of pesticides. Aerial surveillance using drones and other equipment is also undertaken. Rajasthan and Gujarat had suffered a 33% loss of crops in the last season. The UN has estimated that the next attack would be about 20 times bigger, and the UN Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) has put on alert all the countries in Africa, the Gulf and Asia which may be on the path of the locusts.  India’s record in fighting locust invasions and containing the damage is not bad but it is necessary to do much planning in advance. The role of the government is very crucial because most of the preventive work can be done only with aerial spray which farmers cannot undertake. Apart from building more capacities with pesticides, equipment and personnel, international co-operation is also necessary. There is hope on this front because in spite of differences and confrontations over many issues, India and Pakistan have always co-operated in the fight against locusts. There were regular consultations and coordination of actions between the two countries even last year and early this year. A food crisis resulting from a locust attack will be doubly disastrous for India and for the world now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/locust-fast-strong-action-must-836027.html
10-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: Tamil Nadu records highest testing numbers, thanks to a robust health system||As a result of the enhanced testing and due to the emergence of new clusters like the fast-expanding Koyambedu Market, the state has reported a massive spurt in the number of positive cases. More than half of the 6,009 cases have been reported in the last five days beginning May 3 alone – 3,252 patients tested positive during the said period – as 10,000 to 14,000 samples are tested every day, one of the highest in the country. The state was at the top having tested 2,16,416 COVID-19 samples till May 8, a little more than Maharashtra which had tested 2,12,350 samples though the latter’s population is much more than the former. Among the states, Tamil Nadu is conducting the highest number of COVID-19 tests per million population. Also, the death rate is one of the lowest in the country at less than one percent, while the number of critically-ill patients among COVID-19 positives is “very less”. The discharge rate had crossed 50 percent at one time, but it has come down drastically due to the massive increase in the number of positive patients. Experts say Tamil Nadu could ramp up its testing numbers in just over a month due to its robust public health infrastructure that has been built over the decades. It has 52 COVID-19 testing centers, one of the highest in the country, with 36 of them in government hospitals and medical colleges.  Over 25 of the total 37 districts are equipped with testing centers. When the COVID-19 outbreak began, Tamil Nadu had only one facility at the King’s Institute here, but it expanded the number of centers within no time as several medical colleges already had RT-PCR machines. It also sourced the machines from four other departments – Animal Husbandry, Agriculture, Fisheries, and Biotechnology – which had these devices for research purposes, that helped it scale up testing.  Dr. K. Kolandaswamy, who retired as Director of Public Health on April 30 in the midst of the COVID-19 prevention efforts, told DH that enhancing testing capabilities in the public health sector in Tamil Nadu began after authorities noticed shortcomings in the field during the H1N1 outbreak in 2009. “That is when we began giving much emphasis for testing laboratories and we decided to have at least one laboratory in each district under the Integrated Disease Surveillance Project (IDSP). We then went for ramping up of RT-PCR facilities in district government hospitals which helped us immensely during COVID-19 containment efforts,” he said. An exclusive post was created to ramp up testing laboratories under the Department of Public Health (DPH) and extensive studies were carried out with help from Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta in the US. He stressed that efforts should be made to ensure that every medical college develops their own reagents and sanitizers so that one does not worry about their availability in times of outbreak such as the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the Tamil Nadu government came under severe criticism from various quarters for “not testing enough from the beginning” -- from a strict protocol of testing only symptomatic patients with travel history, the state shifted gears to “aggressive testing” after the “Delhi cluster” emerged in April. With the Koyambedu market cluster emerging, the strategy has now shifted to “targeted testing” and isolating positive patients to ensure that the vulnerable community like the old and pregnant women are protected from the virus. Dr. J Amalorpavanathan, former director of the Institute of Vascular Surgery at the prestigious Madras Medical College, told DH that several experts were calling on the Tamil Nadu government to ramp up testing since the outbreak in March, but the administration was a little late. “Nevertheless, they did it now. Ramping up testing is a good sign which has resulted in the number of positive cases in Tamil Nadu and most of them are asymptomatic. Out of the symptomatic patients, only a few need critical treatment which is the case with any other virus. We need to isolate all symptomatic patients and quarantine all asymptomatic patients. Had we been more vigilant in February, we could have avoided a number of cases,” he said. Dr. Kolandaswamy said the government’s strategy from the beginning was “test, identify, isolate, encircle, containment and delay the spread” of Coronavirus. “In a war, one does not follow a single strategy from the beginning to the end. The fight against COVID-19 is also kind of a war where the enemy is invisible. We kept changing our strategy as the invasion by the virus became stronger. But we never stopped testing,” he added. Dr. Amalorpavanathan wants the government to change the way of presenting the facts regarding COVID-19 in the health bulletins that are released every day. “We get to understand that number of mildly symptomatic patients is much higher in numbers than the symptomatic patients. The government should give details of the number of asymptomatic, symptomatic, and mildly symptomatic patients which would lead to more confidence among the people. The figures that are released have no meaning without any denominator,” he told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-tamil-nadu-records-highest-testing-numbers-thanks-to-a-robust-health-system-835737.html
10-05-2020||South||Ship with 698 from Male reaches Kochi; Flight from Doha cancelled||As many as 698 persons evacuated from Maldives reached the Cochin Port in Kerala by Indian Navy's Jalaswa ship on Sunday. Among them 595 were males and 103 females, including 19 pregnant women and 14 children below the age of 10. Majority of the passengers were from Kerala and Tamil Nadu, while natives of 18 states also came by the ship.  Passengers were subjected to COVID-19 screening at the port and the district administration arranged transportation and quarantine facilities. BSNL provided SIM cards to everyone and Aarogya Setu application was installed on their phones. An aircraft with 181 NRIs from Doha scheduled to reach Thiruvananthapuram by Sunday night was cancelled in the last minute. One Karnataka native, 19 from Tamil Nadu and one from Maharashtra were among the passengers expected to come by the flight. Kerala Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said that some passengers scheduled to come by the flight were denied permission to travel due to some technical reasons and hence, the flight was cancelled. The flight was expected to operate on Tuesday. As per the revised scheme of the government, those with COVID-19 symptoms would be shifted to quarantine facilities arranged in all districts and others would be instructed to remain in home quarantine. Meanwhile, of the 535 NRIs who came down in three aircraft in Kochi on Saturday, five were found to be having COVID-19 symptoms and were shifted to COVID care centre. Already 17 other NRIs who returned since Thursday were shifted to COVID care centres with symptoms, of which two were tested positive. There were unconfirmed reports that many with symptoms like fever were taking medicines just ahead of traveling to Kerala from other states and other countries to suppress the fever during screening at airports and border check posts. Health department officials said that it was difficult to detect such persons during thermal screening. Once the government receives adequate number of anti-body test kits all coming into the state could be subjected to anti-body test at the entry points itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ship-with-698-from-male-reaches-kochi-flight-from-doha-cancelled-835739.html
10-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: TN to bear travel expenses of migrant workers||Tamil Nadu government has announced that it will bear the travel expenses of migrant labourers who wish to go to their native places if they or the states that belong do not pay the required amount needed for the transit. Over 1 lakh migrants belonging to various states have so far registered to go their states. The government is arranging trains to take the migrants to their home states. "If individual migrants or the receiving states are not in a position to pay the cost of transit (including the cost of a train ticket), the same will be paid by the Government of Tamil Nadu under the State Disaster Response Fund," a Government Order said. Meanwhile, two flights carrying 359 Indians, including three infants, from Dubai landed in Chennai in the early hours of Saturday. Their swab samples were collected, and they have been lodged at quarantine centers owned by the government and at specified hotels arranged for the purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-tn-to-bear-travel-expenses-of-migrant-workers-835744.html
10-05-2020||South||TN constitutes panel to assess COVID-19 impact||The panel has industrialists Venu Srinivasan, TVS Group chairman, N Srinivasan of The India Cements, A Vellayyan of the Murugappa Group, Indian Bank Managing Director Padmaja Chunduru and Equitas Bank MD and CEO, P N Vasudevan as members. Besides professors from the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras, Madras Institute of Development Studies and Madras School of Economics, the panel consists of Secretaries from at least ten government departments as members. Vice-Chancellors of the University of Madras and the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University are also part of the 24-member committee. The committee has also been tasked to identify possible sources of financing and funding for different sectors, including infrastructure projects, small businesses, and other enterprises. Contending that the lockdown to limit the spread of the COVID-19 virus is bound to have a medium-term impact on the economy of Tamil Nadu, the government said it has decided to constitute a High Level Committee of economists and experts and officials to advise the Government on the medium-term policy response. “The Committee may also interact and seek views from industry bodies, trade associations, stakeholders, economic and other experts in India and overseas,” a Government Order said. It said the committee will be headed by Dr C. Rangarajan, former Governor of Reserve Bank of India, former Chairman of the Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Council and currently Chairman, Madras School of Economics. “The committee will assess the overall immediate and medium-term impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on different sectors of Tamil Nadu's economy, including the impact of the lockdown; additional costs and implications due to social distancing and other precautionary measures,” it said. The order also added that the committee will assess the opportunities and threats in the short and medium-term and suggest measures required to help the important sectors of the economy to overcome the impact of COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-constitutes-panel-to-assess-covid-19-impact-835746.html
10-05-2020||South||Vizag Gas leak and after: The misery continues for some||The styrene vapour leak from the LG Polymers plant at nearby R R Venakatapuram village killed his father and left five-year old Manideep blinded. His mother too fell sick due to the vapour effect and was hospitalised. The family's plight was such that they did not know about Govinda Raju's death till relatives saw his picture in the media and came rushing to the hospital on Friday. Govinda Raju, incidentally, worked as a daily wager in the LG plant. But Manideep could not even take a look at his deceased father as he could not open his eyes.   On Saturday, he was taken to the LV Prasad Eye Institute, where specialists attended on him and Manideep could finally open his eyes for a few moments. "He also suffered a wound on his leg, and though he could finally open his eyes, he was unable to walk. We somehow took him out and showed him his father's body before the final rites were completed," Manideep's aunt, who was tending to him in the hospital, said. The child's mother is now recovering in hospital from the breathlessness she suffered due to the vapour leak on Thursday. Another heart-rending tale is that of nine-year-old N Grishma's family. She died in the mishap even as her parents lay sick on hospital beds. "Grishma died on Thursday itself but we could not break the news to her mother till today. After post-mortem, the body was handed over to us this morning and it was then that we finally told her about the tragedy, a wailing uncle said. Grishma's brother too suffered the effects of the vapour, but recovered quickly and was sent to his relative's house. Grishma's mother Lakshmi was inconsolable but she accompanied her daughter's body to their village Venkatapuram on Saturday. She jumped over the LG plant gate and made her way to the Director General of Police D G Sawang as he was inspecting the unit and fell at his feet, pleading that the LG management be brought to book immediately. With folded hands, she pleaded that the plant be shut down immediately. Police tried to console her, but she came out of the factory and poured out her grief. The King George Hospital in Visakhapatnam swarmed with grieving relatives as members of many families were bed-ridden and provided treatment for ailments like shallow breathing, nausea, sore eyes and gastrointestinal problems. Over 200 people were still undergoing treatment in the KGH, but their condition was said to be stable. Visakhapatnam district in-charge Minister K Kanna Babu, who visited the hospital and spoke to some of the victims, said all the patients were fast recovering. "As a precautionary measure, we are not allowing the people to return to their villages. They are being provided safe shelter in relief camps in the city," Kanna Babu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-leak-and-after-the-misery-continues-for-some-835778.html
10-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: Superstar Rajinikanth warns ruling AIADMK against reopening liquor outlets amid coronavirus lockdown||Superstar Rajinikanth on Sunday warned the ruling AIADMK against reopening state-run liquor outlets in Tamil Nadu, saying if it was done, it should not harbour "dreams" of coming to power again, apparently in next year's Assembly elections. In a tweet, he also asked the government to work out alternate modes of revenue generation. His remarks came a day after Tamil Nadu moved the Supreme Court, seeking a stay against a Madras High Court order directing closure of liquor shops in the state. The AIADMK cannot have "dreams of coming to power again if the government re-opens TASMAC shops at this juncture," the veteran actor said in the tweet. "Please #Look out for better ways of filling the coffers," he added. The Tamil Nadu government had on Saturday moved the apex court challenging the High Court order for closure of TASMAC (Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation) liquor outlets on grounds of violations of COVID-19 guidelines, arguing that it would lead to "grave losses" in revenue and a complete halt in commercial activities.  The Madras High Court had on Friday ordered closure of liquor outlets in the state, noting there were huge crowds and no social distancing was being maintained by tipplers. It, however, allowed doorstep delivery of booze through online mode. The Tamil Nadu government, in its appeal on Saturday, termed the HC order a case of "judicial overreach" and said online sale and home delivery of alcohol were not possible in the entire state. Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu, including the DMK, had eaarlier welcomed the High Court order directing closure of the TASMAC outlets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-superstar-rajinikanth-warns-ruling-aiadmk-against-reopening-liquor-outlets-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-835800.html
10-05-2020||South||Bakery owner arrested in Tamil Nadu for 'no Muslim staff' tagline||The 32-year-old owner of a bakery shop in Chennai was arrested for using an offensive tagline targeting Muslims in a pamphlet that he shared on WhatsApp groups. Prashanth, the owner of Jain Bakeries and Confectioneries, was arrested by the Chennai Police on Friday on a complaint that the advertisement he issued had “wrong information” about Muslims. “Made by Jains on orders, No Muslim staffs" was the tagline that the bakery used in the pamphlets that were circulated on WhatsApp by Prashanth. Soon, the image went viral on social media with calls for action against Prashanth growing louder. The bakery, which is located in the West Mambalam area in Chennai, had sought to control the 'damage' by saying that it tried to make it clear that it does not employ any Muslim staff after rumours were circulated that the food items are prepared by members of the community. Mambalam Police said a case under two sections of the IPC was lodged against the owner of the bakery on a complaint that the advertisement had “wrong information” about Muslims. The police said he has been booked under 295A (Deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace.) Chennai Police’s action of arresting the owner of the bakery drew praise and criticism alike on social media. People shared both the advertisement placed by the bakery and a press release issued by the police announcing the arrest of the owner, saying offensive comments against any faith should not be tolerated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bakery-owner-arrested-in-tamil-nadu-for-no-muslim-staff-tagline-835817.html
10-05-2020||South||SER asks loco pilots to keep vigil for migrants labourers walking on rail tracks||The South Eastern Railway has asked its loco pilots and other staff to keep a sharp vigil for migrant labourers walking along the railway tracks after several such groups were located at different places within its zone, an official said here on Sunday. Groups of migrant labourers were spotted walking on the railway track near a level crossing between Soro and Markona of Odisha and between Balasore and Haldipada, walking towards Kharagpur on Sunday morning, SER spokesman Sanjay Ghosh said. On Saturday, a group of 14 migrant workers were walking on the railway tracks towards Belda, when they were detected by engineering staff between Jaleswar and Laxhanath Road and were moved safety at the nearest level crossing gate. A group of 26 people were also found walking towards Kharagpur and they were taken to Haldipada Station by RPF staff. Another group of people were detected between Soro and Markona of Odisha on Saturday evening when they were moving along the railway tracks towards West Bengal, he said. Train movements were being stopped in the areas from where reports of such movement on the tracks were received till track clearances were obtained from railway personnel at the site, he said. Ghosh said that advisories have been issued for staff to report such movement immediately and adequate security persons were being arranged for keeping vigil. "All the loco pilots have been advised to keep a sharp look out for movement of people on the tracks and blow horn frequently and take necessary action as and when required," he said. "These migrant labourers are dealt with very sympathetically at all the points by the station and Railway Protection Force (RPF) staff. The local civil authorities are being informed immediately to escort them towards the public road," he said. Ghosh said that food and water were provided to all such migrant labourers found to walking on the tracks towards their homes by the SER authorities and were counselled not to walk on the railway tracks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ser-asks-loco-pilots-to-keep-vigil-for-migrants-labourers-walking-on-rail-tracks-835824.html
10-05-2020||South||Kiran Bedi prevents flow of revenue to exchequer, alleges Puducherry CM||Stepping up his tirade against the Puducherry Lt Governor, Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Sunday alleged that the former was preventing through several 'unacceptable' and 'objectionable' ways, the flow of revenue to the fund-starved territorial administration. In his daily press briefing, the Chief Minister said, "the police department has been instigated by Kiran Bedi to file cases against liquor merchants on flimsy grounds. "The police have no right to intervene in the working of the excise department and hence by misusing their authority they were unnecessary dislocating the working of the liquor business by taking action against the merchants." It is known to all that the licensees authorised to import liquor from other places or those selling the product within the Union Territory remit the excise duty before doing their business. The duty thus paid in keeping with Excise rules by the merchants ultimately comes to the State Exchequer, he noted. The Chief Minister said during the current lockdown the merchants were put to unnecessary hardship by "overstepping attitude of the police." He accused the police of "dancing to the tune" of the Lt Governor by filing false cases against liquor dealers on the basis of complaints given by those indulging in black market activities. On reopening liquor shops, Narayanasamy said as far as his government was concerned no definite decision could be taken on the matter. "Already there was a legal battle in Tamil Nadu where the shops were now closed. We are not in a position to take a definite step and we will wait till the lockdown comes to an end on May 17 to decide on reopening the shops," he said. The Chief Minister said that his government could not go in for the online sale of the liquor as very strong infrastructure and technical facilities were required to be done. The creation of the facility would take much time, he said. The cabinet had at its meeting on Saturday decided not to take any decision for the present on reopening the liquor shops in the Union Territory. It was decided at the meeting that the government could wait for the next few days before the ongoing lockdown comes to an end and take a decision on reopening liquor shops, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kiran-bedi-prevents-flow-of-revenue-to-exchequer-alleges-puducherry-cm-835886.html
10-05-2020||South||Kasargod coronavirus tally now nil but concerns of fresh spike haunts Kerala||While Kasargod district's COVID-19 tally came down to zero with the last patient getting cured on Sunday, Kerala seems to be witnessing a fresh spike in COVID-19 cases as three NRIs  and two who came from Chennai were among the seven who tested positive in the state on Sunday. While the number of evacuated NRIs testing COVID-19 positive so far increased to 5, around 15 with symptoms were admitted to COVID-19 care centres. Kasargod district medical officer A V Ramdas told DH even as all the 178 COVID-19 patients in the district got recovered, the district would remain to be under tight vigil owing to evacuation of NRIs as well as return of Keralites from other states. Kasargod's achievement of zero mortality received much appreciation as the district was having a weak health infrastructure when the district witnessed a spike in COVID-19 cases. It was only after the spike in coronavirus cases that the administrative block of the upcoming medical college hospital was made operational as a COVID-19 care facility and doctors from other medical colleges pressed into service. The relatively younger age of patients also helped the district achieve 100 percent recovery rate, said a doctor in the district.   All the three NRIs tested COVID-19 positive on Sunday came by the maiden evacuation flight  from Abu Dhabi to Kochi on Thursday. Another passenger in the same flight and a passenger in Dubai - Kozhikode flight on Thursday tested positive on Saturday. All other passengers in these flights are kept under home quarantine and institutional quarantine. Apart from the one patient at Kasargod, three more patients in Kerala also recovered on Sunday. The number of active cases in Kerala as on Sunday was 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kasargod-coronavirus-tally-now-nil-but-concerns-of-fresh-spike-haunts-kerala-835944.html
10-05-2020||South||A special bus carrying Keralites from Karnataka meets with an accident in TN||A special bus carrying 27 Keralites, including IT professionals, teachers, and students, from Bengaluru to their home state of Kerala, met with an accident on Sunday on the Karur-Salem national highway in Tamil Nadu. The driver and cleaner of the bus suffered serious injuries, while some passengers suffered minor injuries. All the passengers resumed the journey to Kerala on another bus arranged by the Tamil Nadu government.  The incident took place at around 12 pm on Sunday when the special bus collided with a tanker lorry near Ram Nagar in Salem. The bus had 24 passengers – 23 from Kottayam and one from Idukki in Kerala – and was transporting them back to their home state. These people were stuck in Karnataka due to the lockdown. Lenish, a passenger on the bus, told DH that they started the journey from Kalasipalayam by Sunday morning with 24 passengers, including nine women, apart from a coordinator and driver and cleaner. The bus was hired from Thrissur in Kerala and they started the journey after obtaining entry passes to Kerala. Following interventions by some MPs from Kerala, the local authorities in Tamil Nadu extended all sorts of help and also arranged another bus for the passengers to resume their journey after first aid. The driver and cleaner were hospitalised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-special-bus-carrying-keralites-from-karnataka-meets-with-an-accident-in-tn-835971.html
10-05-2020||South||First plane with Andhra Pradesh citizens from United States coming on May 11||The first flight carrying people of Andhra Pradesh would land in Hyderabad from the USA on Monday as more than 20,000 people were expected to be repatriated from various foreign countries in the next few days, as the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions have been eased. All those landing in Hyderabad would be brought to Vijayawada by buses and quarantined after preliminary screening at the airport, Principal Secretary (Transport) M T Krishna Babu said. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday reviewed the arrangements being made for the returnees. According to Krishna Babu, reception teams from Andhra Pradesh would be positioned in airports at Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai where the state citizens would arrive from various foreign countries. A proper medical check-up will be conducted on these people and if someone is found with symptoms of coronavirus, they will be moved to the nearest COVID-19 Care Centre. Others will be brought to the state by buses, he said. The state government was providing two options - free or paid quarantine - depending on the passengers choice. If the returnees opt for paid quarantine, we have categorised three facilities by tying up with various hotels. There will be luxury, medium and budget categories with prices starting from Rs 1,500," the Principal Secretary said. On inter-state transfers, he said 11 trains have been arranged so far and 11,860 migrant workers have been sent back to their respective states. "Rajasthan and West Bengal governments have not yet given permission to send the migrant workers back to those states. As such we could not run the special Sharmik trains, he said. Jharkhand was permitting only one train per week and the second train would leave on May 12. The state government was footing the complete expenditure of the migrant workers upto the last mile and also providing Rs 500 to each person for out-of-pocket expenses, Krishna Babu added. From other states, 12,273 people had returned. We are giving top priority to migrant workers in distress, pilgrims, tourists and students in groups stuck in other states. Another 30,000 people were still stuck in other states waiting to return, the Principal Secretary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-plane-with-andhra-pradesh-citizens-from-united-states-coming-on-may-11-835979.html
10-05-2020||South||Congress veteran and former minister Juvvadi Ratnakar Rao dead||Congress veteran and former minister Juvvadi Ratnakar Rao passed away at a hospital in Karimnagar district of Telangana on Sunday due to age-related illness. He was 92 and is survived by three sons, a party leader said. "He passed away at tha hospital at around 6 am today (Sunday). He was admitted to the hospital on Saturday evening, senior Congress leader and MLC T Jeevan Reddy told PTI. Ratnakar Rao was ailing from age-related health issues, Reddy said. Ratnakar Rao was elected to Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly thrice in 1989, 1999 and 2004 from Buggaram assembly constituency and served as a Minister for Endowments between 2006 and 2009, Reddy, who was his cabinet colleague, said. The funeral would be conducted in Ratnakar Raos native village Timmapur this (Sunday) evening, he said. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expressed condolence over the death of Rao and gave instructions to accord a state funeral. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy, and several party leaders were among the others who expressed their condolences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-veteran-and-former-minister-juvvadi-ratnakar-rao-dead-835993.html
10-05-2020||South||Styrene gas leak: sanitisation work underway in 5 villages in Andhra Pradesh||Sanitisation work started on Sunday at RR Venkatapuram near Visakhapatnam, where a gas leak from a chemical plant claimed 12 lives, and four surrounding villages as the situation came under complete control three days after the tragedy, officials said. Meanwhile, the 400-odd people undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the city after being affected by the styrene vapour leakage from the LG Polymers plant at RR Venkatapuram in the early hours of Thursday were fast recovering, they said. The company announced the styrene liquid has solidified, sealing the chance of any vapour coming out further but the district administration said people should return to the villages only after the sanitisation process was completed and other safety measures were put in place. Experts from New Delhi and other places were closely monitoring the situation at the plant, including the styrene levels and temperature. Visakhapatnam district Collector V Vinay Chand, quoting the experts, said there was no safety threat at the plant now as the vapour leakage reached zero level. We will take the experts views into consideration before letting people back into their villages, the Collector told reporters. He, however, asked people not to return to the villages yet as the sanitisation process would take a couple of days. Only after this is complete and safety measures are in place, should people return to their homes, he said. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who reviewed the incident at this camp residence in Amaravati, was informed that everything was safe in the villages around the LG plant. The Chief Minister told the officials to let the people return to their homes only after all safety measures were taken. Visakhapatnam District medical and health officer Tirumala Rao said 411 people, affected by the gas leak, were undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the city and were fast recovering. Based on the latest situation in the villages and instructions of the district administration, we will discharge the recovered patients. Till then we will make arrangements for them in the King George Hospital, the DMHO said. LG plant General Manager G Mohan Rao said the styrene liquid has solidified and the situation was fully under control. All steps were being taken to maintain the required temperature in the styrene storage tanks, both at the plant and at the Visakhapatnam Port. Twelve people were killed and hundreds taken ill, many collapsing to the ground as they tried to escape the toxic vapours after the gas leaked from the plant in the early hours of Thursday and quickly spread to villages in a five-kilometre radius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/styrene-gas-leak-sanitisation-work-underway-in-5-villages-in-andhra-pradesh-836010.html
10-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu’s coronavirus tally crosses 7,000; Chennai has close to 4,000 cases||Tamil Nadu on Sunday reported another massive spike in COVID-19 numbers with 669 people, 509 from the state capital Chennai alone, testing positive for coronavirus, pushing the tally to 7,000 mark. The state has 7,204 positive cases, including 47 deaths and 1,959 recoveries with Chennai on the top of the list accounting for 3,839 patients. Northern districts that are located in close proximity to Chennai like Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu, and Villupuram are some of the worst-affected districts. Backward districts like Cuddalore and Ariyalur that send thousands of people to cities like Chennai for jobs have recorded 395 and 275 cases, respectively. The Koyambedu Market cluster is expanding day by day and that is one of the major reasons for the massive spurt in the number of positive cases reported every day, besides ramping up of testing capacity by the Health Department. As of Saturday, the Koyambedu cluster alone accounted for 1,867 cases, while the Health Department did not give updated numbers on Sunday. The increase in the number of cases in the metropolis is attributed to the “targeted testing” method that the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has adopted to prevent further outbreak of COVID-19.   Revenue Commissioner and Special Nodal Officer for GCC J Radhakrishnan told reporters that the city could witness a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases for the next five to six days as the “targeted testing” strategy is on full swing. “Koyambedu, Thiru Vi. Ka. Nagar and Tiruvanmiyur are some of the clusters that have taken shape in the city and we are testing people who are from these groups. Besides targeted testing, we are also testing who fall in the vulnerable category like elders and people who have co-morbid conditions. People’s participation in this war against coronavirus is vital,” Radhakrishnan said. Till now, the state has tested 2,43,037 samples and had 5,195 active cases as on Sunday. Meanwhile, the government further relaxed the lockdown norms by allowing standalone shops in 24 categories like four-wheeler and two-wheeler car dealerships, automobile service centers, courier services, furniture shops, and mobile phone outlets to function from Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-s-coronavirus-tally-crosses-7000-chennai-has-close-to-4000-cases-836012.html
10-05-2020||South||Kerala HC upholds regulation on borders; Online vehicle booking facility to travel to Kerala||The Kerala High Court has upheld the regulations being made by the Kerala Government on entry of Keralites from other states through six border check points, but directed the government to ensure adequate basic facilities at the borders. Considering a plea regarding large number of people stranded at Kerala - Tamil Nadu border at Valayar in Palakkad district, the court said that those stranded at the specific check-post may be allowed to enter Kerala. However, only those who register with Kerala government and obtain entry passes need to be allowed to enter hereafter. Priority shall be given to women and children, the court maintained. Meanwhile, the Kerala Tourism department had made an online facility for Keralites in other states to book tourist vehicles online for traveling to Kerala. The service can be availed through the portal www.keralatourism.org. However the tariffs were not fixed by the government, especially when there were allegations that many vehicle operators were demanding exorbitant rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-upholds-regulation-on-borders-online-vehicle-booking-facility-to-travel-to-kerala-836031.html
10-05-2020||South||33 fresh COVID-19 cases in Telangana; Plasma trials to begin||Telangana recorded 33 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of those infected by the virus to 1,196 in the state, as the state-run Gandhi Hospital here is all set to carry out plasma therapy trials for coronavirus patients. The plasma trials will be conducted from Monday as per the protocol of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), health officials said. "This is a clinical trial. There is no proven researchon plasma therapy. So, this is a research study under the guidance of ICMR and as part of it bloodis obtained from those recovered from COVID-19," a doctor at the hospital said. "Depending on their (recovered patients) age group and hemoglobinper cent, and if they have any other complications, we will see all those andif they are fit then we will extract 400 ml of blood from them," he said. The therapy will be done for patients based on certain conditions such as lung capacity, he added. The therapy aims at transfusing plasma (component of blood) containing antibodies donated by a recovered COVID-19 patient to the serious coronavirus patients harbouring an active infection. According to a media bulletin on COVID-19, 33 new cases were confirmed, of which 26 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits and another seven cases were migrants. It said a total of 751 patients were discharged after treatment till date, however, no patient was discharged on Sunday. No deaths were reported on Sunday and the figure remained at 30 in the state while the active cases stood at 415.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/33-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-plasma-trials-to-begin-836051.html
10-05-2020||State||Five special trains carrying over 5,000 passengers leave from Karnataka to various destinations||Five special trains left for various destinations including Udhampur on Sunday carrying about 5,700 passengers, Railway officials said. According to the South Western Railway officials, the train for Udhampur departed from Chikbanawar at 12.30 pm with 985 passengers, most of whom were workers. The second train to Bankura left from Malur in Kolar district with 1,200 passengers and 47 children at 2.10 pm and the third train to Gwalior left with 1,068 passengers left at 4.05 pm from Chikkabanavara. The Railway officials said the fourth special train to Danapur left Malur at 4.55 pm with 1,200 passengers on board. The fifth Shramik special train today left for Gorakhpur at 1,200 people, they added. All the passengers were provided with packed meal and water bottles. Packed meals contained rice packet, chapati, biscuits, cookies, pickles, water bottle, buttermilk, SWR officials said. "No pantry car is there as a precautionary measure. Throughout the journey food will be provided from IRCTC base kitchens. Number of meals depend on duration of journey," the officials added. As a precautionary measure, IRCTC and other divisions en route have been given details of the passengers, which had been collected at the beginning of the journey, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/five-special-trains-carrying-over-5000-passengers-leave-from-karnataka-to-various-destinations-835920.html
10-05-2020||State||Pregnant COVID-19 warrior in Karnataka wins accolade, CM expresses gratitude||A nine-month pregnant nurse on COVID-19 frontline in Karnataka has emerged as a shining example for selfless dedication to work, with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa expressing his gratitude and requesting her to go on maternity leave. Roopa, working on a contract basis at Jayachamarajendra Taluk Hospital in Yediyurappa's home district of Shivamogga, insisted on continuing to discharge her duty despite health officials' advising against it citing her advanced pregnancy and surfacing of fresh COVID-19 cases in the district. "Roopa, I am amazed to learn about your efforts. It is nice to learn that a woman from my district is putting in so much of efforts. At least now please take rest and return to work after delivery... I humbly request you to take rest from today," the Chief Minister told her over the phone. Recently, the nurse was deputed to Gajanur in the same district to tackle cases of coronavirus. She has been commuting from Teerthahalli to Gajanur by bus for the past few days. Meanwhile, Shivamogga, which was under green zone till now, saw a spurt in cases on Sunday with eight people testing positive and one of them was from Teerthahalli. It was then the district and Taluk health officials realised that Roopa would risk her life if she continued to work and asked her to take a break, sources in the CM office said. However, Roopa was adamant that she would continue to serve the patients during the pandemic. Finally, the matter was brought to the notice of Yediyurappa, who called Roopa and requested to take care of her health, following which the woman agreed to go on leave. According to the Shivamogga District Health Officer Rajesh Suragihalli, Roopa was told that she was in the vulnerable category as per the protocol. "We had told the Emergency Medical Officer to keep her off from the COVID-19 duty as she is in the vulnerable category because she is pregnant but the EMO replied that she insisted to continue with her work," Dr Suragihalli told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pregnant-covid-19-warrior-in-karnataka-wins-accolade-cm-expresses-gratitude-835921.html
10-05-2020||State||Special package: MLA urges BSY to include more categories||MLA G B Jyotiganesh has urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to include more categories of workers in the special package that was announced recently.  The MLA said in a video conference with district-level BJP leaders that the Rs 1,610 crore special package for the organised sector will help thousands of families affected by the Coronavirus lockdown. He lauded the move. "However more communities should be included under the package. People from different walks of life such as goldsmiths, hotel workers, theatre workers, and photographers should be included under the package," he appealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/special-package-mla-urges-bsy-to-include-more-categories-835999.html
10-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Second repatriation flight from UK takes off for Bengaluru with 323 Indians||Air India's second repatriation flight to bring back Indians stranded in the UK due to the coronavirus lockdown took off from the Heathrow Airport here for Bengaluru on Sunday with 323 passengers. Besides the 323 students, tourists and other Indian passport holders, the flight is flying back the body of a 37-year-old Indian-origin man who committed suicide at his home in south-east England. This was the second of the first set of seven Air India repatriation flights as part of the Indian government's Vande Bharat Mission to bring home stranded Indians. Gadigeppagouda Onkaragouda Patil died at Slough in Berkshire on March 13, days before the pandemic-related lockdown grounded international flights to India. “This was a complicated case but with the help of the Indian government, his family will be able to conduct his last rites," said the President of the Overseas Friends of BJP (OFBJP) diaspora group, who is involved with the coordination of the repatriation process. Patil’s case was complicated as a result of strict new rules for the repatriation of human remains and was made possible only after a new visa was issued. His coffin has now been transported back to his home-town of Bengaluru after the clearance from the coroner in England. “Air India's evacuation flight for Bengaluru takes off with 323 stranded Indians on board. Shubh Yatra,” the Indian High Commission in London said in a statement on Sunday. The Indian mission has urged all passengers to follow the norm of “Do Gaj Doori, Bahut Hair Zaroori” as far as possible, with Air India providing passengers with a kit containing meals, snacks, sanitizer, mask and gloves. On landing, they will be directed to the relevant state government organised quarantine venues for their 14-day self-isolation. The aircraft, which will land in Bengaluru later on Sunday, comes a day after the first repatriation flight landed in Mumbai in the early hours of Sunday. The next set of flights over the next week in phase one of the Vande Bharat Mission for the UK will cover Hyderabad (Monday), Mumbai (Tuesday), Ahmedabad (Wednesday), Chennai (Thursday) and New Delhi (Friday). Organisers have said that further flights are planned from the UK to other cities of India as well in phase two of the repatriation mission. The schedule is being coordinated by the Indian High Commission in London, with payments made directly to Air India by confirmed passengers. The first set of flights to India will prioritise Indian passport holders on vulnerability and health grounds. On their way from India to the UK, these flights will also be bringing back some expatriates and UK visa holders wanting to fly back to London’s Heathrow Airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/second-repatriation-flight-from-uk-takes-off-for-bengaluru-with-323-indians-835924.html
10-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Pre-monsoon showers batter parts of north Karnataka||Thundershowers, accompanied by hailstorm and strong winds, battered parts of Kalyana Karnataka and Mumbai-Karnataka regions, on Sunday. Hitnalli in Vijayapura district recorded the highest 62.6 mm of rain. Hailstones of the size of marbles lashed Kerur in Badami taluk. 11-year-old Ahmed Ismail died in a lightning strike in Bhalki taluk of Bidar district. Vijayapura town and several parts of the district, including Vijayapura, Basavana Bagewadi, Devara Hippargi, Chadchan, Muddebihal, received moderate to heavy showers, accompanied by thunder and lightning, in the early hours of Sunday. Several mango trees at a grove owned by Somanna at Sasabal in Sindagi taluk were uprooted in the gusty winds that lashed the region. The pre-monsoon showers have brought cheers to the farmers in the district, who are looking forward to the Kharif season. Light to moderate showers lashed Bidar town and parts of the district. The early morning showers caused misery to the vendors and the general public. Janawad recorded 28 mm of rain while Bidar received 15 mm. Hailstorm battered parts of Hosapete, Kampli and Sandur taluks in Ballari district on Sunday evening. Mangaluru city and parts of Chikkamagaluru district, including Sringeri and Kottigehara, also witnessed moderate to heavy showers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pre-monsoon-showers-batter-parts-of-north-karnataka-836055.html
10-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Illegal stay at St Mary’s Island: 7 taken into custody||Coastal Security Police (CSP) are probing the involvement of senior government officials in the dusk-to-dawn party held at St Mary’s Island on Saturday. Seven men, who allegedly participated in the party, were taken into custody. The men in the custody also include Malpe Beach Development Committee maintenance in-charge Sudhesh Shetty. CSP Police Superintendent R Chetan said the seven men had not only violated the lockdown rules, but also the tender regulations. Chetan had also written a letter to Udupi deputy commissioner, who is also chairman of Malpe Beach Development Committee, over the action to be initiated against Shetty and his friends.  Vadabandeshwara Councillor Yogish Salian has filed a complaint with the coastal police. Salian, in his complaint, alleged that the shore was littered with liquor bottles. The police also found two cars parked near the dockyard used for anchoring the boats, that ferry tourists to the island. The police had to rush to the island after being flooded with complaints from the local residents on Saturday midnight. The men who were found on the island had reportedly told police that they had come to the island to take back the materials owned by Malpe Beach Development Committee. They could not return to Malpe owing to the rough sea. The seven men who stayed back at the island after the party were ferried to the mainland on Sunday morning. Malpe Beach Development Committee maintenance in-charge Sudhesh Shetty denied reports on having partied at St Mary’s Island and dismissed it as rumours. Along with Sudhesh Shetty, Raghav, Sachin, Panduranga Kunder, Nandakishore, Devanand and Sachin Kumar were taken by police intocustody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/illegal-stay-at-st-mary-s-island-7-taken-into-custody-836056.html
10-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Police register 135 cases, collect Rs 1.66L fine||The city traffic police are acting tough against the violators of lockdown guidelines and are booking cases against them. Despite warnings, many are reluctant to follow the guidelines and flouting norms.  The police registered a total of 135 cases in three days and collected Rs 1.66 lakh fine from the vehicle riders for violating the norms. The police registered a total of 43 cases and collected a fine of Rs 78,000 in a single day on May 6. Similarly, on May 8, 48 cases were booked and  Rs 48,000 fine collected from the vehicle users for flouting the norms. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) S N Sandesh Kumar told that the police have intensified the drive against the violators from Wednesday. “We are imposing fine against the people using vehicles after 12 noon. The people must follow the norms without fail,” he said. The ACP said the people are allowed to use vehicles till 12 noon. The people must not use vehicles after 12 noon unless emergency. However, people can walk to purchase groceries and other items. The ACP urged the people not to come out of the houses unless it is necessary. The police have issued passes to the essential services vehicles and strict action will be taken against the people violating the norms, he warned. It has to be recalled that the city police commissioner had urged the citizens to abide by the lockdown rules and warned of seizing the vehicles if they are brought out after 12 pm. The commissioner asked the people not to travel for more than two km from their respective house. The commissioner had ordered the closure of grocery shops after 6 pm and only emergency services are allowed after 6 pm. However, goods carrier, vehicles supplying essentials, medical emergency vehicles were allowed to move withpasses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/police-register-135-cases-collect-rs-166l-fine-836061.html
10-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||New, old hotspots pour cold water on efforts to tame coronavirus||The state witnessed new challenges in its battle against COVID-19 on Sunday, with Belagavi going past the century mark and the first cases being reported from Shivamogga. In Belagavi district alone, 22 people with travel history to Ajmer in Rajasthan, tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. The biggest single-day spike in cases took the district’s tally past 100-mark. All 22 are part of a 38-member group from various parts of Belagavi and Bagalkot districts that had visited Ajmer Sharif dargah in Rajasthanrecently. The infected, including five children in the age group of three to 14 years, are from Raibag, Chikkodi, Nippani and Belagavi taluks. Apart from 22 from Belagavi district, eight members of the group from Bagalkot also tested positive for the virus. Some timely action by the police made sure the Ajmer returnees were stopped at the check-post and quarantined at Morarji Desai Residential School near Nippani. The situation would have spun out of control if the Ajmer pilgrims were allowed to return to their homes. Deputy Commissioner S B Bommanahalli told reporters, “A 38-member group from Belagavi and Bagalkot districts had been to Ajmer dargah. They were stranded there after the lockdown was clamped. They, however, managed to get a pass from the Ajmer district administration and left to their homes in a private bus. The police at Nippani check-post stopped the bus and sent them to a quarantine facility on May 2. Throat swab samples of all 38 were sent to COVID-19 lab on May 7. The infected have been admitted to BRIMS, Belagavi.” New cases  Shivamogga, which was in the green zone since the lockdown was enforced, recorded eight cases, district in-charge minister K S Eshwarappa said. Eshwarappa told reporters in Shivamogga that lab test reports had confirmed that the eight people were suffering from COVID-19. He said of the nine people who came from Ahmedabad in Gujarat, eight are infected by the virus. They are undergoing treatment at McGann hospital in the city. Of the eight, seven are from Shikaripura and one is from Thirthahalli. Seven cases in Bhatkal Seven more cases were reported from Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada district, taking the total number of active cases in Bhatkal, a COVID-19 hotspot, to 28. Two of the new cases are women. The tally also includes two teenaged boys, aged 15 and 16 respectively. All of them are secondary contacts of patient number 659, an 18-year-old woman, whose infection was confirmed onMay 5. The number of cases in Uttara Kannada district has now gone up to 39 and of them, 11 have recovered. Bhatkal has reported 27 cases in the last three days alone. All the infected are undergoing treatment at the Karwar medical college hospital. Kalaburagi cases The Covid-19 infection has been confirmed in four more persons in Kalaburagi district. A 35-year-old man, a resident of Afzalpur who is suffering from a severe acute respiratory problem, a 30-year-old youth from Kamalapur, a 72-year-old man in Movinapur area, who is a contact of patient number 604, and a 35-year-old resident of Kalaburagi have all testedpositive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-old-hotspots-pour-cold-water-on-efforts-to-tame-coronavirus-836063.html
10-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karkala-origin doctor receives drive of honour in USA||A video clipping of a US-based doctor, who hails from Karkala and was in a team that treated COVID-19 patients, receiving salutations in recognition of his services, has gone viral on socialmedia. Dr Avinash Adiga, an alumnus of Vijayanagara Institute of Medical Sciences in Ballari, is a Critical care Fellow at Rutgers New Jersey Medical School. He was also a Fellow at New York University Longone Medical Centre and had worked at University Medical Centre in New York. In his Facebook post, he had written, “Overwhelmed by the huge appreciation event by the Indian community for my services during the pandemic.. thank you so much each and everyone of you for this lifetime memory.. #CoronaWarriors #soundon.” He is seen receiving the Drive of Honour outside his residence in New Jersey. A huge contingent of cars, vans are seen parading on the road of his residence, stopping for a couple of seconds before thanking him for the services rendered byhim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karkala-origin-doctor-receives-drive-of-honour-in-usa-836064.html
10-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Helpline to receive school fee hike complaints||To address fee hike-related complaints from parents, the department of public instruction has set up a centralised helpline. The following are the details of the helpline - Number: 08023320311; Mobile: 6364728784; walking hours 9.30 am to 6 pm (on working days) and email: centralhelplinesnr@gmail.com, the department has said.  Despite an order from the department directing schools not to increase tuition fee for 2020-21 academic year considering the financial crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, some schools have been accused of issuing notices to parents increasing thefee.  Following such complaints, the department has set up a helpline where parents can register their complaints. The parents/public have been asked to collect the acknowledgement number after registering complaints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/helpline-to-receive-school-fee-hike-complaints-836065.html
10-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt may extend work hrs, relax labour laws: Trade unions||A video conference between labour secretary P Manivannan and the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) set off speculations that the government will extend work hours and relax labour laws on the lines of some other BJP-ruled states. That Manivannan may have given some assurances to the CII came to light when the state chapter of the All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) expressed concerns on social media. With some of AICCTU’s representatives have taken part in the meeting, the trade union tweeted: “Dear all, get set to work, maybe 12-14 hours a day. Labour department told CII that the Cabinet approval for increasing the working hours to 72-100 hours (a week) is pending. This is a violation of the Factories Act which stipulates 48 hours per week…” Even though the Centre has clearly stated that there should be no wage or job cuts at this time, the labour secretary told CII that even in such a scenario, action against companies would be taken after ascertaining whether the company is making profits, according to the Twitter thread. Also, the state government would apparently write to the Centre, asking to reduce ESI/PF deductions, apart from stating that essential services companies could initiate action against employees who did not report to work, the trade union claimed, criticising the government for such a move. 100 extra hrs in 4 months When contacted, Manivannan clarified that the discussion on the extension of work hours was misconstrued. “The discussion was 100 additional work hours over four months. It was not about increasing it to 100 hours per week.” Moreover, the government had not arrived at any decision on any of these aspects and it was still at the level of discussion, he added. “They (the CII) had some concerns. I listened to them. We will work on them soon,” he said. Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar also said the government had not taken any decision either on the extension of work hours or on easing of labour laws at the moment. The BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have announced liberalizing their labour laws in order to give a fillip to economic activities that came to a standstill because of the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-may-extend-work-hrs-relax-labour-laws-trade-unions-836067.html
10-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Economic package just for publicity, says HDK||Former chief minister Kumaraswamy attacked the state government on Sunday, saying that the Rs 1,610 crore economic package announced by the state was the continuation of the deceit in providing relief which the BJP government has practiced even during flood relief, last year. Speaking to reporters, he alleged that the announcement was for mere publicity. “The government should come clean and reveal under what heads it was distributing the package,” Kumaraswamy said. Noting that Rs 25,000 per hectare announced for farmers who suffered losses in 12 lakh hectares of land due to dip in demand, he said that the relief would amount to a mere Rs 31 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/economic-package-just-for-publicity-says-hdk-836076.html
10-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||‘Youth for Parivarthan’ supplement govt’s relief efforts||Bengaluru, which houses a large number of migrant families and weaker sections, has been witnessing several acts of kindness in the wake of COVID-19. Some voluntary organisations have been extending a helping hand to people in distress in South and South-East Bengaluru. Volunteers of ‘Youth for Parivarthan’ are distributing groceries and food kits to people in need. The Youth for Parivarthan is involved in community welfare initiatives. Its members have organised several cleanup activities to get rid of the garbage in the City. The members have raised Rs 3.5 lakh through social media platforms. They spent the money and distributed 2,367 food kits to migrant workers in and around Hanumanthnagar, Girinagar, Kathriguppe and Kadaranahalli in Bengaluru South.  “Most of us are professionals. Lockdown and subsequent restrictions and difficulties in the wake of COVID-19 prompted us to help those facing difficulties,” says Amit Amarnath, the founder of Youth for Parivarthan. The members were involved in acts of kinds during floods in Chennai in 2015 and floods in Kodagu. ‘Neravu’, a group of volunteers is involved in a similar activity in Bengaluru South. It is headed by three friends - Susheel, Sundar and Srinivas. The trio raised Rs 3.5 lakh and provided grocery kits to nearly 300 families on alternate days. These kits contain rice, wheat, dal, cooking oil, salt, sugar and soap. The Environmental Association of Bengaluru (EAB), founded in 1996 by people in government service to tackle environmental issues in the city, is also supplying materials in Parappana Agrahara, Singasandra and surrounding areas. Four office-bearers of the EAB now act as ‘corona warriors’ inspecting situation on the ground for the past three weeks. The EAB members raised more than Rs 5.5 lakh through the personal networks of its members and distributed dry ration kits to 500 families in Parappana Agrahara, Konappana Agrahara, Singasandra and Hennur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/youth-for-parivarthan-supplement-govt-s-relief-efforts-836080.html
10-05-2020||West||Bombay HC asks Maharashtra govt not to stop vehicles ferrying pets, sick animals during lockdown||The Bombay High Court has directed the Maharashtra government to issue a clear directive to the state police to ensure ambulances or other vehicles ferrying pets and sick animals to and from veterinary clinics are not stopped during the lockdown. Justice S C Gupte in an order on Friday said the police administration must not obstruct or stop such vehicles. He also directed the state to clarify its stand on permitting residents across the state take their dogs out for a walk during the coronavirus-enforced lockdown period. The court was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by a Pune resident seeking permission to take her pet dogs outside for their daily walks. The PIL, filed through advocate Harshwardhan Bhende, claimed several police stations under the jurisdiction of Pune Police had issued "arbitrary directions" to housing societies to stop residents from taking their dogs outside for walks. Advocate Bhende also told the high court that several ambulances and pet taxis ferrying sick animals to vet clinics were being stopped by police. He said the Pune Police were "refusing to issue passes" for such vehicles to ply during the lockdown. The plea claimed the Central Animal Welfare Board had asked the state police to permit taking dogs out for walk as prohibiting it would amount to causing cruelty to animals. Advocate Bhende said animal feeders must also be permitted to feed stray animals without any obstruction from police. The plea alleged that the Pune Police often arbitrarily stopped pet owners from taking dogs for walks and in some cases, pet owners had been taken to police stations and detained there for over three-four hours".  However, the Maharashtra government counsels P B Kakde and M M Pable told the high court that citizens were permitted to their pets for walk inside their residential compounds. The state had only prohibited people from taking their pets outside the premises of their housing societies and individual homes. They also said the state had "not asked its police administration to stop or obstruct ambulances or pet taxis". The high court accepted the state's submissions, but said if there existed any directives by the Animal Welfare Board of India to the state DGPs in the matter of taking dogs for walk, the state must take an appropriate decision on it and communicate the same to the court by the next date. "In the meantime, the state is directed to issue a clear directive to the police administration not to stop or obstruct ambulances or pet taxis from ferrying sick animals to and from veterinary clinics," Justice Gupte said. As far as taking dogs for a walk and catering to their needs through animal feeders are concerned, the state should communicate its stand through an affidavit by May 15, the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-asks-maharashtra-govt-not-to-stop-vehicles-ferrying-pets-sick-animals-during-lockdown-835742.html
10-05-2020||West||Papa Modi spices up Maharashtra Council polls||The sudden entry of Rajkishor Papa Modi of the Congress has spiced up the ensuing Maharashtra Legislative Council polls. The election to nine seats of the Council assumes National importance as Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray is one of the candidates. The electoral college for the polls is the 288-member Maharashtra Legislative Assembly and a candidate has to secure 29 votes to enter the Upper House. Papa Modi’s entry means there are now 10 contestants for nine seats. While in New Delhi AICC General Secretary In-charge of CEC Mukul Wasnik announced the name of Rajesh Rathod, in Mumbai, Maharashtra Congress President and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat announced the name of Papa Modi. Rathod is a three-time zilla parishad member from Partur in Jalna and son on former MLA Dhondiram Rathod. Rajesh, who hails from the Banjara community, is close to Rajeev Satav, one of the close aides of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. As far as Papa Modi is concerned, he is Beed district chief of the party and is known to enjoy good relations across sections. Besides Thackeray, the Shiv Sena has named Dr Neelam Gorhe, who is currently the deputy chairperson of Council. The BJP has fielded four candidates Ranjitsinh Mohite-Patil, Praveen Datke, Gopichand Padalkar and Dr Ajit Gopchade. Datke is the Nagpur city BJP president while Dr Gopchade hails from Nanded and the Maharashtra president of BJP’s medical cell. Padalkar, a well-known Dhangar leader in Maharashtra, had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Sangli as a candidate of Prakash Ambedkar-led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA). He switched sides to join the BJP before the Vidhan Sabha polls and unsuccessfully contested against NCP heavyweight Ajit Pawar from Baramati. Mohite-Patil is a former NCP Rajya Sabha MP and son of ex-Deputy Chief Minister Vijaysinh Mohite-Patil. The Mohite-Patils have moved to the BJP before the Lok Sabha polls last year. The Sharad Pawar-led NCP has given tickets to Shashikant Shinde and Amol Mitkari. Shinde, who is close to the deputy chief minister, is a former minister and Mitkari had campaigned extensively during Assembly polls. The fight, if one goes by the numerical order, will be for the ninth seat. While the Maha Vikas Aghadi, comprising of the Sena, NCP and Congress, can easily get five seats the BJP can win three. The contest could go any side for the ninth seat. The BJP’s own strength is 105 seats while the Sena, NCP and Congress have 56, 54 and 44 seats, respectively. The other parties include Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (3), Samajwadi Party (2), AIMIM (2), Prahar Janshakti Party (2) and one each from Peasants and Workers Party, Swabhimani Paksha, Krantikari Shetkari Paksha, Rashtriya Samaj Paksha, Jansurajya Party, CPI(M) and MNS. There are 13 independents. The last date of filing of nominations is Monday while polling, if necessary, would be on May 21. Back-channel talks are underway to ensure that there is no contest as during the lockdown, if extended, it would be difficult for MLAs to travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/papa-modi-spices-up-maharashtra-council-polls-835749.html
10-05-2020||West||Viral message falsely claims Mumbai, Pune to be under military lockdown, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray debunks rumour||Fact-check   For the past few days, there is a rumour that the Army will be deployed in Mumbai and there will be a lockdown and all shops will be closed. What is the need for the army? Whatever I have done so far, is after taking you into confidence.   Later in the video, from 8:45- 10:30, he said, “Those in our machinery like doctors, nurses, conservancy workers, revenue staff and police are under immense strain. Some policemen are falling sick and some have lost their lives while fighting for us. They are human beings and all of them need rest. Hence, I have a plan in my mind, but please do not misunderstand this. I want to request the Centre for additional manpower to give the police relief in phases for a few days. Some unwell police need time to be cured. We may ask the Centre for additional manpower, but this may be misinterpreted as the army being deployed. But, it is not so. This is meant to give relief to the tired police force. Our measures are well-rounded, we are arranging for hospital, doctors and police. I am telling this to you today, so that fear and misunderstandings do not creep into your minds as this happens.”  On the same day, the official account of the Commissioner of Police, Mumbai debunked the viral text. मुंबई शहरामध्ये लष्कर बोलावणे अथवाअत्यावश्यक वस्तूंचा साठा करण्याबाबतपसरत असलेल्या बातम्या फक्त अफवा आहेत.शासनाच्या अधिकृत स्रोतांमार्फतमिळणाऱ्या माहितीशिवायइतर बातम्यांवर विश्वास ठेवू नका. Press Information Bureau Maharashtra also tweeted refuting the claims made in the viral message. The false message is therefore viral on social media claiming that Mumbai and Pune will be under military lockdown where essential items and services will not be accessible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/viral-message-falsely-claims-mumbai-pune-to-be-under-military-lockdown-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-debunks-rumour-835770.html
10-05-2020||West||Five Air India pilots, two AIESL staff test positive for coronavirus||Five pilots of Air India and two employees of the national carrier's engineering services subsidiary AIESL have tested positive for coronavirus, airline sources said on Sunday. Air India, which is operating flights to evacuate Indians stranded in foreign countries, have asked its pilots to undertake coronavirus test before they operate such flights, the sources said. "Five Air India pilots have tested positive for coronavirus. These pilots were tested one after one. We suspect it could be a case of faulty testing kit as well," one of the sources told PTI. The five pilots fly Boeing 787 planes, the second source said. A senior airline official said the five pilots had not operated any flight in the last three weeks. "These pilots had operated cargo flights to China prior to April 20," the official said. Air India spokesperson did not offer any comment. A technician and a tow-tug operator/ driver working with the Air India Engineering Services Ltd ( AIESL) have also tested positive for coronavirus, the sources said. These employees were working at the aircraft hangar of a non-schedule operator at the Mumbai airport. They were found to be infected during tests done on May 7, they added. Regarding two staff of AIESL testing positive for coronavirus, the non-scheduled operator had informed the company in a recent e-mail. As per the e-mail, seen by PTI, the operator said that outsourced MRO (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul) personnel attending its aircraft are also tested for coronavirus infection. "AIESL personnel are also being tested in a phased manner. The results of tests conducted on May 7 have been received and two AIESL personnel have tested COVID-19 positive," the engineering head of the operator said in the e-mail to AIESL CEO. "We request you to kindly take action as per your company policy. You are requested to note that these personnel shall not be allocated to our aircraft till they are cured and not without our concurrence," the e-mail said. AIESL CEO H R Jagannath was not immediately available for comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-air-india-pilots-two-aiesl-staff-test-positive-for-coronavirus-835780.html
10-05-2020||West||Deer falls into Mumbai house, rescued||A large spotted deer, apparently chased by a leopard, ran for its life and in the darkness crashed into a tiny hutment in Mumbai on Sunday. The incident took place in the Hanuman Tekdi hutments off the IIT-Bombay campus that is located in the outer circle of Sanjay Gandhi National Park in Mumbai. The house belongs to Sunita Singh. For the family, it was like a bolt form the blue. But they regained composure and along with some neighbours made a call to the forest department. The uninvited guest too maintained calm. “They made an SOS call to the forest department,” said Wildlife Warden Pawan Sharma. “I am calling from Powai, there is a deer has fallen inside my neighbour’s house, we need help,” was the distress call. Despite the lockdown, the forest department’s Mumbai Range immediately started a seven-member rescue operation along with Sharma’s RAWW, to save the large herbivore. The rescue team managed to reach the home, trap the deer and shift it in a wildlife ambulance. “It was immediately taken to Sanjay Gandhi National Park’s Rescue Centre for further medical examination and rehabilitation,” Sharma said later. The tenement dwellers, who were sleeping barely a couple of feet away from where it fell, were unhurt. There was no damage to household articles like the fan, TV, gas, cupboards, bed, etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/deer-falls-into-mumbai-house-rescued-835810.html
10-05-2020||West||572 Indians stranded abroad land in Mumbai, quarantined||Nearly 572 Indians who were stranded abroad due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown landed at the Mumbai international airport early Sunday morning, a Maharashtra government official said. Of these, passengers belonging to Mumbai were kept under mandatory institutional quarantine in hotels near the airport, while those hailing from other cities were taken to their respective places where they will be kept in isolation in hotels taken over there for the purpose, the official said. Two flights, one from London and another from Singapore, landed here in the morning, he said. "Some 572 passengers have arrived. They were first screened and then kept in isolation as per the Union government's guidelines. They will have to undergo the mandatory health checkup and remain quarantined at the accommodation provided by the state," he said. A flight from Manila (Philippines) carrying 241 passengers is expected to land here on Sunday night, he added. The official said among the passengers who arrived on Sunday, maximum were from Mumbai while some belonged to other Maharashtra cities like Pune, Dhule, Kolhapur, among others. Passengers from other cities were sent there in transport facilities provided by the state, the official said. "They will also be kept in local hotels taken over temporarily for the isolation purpose. Their health will be monitored. If anyone tests positive for COVID-19, he/she will be shifted to a local hospital dedicated for such treatment, he said. The Maharashtra government has already converted all civil hospitals in the districts into facilities for treatment of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/572-indians-stranded-abroad-land-in-mumbai-quarantined-835819.html
10-05-2020||West||1.9k labourers allowed to board train from Mumbai to UP amid coronavirus lockdown: Police||A total of 1,916 migrant labourers stranded in the coronavirus-induced lockdown were given permission by Saki Naka police station to travel on board a Shramik Special train that left Mumbai for Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, a senior official said on Sunday. Zone X Deputy Commissioner of Police Ankit Goel said multiple buses were used to get these labourers to Central Railway's Lokmanya Tilak Terminus in Kurla area of the metropolis. "All details of the people travelling were taken, and documents analysed. The buses were sanitised," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/19k-labourers-allowed-to-board-train-from-mumbai-to-up-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-police-835838.html
10-05-2020||West||NCP names ex-MLA Shashikant Shinde, Amol Mitkari for Maharashtra MLC polls||Maharashtra Nationalist Congress Party chief Jayant Patil on Sunday announced the names of Shashikant Shinde and Amol Mitkari as its candidates for the MLC elections in the state. Mitkari is the state general secretary of the party who played a vital role in las year's Assembly polls. Shinde, who lost from Koregaon Assembly seat in 2019, has been nominated to the council as he is in charge of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation elections likely to held at the end of this year or early next year. The BJP has fielded four candidates followed by two each by Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP taking the total number of contestants to 10. The number of seats is nine. "The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress and smaller parties, has the official support figure of 171 MLAs. As per the poll mathematics, each candidate requires 29 votes to become an MLC. Three extra votes are need for this victory," said a political observer. "There are some four Independent MLAs who may help MVA. The Congress leadership is of the opinion of seeking their support to win the election," said a senior Congress leader. Speaking on the issue, state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat said, "The Congress is of the opinion of contesting two seats from day one. We are holding meetings to ensure both our candidates win."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-names-ex-mla-shashikant-shinde-amol-mitkari-for-maharashtra-mlc-polls-835839.html
10-05-2020||West||366 cases in Maharashtra for social media posts amid coronavirus lockdown||The cyber wing of the Police has registered 366 cases for allegedly spreading rumours, misinformation and fake news social media ever since the lockdown came into force, an official said on Sunday. These cases Maharashtra have been registered till Saturday, the official said. "The cases were recorded after some anti-social elements spread false news and rumours through their posts on social media platforms, including TikTok, Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter during the lockdown," an official of the Maharashtra Cyber said. The highest number of such cases were registered in Beed at 35, followed by 29 in Pune Rural, 26 in Jalgaon and 21 in Mumbai, official added. "In Chandrapur district, four cases were registered as the accused tried to disturb the communal harmony through their posts on Facebook," he added. During the probe, the cyber department found that 155 cases were related to WhatsApp posts, 143 Facebook posts, 16 about TikTok videos, six about Twitter posts, four others about Instagram posts, among others. The police have urged the people, especially senior citizens, not to share their bank details with anyone while buying anything online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/366-cases-in-maharashtra-for-social-media-posts-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-835866.html
10-05-2020||West||Gutkha worth Rs 9.18 lakh seized in Jalna, 4 held in Maharashtra||Gutkha worth Rs 9.18 lakh was seized from a multi-utility vehicle and two motorcycles on Sunday morning in Jalna district in Maharashtra amid the lockdown for the coronavirus outbreak, a Crime Branch official said. The vehicles were parked in a shed in Rajur in the district's Bhokardan tehsil, said Inspector Rajendra Singh Gour. "We have arrested four people in the case. The state Food and Drug Administration has been intimated to dispose of the contraband," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gutkha-worth-rs-918-lakh-seized-in-jalna-4-held-in-maharashtra-835874.html
10-05-2020||West||Let Aurangabad units start work amid coronavirus lockdown, says MASSIA||The Marathwada Association Of Small Scale Industries and Agriculture (MASSIA) on Sunday asked the state government to allow industrial units within city limits in Aurangabad to resume operations amid lockdown for the novel coronavirus. Units in areas like railway station MIDC, Chikalthana within city limits, many of which export their products, are unable to start work while permission has been given to those in outer areas like Waluj, Shendra and Paithan, MASSIA officials pointed out. "The state and Centre have given green signal to commence work but the local administration has not given its nod as yet. Moreover, those in the management of several of these units are not able to go to work as they reside in city areas," MASSIA president Dyandev Rajale said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/let-aurangabad-units-start-work-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-says-massia-835893.html
10-05-2020||West||PIL in Gujarat High Court says Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation order banning sale of grocery led to crowding||A notification issued by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on May 6, ordering a quick ban on the sale of items other than milk and medicines, has been challenged in the Gujarat High Court on the grounds that it led to overcrowding at grocery and vegetable shops, which breached the social distancing norms. A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed by lawyer Harshit Shah against the civic body's order. Stating that the AMC should have given enough time to people to purchase essential commodities from grocery stores, the PIL sought the court's direction to make the authorities concerned "personally liable" for the "negative impact" caused due to such "spontaneous" decisions. The PIL has been filed through e-filing mechanism of the high court. The matter is likely to come up for hearing soon. The AMC had issued the order at 5 pm on May 6, saying that only milk and medicines will be allowed to be sold in the city from that midnight, giving the people only the two-hour window to buy grocery and vegetables from the shops as they were allowed to operate between 7 am and 7 pm as per the central guidelines, the PIL said. "Due to the shortage of time, a large number of people came out to buy the essential items, which resulted in long queues outside grocery and vegetable shops and the breaching of social distancing norms. The risk for the spread of coronavirus in those two hours multiplied, thereby frustrating the very purpose of the AMC's notification," it said. Advocate Neel Lakhani, who is representing the petitioner, said that the PIL has been filed thorugh the e- filing mechanism of the Gujarat High Court, and shall come up on board in due course. As per the figures available till Saturday night, Ahmedabad district has reported 5,540 coronavirus positive cases, while the death toll was 363.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pil-in-gujarat-high-court-says-ahmedabad-municipal-corporation-order-banning-sale-of-grocery-led-to-crowding-835895.html
10-05-2020||West||'Matka King' Ratan Khatri passes away||The 'matka king', Ratan Khatri, who pioneered betting in India, passed away.  A resident of Navjeevan Society in Mumbai, Khatri was 88 and ailing with old-age related issues.  Khatri rose to fame in the sixties as 'matka king',  because of his dominance in gambling circuit. In 1962,  it was Kalyanji Bhagat, who started matka, and Khatri was a manager. In 1964, Khatri started his own Ratan matka. Matka was a form or gambling and involved betting on opening and closing rates from New York cotton exchange. Khatri's betting and  gambling network was spread across India. It got the name matka as it involved drawing of chits form a pot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/matka-king-ratan-khatri-passes-away-835919.html
10-05-2020||West||Mayor visits coronavirus-hit Arthur Road Jail in Maharashtra||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Sunday visited the Arthur Road Jail complex in central Mumbai, where 77 inmates and 26 staffers have been infected with the novel coronavirus, and the adjacent police quarters, a civic official said. She interacted with personnel posted in the prison and asked officials of BMC's G-South ward to disinfect the area. The 77 inmates have been shifted to a vacant building in Mahul in Chembur, while the 26 staffers are undergoing treatment at different places. All of them tested positive after coming in contact with an infected cook.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mayor-visits-coronavirus-hit-arthur-road-jail-in-maharashtra-835946.html
10-05-2020||West||All shops to be shut from Mon in 69 Pune containment zones amid coronavirus lockdown||All shops, including ones dealing in essential items, have been told to down shutters from Monday in 69 containment zones in Pune municipal corporation limits as people were not observing social distancing and other lockdown norms in place for the novel coronavirus outbreak, said civic chief Shekhar Gaikwad. He said the decision to shut all shops was taken after a review meeting. Pune is among the worst-hit urban areas in the country with the district having 2,732 cases as on Saturday. Of these, 2,380 are in Pune Municipal Corporation limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-shops-to-be-shut-from-mon-in-69-pune-containment-zones-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-835974.html
10-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: 334 COVID-19 'super-spreaders' found in Gujarat's Ahmedabad||As many as 334 coronavirus 'super-spreaders' have been found in Ahmedabad so far, and it is the main reason for the order to keep shops of groceries and vegetables closed till May 15, officials said on Sunday. 'Super-spreaders' are the infectious disease carriers who could transmit the pathogen to a large number of people. They could be vegetable vendors, grocery and milk shop owners, petrol pump attendants or garbage collectors, who by the nature of their job carry the risk of getting infected and infecting others. Till Saturday, Gujarat reported 7,797 coronavirus positive cases and 472 deaths. Of these, Ahmedabad alone has reported 5,540 cases and 363 deaths. An official here said they believe there are around 14,000 high-risk potential super-spreaders in the city, and they have decided to screen all of them in next three days. A similar exercise has also been undertaken in the suburbs and rural areas of the district, he said. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) started targeting such people from April 20 as part of active surveillance, and has so far collected 3,817 samples of such suspects, out of whom 334 turned out to be positive, the official said. After a provision store owner in Vejalpur area here tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, all customers who visited the store over last 15 days to make purchases were asked to remain home quarantined, the official said. In Dholka town on Ahmedabad outskirts, a watermelon vendor was found coronavirus positive during a similar screening exercise, and was identified as a super-spreader. Nearly 96 people, who were his primary and secondary contacts, mostly family members, fellow vendors and regular customers, were quarantined. Of them, 12 tested positive for COVID-19, district development officer Arun Mahesh Babu said. Additional Chief Secretary Rajiv Gupta, appointed the for supervision, monitoring and coordination of works related to coronavirus in the city, said nearly 2,000 suspected super-spreaders were screened in two days after the AMC ordered closure of all shops, except milk and medicines, in the city for a week from May 7. "All the suspects will be tested by Wednesday," the official said. The city has been placed under complete lockdown till that time. The AMC has also made it mandatory for owners and staff of shops and super markets to get their medical screening done by approaching their respective wards, and obtain 'health screening cards' based on test results. Both the Ahmedabad city and district administrations have undertaken the exercise to screen all super-spreaders to ensure they do not carry the risk of transmission before they go out to operate in the market, and also to regulate the number of such vendors, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-334-covid-19-super-spreaders-found-in-gujarats-ahmedabad-835981.html
10-05-2020||West||T-Series office sealed after caretaker tests postive for COVID-19||The office building of music label T-Series has been sealed by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) after one caretaker tested positive for COVID-19. According to T-Series spokesperson, there were caretakers who would work and stay at the office premises in Andheri, which is now sealed to contain the spread of Coronavirus. "Some of them are migrants who couldn't go back. There are rooms, kitchen and all facilities for them at the office building. But one of them got tested positive for COVID-19. "There are two-three people who are also getting tested, but their reports are pending. For safety reasons, the BMC has sealed the office. It was anyway shut for employees since March 15," spokesperson told PTI. On Sunday, the death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,109 in India, with cases climbing to 62,939.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/t-series-office-sealed-after-caretaker-tests-postive-for-covid-19-836004.html
10-05-2020||West||Proud of cop who performed final rites of man dead amid lockdown: Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday said that he was proud of the policeman, who performed the last rites of a man who died while being alone at home during the lockdown. "Virar resident Pramod Khare, who was living alone, passed away at his residence. At such a tragic time, our sensitive Police Naik Subhash Shinde carried out all the responsibilities of his funeral," the minister said in a tweet. "I am proud of the #MaharashtraPolice for playing numerous roles in the time of crisis," Deshmukh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/proud-of-cop-who-performed-final-rites-of-man-dead-amid-lockdown-anil-deshmukh-836021.html
10-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: 53 die in 24 hours in Maharashtra||Maharashtra's COVID-19 death toll in a 24-hour span reached the highest of 53 on Sunday.  In two month's time, since the  first case was reported in Maharashtra,  832 persons have died.  On Sunday, 1,278 more persons have tested positive taking the tally to 22,171. So far 4,199 persons have been recovered and discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-53-die-in-24-hours-in-maharashtra-836054.html
