11-05-2020||Comment||Coronavirus: An alternative model||Three facts about viruses: Viruses outnumber cellular life at least 10:1; viruses drive global biogeochemical cycles, and are part of cellular life on earth; and, some viruses are beneficial, others are sources of pathogens, and not all viruses make you sick – as Prof Vincent Racaniello, Columbia University, notes in his lecture “What is a virus?” The problem faced by humanity is not so much about viruses per se, or about virus-caused disease or death, but more about their social, environmental and economic effects. Causes of deaths Deaths due to COVID-19 have crossed 284,000, and counting. However, the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at University of Washington shows global causes of deaths as: Cardiovascular diseases (17.79 million), cancers (9.56-M), respiratory diseases (3.91-M), lower respiratory infections (2.56-M), dementia (2.51-M), digestive diseases (2.38-M), neonatal disorders (1.78-M), diarrhoeal diseases (1.57-M), diabetes (1.37-M), liver diseases (1.32-M), road injuries (1.24-M), kidney disease (1.23-M), tuberculosis (1.18- M), … heat & cold exposure (53,350), terrorism (26,445), natural disaster (9,603). The World Health Organisation (WHO) shows that of the annual 56.9-million deaths worldwide, 54% are due to the ‘top-10’ which are, in order of magnitude: Ischaemic heart disease, stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lower respiratory infections, Alzheimer’s and other dementias, cancers, diabetes, road injury, diarrhoeal diseases and tuberculosis. Both sources show that by far, the major causes of death are life-style diseases. These are typical of an era of high consumption of all kinds, but especially of fossil fuels for industrial processes and products, which cause high environmental degradation and great economic inequality, both causing downstream social ill-effects. These produce the co-morbidities and lowered immunities which contribute to COVID-19 deaths. Thus, for long-term results, remedying high environmental degradation and growing economic inequality will have a salutary effect on mortality rates. Healthy society “Health” is about how we live, and the quality of life within the society in which we live. It’s not about the absence of disease in an individual, but about life within the family and, along with family, in the wider community. Viewed holistically, health concerns the individual within a healthy society. The Directive Principles of State Policy in the Constitution of India require the State to assure people justice, liberty and equality, and promote fraternity among them. It is precisely about creating a healthy society, which values social qualities such as fairness, freedom, security and tolerance, and clearly ranks them above economic concerns, while providing every individual dignified labour with economic and social security. In the present times, the health sector worldwide is corporatised (with the possible exception of Cuba), and uses yardsticks of numbers of hospital beds or doctors per thousand population. Japan stands first with over 13 hospital beds and India has only 0.58. Hospitals are focussed on ill-health, curing or managing disease and treating injury. They are very expensive, demand cash up-front before admission, and closely linked with the pharmaceutical, bio-engineering and medical insurance businesses. They are out of reach for people of the lower economic sections and, in any case, have little to do with health except when viewed through the narrow perspective of absence of disease. They make little contribution to building a healthy society. Looking forward The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a lockdown to ensure “social distancing” and this has had very serious economic consequences on vast numbers of the poor, with direct and indirect effects on their health. As the workforce suffers, so does the national economy. Governments are struggling to cope with the consequences, but indications are that attempts are directed at restoring the earlier economic order, which is characterised by inequality, inequity and iniquity. This is not to point at any particular government, but at the present development model of perpetual economic growth year-on-year. As architect Prem Chandavarkar wrote on Medium.com, “Our development model assumes an economy that must grow whether or not we thrive, whereas we need an economy that makes us thrive whether or not it grows”. This model exacerbates economic inequality, heightens intra- and inter-societal tensions and conflicts, and destroys the environment upon which all life depends. It does not need proof that the result is increasingly unhealthy human societies within which life-style diseases are by far the biggest killers of humans, as shown earlier. Public health is a casualty of the development model, yet the talking-heads only debate COVID-19 infection, death and vaccine, while governments struggle to re-establish the same development model and grow bigger economies (the $5 trillion GDP by 2024 dream, for instance). This can only make society more unhealthy than it already is. When philosopher J Krishnamurti said, “It is no measure of health to be well adjusted to a profoundly sick society”, he spoke of the society of decades ago. Society has only sickened more since then. Societies worldwide need an alternative development model to create a healthy society which, as Richard Horton noted in The Lancet, “...is much more than a community in which the causes of disease are minimised. It is one where, at the very least, human creativity is free to flourish, individuals have the liberty to be who they wish to be ... and the spirit of all life, and not merely human life, prospers”, and in which, “the mind is without fear and the head is held high, ...and [society is] not broken up into fragments by narrow domestic walls”. In the Indian context, the coronavirus crisis demands an “alternative” development model, which is already enshrined in the core principles of the Constitution of India. But do leaders have the awareness and comprehension of this amidst their myopic quest for power or pelf?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/coronavirus-an-alternative-model-836444.html
11-05-2020||Davangere||COVID-19 doctors in Davangere plan strike from May 18 over denial of stipend ||Though they have been attending COVID-19 cases in the hospital risking their lives for the past one month, both the management of JJM Medical college and the government have turned a blind eye to their fair demand. This is the saga of 230 doctors of JJM medical college who are serving in district general hospital in the city. Among 230, 133 are post-graduate students and 97 are medical interns. Though they are hailed as Corona warriors by the government, they have been paid not a single penny since 15 months. In order to draw the attention of the government, they have made up their minds to resort to an indefinite strike from May 18 if their demand is not met before it.  Speaking to DH, Dr Hita, final year PG student in Radiology, JJM Medical College, Davangere said "The non-payment of stipend to post-graduate students and medical interns since March 2019 has made their lives miserable. We are doctors only for namesake. But we are treated worse than daily wage workers. All of them were selected under government quota." The management is of the view that the government has to pay the stipend to them as it has been a procedure for the past many years. But it became an issue in 2016 when an auditor general of the government of Karnataka objected to payment of stipend to students of two private medical colleges - JJM, Davangere and KMC, Mangaluru, - citing that it is a huge loss to the government's exchequer. Only these two private medical colleges in the state are attached with district general hospitals. JJM is attached with District Chigateri General hospital in Davangere and KMC with Wenlock hospital in Mangaluru.  However, the students had urged the then chief minister Siddaramaiah to provide a stipend. Following this, the government continued payment of stipend till February 2019. Directorate of Medical Education (DME) had released the stipend. However, the then Principal Secretary of DME Manjula issued an order stating that students of JJM medical college selected under government quota belonging to 2017-18 and 2018-19 batch shall be given the stipend from Aarogya Raksha Samithi (ARS) account of district general hospital. But the hospital could not pay as it did not have adequate money to pay the stipend to students. Since March 2019, there is no stipend for medical interns and PG students, she added.   She said post-graduate students and medical interns had met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in Davangere in 2019 and shared their grievance. Following this, the chief minister had issued an order to Chief Secretary of DME to give stipend immediately and inform him about the progress. The college had replied to DME that it is paying the prescribed fees to Chigateri hospital for utilising the facilities and clinical material. Hence, it can't pay the stipend. So, the tussle between the government and management is going on for the past several months. "We have been working around the clock for the past 15 months without stipend. We have borrowed loans from banks to pay college fees, hostel fees, books. We  depend on stipend which is rightfully ours, which has been denied and all our cries for help had gone unheard till date." Stipend given to students are as follows: First year PG students: Rs 30,000 per month Second year PG students: Rs 35,000 per month Final year PG students: Rs 40,000 per month Medical interns: Rs 20,000 per month||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/covid-19-doctors-in-davangere-plan-strike-from-may-18-over-denial-of-stipend-836150.html
11-05-2020||First Edit||Coronavirus: Give compensation to kin of dead||Hundreds of people have died over the past month trying to reach their distant villages while the authorities have enforced a brutal lockdown. While 74 people were killed in road and rail accidents while walking back to their villages, 40 died of exhaustion due to the arduous trudge back home. According to a study by a group of independent researchers, an estimated 398 people have thus died so far trying to reach home. The poorly conceived and hurriedly imposed lockdown by the Narendra Modi government to contain the spread of COVID-19 is responsible for these deaths. The lockdown was announced suddenly and came into effect four hours later. For millions of migrants working in our cities, the sudden lockdown proved disastrous. With the government not giving them advance notice about the lockdown nor making arrangements for their orderly and safe transport back to their villages, they were left to fend for themselves. Within hours of the lockdown, millions of migrants began their gruelling trudge home. Many were beaten up by police at state borders. The desperate exodus has continued over the weeks since. An ever-rising number of people are dying en route. The tragic death of 16 migrants, who were mowed down by a passing goods train at Aurangabad, is just one of the many horrific incidents that could have been avoided had migrants been provided orderly transport before or during the lockdown. In another incident, a 12-year-old girl of the Muria tribe died of exhaustion after walking over 100 km. Tragically, she died just 10 km from her home. There have been cases, too, of people dying because they were denied health facilities. Looming economic uncertainty and apprehensions drove 83 people to suicide since the lockdown. Although it is the haphazard manner in which governments at the Centre and states have gone about enforcing the lockdown that is responsible for the difficult situations that culminated in the death of hundreds of people over the past month, authorities are distancing themselves from these tragedies. Railway officials have ruled out payment of compensation to the kin of those who were killed in the Aurangabad rail accident as the deaths did not happen due to technical reasons or negligence on the part of the Railways. This may be so. Still, none of these men would have been dead had the government provided them with transport home. The government cannot absolve itself of responsibility for these tragedies. Most of those who are dying due to lockdown related reasons are from poor families. The government must pay the kin of victims financial and other compensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/coronavirus-give-compensation-to-kin-of-dead-836441.html
11-05-2020||In Perspective||Did he say NaMo to NAM?||Last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) virtual summit for the first time since assuming office in 2014. Calling COVID-19 the “most serious crisis” humanity has faced in decades and underlining the need for NAM to help promote global solidarity, Modi argued that “NAM has often been the world’s moral voice” and in order “to retain this role, NAM must remain inclusive.” Arguing that COVID-19 has shown the limitations of the existing international system, he made a case for a new template of globalisation, based on fairness, equality, and humanity as well as international institutions more representative of today’s world in the post-COVID era. Making a veiled reference to Pakistan, he flagged the issues of “terrorism” and “fake news”, calling them “deadly viruses” at a time when the world is busy fighting coronavirus.  Modi had skipped the two NAM summits during his term so far in 2016 and 2019, making this his first participation in the grouping’s summitry. And this has generated some curious reactions about how Modi might now be recognising the relevance of NAM and its importance for India. This is, however, a serious misreading of why Modi decided to address the virtual NAM summit. NAM’s contemporary irrelevance has nothing to do with Modi’s lack of interest in NAM. The grouping is increasingly irrelevant because the world has changed dramatically from the time it was conceived. Modi may have ideological reasons for shunning previous NAM summits but if we know anything about him, it is that his natural inclination is towards pragmatism when it comes to foreign policy. Ever since the coronavirus pandemic started revealing its true scale and scope, Modi has tried to position India carefully as a nation that can speak of global concerns with the widest possible range of stakeholders. And the first platform he used was SAARC, a grouping which he has tried to marginalise over the last six years. Just because he used the SAARC platform to reach out to India’s neighbours doesn’t mean that he or his government has had a change of heart with regard to the utility or lack thereof of the regional grouping. At a time of grave worldwide crisis, Modi has effectively used all the instruments and platforms available to India to make a case that instead of nations becoming more and more inward looking, global engagement should be the norm. This is also an attempt to fill the leadership vacuum in the global order when both China and the US have exposed their vulnerabilities. India has shown that a nation with limited capabilities can also emerge as a leader by outlining the concerns of like-minded countries and working with them to build capacities in smaller states. Indian diplomacy during the time of COVID-19 pandemic has been pro-active and has tried to shape the global discourse. Towards this, existing platforms like NAM and SAARC have been used by Modi in the same way in which he has used newer groupings like the G-20. In his address at the NAM summit, Modi showcased India’s efforts towards global cooperation by underlining the supply of critical drugs and medical devices to 123 countries, including 59 members of NAM. At the regional level, India was the first nation to propose setting up of a $10 million SAARC COVID-19 emergency fund to help combat the pandemic in the region. It must be disappointing for those who hold an ideological predisposition that a BJP government should have nothing to do with NAM and also for those who believe that Modi has shunned NAM because of his ideological differences with Nehru. But clearly for Modi, any and every platform that helps in projecting India’s leadership capabilities at a time of a dire global crisis is to be used pragmatically. This doesn’t mean that non-alignment is back as many ideologues in India desperately want. In fact, for a nation like India this is an infantile debate to have. Given India’s current security predicament, India cannot afford to be non-aligned in the traditional sense of the term as it will have to build partnerships with like-minded countries to build its capacities. India’s security rationale and its leadership ability means that India will always need its own voice to project itself on the global stage. And despite India’s growing engagement with the US, New Delhi has shown that it is quite capable of standing up to Washington where its core interests are concerned. There was a time for non-alignment. New Delhi has been there and done that. Today’s India and its aspirations demand much more from its leadership. In his own way, Modi is responding to that challenge. Don’t be taken in by his recent address to the NAM summit. He has buried NAM for good. International institutions rarely disappear. NAM will also continue with its mothballed existence. Modi has nothing to lose by using it instrumentally if it serves India’s immediate needs. But to construe this as Modi’s embrace of a now redundant philosophy of global engagement would be a big fallacy. (The writer is Director, Studies, at Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi and Professor of International Relations, King’s College, London)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/did-he-say-namo-to-nam-836443.html
11-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Shramik train ferrying 1,200 stranded migrant labourers to arrive Karnataka's Kalaburagi on May 11||Shramik train ferrying about 1,200 stranded migrant workers from Mumbai will arrive Kalaburagi in Karnataka tonight.  The workers from Chittapur, Chincholi, Wadi, Shahabad and Aland are in large numbers in the train.  North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) buses have been readied to send the workers to their respective taluk headquarters.  The workers, on arrival, will be screened and will be asked to sanitise. After which, they will be sent to their taluks and will be quarantined there.  Kalaburagi Railway Station Manager Prasad Rao said the train is expected to arrive Kalaburagi at 11.30 pm. Its returned journey has not been fixed yet, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/coronavirus-lockdown-30-shramik-train-ferrying-1200-stranded-migrant-labourers-to-arrive-karnatakas-kalaburagi-on-may-11-836284.html
11-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Former MP Raja Rangappa Nayak dies at 61||Former MP Raja Rangappa Nayak (61) died on Sunday late night.  He is survived by Congress leader Raja Rupakumar Nayak and two daughters.  Rangappa Nayak had represented Raichur Parliamentary Constituency in 1996.  He forayed into politics as Mandal Pradhan of Rukmapur of Shorapur taluk. He had served as chairman of health standing committee of Kalaburagi Zilla Panchayat in 1993.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-mp-raja-rangappa-nayak-dies-at-61-836222.html
11-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Experts bat for systematic approach in easing lockdown||With the lockdown 3.0 to combat the spread of COVID-19 is coming to an end, the experts in disaster management bats for a systematic approach for easing the lockdown. According to Alec Lobo, Faculty of Centre for Disaster Management at Administrative Training Institute (ATI), Mysuru, relaxing lockdown needs a very systematic approach. It would be prudent to make a few experiments by allowing vulnerable people living in large cities to move to rural areas. The testing for these people need to be intensified on priority. After the relaxation of lockdown, people would again move back and forward so the very purpose of the lockdown would be futile. After testing for COVID-19, the families or individuals need to be stamped as “no virus” and then they should be allowed to travel out of the city. If this experiment is successful, it can be extended to the whole of the state of Karnataka, according to him. Quoting an example, he says, all the references of plagues in the past indicate that people abandoned their villages and towns and stayed in open fields when they were hit by plague outbreaks. As per the study, the period of the infection reaching the peak and subsiding would be for about three months after the lockdown is relaxed in Karnataka. The months of May, June and July being the peak infection months and an estimated 60 to 70 lakh people may be infected and about one lakh people may be hospitalised due to infections, if no stringent lockdown and social distancing measures are followed, Lobo said.  Lobo said that the challenge thrown by this pandemic is such that everyone has to do the preparedness and mitigation in the response phase with no clear insight into the recovery. Devising a strategy to tackle COVID-19 pandemic is very challenging given the limited knowledge about the way the virus behaves. For all other natural or man-made disasters, strategy would be to do something to lessen the likely effects of the disaster. Lobo says, “There would be lot of activities needed to be planned, organised and executed by the disaster managers. Whereas this pandemic is beyond any disaster management strategy as the strategy here is to stop everyone from doing anything at all.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/experts-bat-for-systematic-approach-in-easing-lockdown-836456.html
11-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Write off loans of Stree Shakti Sanghas'||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa should announce the total waiver of loans availed by Stree Shakti Sanghas, while announcing the second phase of package and should bail out poor families under crisis, said MLA H D Revanna. Addressing media persons here on Monday, Revanna said there are 6,700 Stree Shakti Sanghas in the district, and each member has availed up to Rs 1 lakh loan. The women are facing a lot of problems, without work and no money from the last two months. Hence, the government should waive off the loans of the members of all sanghas, he suggested. The CM has assured Rs 5,000 each to auto drivers, Savitha Samaja members and others. But, there is no clarity on the selection of beneficiaries. He should also consider the people of other communities, during the second phase of the package, he said. The BJP should not forget that Stree Shakti members had voted for them during the by-election in KR Pet. The CM has not understood the effects of corona on the government. Yediyurappa is simply delaying matters. A lot of corruption has happened since the BJP came to power. I will expose all details in future, Revanna said. The BJP has hatred for the Muslim community. Instead of tracing the Tablighis and putting them under quarantine, they have been spreading news that the virus spread is only because of these persons. BJP is in power in Gujarat and Delhi. They could have controlled the situation. But, finding reasons to hate Muslims is the priority for these BJP men, he criticised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/write-off-loans-of-stree-shakti-sanghas-836457.html
11-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19: Compulsory quarantine for inter-state travellers||Though the inter-state movement of people is allowed, the district administration is not ready to take a chance and had made facility quarantine compulsory for the people coming from other states. According to Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, people entering Mysuru district from other states will be subject to 14-day facility quarantine and no home quarantine is permitted. The passengers can stay free of cost at designated hostels. The district administration has arranged quarantine facility at a few hotels and the people can stay there by paying nominal charges. The district administration and the Health Department have arranged a quarantine facility at 10 hotels in the city. According to the Health department authorities, as many as 215 people have come to Mysuru from other states and all are under facility quarantine. They will be discharged once they successfully complete the quarantine period, an officer said. All people under observation will be given the utmost care and regular health check-up is done. A team of medical professionals will take care of the quarantined people. All essentials will be supplied to the doorsteps of the people under observation, he said. Cases decline  As lockdown 3.0 entered the final week, active cases have declined and, the movement of people and vehicles in the district has increased.  A large number of people started moving from one place to another in the city and in rural Mysuru. Similarly, the inter-district movement also increased, following the relaxation in lockdown. While several people are moving out of Mysuru, a large number of people are coming in. It has to be recalled that City Police Commissioner Chandragupta had warned the people of registering case for moving unnecessarily, following the announcement of lockdown 3.0. However, the police had allowed movement of vehicles till 12 noon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-compulsory-quarantine-for-inter-state-travellers-836458.html
11-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus patient tests positive again after recovery||A patient, who had been treated and discharged after recovering from COVID-19, has been readmitted in Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital for treatment after his third swab sample tested positive. P-298 male aged 50 years from Goa had been residing at Kuduchi town in Raibag taluk. He had tested positive for COVID-19 on April 16 and had been discharged on May 5. He had also been diagnosed with ischemic heart disease and diabetes. Swab samples taken on April 28 and 30, had tested negative and he had been discharged and housed at institutional facility at Kuduchi. Director Dr Vinay Dastikopp informed that the swab sample taken during discharge on May 5 has tested positive and patient has been readmitted on May 6. He is being treated and monitored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-patient-tests-positive-again-after-recovery-836482.html
11-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||ZP CEO inspects quarantine centres, checkpoints||Kolar, DHNS: Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer H V Darshan and assistant commissioner C Somashekhar inspected quarantine centre setup at the university post graduate hostel at Mangasandra in Kolar taluk on Monday. They directed the staff to pay attention to their health and follow government guidelines strictly. A novel coronavirus infected man from Pattarapalle, V Kota, Andhra Pradesh, visited APMC in Kolar on April 23. A total of 25 people had come in contact with them. All of them have been quarantined at the hostel since April 25. “They should be under quarantine for 14 days. They will be subjected for medical tests on 12th day. They will be sent home on testing negative. Steps have been taken to provide them food, water and other facilities,” Darshan said. Darshan said that health department officials visited the centre daily and examined those quarantined. Each one of them had been kept in separate rooms. The CEO also inspected the quarantine centre at Karnataka Public School at Narasapur, Ramasandra and Nangali checkpoints on National Highway-75. ZP deputy secretary Sanjeevappa, Arabhikothanur gram panchayat president Savitha and panchayat development officer Anuradha were present. Labourers quarantined Situation turned tense for a while at readymade garment factory at Bettani village in Kolar taluk on Monday as three labourers from Andhra Pradesh and one from Tamil Nadu reported for the duty. They had gone to their native after the lockdown was imposed. Local residents, on learning them reporting for the duty, gathered near the factory in large number and urged the management to send them to their native places. The officials subjected the four for medical tests and quarantined them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/zp-ceo-inspects-quarantine-centres-checkpoints-836406.html
11-05-2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: People, vehicle movement increase in Mysuru||As lockdown 3.0 enters the final week, the movement of people and the vehicles in the Mysuru district have increased.  A large number of people started moving from one place to another in the city and in rural Mysuru. Similarly, the inter-district movement also increased. While several people are moving out of Mysuru, a large number of people are coming in. Following the lockdown 3.0, the City Police Commissioner Chandragupta had warned the people of registering case for moving unnecessarily. The Police allowed the movement of the vehicles till 12 noon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/coronavirus-lockdown-30-people-vehicle-movement-increase-in-mysuru-836277.html
11-05-2020||National||India, China troops face off in North Sikkim, Ladakh||The army on Sunday admitted that there was an aggressive face-off between Indian and Chinese troops in North Sikkim leading to "minor injuries" to some soldiers from both sides. The incident occurred at the Naku La sector in North Sikkim at an altitude of nearly 5,000 metres on Saturday. A second such incident happened for two consecutive days in eastern Ladakh last week. The May 5-6 incident in Ladakh was resolved at the local level, army sources said. On the other hand, the North Sikkim incident that happened ahead of Muguthang — the last post along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC) — led to a flare-up. "An incident of a face-off took place where there was aggressive behaviour and minor injuries to both sides. The troops disengaged after dialogue and interaction at the local level," army sources said. "It was a temporary and short-duration face-off. Such incidents occur as boundaries are not resolved. The troops resolve them mutually as per established protocols," they noted. Tiffs and confrontation between the border guarding troops from both sides along the 3,488-km long LAC are not uncommon as the boundary remains undemarcated due to the long-wielding dispute.   Army officials said such an incident occurred along the disputed Sino-Indian boundary after a long time. The last time a confrontation happened between troops from the Indian Army and the People's Liberation Army was in August 2017 when soldiers from both sides exchanged blows and threw stones at each other near Pangong Lake in Ladakh. The relations between the two armies nosedived during the 2017 Doklam crisis, but they improved after the Wuhan Summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping in April 2018. Since then, the two leaders met several times and agreed to follow a set of codes to maintain peace and tranquillity along the border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-troops-face-off-in-north-sikkim-ladakh-836092.html
11-05-2020||National||DH Deciphers | Is Aarogya Setu app effective? Should I worry about my privacy?||The government's decision to make the download of Aarogya Setu app mandatory for all residents of containment zones as well as public and private sector employees has raised serious privacy and surveillance concerns. Critics say users' personal data is prone to misuse by government agencies and private corporations. And since it primarily works by tracking the user's location, there are high chances of the leakage of this important data. The government itself acknowledged that the app's Android version had leaked users' longitude and latitude to a YouTube server.  We do not know if there are more loopholes in the app. And the government has only fuelled suspicions by ignoring demands to make the app's security code open so that individual software developers could scrutinise it for bugs and suggest fixes. Here's the lowdown on what the app does and how, whether it's effective and do we need to worry:     Let's start with the basics. What is Aarogya Setu and how does it work?   Aarogya Setu (health bridge) is a mobile phone app that traces the contacts of a person infected with the novel coronavirus. It uses Bluetooth to determine if a user came in contact with an infected person (within a distance of 10 metres). And it uses the GPS to find out where all a person went every 15 minutes (it accesses the precise location in the foreground and the approximate location in the background).  Developed by the National Informatics Centre, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, the app is available in 11 languages.  At the time of registration, users have to give their name, phone number, age, sex, profession and countries visited in the last 30 days using a chatbot (it's possible to lie to it). All this information is stored on a government server and hashed with a unique digital ID (DiD).  The app will then assess your health (based on what you tell it) and give you a risk score. If you are at risk for Covid-19 or test positive, your health information will be stored on the server. The authorities may contact you to quarantine you and provide you with medical interventions. At the same time, the app will alert all the people who came in contact with you by using Bluetooth and GPS.  Is the app effective? Does it really help in checking the spread of Covid-19?  The app will alert a user only if s/he comes in contact with an infected person who has also downloaded the app and has both Bluetooth and GPS turned on in their phone. It won't work if you meet an infected person who doesn't have a mobile phone or uses a basic phone. It also won't work if the user tested positive before downloading the app.  The only way the app will work to its potential is when at least 20 crore people download it (the current downloads stand at nine crores). Given the size of our country's population (138 crores), even the 20-crore figure is grossly inadequate. But above all, the key to winning the battle against the coronavirus is testing millions of people per day. We're doing only 95,000 tests daily.      If the app's effectiveness is debatable, why make it mandatory?   This is what everyone seems to be asking. Contact-tracing apps exist in developed countries, too, but they aren't mandatory because no one is sure of their effectiveness and there are also privacy concerns. At best, it's an experiment that may as well fail. But the zeal with which the government has pushed it (the prime minister himself asked citizens to download it) has made some people suspicious about the intentions behind it.  Tell me about the app's privacy policy.  All the personal information collected from a user will be retained as long as the account exists (which could be forever). All the information about the people that you met while using the app, your health assessment and location history will be retained on the phone for 30 days. At the end of this period, the information will be uploaded to the server and purged from the app. The information will be purged from the server within 45 days if you do not test positive. This period will be 60 days if you test positive.  If all my data is purged after 60 days, why should I worry? There are genuine concerns about the leakage and misuse of this data. While the government says all the data is encrypted, some hackers have already breached it. French security researcher, Baptiste Robert (aka Elliot Alderson), claimed he was able to modify the app to pinpoint the location of the infected users. The Aarogya Setu team responded by saying the app is foolproof. Alderson said not all of his concerns were addressed and claimed that he could access details of infected users. He even said five people in the Prime Minister's Office had reported unwell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-is-aarogya-setu-app-effective-should-i-worry-about-my-privacy-836097.html
11-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 11, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-11-2020-edition-836109.html
11-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 11||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 70,684 as of May 11. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 2,291 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 20,917 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-11-836110.html
11-05-2020||National||Back on Track: Indian Railways to open rail services; Here is a list of trains, stations, schedule, fares||The interstate passenger train services are set to get back on track as the Union Railway Ministry decided, on Sunday, to open up services from Delhi to 15 major cities, about 50 days after they were shut down. The network is expected to be operational from Tuesday. After 47 days of the nationwide lockdown to contain coronavirus, the measure is a step towards relaxing restrictions in a staggered manner. "Indian Railways plans to gradually restart passenger train operations from May 12, 2020. Thereafter, Indian Railways shall start more special services on new routes," the Railway Ministry said in a statement. "It will be mandatory for the passengers to wear face cover and undergo screening at departure and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the train." Officials told PTI that passengers travelling in these trains may not be given blankets and linen to reduce the chances of the spread of coronavirus. There will be special norms for the air-conditioning inside the coaches and temperatures will be kept slightly higher than the usual and maximum supply of only fresh air will be ensured, PTI said in a report.  How can you book a ticket? The tickets for the 15 trains can be booked only on the IRCTC website or the IRCTC app. Booking for reservation in these trains will start at 4 pm on May 11. Tatkal bookings are not allowed. Bookings via agents are also prohibited. The trains will be made similar to the Rajdhani model, as they do not have unreserved seats. All these trains will be run only with AC coaches -  AC tier 1, AC tier 2 and AC tier 3. The fare is also expected to be of the same range as the Rajdhani trains. Passengers will be screened at the stations as those without any symptoms of COVID-19 only will be allowed to board the trains. Face masks are mandatory for travellers.  What are the routes of these trains? According to the ministry, 15 pairs - a total of 30 trips - of air-conditioned “special trains” will run to and fro between New Delhi and 15 major cities including Mumbai, Bengaluru and Chennai. These trains will be run as special trains from New Delhi Station connecting Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi. Here is the full list: 1. New Delhi to Dibrugarh2. New Delhi to Agartala3. New Delhi to Howrah4. New Delhi to Patna5. New Delhi to Bilaspur6. New Delhi to Ranchi7. New Delhi to Bhubaneswar8. New Delhi to Secunderabad9. New Delhi to Bengaluru10. New Delhi to Chennai11. New Delhi to Thiruvananthapuram12. New Delhi to Madgaon13. New Delhi to Mumbai Central14. New Delhi to Ahmedabad15. New Delhi to Jammu Tawi What is the schedule of these trains? Eight of them i.e from New Delhi to Mumbai, Patna, Kolkata, Dibrugarh, Jammu Tawi, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad and Bhubaneswar, will run every day. According to the Indian Railways, the trains running from New Delhi to Agartala and Secunderabad is scheduled to go once a week; the ones from New Delhi to Madgaon, Ranchi, Bilaspur and Chennai twice a week; and to Thiruvananthapuram thrice a week. How many stops will be there between each station? There would be only a few stops, mostly coinciding with operational stoppages, according to reports. What are the fares? The fares may be similar to that of the Rajdhani Express trains.  The base fare for the trains, according to the IRCTC website is as follows:  Nizamuddin-Bangaluru Rajdhani (Bangalore Rajdhani): AC 3 tier is Rs 3,830, Rs 5,425 for AC tier 2 and Rs 6,735 for AC tier 1 New Delhi-Mumbai Central Rajdhani (Mumbai Rajdhani): AC 3 tier is Rs 2,725, Rs 3,825 for AC tier 2 and Rs 4,730 for AC tier 1 Nizamuddin-Mumbai August Kranti Rajdhani: AC 3 tier is Rs 2,725, Rs 3,825 for AC tier 2 and Rs 4,730 for AC tier 1 Nizamuddin-Chennai Central (Chennai Rajdhani): Fare for AC 3 tier is Rs 3,700, Rs 4,540 for AC tier 2 and Rs 6,415 for AC tier 1 Nizamuddin-Thiruvananthapuram Rajdhani (Trivandrum Rajdhani): AC 3 tier is Rs 4,380, Rs 6,265 for AC tier 2 and Rs 7,770 for AC tier 1 New Delhi-Howrah (via Gaya) Kolkata Rajdhani: AC tier 3 is Rs 2,780, Rs 3,895 in AC tier 2 and Rs 4,825 in AC tier 1 New Delhi-Ahmedabad Rajdhani: Fare for AC 3 tier is Rs 2,170, Rs 3,010 for AC tier 2 and Rs 3,720 for AC tier 1  As the nation is at what may be the last week of the lockdown, the government is taking a step-by-step approach to open the shutdown. The NDMA on Sunday also allowed industries to be operational.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/back-on-track-indian-railways-to-open-rail-services-here-is-a-list-of-trains-stations-schedule-fares-836127.html
11-05-2020||National||Govt to allow rail services: Here are the guidelines||The Indian Railways is gearing up to gradually restart its passenger trains from May 12 amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown to combat coronavirus. Indian Railways had suspended all passenger services starting on March 25 till May 3 due to the COVID-19 outbreak. While it has been running its freight and parcel services, passenger trains made a fleeting comeback with the Shramik Special trains to ferry stranded migrant workers across the country.   As the passenger trains eye to return to the tracks in a phased manner, here's a list of guidelines that would help you navigate the process better -  * The 'dos and don'ts' that the passengers would need to follow -- arriving at least an hour before the train's departure time for adequate screening, compulsory use of masks, details about downloading the Aarogya Setu app -- would be printed on the tickets. * Face covers and screening at departure have been made compulsory for travellers and only the asymptomatic ones would be allowed to board the trains. * The provisions of 'tatkal' and 'premium tatkal', as well as 'current booking', will not be available. The trains would have very few stops during the journey.  * The passengers will not be able to book tickets at the stations and no counter tickets, including platform tickets, will be issued. Only passengers with valid confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter stations * Blankets and linen may not be provided to passengers given the prevailing pandemic situation. The temperature in the AC coaches would be higher than usual along with specific norms and it would be made sure that there was maximum supply of fresh air. Due to the lockdown, around 15,523 trains, catering to over 20 million passengers daily, run by the Indian Railways have been affected. This includes 9,000 passenger trains and 3,000 mail express services which run every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-allow-rail-services-here-are-the-guidelines-836130.html
11-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: MHA issues revised guidelines for home isolation of very mild and pre-symptomatic COVID-19 cases||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued revised guidelines for home isolation of very mild and pre-symptomatic COVID-19 cases.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-mha-issues-revised-guidelines-for-home-isolation-of-very-mild-and-pre-symptomatic-covid-19-cases-836131.html
11-05-2020||National||Manmohan Singh stable; prayers for his speedy recovery pour in||The condition of former prime minister Manmohan Singh, who was on Sunday night admitted to AIIMS after he complained of uneasiness, is stable. Hospital sources said 87-year-old Singh was admitted to AIIMS for observation and investigation after he developed a febrile reaction to a new medication. “He is being investigated to rule out other causes of fever and is being provided care as needed,” the sources said. “He is stable and under the care of a team of doctors at the Cardiothoracic Centre of AIIMS,” they said. Singh has a history of diabetes and had also undergone bypass surgeries in 1990 and 2009 and a stenting procedure in 2004. Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Rahul spoke to Singh's wife Gursharan Kaur to inquire about his well-being. A man of few words and calm demeanour, Singh was one of the longest-serving prime ministers having served two consecutive five-year terms, a feat achieved only by Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi. Prayers wishing Singh a speedy recovery poured in from across the country as soon as the news about his illness spread. Singh is a member of the Rajya Sabha from Rajasthan. His last ‘public appearance’ was on May 6, when he took part in a video conference along with Congress President Sonia Gandhi and Congress chief ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manmohan-singh-stable-prayers-for-his-speedy-recovery-pour-in-836155.html
11-05-2020||National||Have taken note of migrants walking on roads, railway tracks with great concern: Govt||The Centre has said it has noted with great concern that migrant workers continue to walk on roads and railway tracks to return to their native places and asked states to ensure that they travel home on the special trains being run for them from various parts of the country. In a letter to chief secretaries of all states and union territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also sought their cooperation in running more Shramik Special trains for the migrant workers. Referring to a meeting held by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Sunday, Bhalla said, in the meeting, the situation of migrant workers walking on roads and railway tracks was noted with great concern. "Since their movement by buses and 'Shramik' special trains has already been allowed to enable their travel to native places, all State/UT governments should ensure that migrant workers do not resort to walking on road and on railway tracks," he said. In case they are found in such condition, the home secretary said, they should be appropriately counselled, taken to nearby shelters and provided with food, water etc. till such time they are facilitated to board the Shramik Special trains or buses to their native places. Further, Bhalla said, as requested by the cabinet secretary, all state/UT governments should cooperate with the railways in running more Shramik Special trains so that travel of stranded migrant workers is facilitated at a faster rate. "I urge upon you all to allow receiving of all Shramik special trains without any hindrance and facilitate faster movement of stranded migrant workers to their native places," he said. Sixteen migrant workers, who were walking back home to Madhya Pradesh were mowed down by a goods train in Maharashtra's Aurangabad last week after they fell asleep on railway tracks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-taken-note-of-migrants-walking-on-roads-railway-tracks-with-great-concern-govt-836157.html
11-05-2020||National||A study on reactions to the coronavirus finds people worried more about health of loved ones||People are now more conscious about any bodily changes, and even mild cold, cough and sneezing, it says. The study, on public's reaction towards COVID-19 outbreak by gauging their psychological response in terms of anxiety and their coping behaviour, was conducted by the Goa Institute of Management's Dr Divya Singhal and Prof Padhmanabhan Vijayaraghavan. It took into account inputs from 231 respondents residing in various parts of the country. "Nearly 82.25 per cent of the respondents were more worried about the health of their loved ones than their own well-being," Singhal said. "Majority of the respondents have become conscious of any bodily changes, sensations, a mild cold, cough, sneezing and experience concern, and attribute those changes to the symptoms of COVID-19," she said. Besides, more than 50 per cent of the respondents said their social media usage has gone up as well as their time spent on watching movies and shows through online medium, the official said.  The respondents agreed that their technology usage to connect with friends and relatives has gone up, she said. The study also indicated that a large group of respondents found it "depressing" to read forwarded messages on the deadly disease. "An overwhelming majority of the respondents agreed that they discourage unverified forwarded messages about COVID-19 on social media," says the study.  It also found that 41 per centof the respondents were not doing any physical activity, like yoga, during the lockown period, while another 19 per cent were not sure about engaging themselves in physical activities. Besides, 57 percent of the respondents were not engaged in any mind-calming practices like meditation, and 18 per cent were not sure about taking up meditative practices, the study said. The respondents included 145 men and 86 women, aged 18 and above, with nearly 60 per cent of them residing in non- metro cities and rest from metros. About 47.62 percent of the respondents were employed in private or government sectors, and the remaining included students, retired persons and homemakers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-study-on-reactions-to-the-coronavirus-finds-people-worried-more-about-health-of-loved-ones-836161.html
11-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: How has COVID-19 impacted the fertility industry?||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, DH journalist Dhanyata M Poovaiah talks to Aryaman Khosla, a Class 12 student who raised over Rs 8.3 lakh to provide ration to the slum dwellers in Bengaluru. DH Business Journalist Samiksha Goel gives an update about how the IVF industry has been affected because of COVID-19. DH journalist Akash Sriram brings you DH Factcheck.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-how-has-covid-19-impacted-the-fertility-industry-836163.html
11-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Ensure movement of medical professionals, allow private clinics to function, says MHA||The MHA said all states and union territories should ensure that their field officials allow "smooth movement" of medical professionals, nurses, para-medical staff, sanitation workers and ambulances and ensure the opening of all private clinics, nursing homes and laboratories with "all their medical professional and staff". They should also facilitate inter-state movement of health professionals whenever required, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said.   Bhalla shot off letters to Chief Secretaries of states a day after Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba flagged concerns over the issue following reports reaching the central government about hindrance in rendering medical parts in some parts of the country. During the meeting, Gauba pointed out that any restriction on the movement of medical professionals and para-medical staff can have a detrimental impact on the healthcare system. "Services of medical and para-medical staff are urgently required in meeting the challenge of COVID-19 pandemic. Furthermore, the existing staff, apart from this duty, also have to render normal responsibilities, such as conducting immunisation programmes, handling the onset of vector and other seasonal diseases and meeting other non-COVID-19 emergencies," Bhalla wrote. Bhalla highlighted that ensuring "unhindered movement" of all such medical professionals is essential for meeting public health requirements and saving human lives. With reports reaching the Centre about private clinics and nursing homes not allowed to open in "many places", he said the functioning of these medical facilities, which "supplement" the regular medical infrastructure and "relieve" the burden on hospitals, is also crucial. "I would urge all states and union territories to ensure that such clinics and nursing homes continue to function without any hindrance," he said.  Recently, there were also reports of doctors and other healthcare professionals facing harassment from Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) which objected to them staying in the locality and not allowing domestic helps working with them not to enter the colonies, as they were treating COVID-19 patients. Earlier, there were reports of landlords asking healthcare professionals to vacate their rented accommodation besides showering abuses and attacks on them, accusing them of spreading the virus infection in their localities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-ensure-movement-of-medical-professionals-allow-private-clinics-to-function-says-mha-836170.html
11-05-2020||National||84 fresh coronavirus cases in Rajasthan||Rajasthan recorded 84 fresh cases of coronavirus on Monday, taking the state's virus tally to 3,898, an official said. The state has so far seen 108 deaths due to the virus, with Jaipur accounting for 57 deaths. "As many as 84 fresh cases have been reported in 12 districts of the state today, including 40 in Udaipur district," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. Besides Udaipur, 11 cases were reported from Jaipur; six from Ajmer, five each in Pali and Chittorgarh, four each in Rajsamand and Jalore, three from Kota, two from Tonk and Karauli and one each in Dungarpur and Nagaur.   A total of 3,898 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. He said so far 2,253 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 1,993 have been discharged from hospitals. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer and 42 BSF jawans brought from Delhi. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/84-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-rajasthan-836171.html
11-05-2020||National||ICMR issues guidance for appropriate recording of COVID-19 deaths to create robust data||COVID-19 would be recorded as an "underlying cause of death" when leading to pneumonia, cardiac injury and clotting in the bloodstream, among others, according to the guidance issued by ICMR for appropriate recording of deaths due to the disease in India. Explaining the public health significance of recording the cause of death in the COVID-19 pandemic, ICMR said COVID-19 is a new disease and is a pandemic affecting all communities and countries and a robust data is needed in India to measure the public health impact of the ailment and to plan for timely health interventions. In its guidance for appropriate recording of COVID-10 deaths in India, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said deaths with inconclusive test results, but in which coronavirus symptoms are present will be recorded as "probable COVID-19" fatalities. Deaths in which tests are awaited with the presence of symptoms will be recorded as suspected deaths, while those testing negative but have symptoms will be mentioned as clinically-epidemiologically diagnosed COVID-19, the guidance stated. Its clinical presentation ranges from mild to severe, and fatality depends on the severity of the illness, associated comorbid conditions and age of patients.  "Patterns of disease and patterns of death can come from only standardised recording of clinical disease history and cause of death, and therefore epidemiological surveillance of disease and death are important.  "Robust data is needed from every district and state in India to measure the public health impact of COVID-19 and to plan for timely health interventions and protect communities. "At the same time, other health conditions affecting populations need to be also monitored so that the health system is prepared for responding to the needs of the population,"' the document stated. It lists forms where a health facility or a medical practitioner has to mention the sequence of events leading to death, which includes the immediate cause of death, cause of death antecedent to immediate cause, underlying cause of death and the manner of death, among others.     It is likely that COVID-19 is the underlying cause of death (UCOD) that leads to pneumonia in most of the deaths due to COVID-19. Patients may present with other pre-existing comorbid conditions such as asthma, chronic bronchitis, ischemic heart disease, cancer and diabetes mellitus. These conditions increase the risk of developing respiratory infections, and may lead to complications and severe disease in a COVID-19 positive patient. "These conditions are not considered as underlying cause of death as they have not directly caused death due to COVID-19. Also, a patient may has many comorbid conditions but only those that have contributed to death should be recorded," the guidance document stated. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,206 and the number of cases climbed to 67,152 in the country on Monday, registering an increase of 97 deaths and a record jump of 4,213 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry. The health research body also outlines the use of of ICMR-NCDIR e-Mortality (e-Mor) software for recording the cause of death. The ICMR-NCDIR e-Mortality (e-Mor) software app aids in recording and reporting the cause of deaths as per the national standards of death reporting laid down by the Office of the Registrar General of India. This software can be implemented by hospitals and district local registrar offices in a district (to record deaths occurring in residence). Institutions should register with ICMR-NCDIR or state authority for provision of authorised login credentials, the document stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-issues-guidance-for-appropriate-recording-of-covid-19-deaths-to-create-robust-data-836177.html
11-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Persuade migrant workers on road to return to shelters, MHA tells states||Days after 16 migrant workers were run over by a train in Aurangabad while they were sleeping on the tracks, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Monday asked states to ensure that stranded labourers do not resort to returning to their native places on foot and persuade them to go to a shelter. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to states in this regard, saying the situation of migrant workers walking on roads and railway tracks was noted with "great concern" by the Centre during a meeting chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Sunday. "Since their movement by buses and 'Shramik' special trains have already been allowed to enable their travel to their native places, all state/union territory governments should ensure that migrant workers do not resort to walking on roads and on railway tracks," Bhalla wrote.  "In case they are found in such condition, they should appropriately be counselled, taken to nearby shelters and provided with food, water etc till such time they are facilitated to board the 'Shramik' special trains or buses to their native places," he said. Bhalla also urged state governments to cooperate with the Railways in running "more number of Shramik special trains" so that travel of stranded migrant workers is facilitated at a "faster rate". "I urge upon you all to allow the receiving of all Shramik special trains without any hindrance and facilitate faster movement of stranded migrant workers to their native places," he added. His letter came against the backdrop of the Aurangabad tragedy in which "tired" migrant workers who were walking to their native places slept on railway tracks and were run over by a goods train last week.  There were also reports of a large number of migrant workers returning to their home states on foot after losing jobs and income in their places of work.  Separately, the MHA and Railways also conducted a video conference with state nodal officers to review the operation of special trains. Over 450 trains, including 101 on Sunday, carrying thousands of migrant workers had chugged out from various states. During the meeting, it was emphasised that migrant labour should be reassured that a sufficient number of trains would be run for travel of all those wishing to go home. "More than a hundred trains are expected to run daily for next few weeks to facilitate faster movement of stranded workers to their native places," an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-persuade-migrant-workers-on-road-to-return-to-shelters-mha-tells-states-836178.html
11-05-2020||National||Maharashtra: Coronavirus report takes 2 to 7 days in Mumbai, say doctors||India's financial capital, Mumbai, is worst affected by COVID-19 and what is alarming that it takes two to seven days to get the test report. To highlight the concerns, the Association of Medical Consultants Mumbai (AMC-M), has shot off a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. "The Turn Around Time (TAT) for a COVID-19 report has been from two to seven days. This has resulted in the immense delay in the initiation of treatment as well as the discharge of COVID patients leading to problems," AMC-M president Dr Deepak Baid and honorary secretary Dr Nilima Vidya-Bhamsre said in the letter to the Chief Minister, copies of which were marked to the municipal commissioners of Mumbai Metropolitan Region. They said that COVID-19 patients have had to move from hospital to hospital due to lack of information about beds in hospitals treating COVID-19 patients. The centralised government system needs to be revamped to display bed availability in realtime. "In spite of government directives, hospitals dealing with non-coronavirus patients have often been wrongly sealed for 14 days by local health authorities. Protocols of quarantining and testing of staff have not been uniformly followed by local health authorities," the AMC-M letter states. The doctors' body also pointed out that the implementation of various government guidelines are not uniformly followed by the concerned authorities like protocol of admission/discharge of COVID-19 patients. "Our members have been in the forefront in this pandemic. They are actively involved in the care of both COVID as well as non-COVID patients. We are coordinating with the local authorities to ensure that healthcare is accessible to all. We have been involved in screening and in fever clinics. Our doctors are involved in treatment of coronavirus patients. Our member doctors are part of the task force and are helping direct the treatment protocols. While we have always been in the forefront in treating the patients, we find that our members have been facing multiple issues which have not been adequately addressed by the authorities," the letter stated.  There has been the influx of patients leading to the stretching of the already inadequate healthcare resources. The private hospitals have played a pivotal role in tiding over this crisis but even their resources are being strained. "Unless the government controls the spread of the disease, the healthcare infrastructure will be further challenged," the AMC-M states. It stated that the acquisition of healthcare personnel and establishments have been without uniform Memorandum of Understanding. While few hospitals have a predefined MOU, others have been acquired forcibly without any terms and conditions defined, creating a sense of insecurity, the letter states. "While Uniform MOU towards healthcare personnel with their remuneration were defined in MMR, no such MOU exists in other Corporations. Many corporations have still not given appointment letters. Cash salaries were offered to the volunteers at many places," said Dr Baid and Dr Vidya-Bhamare. They pointed out that high-end medicines towards the treatment of COVID-19 patients in public hospitals have been largely unavailable. The medicines and investigation (Inj Tocilizumab with IL6 testing) have been arranged through donations. The same has not been provided by the government.  They pointed out that PPE (personal protective equipment) kit which is necessary for the prevention of infection are uncertified and are largely inadequate in number and there were complaints from residents of KEM, Sion and Nair hospitals. Till date government has not capped the costing towards N95 mask or the complete PPE Suite leading to exorbitant charges by the vendors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-coronavirus-report-takes-2-to-7-days-in-mumbai-say-doctors-836185.html
11-05-2020||National||468 Shramik Special trains run so far, over 5 lakh migrants ferried: Indian Railways||The Railways will now run 100 'Shramik Special' trains daily to facilitate faster movement of workers, the Centre said on Monday, adding that 468 such trains have been operated since May 1 ferrying home over five lakh migrants stranded in various parts of the country amid the COVID-19-induced lockdown. While 363 trains have already reached their destination, 105 trains are in transit. These 363 trains were terminated in various states like Andhra Pradesh (1 train), Bihar (100 trains), Himachal Pradesh (1 train), Jharkhand (22 trains), Madhya Pradesh (30 trains), Maharashtra (3 trains), Odisha (25 trains), Rajasthan (4 trains), Telangana (2 trains), Uttar Pradesh (172 trains), West Bengal (2 trains) and Tamil Nadu (1 train).   These trains have ferried migrants to cities like Tiruchchirappalli, Titlagarh, Barauni, Khandwa, Jagannathpur, Khurda Road, Prayagraj, Chhapra, Balia, Gaya, Purnia, Varanasi, Darbhanga, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Jaunpur, Hatia, Basti, Katihar, Danapur, Muzzaffarpur, Saharsa among others. From Monday, these Shramik Special trains started carrying around 1,700 passengers each instead of the earlier 1,200 to ferry as many workers home as possible. "The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and Ministry of Railways organised a video conference on movement of migrant labour by Shramik Special trains today morning. "Nodal officers of the States and UTs participated...Several issues were discussed and redressed during the VC and it was emphasised that migrant labour should be reassured that sufficient number of trains would be run for travel of all those wishing to go home," a statement from MHA said.  More than a hundred trains are expected to run daily for next few weeks to facilitate faster movement of stranded workers to their native places, it added. Every Shramik Special train has 24 coaches, each with a capacity of 72 seats. Till now, only 54 people were allowed in a coach and the middle berth was not allotted to any passenger to maintain social distancing norms.         While the railways has not yet announced the cost incurred on the special services, officials indicate that the national transporter has spent around Rs 80 lakh per service. The government had earlier stated that the cost of the services has been shared on a 85:15 ratio with states. Since the Shramik Special train service started, Gujarat has remained one of the top originating stations followed by Kerala. Bihar and Uttar Pradesh top the list of receiving states.   Earlier, the railways drew flak from opposition parties for charging for these services.   In its guidelines, the railways has said the trains will ply only if they have 90 per cent occupancy and the "states should collect the ticket fare".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/468-shramik-special-trains-run-so-far-over-5-lakh-migrants-ferried-indian-railways-836191.html
11-05-2020||National||IRCTC shares climb 5% as select passenger train services to resume from May 12||Shares of Indian Railway Catering And Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) jumped 5 per cent in early trade on Monday after the Indian Railways said it will gradually resume passenger train services from May 12.  The company's shares gained 5 per cent to Rs 1,302.85 -- its highest trading permissible limit for the day -- on the BSE. At the National Stock Exchange (NSE), it rose 5 per cent to Rs 1,303.55 -- its upper circuit limit. Booking for reservation in these trains will start at 4 pm on May 11 and will be available only on the IRCTC website. The Indian Railways will gradually resume passenger train services from May 12 and will ask passengers to arrive at the station at least an hour before departure, the national transporter said on Sunday. Initially, the all air-conditioned services will begin on 15 Rajdhani routes and the fare would be equivalent to that of the super-fast train, it said.  The special trains will run from New Delhi to Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi. All passenger services were suspended due to a lockdown announced on March 25 and the railways later started the on-demand Shramik Specials to ferry migrants stranded across the country. It, however, has been running freight and parcel services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irctc-shares-climb-5-as-select-passenger-train-services-to-resume-from-may-12-836193.html
11-05-2020||National||Scientists, technologists on frontlines of global battle against COVID-19 making nation proud: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday praised scientists and technologists working on the frontlines in the global battle against the COVID-19 pandemic, saying they are making the nation proud and self-reliant. The president also greeted fellow citizens on National Technology Day, marking the anniversary of the nuclear tests of 1998 in Rajasthan's Pokhran, on Monday. "We recognise science and technology as the key instruments for inclusive progress. Our scientists and technologists are also on the frontlines of the global battle against COVID-19, making the nation proud," Kovind tweeted. We recognise science and technology as the key instruments for inclusive progress. Our scientists and technologists are also on the frontlines of the global battle against COVID-19, making the nation proud. "On this occasion, we celebrate the incomparable contribution of the scientific community in making the nation self-reliant," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scientists-technologists-on-frontlines-of-global-battle-against-covid-19-making-nation-proud-president-kovind-836198.html
11-05-2020||National||1,700 passengers, 3 stops for Shramik special trains||Shramik Special trains, ferrying migrant workers, will now carry its full capacity of passengers, says Indian Railways even as Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said the railways has the capacity to operate 300 trains daily. As per revised guidelines issued by railways, the "Shramik Special" trains will also have three stops in the destination state apart from the final stop on the request made by states, the Railways state. The capacity of passengers in each special train should be equal to the number of sleeper berths on the train, the Railways said. Middle berths too will be allotted to passengers in the special trains, unlike earlier. The "Shramik Special" trains have 24 coaches with a capacity to carry 72 passengers in each coach. At present, these trains are running with 54 passengers in each coach due to social distancing norms. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, who held a review meeting with top railway official, said the railway allocated 1200 trains to operate as Shramik Special train and ready to operate up to 300 trains daily. He also appealed the states to make use of these trains to ferry stranded people including migrant workers, students and tourists. The Minister said beginning with 4 trains on May 1, so far 468 Shramik Special trains operated.  " We want to carry as many migrants home as possible over the next few days and have appealed to states to send approvals," a senior official said. Uttar Pradesh received highest trains followed by Bihar. However, despite the highest migrant workers from Rajasthan and West Bengal working across the country, these two states gave approval for the lowest number of trains for receiving. The railways operate the train only after approval of both sending and receiving states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1700-passengers-3-stops-for-shramik-special-trains-836199.html
11-05-2020||National||CAA: Former JNU student Sharjeel Imam moves HC against order giving time to police to complete probe under UAPA||Former JNU student Sharjeel Imam moved the Delhi High Court Monday challenging trial court's order granting more time to the police to conclude investigation in the case related to alleged inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC. The plea was mentioned before the high court and is likely to be listed on May 14. Imam has challenged the trial court's April 25 order by which the Delhi Police was granted further time, beyond the statutory 90 days, to complete the investigation in the case filed under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. He has also approached the high court seeking default bail in the matter on the ground that the investigation was not concluded within the statutory period of 90 days. The trial court had recently dismissed the bail plea.  Imam was arrested on January 28 in the case related to violent protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act near the Jamia Millia Islamia University in December last year. The statutory period of 90 days from the arrest was concluded on April 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/caa-former-jnu-student-sharjeel-imam-moves-hc-against-order-giving-time-to-police-to-complete-probe-under-uapa-836210.html
11-05-2020||National||BJP attacks Mamata Banerjee over handling of the coronavirus crisis in West Bengal||"When West Bengal has been hit by COVID-19, then where have you hidden Mamata ji? People of your state want to know where are you and what are you doing? The state's people and Bengali labourers outside have been pleading you for help," BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said.  Vijayvargiya, who is in charge of his party's affairs in the eastern state, alleged that the Trinamool Congress president "hid" the real numbers of coronavirus patients and "misled" people. He claimed that there has been "corruption" in the ration received from the Centre while the needy people remained "hungry". Health workers have not been given security, he added.  Amid rising COVID-19 cases in the state, the BJP and the TMC have been engaged in a bitter war of words. The BJP has accused her government of mishandling the crisis, while the TMC in turn has said the saffron party has used the central government machinery for political purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-attacks-mamata-banerjee-over-handling-of-the-coronavirus-crisis-in-west-bengal-836224.html
11-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Star India and Disney+Hotstar join hands with Project Mumbai||In an effort to support the COVID-19 outbreak response, Star India and Disney+ Hotstar have partnered with Project Mumbai to provide over 200,000 Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits to the health workers at BMC and an additional 10,000 khaki coloured kits for the Mumbai Police.  Mumbai is the most hit by the pandemic, the support will aid the ongoing efforts in meeting the demand for PPE kits for almost four weeks. Showcasing solidarity with the numerous medical, health, and protection warriors, the initiative seeks to equip the selfless people who are at the front line battling the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-star-india-and-disneyhotstar-join-hands-with-project-mumbai-836226.html
11-05-2020||National||Boy killed as under-construction wall collapses during dust storm in Greater Noida||A five-year-old boy died in Greater Noida allegedly after an under-construction wall collapsed over him during a dust storm, police said on Monday. The incident took place on Sunday at Chuhadpur village in Dankaur area, the officials said. "The boy was playing near his house and standing next to an under-construction wall, around 5 feet high. The wall suddenly collapsed due to a dust storm and the child got buried in the debris," a police official said. The boy was taken to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him dead, according to the police. The officials said the construction of the wall had stopped due to the lockdown that was imposed to control the spread of coronavirus. On Sunday, a massive dust storm along with light rains at isolated places swept Gautam Buddh Nagar along with other areas in Delhi and the National Capital Region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boy-killed-as-under-construction-wall-collapses-during-dust-storm-in-greater-noida-836229.html
11-05-2020||National||Manmohan Singh stable; developed reaction to medication: Hospital sources||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh is stable and under observation at the AIIMS here after suffering reaction to a new medication and developing fever, hospital sources said on Monday. The 87-year-old Congress leader was admitted to the hospital on Sunday evening after he complained of uneasiness. The sources said that Singh had developed a reaction to a new medication and further investigation is being carried on him to rule out other causes of fever. "Dr Manmohan Singh was admitted for observation and investigation after he developed a febrile reaction to a new medication," the sources said. "He is being investigated to rule out other causes of fever and is being provided care as needed. He is stable and under care of a team of doctors at the Cardiothoracic Centre of AIIMS," they said. "All his parameters are fine. He is under observation at the AIIMS," a source close to him has said. Singh, a senior leader of the opposition Congress, is currently a Member of Rajya Sabha from Rajasthan. He was the prime minister between 2004 and 2014. In 2009, Singh underwent a successful coronary bypass surgery at the AIIMS. A number of leaders expressed have expressed concern over his health and wished him a speedy recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manmohan-singh-stable-developed-reaction-to-medication-hospital-sources-836231.html
11-05-2020||National||No invasive techniques be adopted for autopsy of COVID-19 patients: ICMR document||According to the final draft 'Standard Guidelines for Medico-legal autopsy in COVID-19 deaths in India' released by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), deaths in hospital and under medical care due to coronavirus infection is a non-MLC case and doesn't require postmortem and the required certification of death is being done by treating doctors.   Some of the cases of suspected COVID-19 death which are brought dead to hospitals are labelled by emergency doctors as MLC and the body is sent to the mortuary and police are informed which may need postmortem examination for clarity in the cause of death. "The forensic autopsy of these cases may be waived off," the draft guidelines said.  Some of the cases are suicide, homicide or accident and may be positive or suspected case of coronavirus infection. After the inquest procedure, if any crime is not suspected, police have the authority to waive off conduction of medico-legal autopsy, even though labelled as medico-legal case. "The investigating police officer must proactively take steps to waive off unnecessary autopsies during such pandemic situation," the draft document said. As per the procedure of conducting forensic autopsy, the "dissection of bones and tissues will generate aerosol which may lead to spread of infection. On the basis of same along with external examination, multiple photographs and verbal autopsy (as depicted by WHO)...the post mortem should be conducted strictly avoiding any invasive surgical procedures and avoiding splashing of body fluids contact for staffs, body handlers and doctors conducting post mortem."   According to the draft guidelines by the ICMR, if the COVID-19 test report is awaited, the body must not be released from the mortuary until the final report is received and after the formalities, it must be handed over to the district administration.   "At no time, more than two relatives must be present near the body and they must maintain a distance of at least one meter from the body." "The body must be identified by relatives through the plastic bag, without opening the bag, and it must be done in the presence of law enforcing agencies," it said. "The body must be taken to the burial/cremation ground in presence of law enforcing agencies, where not more than five relatives of the deceased should be allowed. Large gathering at the crematorium/ burial ground should be avoided as a social distancing measure as it is possible that close family contacts may be symptomatic and shedding the virus," it said.   These guidelines are based on the current understanding about modes of transmission of COVID-19 sensitivity of diagnostic tests, international autopsy guidelines and knowledge about infrastructure and logistic strength of common mortuaries in India, the document stated. Complete PPE has to be used while shifting the body in the mortuary if it involves direct handling of the body by the staff.  The body should be packed in a double packing in a  leak-proof zipped transparent plastic body bag which is locked properly to avoid spillage of any fluids.       The existing mortuary facility for body storage should be strictly divided into COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 bodies. In case of burial upper surface should be cemented and earmarked. The body must be cremated in electric crematorium, wherever possible, so that the movement and handling of the body is minimized, the draft guidelines stated.   Religious rituals which requires touching the bodies should be avoided like bathing, kissing and hugging etc., the document said, adding that ash does not pose any risk and can be collected to perform last rites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-invasive-techniques-be-adopted-for-autopsy-of-covid-19-patients-icmr-document-836238.html
11-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi interacts with CMs on ways to strengthen COVID-19 containment strategy, boosting economic activities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday chaired a fresh round of consultation with chief ministers on ways to strengthen the COVID-19 containment strategy and stepping up of economic activities in a calibrated manner as the 54-day nationwide lockdown nears an end. Large-scale movement of migrant workers from urban to rural India and the problems their return to home states may cause in restarting the economy will also be among the focus areas during the fifth virtual interaction between the prime minister and chief ministers since the outbreak of the deadly virus in the country.  There will be an effort to ensure that all participating chief ministers get an opportunity to air their views during the interaction, as some of the CMs had complaints that they were not allowed to put forth their views during the last interaction on April 27. At a meeting on Sunday with Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, state chief secretaries told him that "while protection is required from COVID-19, economic activities also need to be stepped up in a calibrated manner", according to an official statement.         With thousands of migrant workers taking special trains to go back to their home states, the restarting of industrial activities will prove to be a challenge for states though several relaxations have been made in labour laws to increase factory output.      The meet is also likely to discuss efforts to convert 'red' zones with high COVID-19 case load into 'orange' or 'green' zones. The prime minister last interacted with the chief ministers on April 27. Days after the meeting, the central government had extended the lockdown by two more weeks till May 17 to arrest the spread of the virus, but gave several relaxations in economic activities and movement of people. The nationwide lockdown has been in force since March 25 to contain the spread of the virus, which has killed more than 2,200 people, and afflicted more than 67,000 in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-interacts-with-cms-on-ways-to-strengthen-covid-19-containment-strategy-boosting-economic-activities-836239.html
11-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: States to ensure unhindered movement of doctors, paramedics, says MHA||The Centre has asked states to ensure uninterrupted movement of doctors and other healthcare workers during the ongoing lockdown, saying curbs on them can lead to severe constraints in rendering COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 medical services. There have been reports of health care services being affected in some places including in the national capital after neighbouring states closed down inter-state borders and barred movement of medical workers. In a letter to chief secretaries of all states and union territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said inter-state movement of doctors and paramedics should  be facilitated wherever required. "Any restrictions on the movement of medical professionals and para-medical staff can lead to severe constraints in rendering COVID and non-COVID medical services. "As such, ensuring unhindered movement of all such medical professionals is essential for meeting public health requirements and saving precious human lives," he said in the letter. Bhalla said there have been reports of many private clinics and nursing homes not being allowed to open at several places. Functioning of these medical facilities, which supplement the regular medical infrastructure, and relieve the burden on hospitals, is also crucial, he noted. "I would urge all States and UTs to ensure that such clinics and nursing homes continue to function without any hindrances," he said. The home secretary said all states and UT governments should ensure that their field officials allow smooth movement of all medical professionals, nurses, para medical, sanitation personnel and ambulances. They should also ensure the opening of all private clinics, nursing homes and labs with all their medical professional and staff.  Bhalla also referred to a meeting held by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Sunday where the issue of restrictions being imposed by some States and UTs on the movement of medical professionals and para-medical personnel was flagged. "As you are aware, the services of medical and para-medical staff are urgently required in meeting the challenge of COVID-19 pandemic. "Furthermore, the existing staff, apart from this duty, also has to render normal responsibilities, such as conducting immunisation programmes, handling the onset of vector and other seasonal diseases, and meeting other non-COVID emergencies," he said. The lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days to contain the spread of coronavirus.It was first extended till May 3 and again till May 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-states-to-ensure-unhindered-movement-of-doctors-paramedics-says-mha-836243.html
11-05-2020||National||LG issued show cause notice to DMC Chairman for alleged seditious acts, Delhi govt informs HC||The Lieutenant Governor has issued a show cause notice to Chairman of Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC), against whom an FIR has been lodged for alleged "seditious and hateful" statements, the AAP government informed the Delhi High Court on Monday. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal, conducting the hearing through video conferencing, was informed by the Delhi government's counsel that the LG has also written a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for initiating action against DMC Chairman Zafarul-Islam Khan. Advocate Anupam Srivastava, representing the Delhi government, said the LG wrote a letter to the chief minister on April 30 to direct the concerned administrative department to initiate action as per the provisions of Section 4 of the DMC Act against Khan. The section provides for removal of a person from the post of chairperson or member. He told the court that the LG has also issued a show cause notice to Khan on May 8 as to why action be not initiated against him. The bench directed the authorities to decide the matter in a reasonable time and disposed of a petition seeking removal of Khan, whose tenure as the chairman of the commission is going to end in July. The court was hearing a PIL which said that on April 28, Khan published a post having seditious and hateful comments through his official page on social media. In the letter to the chief minister, the LG has stated that the content of the social media post prima facie appears to have the potential of disturbing communal harmony in the city and the matter is particularly serious considering that one of the functions of DMC is to make recommendations for ensuring, maintaining and promoting communal harmony in Delhi. The plea, filed by retired bank official Subhash Chandra, said that on May 2, based on a complaint, the Delhi Police Special Cell has lodged an FIR against Khan under Sections 124A and 153A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for the alleged offences of sedition and promoting feelings of hatred between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence and language. “Despite registration of FIR, the respondent no.4 (Khan) declared on May 3, that he still stands by his aforesaid incendiary comments. He said that it was 'erroneously' reported by sections of the media that he had deleted his tweet containing the crude remarks.... He said that he stands by his words and convictions,” the plea, filed through advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, said. The petition alleged that it was evident from the public post on his Facebook account that it was “provocative, deliberate and seditious, intended to cause disharmony and create a rift in the society”. “By making such a hateful statement, the respondent no.4, who is holding such a responsible post, has endangered the unity and integrity of the country, tried to tarnish the secular image of India and spread hatred among two communities. The statement of respondent no.4 is factually incorrect, derogatory and anti-national,” it claimed. The plea sought direction to the Delhi Minorities Commission, Delhi government and Lieutenant Governor to forthwith remove Khan from the post of Chairman of the Delhi Minorities Commission for his alleged seditious and hateful acts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lg-issued-show-cause-notice-to-dmc-chairman-for-alleged-seditious-acts-delhi-govt-informs-hc-836252.html
11-05-2020||National||In record 24-hour jump, COVID-19 cases rise to 67,152; death toll 2,206||India registered a record jump of 4,213 COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, pushing the country's tally to 67,152 on Monday and the death toll due to the disease rose to 2,206 with 97 fresh fatalities, according to the Union health ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 44,029 in the country. While 20,916 people have recovered, one patient has migrated, it said. "Thus, around 31.15 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. A total of 97 deaths have been reported since Sunday morning. Of these 53 were in Maharashtra, 21 in Gujarat, 14 in West Bengal, three in Tamil Nadu, and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan. Of the 2,206 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 832 fatalities, Gujarat comes second with 493 deaths, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 215, West Bengal at 185, Rajasthan at 107, Uttar Pradesh at 74, Delhi at 73, Tamil Nadu at 47 and Andhra Pradesh at 45. Karnataka and Punjab have recorded 31 deaths each. Telangana has reported 30 fatalities due to the respiratory disease, Haryana has registered 10, Jammu and Kashmir nine, Bihar six and Kerala four. Jharkhand and Odisha have recorded three COVID-19 fatalities each while Himachal Pradesh, Assam and Chandigarh have reported two deaths each. Meghalaya and Uttarakhand have reported one death each, according to the ministry data. According to the ministry's website, more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities. According to the health ministry data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country is from Maharashtra at 22,171 followed by Gujarat at 8,194, Tamil Nadu at 7,204, Delhi at 6,923, Rajasthan at 3,814, Madhya Pradesh at 3,614, and Uttar Pradesh at 3,467. Andhra Pradesh has 1,980 COVID-19 cases, West Bengal 1,939 and Punjab 1,823. Telangana has 1,196 cases, Jammu and Kashmir 861, Karnataka 848, Haryana 703 and Bihar 696. Kerala has reported 512 coronavirus cases so far, while Odisha has recorded 377 cases. A total of 169 people have been infected with the virus in Chandigarh and 157 in Jharkhand. Tripura has reported 150 cases, Uttarakhand 68, Assam 63, Chhattisgarh 59, Himachal Pradesh 55 and Ladakh 42. Thirty-three COVID-19 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Meghalaya has registered 13 cases, Puducherry has nine and Goa has seven. Manipur has two cases. Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Dadar and Nagar Haveli have reported one case each. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research)," the ministry said on its website. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-record-24-hour-jump-covid-19-cases-rise-to-67152-death-toll-2206-836254.html
11-05-2020||National||COVID-19 impact: Ahmedabad decides to go digital to prevent spread through currency||To contain the spread of COVID-19, Ahmedabad, the second-worst coronavirus affected city in India, has decided to go completely digital to prevent the spread of the pandemic through currency notes. As part of the preparatory strategy post-lockdown period, all retail and home delivery agencies have been contacted and asked to get 100 per cent screening of their delivery staff, according to an order. As an abundant caution to prevent the spread of coronavirus through currency notes, it has been made mandatory to accept digital payments through Unified Payment Interface (UPI) and other platforms, according to the order issued on Monday by Gujarat Additional Chief Secretary Rajiv Kumar Gupta. From May 15, all home deliveries will have to be paid digitally and no cash on delivery will be accepted, the order stated. Gupta is also in-charge of coronavirus-related work in Ahmedabad. The COVID-19 cases in Ahmedabad district of Gujarat jumped to 5,818 after 278 people tested positive for the infection on Sunday alone. About the worst-affected city, Mumbai, as many as 875 people were tested coronavirus positive on Sunday, taking the total number of such patients in the financial capital to 13,564. As per the order, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation will form 100 teams, who will help 17,000 retail shops of vegetables, fruits, milk and groceries etc to get online payment app installed on their mobile phones. Besides, they will also provide technical support and popularise payment through UPI system. This would prevent infection transmission through currency notes as some medical reports suggested that the new coronavirus survives on paper for many days. With regard to home delivery, the order said that a health card will be issued by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation valid for seven days to delivery persons and all such staff will have to compulsorily download Aarogya Setu app on their mobiles. Besides, delivery persons will have to use hand gloves, sanitation cap and sanitiser and follow social distancing norms, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-impact-ahmedabad-decides-to-go-digital-to-prevent-spread-through-currency-836255.html
11-05-2020||National||Chennai sees off migrants with ‘farewell kits’||When a group of migrants lodged at relief centers run by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) left for their native villages in Odisha by a special train on Saturday, they held a white cloth bag in their hands, besides sporting a broad smile. The bag was nothing but a “farewell kit” presented to them by GCC containing provisions that could last for at least a week. The idea behind providing them with such kits was primarily to take away from their minds the thought of feeding their family members for the next week. The kit consisting of pulses, wheat flour, cooking oil, rice, and salt that could last for at least a week is being handed over to all 4,000 inmates of the 90 relief centers run by the GCC since the nation-wide lockdown came into force on March 25. The kits are being sponsored by NGOs. “Most of the inmates at our relief centers were migrant labourers who have been without jobs for the past 40 days. How to feed their families after they go home would be the biggest thought on their minds. We wanted to ensure that they need not worry about food for at least one week and hence we came out with this farewell kit,” J Meghanath Reddy, Deputy Commissioner (Revenue & Finance), GCC, told DH. Much homework was done to ensure that all the items needed for cooking a meal are included in the kit. And what else better than chocolates to make children back home happy.  “Chocolates and tetra pack juices were also made part of the farewell kits assuming that there would be children in the homes of the migrants, and they would feel happy to have these items given to them,” Reddy added. These kits are given only to those who stayed at the relief centers run by GCC and not to all migrants who take the train from here. Over 4,000 people from across the country, including 300 from various parts of Tamil Nadu, were lodged in around 90 relief camps for migrants or people stranded here run by the GCC in various parts of the city. These people are now being sent to their native states in batches. “A lot of thought went into what should be inside the farewell kits. Since a lot of people were from other states, we included wheat flour, edible oil, and other items that one needs daily. The kit would last for at least a week. The idea was to ensure that they don’t start worrying about food immediately after reaching their native places,” Reddy said.  The GCC has been running the relief camps “a bit different” by organizing wellness and positivity classes, yoga training, and lessons on mental health, besides ensuring television sets at every relief center. “We had laid much emphasis on de-stressing our inmates. Several NGOs came forward to conduct wellness camps for the migrants which brought a smile on their faces,” the GCC official said. Birthdays of two teenaged girls, who got stranded here, were also celebrated at one of the relief centers here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chennai-sees-off-migrants-with-farewell-kits-836272.html
11-05-2020||National||Doctors' body requests Harsh Vardhan to reconsider revised policy for discharge of COVID-19 patients||A representative body of medical practitioners in government service of West Bengal has urged Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan to reconsider the revised policy for discharge of COVID-19 patients prepared in consultation with the ICMR. Noting that different strains of 'SARS-CoV-2' are prevailing across the country with separate morbidity and mortality profile, the Association of Health Service Doctors (AHSD) said, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines cannot be exercised uniformly everywhere. In February, the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) had announced 'severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) as the new name of the virus. "As Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi are flooded with cases with perceived scarcity of beds and apparatus and too high bed occupancy rate, the ICMR's recentmost discharge protocol and advisory on quarantine stay may be applicable there having no other alternative. "But in West Bengal and many other states where geographical spread is not yet established, discharging confirmed cases without....sampling can't be the choice. Asymptomatics may potentially transmit the virus," the letter, dated May 10, said. The AHSD urged the Union government to take up state-specific focused intervention with the ICMR. Pointing out that the current COVID-19 outbreak has provoked social stigma, the letter said, if any coronavirus patient is released only on the criteria of not having fever, his neighbours may refuse to accept him in the locality. "It has also been experienced that coronavirus patients with mild symptoms or no symptoms are not encouraged for home isolation by his family and close relatives," the letter said. The letter further urged setting up of one testing laboratory in each district of the country. Besides one additional RT-PCR laboratory should be identified in each district for frontline COVID-19 warriors by the Centre and new machines should be supplied without disrupting the ongoing tuberculosis elimination projects, the letter signed by AHSD general secretary Manas Gumta said. The revised discharge policy for COVID-19 cases announced by the Union health ministry on Friday said, coronavirus infected patients developing severe illness or having compromised immunity will have to test negative through reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test before being discharged by a hospital. However, moderate cases of COVID-19 and pre- symptomatic, mild and very mild cases need not undergo tests before being discharged after resolution of symptoms. According to the previous set of rules, a patient was considered fit to be discharged if he or she tested negative on day 14 and then again in a span of 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-body-requests-harsh-vardhan-to-reconsider-revised-policy-for-discharge-of-covid-19-patients-836280.html
11-05-2020||National||Railways ready to operate 300 Shramik special trains daily: Goyal||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Monday said the railway ministry allocated 1200 trains appealed to the states to make use of it ferry stranded migrant people. The railway allocated 1200 trains and from which the railways can operate daily 300 Shramik Special to ferry stranded migrant labourers, tourists and students., Goyal tweeted. He said, beginning with four trains on May 1, so far 468 Shramik Express trains operated. This morning, I reviewed the train operations of ‘Shramik Special’ trains. Only 4 trains ran on the first day i.e 1st May which grew to 101 trains yesterday. In total, 468 trains have departed.  The Minister also appealed the states to make use of this train ferry maximum stranded people to their home state at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-ready-to-operate-300-shramik-special-trains-daily-goyal-836281.html
11-05-2020||National||Commendable that India has been able to keep COVID-19 cases very low: WHO chief scientist||The World Health Organization's Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan on Monday commended India for keeping the coronavirus cases and deaths very low compared to other countries and said that it would play an important role in the development of a vaccine for COVID-19. She said the whole world has to be prepared for the ongoing transmission of infection for "many many months and for perhaps years to come". Swaminathan said it is not just enough to develop and test the vaccine, but it is also crucial to manufacture it, scale-up procurement and get health systems to vaccinate populations.  Speaking on the National Technology Day, Swaminathan said, "I would like to commend and congratulate the minister and colleagues for having contained so far the COVID pandemic in India and having kept both the number of cases and the number of deaths very low compared to other countries." All participants, including Science and Technology Minister Harsh Vardhan, addressed the conference online. "However, we know it is the marathon that we are running. It is not the sprint, and India and in fact the whole world has to be prepared for the ongoing transmission of infection for many many months and for perhaps years to come," she said. According to the World Health Organisation, as on Monday there have been 39,76,043 confirmed cases of COVID-19, including 2,77,708 deaths. In India, the death toll due to COVID-19 stands at 2,206. The number of cases is 67,152 in the country.  Swaminathan, who served as Director General of the Indian Council of Medical Research, said there are many challenges in India in terms of over-population, over-crowding in many of the urban areas and poor access to healthcare facilities in some of the rural areas. "This is the time, actually, for us to strengthen public health surveillance, primary health care delivery, and strengthening of the health workforce," she said. On vaccine development, Swaminathan said many vaccine candidates are being developed in India, some in partnership with other groups and some on their own. "India will play an important role in vaccine development. The world cannot have enough vaccines for everyone if India is not part of the process," she said. It usually takes 10 years to develop a vaccine, but in the case of Ebola, it was done in five years. "The aim is to get a (coronavirus) vaccine out in a year or so. Or even less if possible," she said, adding that the process of developing vaccine will need global collaboration like sharing of knowledge, resources, tools and pooling of ideas to perform clinical trials more effectively. "I am very optimistic that some of these will be successful," she said. She added that the most vulnerable people to whom the vaccines should be first administered must be identified. This includes frontline worker and people with co-morbidities. Prioritization framework needs to be developed, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/commendable-that-india-has-been-able-to-keep-covid-19-cases-very-low-who-chief-scientist-836283.html
11-05-2020||National||Congress welcomes decision to restart rail services||Congress on Monday (May 11) welcomed the decision of the Centre to “cautiously” resume inter-state passenger trains and pitched for a similar “modest reopening” of air and road travel. “We welcome the decision of the government to cautiously start operations of interstate passenger trains. The same modest opening should be started with road transport and air transport,” senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said. “The only way economic and commercial activity can effectively begin is to open road, rail and air services for passengers and goods,” the former Finance Minister said. However, a young Congress functionary Radhika Khera objected to Chidambaram’s remarks and accused Railway Minister Piyush Goyal of laying foundations for a disaster by resuming railway services in a limited manner.  “4213 cases, highest spike so far, Yet Narendra Modi ji has relaxed the lockdown. With countries like South Korea & Germany going back to lockdown after seeing a 2nd Wave post opening up, India refuses to learn from others' mistakes. Piyush Goyalji why lay foundations for a disaster,” Khera, AICC Media Coordinator, said. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury criticised the Modi government's decision to resume AC trains as an “elitist and anti-people” move.  “The decision to resume only AC train service on selected routes is elitist & anti-people. It’s the poor & not so well-off who need it the most, who use it the most. This speaks volumes about the apathy & disdain with which Modi govt treats the average Indian & at a time like this,” Yechury said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-welcomes-decision-to-restart-rail-services-836288.html
11-05-2020||National||Central trade unions may approach ILO on labour laws suspension in some states||Ten central trade unions on Monday said they are considering approaching the International Labour Organization (ILO) against suspension of major labour laws in some states. The Uttar Pradesh Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath last week gave nod to 'Uttar Pradesh Temporary Exemption from Certain Labour Laws Ordinance, 2020' to exempt factories, business establishments and industries from the purview of all, except three labour laws and one provision of another law, for three years. The Madhya Pradesh government has also suspended some labour laws and as per media reports, Gujarat too is following suit. In a joint statement issued on Monday, the central trade unions also threatened to give a call for nationwide agitation to protest against such moves by state governments. "The CTUs consider these moves  as....gross violation of the Right to Freedom of Association (ILO Convention 87), Rights to Collective Bargaining( ILO Convention 98) and also the internationally accepted norm of eight hour working day – espoused by Core Conventions of ILO)," the statement said. It also noted that the ILO Convention 144 with regard to tripartism has been undermined by the governments. "While seriously considering to lodge a complaint with ILO on these misdeeds of the Government for gross violation of Labour Standards, the CTUs call upon the working class to oppose these designs.... soon the CTUs would give a nationwide call for action," it said. The Joint Platform of CTUs and Federations/Associations denounced the blanket exemptions given to all establishments from the employers’ obligation under all substantive labour laws for a period of three years by Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. In UP, an ordinance in this regard has been promulgated and same is going to be done in Madhya Pradesh also as asserted by the state's Chief Minister, the statement said. Media reports say that similar move of liberating the employers from all labour laws is going to be initiated in Gujarat also for a period of 1,200 days, it added. The working people have been subjected to inhuman sufferings owing to loss of jobs and wages, eviction from residences etc reducing them to hungry non-entities in the process of 45-day lockdown, the CTUs said in the statement. The government of the day at the centre has pounced upon those working people only with fangs and claws to reduce them to the stature of virtual slaves, the statement added. "Now the Government at the centre has taken the strategy of letting loose their pliant state governments to take such anti-worker and anti-people autocratic measures, many other state governments are expected to follow suit," it said. "This retrograde ( labour laws suspension) anti-worker move came in the second stage after six state governments have enhanced the daily working hours from eight hours to 12 hours through executive order in violation of the Factories Act, taking advantage of the lockdown situation. It is also reported that BJP government  of Tripura is also making a similar move," the statement added. The 10 CTUs that issued the joint statement are INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTU, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC. There are total 12 CTUs. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, which has disrupted economic activities, some states have decided to relax labour laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-trade-unions-may-approach-ilo-on-labour-laws-suspension-in-some-states-836299.html
11-05-2020||National||Rajasthan: Amid coronavirus lockdown, health counselling for differently-abled in Udaipur||A non-governmental organisation in Udaipur city of Rajasthan has started an online medical-consultancy session for the differently-abled people to address their health concerns amid the coronavirus lockdown. During the five-day live sessions of the 'Paramash' campaign that started on Sunday, a team of senior doctors will provide health consultancy on the Facebook and YouTube platforms of the Narayan Seva Sansthan (NSS) for an hour from 10 am till Thursday. Non-COVID-19 patients will be provided free medical and necessary counselling regarding common ailments, doctor Manas Ranjan Sahu of the Narayana Seva Sansthan Hospital said. "Medical experts will provide information on naturopathy, artificial limbs and physiotherapy," Sahu said in a statement. Amid the novel coronavirus pandemic, many patients are suffering from anxiety, depression, fever, cough, lifestyle-induced health problems, thalassemia, chronic periodontitis, cholera, typhoid and various other ailments, according to Sahu. These patients need proper diagnosis and treatment, he added. During the lockdown, free medical counselling can adequately address their health questions and concerns, as well as ensure that they follow the protective guidelines related to COVID-19, Sahu said. Meanwhile, NSS president Prashant Agarwal said nearly 2,000 food packets were being distributed to the needy during the lockdown. He said the organisation had given masks to police personnel and also distributed it in shelters in Udaipur. It has donated Rs 2 lakh to the chief minister's relief fund as part of the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-health-counselling-for-differently-abled-in-udaipur-836300.html
11-05-2020||National||After son, ailing father dies of COVID-19, J&K death toll 10||Four days after his young son died of COVID-19, a cancer patient from Srinagar became the fresh victim of the deadly virus in the Valley on Monday, taking the toll in Jammu and Kashmir to ten. Health officials said that the man in his late 50’s who had already tested positive for coronavirus last week had underlying serious comorbidities as well. “He was suffering from pancreatic cancer and had other comorbidities. He died at the hospital this afternoon,” Dr Salim Tak, Medical Superintendent Chest Diseases Hospital Srinagar told reporters. The 32- year-old son of the deceased had died on May 7 after he had contracted the virus while attending to his father, now dead, admitted in the Oncology department at Super Specialty Hospital in Srinagar. With this fatality, 10 persons have died due to the deadly disease so far in Jammu and Kashmir, 9 of them in the valley and one in Jammu division. Till May 10 evening, J&K had 861 COVID-19 positive cases out of which 469 were active positive and 383 had recovered.  So far, 93,344 travelers and persons in contact with suspected cases had been enlisted for surveillance which includes 21,760 persons in-home quarantine including facilities operated by government, 177 in Hospital Quarantine, 469 in hospital isolation and 9615 under home surveillance till Monday evening. Besides, 61,314 persons had also completed their surveillance period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-son-ailing-father-dies-of-covid-19-jk-death-toll-10-836303.html
11-05-2020||National||Digvijaya Singh raises plight of students from Bihar stuck in Madhya Pradesh||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Monday appealed to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to take necessary steps for repatriation of about 1,800 students and migrants from that state who are stuck in Madhya Pradesh due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. In a letter to Kumar, Singh requested him to coordinate with the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government on the issue. "I am enclosing a list of 1,800 students and labourers of Bihar who are stranded in Madhya Pradesh and wanted to return to their parent state. "I request you to coordinate with the Madhya Pradesh government and take necessary steps for calling these stranded students and labourers to Bihar soon," Singh stated. He has also sent the copies of the letter to Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state chief secretary I S Bains. Earlier, Singh had raised the issue of the students from Jammu and Kashmir who were stranded in Madhya Pradesh, following which the state government arranged special buses for them for their home state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digvijaya-singh-raises-plight-of-students-from-bihar-stuck-in-madhya-pradesh-836305.html
11-05-2020||National||CRPF jawan killed in Chhattisgarh Naxal encounter||A CRPF jawan was killed in an encounter with Naxals in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur district on Monday, officials said. They said the encounter took place in the Uripal forest area of the district at about 2 PM when a team of the Central Reserve Police Force and district reserve guard of the state police was out for a search operation. Constable Munna Yadav, 32, of the 170th battalion of the CRPF has been killed in action, they said. The deceased hailed from the Sahibganj district of Jharkhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-jawan-killed-in-chhattisgarh-naxal-encounter-836306.html
11-05-2020||National||Supreme Court for high-powered panel to decide 4G internet services in J&K||The Supreme Court on Monday directed for setting up a high-powered special panel headed by Secretary, Union Ministry of Home Affairs to decide the issue of providing 4G internet services in Jammu and Kashmir. A bench of Justices N V Ramana R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai said the court is cognisant of the concerns relating to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the hardships faced by the citizens. "While it might be desirable and convenient to have better internet in the present circumstances, wherein there is a worldwide pandemic and a national lockdown. However, the fact that outside forces are trying to infiltrate the borders and destabilise the integrity of the nation, as well as cause incidents resulting in the death of innocent citizens and security forces every day cannot be ignored," the bench said. The court left it to the special committee, also comprising Secretary, Ministry of Communication and Chief Secretary, J&K, "to look into the prevailing circumstances and immediately determine the necessity of the continuation of the restrictions in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir". The Union government as J&K administration defended their decision to restrict internet service speed to 2G over there. They raised issues of continuous infiltration, foreign influence, and violent extremism in Jammu and Kashmir, affecting national integrity.  NGO 'Foundation for Media Professionals' and others, including schools and others, wanted 4G internet service to have better access to information and conducting online classes. Acknowledging the importance of the issue, the court said it has to ensure a balance between national security and human rights in line with Constitutional principles. "There is no doubt that the present situation calls for a delicate balancing, looking to the peculiar circumstances prevailing in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir," it said. The court said the high-powered panel should take a district-wise or area-wise decision on the access of the internet as mandated in the Anuradha Bhasin judgement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-for-high-powered-panel-to-decide-4g-internet-services-in-jk-836313.html
11-05-2020||National||Those who promised houses failed to feed poor: Akhilesh Yadav attacks UP govt||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday took a dig at the state BJP government, saying those who promised houses to the poor failed to feed them during the coronavirus lockdown. In a Hindi tweet, the former state chief minister also sounded a note of warning, saying history has been a witness to the fact that whenever people took to roads, they "ousted the all-powerful". "The government which promised houses to all by 2022 could not provide one-time meal to hungry-thirsty people,” he said, attaching a cartoon in which Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh CMs are targeted for extending "sweeping relaxations to industrialists". In a separate tweet, he cited a newspaper report that a migrant woman from Nasik gave birth to a child under a tree. "How difficult will be the journey of those who are born on roads. Is there anyone listening," Akhilesh asked. "The government is busy in self-praise and failed to make arrangements due to which people are suffering. If the government only arranges food and employment, coronavirus will be defeated by people,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/those-who-promised-houses-failed-to-feed-poor-akhilesh-yadav-attacks-up-govt-836314.html
11-05-2020||National||Pune: As work resumes, 380 migrant workers skip 2 trains||Three hundred migrant labourers with permission to board a Shramik Special train from Pune to Madhya Pradesh did not report at departure on Sunday, and 80 for a train to Uttarakhand on Monday, with local officials claiming these were "positive" signs due to the reopening of several industries in the region. An official said 1,172 people had got permission to travel on the train to MP but 300, mostly working in the MIDC area here, did not turn up when it left from Daund station.  "These people have claimed they chose not to move as they were getting work in MIDC areas here. The firms there also know they will suffer if workers move so may have offered incentives," said Daund Tehsildar Sanjay Patil. He said a train which left for Uttarakhand on Monday also had 80 absentees, with all of them claiming there was no need to go back to their native villages as work had started here. Pune District Collector Naval Kishore Ram said, "This is actually a positive sign. Opening industries in MIDC areas and giving permission for construction work in non-containment areas have created a positive atmosphere among labourers. That is why they are preferring to stay back."  Patil said officials had to call up those on the "waitlist" to ensure the trains did not leave below sanctioned capacity. Jwala Prasad, one of the 300 who gave the MP train a miss, said he did not move as the plant in Kurmukh MIDC where he worked as an operator had resumed operations. "I have been living here with my wife and two children for 10 years. We even filed forms to board the Shramik Special but then dropped the plan as work at my company resumed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pune-as-work-resumes-380-migrant-workers-skip-2-trains-836315.html
11-05-2020||National||IRCTC website crashes as train online ticket booking opens||The Indian railways is yet to begin full operations of trains but the IRCTC website has already crashed, with officials suspecting that high demand for a limited number of tickets may be the reason for the crash. The crash was noticed around Monday afternoon, hours before the railways was supposed to start ticket sales for the 30 special trains running between different states to transport stranded passengers. An official in IRCTC's head office in Delhi said they were still looking into the exact reason for the crash. "We are not sure whether it is due to a surge in the number of visitors or if there is another problem. The website has handled large amounts of traffic earlier," he said. The official further said that not all visitors were coming to the website for ticket bookings. "The news that railways is running special trains may have made many to check the booking situation, leading to crash," he said. Many passengers who experienced the inconvenience took to Twitter to complain about the problem. At 4.30 pm, the Ministry of Railways said in a tweet that data pertaining to special trains was being fed in the IRCTC website:  "Train ticket bookings will be available in a short while. Please wait. Inconvenience is regretted."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irctc-website-crashes-as-train-online-ticket-booking-opens-836316.html
11-05-2020||National||Tomar says 117 more mandis join eNAM platform; total reaches 962 across India||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday launched integration of 117 additional wholesale mandis with the electronic National Agriculture Market (eNAM) platform, taking the total number of online mandis to 962 across the country. The additional mandis integrated with eNAM platform include Gujarat (17), Haryana (26), J&K (1), Kerala (5), Maharashtra (54), Odisha (15), Punjab (17), Rajasthan (25), Tamil Nadu (13) and West Bengal (1), an official statement said. Right now, farmers auction their agriculture produce at 6,900-odd APMC (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees) mandis spread across the nation. Some agriculturists are also using online bidding through e-NAM platform. Launching the new mandis through video conferencing, Tomar said efforts should be made to strengthen eNAM further to benefit the farmers. Integration of APMC mandis with eNAM will strengthen and facilitate farmers to sell their harvested produce through the online portal, he said. The target is to integrate 1,000 mandis before May 15. More mandis are being integrated in the current COVID-19 situation as the e-NAM platform provides a distant bidding facility for wholesale produce in APMC mandis without physical presence of buyer/trader near the auction site for bidding. The electronic platform also provides an e-payment facility through which traders can pay farmers after the trade is executed from anywhere, be it home or office, without going to banks, thus avoiding crowd. To decongest mandis during COVID-19 lockdown situation, the government has launched new features on the eNAM platform, enabling direct trading from warehouses as well as collection centres of farmers producers organisations (FPOs), besides logistics support. According to the ministry, as many as 1.66 crore farmers, 1.30 lakh traders and 71,911 commission agents are using e-NAM platform. Commodities, worth over Rs 1 lakh crore, have been traded on the e-NAM as on May 9 this year. The volumes of trade stood at 3.43 crore tonnes and 37.93 lakh bamboo and coconuts. That apart, digital payments worth Rs 708 crore were made through the eNAM platform, benefitting more than 1.25 lakh farmers. A total of 236 mandis participated in inter-mandi trade across 12 states, whereas 13 states/UTs have participated in the trade, allowing farmers to interact directly with distantly located traders. At present, 150 commodities, including foodgrains, oilseeds, fibers, vegetables and fruits, are being traded on eNAM. More than 1,005 FPOs have been registered on eNAM platform and have traded 2,900 tonnes of agri-produce worth Rs 7.92 crores.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tomar-says-117-more-mandis-join-enam-platform-total-reaches-962-across-india-836320.html
11-05-2020||National||Fake tweet in the name of Himanta Biswa Sarma escalates Assam COVID figure; police asked to take steps||Assam Health and Family Welfare Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday asked police to register an FIR against the person who posted a fake tweet in his name, escalating the number of COVID-19 cases in the state. The tweet appeared to have been posted by Sarma but the minister said his Twitter account has not been hacked. "I have noted with deep concern an altered / morphed screenshot of my tweet - where the numbers have been changed. Asking @assampolice to immediately file an FIR and investigate @DGPAssamPolice," Sarma tweeted. A screenshot of the fake tweet was circulated in various media groups of journalists in Assam. When it was brought to Sarmas notice, he said, "I have not tweeted any such thing from my account. It's a graphic. My account is not hacked." Sarma is also the finance minister of Assam and the convenor of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), the NDAs version in the region. As per the bulletin issued by the state health and family welfare department on Sunday night, Assam has 62 positive cases, of which 26 are active and two have died. The remaining 34 have recovered and were discharged from hospitals. The morphed tweet stated that eight more people have tested positive for COVID-19 in the state, taking the tally to 70. It also claimed that all these new cases were linked to a bus that brought people from Rajasthan to the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fake-tweet-in-the-name-of-himanta-biswa-sarma-escalates-assam-covid-figure-police-asked-to-take-steps-836321.html
11-05-2020||National||Sharjeel Imam challenges order granting more time to police to complete probe under UAPA||Former JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested in a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC, Monday approached the Delhi High Court challenging a trial court order granting more time to police to conclude investigation. The petition is likely to be listed for hearing on May 14. The accused has challenged trial court's April 25 order by which the Delhi Police was granted three more months, beyond statutory 90 days, to complete the investigation in the case under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Imam was arrested on January 28 in the case related to violent protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act near the Jamia Millia Islamia University in December last year. The statutory period of 90 days from the arrest was concluded on April 27. He was arrested from Bihar's Jehanabad District. He has also sought default bail in the matter on the ground that the investigation was not concluded within the statutory period of 90 days and when the police had filed an application for more time to complete the investigation, he was not given a notice as required under the law. The trial court had recently dismissed the bail plea.   The trial court had said that the order extending period of investigation was passed before expiry of statutory time period of 90 days. “Since the time period to conclude investigation has already been extended as per section 43 D (2) of UAPA, I am of the considered opinion that application for release of the accused on statutory bail is bereft of merits and the same is accordingly dismissed,” the trial court judge had said in the order. Section 43-D (2) of UAPA provides that if it is not possible to complete the investigation within the 90 days period, then upon the report of the public prosecutor indicating the progress of the probe and the specific reasons for the detention of the accused beyond the 90 days period, after satisfaction, the court can extend the period of probe to 180 days. In the petition before the high court, Imam complained that he was not even produced before the court for subsequent remands, every 15 days as per the mandate of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The plea added that the investigating agency, in its April 25 application, only sought extension of time for investigation and it had not sought to extend his judicial custody and, therefore, he was eligible for statutory bail. “The application (of police) was devoid of the genuine 'compelling reasons' that are required to be disclosed for extension of time beyond 90 days. The application stated that on a careful analysis of the speech of the accused section 13 of the UAPA Act was invoked. But it is unclear why the supposed 'careful' analysis took 88 days or what additional facts have been discovered subsequent to the eight days of police custody to merit invocation of UAPA on the 88th day of custody. “On two separate occasions when the Investigating Agency sought police custody of the accused, that is, on January 29 and February 3, the investigation agency did not feel the need to invoke Section 13 of the UAPA Act,” it said. Imam is currently lodged in Guwahati jail in a case related to UAPA registered by the Assam police. The trial court had passed the order on April 25 after the police had submitted that due to global COVID-19 pandemic in the country and the ongoing lockdown, the pace of investigation was seriously disrupted.  The police had further informed the court that they are yet to interrogate the members of WhatsApp group “Muslim students of JNU”, persons who provided their accounts to arrange for money to get printed the pamphlets, Imam's friends and persons who initially recorded the video the speech at Jamia are yet to be identified.  Initially, a case under section 124 A (sedition) and 153 A IPC (promoting enmity between classes) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Crime Branch, New Delhi, pursuant to the alleged speeches addressed by Imam, allegedly instigating a particular religious section of the society to disrupt/block the access to North East region of India from rest of India, police had claimed.  The police had earlier charged Imam with sedition, alleging his speech promoted enmity between people that led to riots.   The mob indulged in large-scale rioting, stone-pelting and arson, and in the process destroyed several public and private properties while a number of police personnel and people were injured in the riots, the police had told the court. Imam was allegedly involved in organising protests at Shaheen Bagh but came into limelight after a video showed him making controversial comments before a gathering at Aligarh Muslim University, following which he was booked under sedition charges.   Another case was filed against Imam in Assam under the stringent anti-terror law for his remark that Assam could be "severed from India, even if for a few months" as a result of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Police in Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh had also lodged FIRs against the JNU scholar over his speech in which he threatened to "cut off" Assam and the rest of the northeast from the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharjeel-imam-challenges-order-granting-more-time-to-police-to-complete-probe-under-uapa-836325.html
11-05-2020||National||Delhi man kills pregnant wife after quarrel, surrenders||A man angered at not finding his five-month pregnant wife at home strangled her to death in south Delhi and surrendered to police, officials said. Vijay Kumar, a 33-year-old auto-rickshaw driver, went to Ambedkar Nagar police station at 12:30 am on Sunday and confessed he had killed his wife earlier that night. After returning home Saturday night, police said, Kumar did not find his wife at home in Dakshinpuri and went to his in-laws residence nearby to look for her, but did not find her there as well. Later, he saw her talking to a person on the street and got angry. They engaged in a heated argument and Kumar killed her, officials added. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said the accused had an argument with his wife, which turned into a scuffle and then a murder. "The woman's body was found on a bed. There was a strangulation mark on her neck," Thakur said. The body has been preserved at AIIMS mortuary and a murder case has been registered against Kumar, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-man-kills-pregnant-wife-after-quarrel-surrenders-836330.html
11-05-2020||National||Resuming passenger train services will increase risk of COVID-19 transmission: TMC||The Trinamool Congress(TMC) on Monday alleged that the Centre’s decision of partially resuming rail services will increase the spread of COVID-19. The development comes a day after the Indian Railways on Sunday announced from May 12 it will run 15 pairs of trains. Accusing the Centre of being indecisive in handling the pandemic senior TMC leader and Urban Development Minister Firhad Hakim said that the decision to resume rail services at this point will increase the risk of CIVID 19 infection. He also said that the Centre is clueless about how to handle the situation and hence was taking such an irrational decision. “ Centre’s decision to resume rail services may increase the spread of COVID-19. They are clueless about how to handle the situation and hence are taking such absurd decisions,” said Hakim. The ruling party in Bengal also accused the Centre of double standard arguing that on the hand it was lecturing state government on stricter implementation of the lockdown and on the other it was diluting the lockdown with such decisions.  “ The Centre should come clean about the reason behind their double standard. This shows that they ate incapable of logical decisions,” said TMC MP Santanu Sen. However, the state BJP shot back alleging that the TMC government has miserably failed in curbing the spread of COVID-19 in Bengal and the issue of migrant labourers. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said that the TMC government should refrain from making such allegations and instead focus on improving the situation in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/resuming-passenger-train-services-will-increase-risk-of-covid-19-transmission-tmc-836334.html
11-05-2020||National||Some relatively large COVID-19 outbreaks noticed in particular locations: Govt||As India registered a record jump of 4,213 COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the government on Monday said some relatively large outbreaks have been noticed in particular locations and it is important to focus on containment efforts to ensure that the country does not reach the community transmission stage. The government also said the coronavirus tracking app Aarogya Setu is secure as it has been designed keeping in mind the privacy of people and is playing a crucial role in India's fight against COVID-19. Asked if there has been a community transmission of the disease, joint secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal at a press briefing said, "Some clusters have been found here (in the country), and in some cases in some particular locations relatively large outbreaks has also been noticed." "And in this context if you remember even AIIMS Director (Dr Randeep Guleria) had said that if these are not contained properly, the transmission rate would become higher. So, it is important for us now to focus on containment efforts and ensure that we do not reach the stage of community transmission,” he said. Agarwal said 4,213 COVID-19 cases and 97 deaths have been reported in last 24 hrs till Monday 8 am, taking the total cases to 67,152 and death toll to 2,206. As many as 20,917 COVID-19 patients have been cured till now, taking the recovery rate to 31.15 per cent. Also 1,559 patients have recovered in last 24 hours, the highest number of recoveries recorded in one day. Ajay Sawhney, Chairman of the Empowered Group 9, which deals with Technology and Data Management, said the mobile application has been developed in order to alert people before they come in contact with infected patients and to alert the health system to take adequate steps for their help. The Aarogya Setu mobile app has contributed significantly in India's fight against COVID-19, he said, adding that the app has been designed keeping in mind the privacy of people. Around 9.8 crore people have downloaded the Aarogya Setu app and it is available in 12 languages, Sawhney said. Information about 697 potential COVID-19 hotspots was generated through the Aarogya Setu app, he said, asserting that the application is secure, is used only for health interventions, and does not reveal the identity of people. Around 1.4 lakh Aarogya Setu app users have been alerted via bluetooth contact tracing about possible risk of infection due to proximity to infected patients, Sawhney said. The Aarogya Setu app will soon reach a user base of 10 crore and it has created a world record in being the fastest app to reach five crore users, he said.   Asked about certain media reports claiming that government is mulling religion based mapping of hotspots, Agarwal said it is a very irresponsible, baseless and incorrect news. Spread of COVID-19 has nothing to do with race, religion, area and it spreads due to lack of precautions, he asserted. Agarwal said people having COVID-19 symptoms should not hide them and come forward to report so that they don't spread infection to others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-relatively-large-covid-19-outbreaks-noticed-in-particular-locations-govt-836335.html
11-05-2020||National||Kashmir: Migrant workers asked to avoid visiting hospitals for COVID-19 screening||The authorities in Kashmir on Monday asked migrant workers and labourers to avoid visiting hospitals for COVID screening in connection with their travel to their native states. "The labourers shall be informed beforehand about when and where they have to undergo health check up and that they should avoid visiting hospitals unless advised by authorities," Divisional Commissioner Kashmir P K Pole said. The stranded labourers have been advised to ensure that they are registered with the concerned labour department. Regarding their return to their respective destinations, Pole said the labourers shall be informed about the date of their travel and medical checkup. He also asked them to stay put at their current places till arrangements are finalised for their return to their native areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmir-migrant-workers-asked-to-avoid-visiting-hospitals-for-covid-19-screening-836337.html
11-05-2020||National||Safe return of migrant workers should be Centre's primary concern: Adhir Chowdhury||Stressing that the Centre must set its priorities right, Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Monday asserted that sending home stranded migrant labourers and pilgrims should be the BJP-led Union government's primary concern for now. Speaking on the uncertainty looming over the Monsoon Session of Parliament, Chowdhury said it is for the government to decide when and how to resume proceedings, while suggesting that the members could take the virtual route.  "The Centre is planning to resume passenger train services from May 12. We don't have any problem with this decision. However, we feel the government should accord highest priority to the safe return of stranded labourers and pilgrims," Chowdhury, the former minister of state for railways, said. The Union government should learn to set its priorities right, he stated. "Since the beginning of the pandemic, the Centre has not been able to come up with concrete policies...It has to act decisively rather than resorting to knee-jerk reactions," the veteran Congress leader said. The Indian Railways had on Sunday announced that it would gradually recommence passenger train operations from May 12, initially with 15 pairs of trains.  All passenger train services were suspended ahead of the imposition of the nationwide lockdown on March 25. "When the COVID-19 pandemic was spreading fast during the first and second week of March, we had pleaded with the government to close down Parliament but it didn't listen. It was busy removing the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh to seize power. Once that was done, the lockdown was imposed," Chowdhury said. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla had said on Sunday that the Monsoon Session of Parliament, which normally begins in the last week of June or in the first week of July, may still be held on time, amid concerns that the coronavirus pandemic may delay its start. "It is for the government to decide if it wants to resume Parliament. It can also explore the option of holding proceedings on a virtual platform, where representatives can accordingly place their views," Chowdhury added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/safe-return-of-migrant-workers-should-be-centres-primary-concern-adhir-chowdhury-836340.html
11-05-2020||National||BCI stays SCBA's decision to suspend its secretary; calls it illegal, undemocratic||The Bar Council of India (BCI), the apex lawyers’ body, on Monday stayed the May 8 decision of the Executive Committee of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) to suspended its Secretary Ashok Arora with immediate effect by terming the suspension as “illegal, cavalier, undemocratic and autocratic”. The differences between the SCBA Secretary and SCBA President Dushyant Dave had come out in open recently leading to the committee suspending Arora. The suspension had come after Arora had called an emergent general meeting (EGM) of the lawyers’ body on May 11 to deliberate on agenda for removing Dave from the post of SCBA President. The meeting was later cancelled. The BCI took note of Arora's representation and came out with the resolution staying the suspension with immediate effect. “It is, therefore, unanimously resolved that the operation of the resolution dated May 08, passed by the Executive Committee of SCBA, inter-alia, suspending Ashok Arora from his position as Honorary Secretary, is hereby stayed with immediate effect. Ashok Arora shall continue to hold his elected position as Honorary Secretary of SCBA and discharge all functions and powers as such. “We also direct Ashok Arora to convene a General Body Meeting of SCBA within two weeks after the lockdown is over and normal functioning of the Supreme Court starts. The agenda shall be circulated in advance as per rules of SCBA. All pending issues including the contentious issues among President, Honorary Secretary and Executive Committee Members shall be part of the agenda for General Body Meeting,” the BCI said in its resolution. The top most lawyers’ body said that under Section-7 of the Advocates Act, it is the duty of the BCI to “lay down the standards of etiquette for the Advocates and to safeguard the rights, privileges and interests of Advocates. This matter is directly covered under the aforementioned functions of the Council”. The BCI resolution, issued by its secretary Srimanto Sen, said that the resolution passed by the Executive Committee suspending Arora was “beyond the powers of Executive Committee and is, therefore, illegal, cavalier, undemocratic and autocratic in nature. It is vindictive on the face of it. It is mind-boggling misuse and abuse of its position by the Executive Committee.” The resolution said that ordinarily, even a body which is conferred with power to take such an action would issue a show cause notice to the person concerned and hence, the suspension was not only “illegal and arbitrary but also against the principles of natural justice”. The BCI Chairperson and senior advocate Manan Kumar Mishra was not part of the meeting which stayed Arora’s suspension as SCBA Secretary as he is a Member and voter of SCBA, the resolution said. Differences had appeared among the top office bearers in the SCBA over the stand taken by the lawyers’ body on a 'resolution' concerning statements made by Justice Arun Mishra about Prime Minister Narendra Modi at International Judicial Conference-2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bci-stays-scbas-decision-to-suspend-its-secretary-calls-it-illegal-undemocratic-836341.html
11-05-2020||National||TMC to launch social media campaign to counter BJP's attack on COVID-19 crisis in West Bengal||Under constant attack from the BJP for "mishandling" the COVID-19 crisis in West Bengal, the TMC said it has decided to launch a strong counter- attack against the saffron party by reeling out data and videos to highlight "dismal performance" of the BJP-ruled Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh in tackling the pandemic. Attacking the BJP's strategy was planned during a series of online meetings of the TMC top leadership with a select group of MLAs and poll strategist Prashant Kishor since Sunday night, TMC sources said on Monday. It was decided to launch a social media campaign to counter the BJP's campaign of "lies" against the state government regarding the COVID-19 situation in West Bengal, they said. The TMC leadership and Kishor asked leaders to counter the BJP's lies by using data, videos and statistics of the saffron party's "dismal performance" in the BJP-ruled states like Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, the sources said. On Sunday, the number of coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh rose to 3,614 and in Gujarat the cases climbed to 8,195. After a close fight with the BJP in the general elections last year, the TMC hired Kishor to boost its chance in the 2021 state polls. The BJP had secured 18 out of a total of 42 Lok Sabha seats in Bengal, only four less than the TMC, which won 22 in the 2019 general elections. The TMC leadership is all set to start the social media offensive to counter the BJP's "lies and fake news" from Wednesday, the sources said. "A mass campaign would be launched on social media, which will include use of video news conferencing. Promotional videos, various schemes and short presentations bearing statistics will be circulated on social media platforms, including WhatsApp. "We would play recorded messages of local administration and MLAs, particularly in the non-containment zones of coronavirus on the steps taken by the state government to check spread of the contagion to nail the BJP's lies," a senior TMC leader told PTI on condition of anonymity. The development comes in the backdrop of the Bharatiya Janata Party recently launching a social media campaign with #BhoyPeyechheMamata, (Mamata is scared) to highlight the "state's dismal performance in handling the COVID-19 situation and absence of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for the last few days from the scene". The Trinamool Congress has responded by using #BhatBokcheBJP (the BJP is blabbering baseless allegations). "We have been told by the leadership to stay away from the state-run ration distribution system and just ensure that no one is deprived of the free ration given by the state government," the TMC MLA said. The TMC government in West Bengal and the BJP-led Union government have locked horns since the beginning of the pandemic, with the Centre accusing the state government over its COVID-19 response and enforcement of the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of the disease. The Trinamool Congress has dubbed the allegations as "baseless and politically motivated". The war of words between the two escalated after the Centre sent two teams from Delhi to assess the COVID-19 situation in the state. The TMC government had strongly protested their arrival without consulting them beforehand. More recently, a letter from Union Home Minister Amit Shah to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee last Saturday, charging the state of not allowing the trains to ferry native migrants to their home, served as another strong flashpoint between the two political adversaries. PTI PNT SNS KJ||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-to-launch-social-media-campaign-to-counter-bjps-attack-on-covid-19-crisis-in-west-bengal-836342.html
11-05-2020||National||COVID-19:Plea in Delhi HC against Centre, AAP govt decision to freeze DA||A plea was moved on Monday in the Delhi High Court challenging the Centre and AAP government's decision to freeze dearness allowance (DA) of public servants and pensioners in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The petition has contended that the decision to freeze DA of government employees has been taken at a time of rising inflation, especially in Delhi, where there has been an increase in prices of fuel, liquor and essential commodities. Petitioner N Pradeep Sharma further contends that there is no financial emergency to take such a step as the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) has a corpus of around Rs 3,800 crore and according to news reports the PM CARES Fund has received donations of Rs 6,500 crore. The petition was mentioned before a joint registrar via weblink and has been allowed for listing before an appropriate bench. The date of listing has not yet been decided, sources in the HC registry said. The petition claims the decision to freeze DA is in violation of constitutional provisions and the Disaster Management Act does not give the government any power to withhold salary as it also includes dearness allowance. The plea claims that the Centre and Delhi government have also decided to delay till July 2021 the proposed four per cent hike in DA in view of COVID-19 crisis. The petition seeks directions to the Centre and Delhi government to "immediately release" DA to its employees and pensioners, saying that it would give a "morale boost" to the "health warriors" who are protecting people from the deadly coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19plea-in-delhi-hc-against-centre-aap-govt-decision-to-freeze-da-836343.html
11-05-2020||National||Evidence doesn't indicate COVID-19 transmission risk from people discharged on revised criteria: Govt||Dispelling apprehensions that mild and moderate COVID-19 patients could transmit the disease if not tested before being discharged, the Union health ministry said available evidence does not indicate any increase in risk of the infection's transmission in such cases. Such patients after being discharged will also follow home isolation for further seven days, the ministry said in its Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) on the Revised Discharge Policy. The ministry on May 9 issued the new discharge policy according to which coronavirus infected patients developing severe illness or having compromised immunity will have to test negative through RT-PCR test before they are discharged by a hospital.  For moderate cases of COVID-19 and pre-symptomatic, mild and very mild cases, it said, they need not undergo tests before being discharged after the resolution of symptoms. "Available evidence does not indicate any increase in the risk of transmission from patients discharged based on the revised discharge criteria.The revised criterion also specifies that such patients will follow home isolation for a further seven days," the ministry said in reply to the FAQs. Mild, very mild and pre-symptomatic patients admitted to a COVID care facility can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days, according to the policy. Patients clinically classified as “moderate cases” will be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset in case of absence of fever without antipyretics, resolution of breathlessness and no oxygen requirement, it said. But in the both the cases – severe cases, and moderate, mild and pre-symptomatic cases-- the patient after being discharged will have to follow home isolation for further seven days, the policy said. Responding to a question over why the discharge policy was changed, the ministry said several countries have changed the criteria for discharge from 'test-based strategy to 'symptom-based strategy' or 'time-based 'strategy. "A review of ICMR laboratory surveillance data also indicated that after initial RT-PCR positive results, patients became negative after a median duration of 10 days," it said. Recent studies have also suggested that the viral load peaks in the pre-symptomatic period – two days before symptoms -- and goes down over the next seven days. "Being cured of a disease may have different connotations for the general public, treating doctors and the virologists. Unless there is a fear of resurgence of the infection and subsequent transmissibility of an infection, resolution of clinical manifestation is usually taken as an evidence for cure," the ministry said. Responding to a question over what precautions the patient should undertake during home isolation, it said the provision for home isolation of pre-symptomatic, very mild, mild confirmed cases of COVID-19 has been made, “provided that such patients are assessed to be eligible for the same in terms of their clinical status and feasibility to successfully isolate in home environment settings”. This should be done after signing a self-declaration form by the patient, it said. Such patients, with no co-morbidities, should at all times use triple layered medical masks, the ministry said. Patient must stay in the identified room and away from other people at home, especially elderlies and those with co-morbid conditions like hypertension, cardiovascular disease and renal disease, it said. They should maintain strict personal hygiene and self-monitor their health with daily temperature monitoring and report promptly if they develop any deterioration of symptom, it said in the FAQs. Over the need to get tested after the home isolation period is over, the ministry said as per the latest revised discharge policy, there is no need for testing prior to discharge of all pre-symptomatic, very mild or mild confirmed cases of COVID-19 after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days. "Therefore it stands to reason, that no testing is also needed for patients undergoing home isolation (pre-symptomatic/very mild/mild confirmed cases) after the home isolation period is over," it said. The earlier criteria for discharging RT- PCR positive were chest radiograph has cleared and two consecutive negative test results on RT-PCR, the ministry stated. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,206 and the number of cases climbed to 67,152 on Monday, according to Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/evidence-doesnt-indicate-covid-19-transmission-risk-from-people-discharged-on-revised-criteria-govt-836346.html
11-05-2020||National||Most of migrants travelled out of Gujarat on trains to UP: Govt||A bulk of about 2.56 lakh migrant workers who have left Gujarat on Sharamik special trains amidst the coronavirus-induced lockdown till Monday travelled to Uttar Pradesh, a state government official said. While about 1.76 lakh or 70 per cent of the 2.56 lakh migrants travelled to Uttar Pradesh, others set out on their journey to Bihar, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, and Chhatisgarh, he said. Among various cities in Gujarat, the largest number of migrant workers have left for their home states on trains from the textile hub Surat, followed by Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and other districts, the official said.  About 86,400 migrant workers have left Surat on 72 trains, followed by 60,000 from Ahmedabad on 50 trains, he said, adding that more trains are being lined up to take them to their home states. A total of 209 special trains have originated from Gujarat, which accounts for 45 per cent of the total 461 trains being operated from different states until Monday morning, said Ashwami Kumar, Secretary to Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. "Out of 209 Shramik special trains that left from various stations in Gujarat till Monday morning, 147 went to Uttar Pradesh, 23 to Bihar, 21 to Odisha, 11 to Madhya Pradesh, 6 to Jharkhand, and one to Chhatisgarh," he said in a video message.  Another train will leave for Uttarakhand, he said. While 72 trains have left from Surat, 50 trains departed from Ahmedabad, 16 from Vadodara, 10 from Rajkot, seven from Morbi, six from Palanpur (in Banaskantha district), five each from Nadiad and Jamnagar, four each from Anand and Godhra (in Panchmahal district), and three each from Bhavnagar, Junagadh, Navsari, and Vapi among other stations, he said. So far, 2.56 lakh migrant workers have left for their home states, and 36,000 more will leave by Monday on 30 more trains, Kumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/most-of-migrants-travelled-out-of-gujarat-on-trains-to-up-govt-836349.html
11-05-2020||National||COVID-19: 3 Tihar jail inmates quarantined||Three inmates of Tihar Jail have been put under quarantine after one of them, a rape accused, is suspected to have come in contact with a coronavirus-infected person, jail officials said on Monday. They said the man was lodged in a separate cell in central jail number 2 of Tihar along with two other inmates in a rape case and did not show any symptoms for COVID-19.   However, the woman, who is the complainant in the rape case, tested positive for COVID-19 on May 9 following which the police informed us, the jail authorities said. "After we received information from police that the complainant had tested positive for coronavirus, the accused was also tested for COVID-19 on Sunday morning along with the two other inmates who were lodged in the same cell. "None of them showed any symptoms but their samples were sent for testing as a precautionary measure. We received their reports on Monday according to which all the three of them have been tested negative for the infection. But all of them have been quarantined for 14 days as a precaution," said Sandeep Goel, Director General (Prisons). In the wake of coronavirus outbreak, prison authorities said they have taken several precautionary measures, including creation of isolation wards in each jail for suspected cases, restricting entry of new inmates only to two jails among others. According to jail officials, medical screening of everyone entering the jails including inmates, jail staff, security and medical staff are being conducted. Repeated screening of all the existing inmates for any symptoms of COVID-19 are also being carried out regularly. Besides, court production of inmates and their family meetings have also been stopped while the inmate telephone call facility has been extended to all inmates 'free of cost', they said. Visits by outside agencies, including NGOs have also been discontinued and referral and visits to outside hospital have been restricted to only emergency situations. Movement of inmates outside the ward in all jails have also been restricted and sanitisation and disinfection of the lodgement areas of the inmates and residential complexes of staff are being done on regular basis, according to jail officials. All new inmates are pre-screened before lodging in jail and regular awareness drives are being held among inmates as well as jail staff including security forces and other agencies in the jail through briefings and public announcements about the infection, the officials added. The jail authorities said they have procured and distributed Personal Protective Equipment kits, masks, gloves and and alcohol-based hand rubs and soaps for its front line staff. SOP tor transfer of suspected COVID-19 cases to referral hospital has been formulated and is being implemented and Special Task Force has been formed for contract tracing of suspected COVID-19 cases in all jails, according to jail officials. Psychological screening of newly admitted inmates to properly manage mental health issues is also being done while arrangements have also been made for quarantine of jail staff, paramilitary, medical staff after their return from outstation leave. Instructions have also been issued to screen all the inmates who are being released from jail for any COVID-19 symptoms, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-3-tihar-jail-inmates-quarantined-836350.html
11-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Centre leaves to states on what to do with train passengers||The central government has left it to states to decide on whether to put passengers arriving in trains starting from Tuesday as part of the partial resumption of Railway services in quarantine. According to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) released by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the travelling passengers will have to adhere to health protocols as prescribed the destination state or union territories. When asked about whether passengers will be asked to go on quarantine, MHA Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said the states and union territories where the trains are arriving will prepare health protocols as per the situation there. Questions were raised about the aspect of what would states do with arriving passengers, including whether they would be put in institutional quarantine or not. There will be no particular relaxation for passengers reaching railway stations in red zones with regard to their onward journey to their houses.  In Red Zones, two persons are allowed to travel in four-wheelers besides the driver while no pillion rider is not allowed in a two-wheeler. However, taxis or cab aggregators are not allowed in red zones. There are more relaxations in orange and green zones. According to the SOP, the Ministry Railways will permit the movement of trains in a "graded manner" in consultation with Ministries of Home Affairs as well as Health and Family Welfare. Only passengers with confirmed e-tickets will be allowed to enter the railway stations while the movement of passengers as well as their drivers transporting passengers to and fro the railway station will be allowed on the basis of the e-ticket. Railways will ensure that all passengers are compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic passengers are allowed board train. All passengers will be provided with a hand sanitiser at both the entry and exit points at station and in coaches. Passengers will have to wear face masks or face covers throughout the journey and will have to observe social distancing, the SOP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-leaves-to-states-on-what-to-do-with-train-passengers-836351.html
11-05-2020||National||Uddhav Thackeray file papers for MLC seat||Accompanied by his family members and close aides, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday filed his nomination papers for the elections to Maharashtra Legislative Council. There are nine seats and an equal number of contestants,  hence the elections would be unopposed. The scrutiny of papers would take place on Tuesday - after which declaration of the name of the winners remains a formality. When Uddhav visited Vidhan Bhavan, he was accompanied by wife Rashmi,  sons Aditya,  who is a minister, and Tejas,  a naturalist,  was also present. Top aides Subhash Desai and Eknath Shinde,  both ministers,  Anil Desai, and Milind Narvekar was also present. Other Maha Vikas Aghadi leaders - deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and state NCP president and water resources minister Jayant Patil, state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and public works minister Ashok Chavan were present. Other MVA candidates - Dr. Neelam Gorhe of Shiv Sena,  Rajesh Rathod of Congress, Shashikant Shinde, and  Amol Mitkari, both from NCP also filed papers on  Monday. Last week, the BJP has fielded four candidates Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil, Praveen  Datke, Gopichand Padalkar and  Dr. Ajit Gopchhede,  filed their nomination papers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uddhav-thackeray-file-papers-for-mlc-seat-836355.html
11-05-2020||National||20 Kashmiris, stranded in Bihar, sent to J&K by special buses||At least 20 Kashmiris, including three tourists, who were stranded in Bihar due to lockdown since March, were sent to J&K in two special buses. This included 17 Kashmiri woolen hawkers, who had come to Bihar during November 2019. This group, which stayed at the Sabjibagh area of the state capital and sold woolen suits and shawls during winter, was supposed to return to Kashmir in March. “But some issues related to collecting the outstanding dues from certain customers delayed our return journey. In the process, we got stuck in the lockdown,” said one of the hawkers, Mohammad Shafi Bhawani. Shafi’s wife Gulshana Akhtar too had come to Patna this year and got stranded in the lockdown. Their children, who earlier visited Bihar, returned to J&K after their schools reopened in March. “But we got stranded during the lockdown and had to pay rent for our overstay here,” he said. Meanwhile, the Kashmiri group tried to hire private cabs but the taxi operators asked for Rs 70,000 for each vehicle (for to and fro journey from Bihar to J-K). Eventually, the Patna district administration took notice of their plight after a local newspaper highlighted their woes. “Two buses, carrying pilgrims stranded in J&K, were coming to Bihar. Our officers coordinated with their counterparts in J&K. It was then decided that these two buses while returning, would carry the stranded Kashmiris to their home state,” said Patna District Magistrate, Kumar Ravi. Sources said each Kashmiri had to pay Rs 2,500 for their return journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/20-kashmiris-stranded-in-bihar-sent-to-jk-by-special-buses-836359.html
11-05-2020||National||Indian Railways: IRCTC opens booking for special trains||The IRCTC website began booking tickets for travel on special trains after 6 pm, two hours behind the scheduled opening time of 4 pm, and all AC-1 and AC-3 tickets for the Howrah-New Delhi train were sold within the first 10 minutes. The bookings were slated to open at 4 pm, but got delayed due to a technical glitch. The Howrah-New Delhi train is scheduled to begin its journey Tuesday from Howrah at 5:05 pm.  As per the ticket availability on the website, all AC-1 and AC-3 tickets for the Bhubaneswar-New Delhi special trains were also sold by 6.30 pm. Select passenger train services are beginning from May 12, between Delhi and some major cities across the country. "Special trains are being uploaded in system. Booking will start soon,” the IRCTC tweeted at 4.43 pm, explaining the delay. Sources said the website "did not crash, but data was being uploaded". They had urged passengers to "please wait".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-irctc-opens-booking-for-special-trains-836360.html
11-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi calls for focused approach on COVID-19 lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday dropped indications of another lockdown with fewer restrictions in a video conference interaction with 30 chief ministers, many of whom were wary of lifting Lockdown 3.0 scheduled to end on Sunday. Amid surging COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra, Telangana, Bihar, Punjab, West Bengal and Assam seemed jittery on lifting the restrictions. After the meeting, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that Lockdown 4.0 will start on May 18. Seeking to shift the focus on containment zones in the coming days, Modi said he is of the firm view that measures needed in the first phase were not needed in the second phase. Similarly, the measures needed in the third phase will not be needed in the fourth, he said, as he stressed the need for social distancing. The Prime Minister requested all the chief ministers to share with him a broad strategy on how they would deal with the lockdown regime in their states by May 15. The Prime Minister's Office is said to be in favour of giving states more freedom to decide on the restrictions. “We now have a reasonably clear indication as to the geographical spread of the pandemic in India, including the worst affected areas,” said Modi during his six-hour-long marathon interaction, where he coined a new slogan “Jan se Jag Tak” (From People to the World).     Calling for a “focused approach” in tackling the pandemic, the PM also said the process of resuming economic activities will further gather steam and stressed on the need to “ensure that rural India remains free from this crisis”. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, whose state capital Mumbai has been ravaged by COVID-19, opposed the lifting of the lockdown completely, while Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani batted for a gradual removal of restrictions post-May 17, a view echoed by the Karnataka government. Barring Assam, which favoured a two-week extension of the lockdown, most of the BJP-ruled states did not make any strong pitch for continuing the restrictions. Andhra Pradesh CM Y S Jaganmohan Reddy favoured an extension but made a strong pitch for relaxing the restrictions, saying “we will have to learn to live with the virus”. A similar call was made by Punjab, which pitched for an extension of the lockdown, but with a carefully crafted strategy, backed by fiscal and economic empowerment of the states. With train services set to resume, Bihar apprised the Prime Minister about the threat of an exponential rise in cases due to migrants’ flux to the state, while Telangana and Tamil Nadu asked the Centre to refrain from resuming passenger train services. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said he won’t permit train service to his state till May 31 as COVID-19 cases in Chennai are surging. Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh wanted the decision on the zoning of an area to be left to the states. AAP-ruled Delhi favoured a gradual exit from the lockdown, a view in consonance with that of the Centre.  Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said there should be no movement of people from the red zone to the green zone. In the meeting, there were also some fireworks as West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee underlined the need to respect the federal spirit. Mamata wondered as to how a letter written by the central government to the state got leaked even before it reached her government. There should be no such politics on an issue like this, Mamata said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-calls-for-focused-approach-on-covid-19-lockdown-836363.html
11-05-2020||National||Man battling cancer evacuated from South Africa to be with family||The family of Vijay Yasam is both happy and sad that the 47-year-old is finally back in India from South Africa where he was working but has been rushed to a corporate hospital in Tamil Nadu for the treatment of advanced-stage cancer of his intestines. Yasam, a native of Nellore in Andhra Pradesh, was brought to Chennai on Monday evening after he was evacuated from Johannesburg in South Africa in an air ambulance by International Critical Care Air Transfer Team (ICATT) that flew nearly 21,000 km over four days crossing seven countries, covering four time zones and 30 hours of flying (round trip). The air ambulance had a night stop at Mauritius, which initially refused permission, but came around later. After getting the required permission from five Union ministries, a Learjet Air Ambulance took off from Chennai on April 8 and landed in Johannesburg the next day. The return journey began from the South African city on May 10 and the air ambulance landed in Chennai on Monday evening, much to the relief of Yasam’s wife and their two children. The operation was challenging as it posed a huge logistical challenge of fly over the Arabian Sea and the Indian Ocean as there are only a few small islands to stop for fuel. The 47-year-old man, who is the chief manager in Johannesburg branch of Bank of Baroda, was desperate to be with his family after he was diagnosed with advanced-stage cancer of his intestines in the first week of April. He could not fly out of South Africa due to air restrictions owing to COVID-19, but his evacuation was warranted as his health was deteriorating and his family was eager to meet him. “I cannot express my happiness in words. All that we did after hearing about his illness was only to cry and think about my husband being lonely in South Africa. Today he is back with us, though he is receiving treatment at a hospital. I can at least tend to him personally in the hospital. Thanks to Bank of Baroda which arranged his return,” Yasam’s wife Kavitha told DH. Yasam and Kavitha had moved to South Africa in 2018, but the wife and children returned to India in February 2019 leaving the husband there. Since the patient needed critical care, ICATT directors Dr. Rahul Singh and Dr. Shalini Nalwad got in touch with their counterparts in Johannesburg, Dr. Ismail Moola, and his team and decided that Yasam needed critical care treatment even while flying.  “The three doctors pre-optimized the clinical condition of the patient so that he remains stable in the long journey to reach back home. They were also in touch with a doctor and para-medic who was accompanying the patient on board the air ambulance,” the ICATT said. Yasam underwent an operation in South Africa and needed to be repatriated back home to India for further treatment with Chemotherapy but was unable to get back because of the lockdown and travel ban.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-battling-cancer-evacuated-from-south-africa-to-be-with-family-836365.html
11-05-2020||National||Defence Ministry ready to deal with visible, invisible enemies of India: Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said his ministry is committed to destroying all the enemies of the nation including those visible on the borders or invisible ones like the coronavirus. Speaking at an online conference organised to mark National Technology Day, Singh also said India must become self-reliant in military manufacturing and that the government was supporting the domestic defence industry by coming out with a policy framework. "I want to assure my countrymen that the Ministry of Defence is committed to destroying all the enemies of the nation -- whether they are visible enemies on the borders or invisible enemies like the coronavirus," he said.  The National Technology Day is observed on May 11 to commemorate the nuclear tests India conducted in Pokhran on this day in 1998 that symbolised achievement of home-grown technologies in critical areas. “The Defence Research and Development Organisation has developed more than 50 products in the last three-four months like bio-suit, sanitiser dispenser, PPE kits, etc through its continuous efforts to contribute to the fight against COVID-19," he said. "The indomitable spirit of our defence industry has increased the opportunity for mass production of these high-quality products in record time," Singh added. The defence minister said the government has set new targets and formulated the "right" policy framework to achieve indigenisation in defence production. “We always have to keep in mind that there is no alternative to indigenous technology and indigenous manufacture. We will be truly self-reliant only when India succeeds in becoming a net exporter instead of a net importer of technology,” he said. At present, India is one of the top importers of military hardware globally. According to a latest report by Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), a leading think-tank on military spending, India's defence expenditure stood at USD 71.1 billion in 2019, which is third highest after the US and China. In 2017, the government came up with an ambitious policy under which select private firms were to be roped in to build key military platforms like submarines and fighter jets in India in partnership with global defence majors. "Our journey is long, but the important thing is that we have worked on it. We will work continuously to establish India as a defence manufacturing nation," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-ministry-ready-to-deal-with-visible-invisible-enemies-of-india-rajnath-836370.html
11-05-2020||National||FASTag technology ensuring safety during COVID-19 times: NHAI||FASTag, an inclusive technological tool for toll collection on highways, is ensuring safety of commuters during COVID-19 times, the NHAI said on Monday. A total of 1.68 crore FASTags have been issued across the country till the beginning of May 2020. FASTags not only prove useful now but would be more practical and beneficial in the coming times post COVID-19 lockdown, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said in a statement. FASTag employs Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology for making toll payments on national highways directly from the prepaid or savings account linked to it. A prepaid tag, fixed on vehicles’ windscreen, allows automated deduction of toll charges, and lets any vehicle pass through a toll plaza with zero human contact. Movement of all essential goods and services takes place majorly through the road networks of the country. "As India is gearing up for a life post the COVID-19 induced lockdown phase, the NHAI foresees an increase of commercial and private vehicles on national highways in the coming days. This will increase the chances of coronavirus spread," it said. In such a scenario, the NHAI recommends that FASTags should be the preferred mode of toll payments as it is the safest mode for toll transactions on national highways. It’s a technological boon that can help us all bring the lives and economy back on track in such turbulent times without ever compromising on our health and safety, the NHAI said. As the nation and its scientific community are celebrating the National Technology Day today, there should be mention of this technological innovation that has changed our lives for better – FASTag, an electronic toll collection (ETC) system in India which is operated by the NHAI. It said FASTag has been instrumental not only in ensuring smooth flow of vehicles on National Highways but also proved to be the safest mode of paying toll charges considering the COVID-19 outbreak. "FASTag nullifies the chances of contracting Corona virus as there is no human contact between drivers and the toll booth workers unlike during cash transactions," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fastag-technology-ensuring-safety-during-covid-19-times-nhai-836372.html
11-05-2020||National||Special trains: Passengers advised to reach 90 minutes early, carry own food, blankets||As trains chug out from Tuesday with Railways re-starting regular operations after a gap of 48 days, passengers will have to reach stations at least 90 minutes before the scheduled departure and carry their own food and blankets. Fifteen pair trains -- all air-conditioned-- will leave or arrive in the national capital from various states to help stranded people reach their destination, while regular passenger services, including all mail/express, passenger and suburban services, will remain non-functional till further notice. This is in addition to the Shramik Special Trains that started operating from May 1 to transport stranded migrant workers. The Ministry of Home Affairs and Railways issued separate Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to facilitate the re-start of the operations, which was in suspension since March 25. The MHA has left it to the states to decide on how to deal with arriving passengers and directed it to develop its own health protocols in its SOPs. Asked whether passengers will be asked to go on quarantine, MHA Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said the states and union territories where the trains are arriving will prepare health protocols as per the situation there. The Railways’ SOPs said these trains will have only First, Second and Third AC compartments and the fare structure would be that of Rajdhani trains. Catering charges will not be collected as no food will be served to passengers. Passengers are advised to bring their own food, said Railways spokesperson Rajesh Datt Bajpai. "Provision for pre-paid meal booking, e-catering shall be disabled. However, IRCTC shall make provision for limited eatables and packaged drinking water on payment basis," he said.  One can book tickets only through IRCTC website or through Mobile App. Railways has not allowed bookings by agents or at railway stations counters. Maximum Advance Reservation Period (ARP) will be of maximum 7 days. According to the MHA SOPs, the Ministry of Railways will permit movement of trains in a "graded manner". Only passengers with confirmed e-tickets will be allowed to enter the railway stations while the movement of passengers as well as their drivers transporting passengers to and fro the railway station will be allowed on the basis of e-ticket. All passengers will be provided with a hand sanitiser at both the entry and exit points at station and in coaches. Passengers will have to wear face masks or face covers throughout the journey and will have to observe social distancing, the SOP said. * E-ticket cancellation permitted up to 24 hours before scheduled departure * Cancellation charge shall be 50% of fare * Separate entry and exit gates at railway stations * Passengers advised to download the Aarogya Setu application but not mandatory. * No linen, blankets and curtains shall be provided inside the train * All stalls and shops on railway platform remain closed. * Passengers are advised to travel light||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-trains-passengers-advised-to-reach-90-minutes-early-carry-own-food-blankets-836373.html
11-05-2020||National||There can't be 'fetters on our discretion' to frame questions of law: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday said there can't be "fetters on its discretion" to frame questions of law for determination by a larger bench in review petitions. A nine-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde gave detailed reasons for the decision to examine the scope of rights vis-a-vis faiths following Sabarimala judgement.  The court pointed out the determination of the scope of Articles 25 (freedom to practice religion) and 26 (freedom to manage religious affairs) of the Constitution is of paramount importance.  The bench said that the top court can refer questions of law to a larger bench in a review petition, rejecting the preliminary objections made by senior advocate F S Nariman and others that the scope of review jurisdiction was very limited.  "The reference of questions of law pertaining to the scope of Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution of India are of utmost importance requiring an authoritative pronouncement... Therefore, the reference, in this case, cannot be said to be suffering from any jurisdictional error," the bench said. The bench also relied upon Article 142 of the Constitution which enabled the top court to make any order "as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it". "No matter is beyond the jurisdiction of a superior Court of record unless it is expressly shown to be so, under the provisions of the Constitution. In the absence of any express provision in the Constitution, this court being a superior Court of record has jurisdiction in every matter and if there is any doubt, the court has the power to determine its jurisdiction," the bench said. Acting on a batch of review petitions against 2018 Sabarimala judgement allowing entry of all-age women to Lord Ayappa temple, the five-judge bench had in November 2019 referred the matter to a larger bench, saying similar issue related to rights of other faith women should be determined along with it. The matter was then referred to the nine-judge bench, which framed legal issues for determination without going into facts of the matter. During the preliminary hearing, a contention was made that pure questions of law cannot be referred to a larger bench without reference to facts. "We do not agree. It is not necessary to refer to facts to decide pure questions of law, especially those pertaining to the interpretation of the provisions of the Constitution," the bench said.  An 11-judge bench had earlier framed and answered questions of law in T M A  Pai Foundation vs State of Karnataka (2002) on rights of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-cant-be-fetters-on-our-discretion-to-frame-questions-of-law-supreme-court-836374.html
11-05-2020||National||Sabarimala: No fetters in referring questions of law to larger bench in review petitions, says SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said that its 5-judge bench had powers to refer the questions of law to a larger bench for adjudication while exercising its limited power under review jurisdiction in the Sabarimala temple entry case, saying “there is no fetter on the exercise of discretion of this Court in referring questions of law to a larger bench in review petitions”. A 9-judge Constitution bench, headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, which had on February 10, held that the top Court can refer questions of law to a larger bench in a review petition gave detailed reasoning to support its decision. The bench, also comprising Justices R Banumathi, Ashok Bhushan, L Nageswara Rao, M M Shantanagoudar, S A Nazeer, R Subhash Reddy, B R Gavai and Surya Kant held the instant review petitions and the reference arising from the review petitions are maintainable. “It is clear that there is no fetter in the exercise of the jurisdiction of this Court in review petitions of judgments or orders arising out of proceedings other than civil and criminal proceedings,” the bench said. It said that from the plain reading of Supreme Court Rules, 2013, it is clear that there is no limitation for the exercise of power by this Court in review petitions filed against judgments and orders in proceedings other than civil proceeding or criminal proceedings. The bench rejected the submissions of several parties that a reference cannot be made in a pending review petition and it can only be made after the review petitions are adjudicated. It said that being a superior Court of record, it is for this Court to consider whether any matter falls within its jurisdiction or not and unlike a court of limited jurisdiction, the superior Court of record is entitled to determine for itself questions about its own jurisdiction. “In the absence of any express provision in the Constitution, this Court being a superior Court of record has jurisdiction in every matter and if there is any doubt, the Court has power to determine its jurisdiction,” it said, adding that the reference can also be supported by adverting to Article 142 of the Constitution of India which enables this Court to make any order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it. The top court had on February 10, rejected the objections that a 5-judge bench on November 14, 2019 was wrong in making a reference to a larger bench without deciding the review petitions challenging the 2018 Sabarimala verdict, which had allowed women of all age group to enter the hill-top shrine in Kerala. It had framed seven questions on the scope of religious freedom in various religions and made it clear that it was open to addition and deletion of issues framed. The bench had framed questions which include, "What is the scope and ambit of right to freedom of religion under Article 25 of the Constitution of India?" and "What is the inter-play between the rights of persons under Article 25 of the Constitution of India and rights of religious denomination under Article 26?" Besides other questions, the top court said it would also examine, as to whether a person not belonging to a religious denomination or religious group can question a practice of that "religious denomination or religious group" by filing a public interest litigation (PIL). These issues have been framed afresh after a battery of lawyers raised objections that the 5-judge Constitution bench, headed by the then Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi (since retired) on November 14, 2019, had framed vague and broad issues which cannot be decided without any facts of the particular case. Besides the Sabarimala case, the verdict had also referred issues of entry of Muslim women into mosques and dargahs and of Parsi women, married to non-Parsi men, being barred from the holy fire place of an Agiary, to the larger bench. The 5-judge bench, by a majority of 3:2, had referred to a larger bench the issue of discrimination against women at various religions' places of worship. It said the larger bench will have to evolve a judicial policy to do "substantial and complete justice" in matters of freedom of religion, such as restrictions on the entry of Muslim and Parsi women into their places of worship. It had set out seven questions of law to be examined by the larger bench. They included -- interplay between freedom of religion under Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution; need to delineate the expression 'constitutional morality'; the extent to which courts can enquire into particular religious practices; meaning of sections of Hindus under Article 25 and whether 'essential religious practices' of denomination or a section thereof are protected under Article 26. Another question was the "permissible extent of judicial recognition to PILs in matters calling into question religious practices of a denomination or a section thereof at the instance of persons who do not belong to such religious denomination". Prior to that, in September 2018, by a 4:1 majority verdict, the apex court had lifted the ban that prevented women and girls between the age of 10 and 50 years from entering the famous Ayyappa shrine in Sabarimala and held that the centuries-old Hindu religious practice was illegal and unconstitutional.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sabarimala-no-fetters-in-referring-questions-of-law-to-larger-bench-in-review-petitions-says-sc-836379.html
11-05-2020||National||Dhoni was an unbiased captain: R P Singh recalls selecting controversy of 2008||"M S Dhoni is what he is because of his unbiased opinions," said former India player R P Singh, recalling a selection controversy in 2008 when the pacer lost his place in the team to Irfan Pathan. A media report in 2008 had claimed that Dhoni wanted R P Singh instead of Pathan for a part of the home ODI series against England. Without acknowledging the claims of the report, the then Indian captain had called the selection meeting leak as "disgusting and disrespectful". Looking back at that incident and his career of 14 Tests, 58 ODIs and 10 T20s, R P Singh said he had no hard feelings over his axing. "I don't think I was affected by the leak. The England series we are talking about, I didn't get a wicket in Indore. Obviously people think they will get 2 or 3 more chances. But it was not meant to be. Some get 5 chances, some get 10 chances the lucky ones," the 34-year-old, whose last game for India came in 2011, told 'Sports Tak'. "But many times it has happened to me, whenever my performance dipped, I was directly sent to play domestic cricket. Sometimes, people tend to stay with the team even if their performance dips and get good quality practice. The moment you go to domestic cricket, you won't get that quality competition." He said Dhoni was a fair captain and their friendship never affected the wicketkeeper batsman's decisions for the team. "We (Dhoni and I) had a discussion about where I could improve, what I can do to get better. I know MS Dhoni. Friendship is a different thing, but leading the country is different altogether. At that moment, I think he pushed the ones who he thought were better. I think he pushed people whom he thought would follow the plans better. "This is why MS Dhoni is MS Dhoni today. His unbiased opinions on cricket and decision making. I didn't play as much as I should have because maybe my speed dipped and my swing dipped. Everything else is secondary. If I had improved then, I would have played more. But I am happy with whatever I achieved." A much younger Dhoni captained the likes of Sachin Tendulkar, Rahul Dravid and VVS Laxman. R P Singh said Dhoni got captaincy early in his career for a reason. "They (senior players) should have seen something different. Today when we see MS Dhoni... he has gone to become a big name and had a massive impact on world cricket. They saw his calmness, his match awareness as a keeper. Batting potential was always there, his keeping was also improving a great deal. "But the most important thing was the balanced temperament, his off the field behaviour. When we talk about the selection (as captain), his match awareness and his ability to take the game forward should have played a big role," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dhoni-was-an-unbiased-captain-r-p-singh-recalls-selecting-controversy-of-2008-836381.html
11-05-2020||National||Single bench in SC to take up matters from May 13||A single-judge bench of the Supreme Court would take up appeals related to bail and anticipatory bail from May 13. The Supreme Court has amended its rules in September 2019 to allow a single judge bench to take up hear appeals of bail and anticipatory bail in cases related to offences entailing jail term up to seven years. It was also decided that the single judge would consider petitions for transfer of cases from one place to another. Till now, the Supreme Court bench comprised a minimum of two judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/single-bench-in-sc-to-take-up-matters-from-may-13-836384.html
11-05-2020||National||COVID-19: No need to test after home isolation ends, says govt||The Health Ministry has revised guidelines for home isolation of very mild/pre-symptomatic COVID-19 patients, stating their isolation will end after 17 days of the onset of symptoms and if there is no fever for 10 days. “There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over,” according to the revised guidelines, which are now in tune with the revised discharge policy. The patient should be clinically assigned as a very mild case or pre-symptomatic case by the treating medical officer and should regularly inform his health status to the district surveillance officer for further follow up by surveillance teams. Besides, the guidelines said that the caregiver and all close contacts of such cases should take Hydroxychloroquine as a preventive medication according to the protocol and as prescribed by the treating medical officer. Also, a caregiver should be available to provide care on a 24x7 basis. The Ministry asked patients/caregivers to seek medical attention if serious signs or symptoms develop.  “These could include difficulty in breathing, persistent pain/pressure in the chest, mental confusion or inability to arouse, developing bluish discolourations of lips/face etc,” the guidelines said. Additionally, utensils and dishes used by the patient should be cleaned with soap/detergent and water wearing gloves. The utensils and dishes may be re-used. The Health Ministry asked the people to download the Aarogya Setu app on mobile and keep it active at all times through Bluetooth and Wi-Fi. The guidelines also ask the patient to monitor his health and regularly inform his health status to the District Surveillance Officer for further follow up by the surveillance teams. The patient also has to give an undertaking stating being diagnosed as a confirmed/suspect case of COVID-19, he/she has voluntarily undertaken to maintain strict self-isolation at all times for the prescribed period. The undertaking also states that the patient is liable to be acted on under the prescribed law for any non-adherence to self-isolation protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-no-need-to-test-after-home-isolation-ends-says-govt-836385.html
11-05-2020||National||Pema Khandu seeks from PM faster COVID-19 testing machines, investment||Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu on Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for TrueNat machines for quick COVID-19 testing as a large number of stranded people have begun returning to the northeastern state. Attending a video conference chaired by the prime minister with chief ministers, Khandu also urged Modi to continue facilitating investments in the Northeast so the region's economy is not compromised due to the pandemic. "Since Arunachal has mandated testing of all persons entering the state, I request PM@Narendramodi Ji to support for TrueNat testing machine approved by @ICMRDELHI for speedy #coronavirus test," he tweeted after the conference. TrueNat is a tuberculosis testing machine, which the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved for coronavirus tests as it can provide results within an hour, if the case is negative. However, for positive cases, it has to be reconfirmed through other methods. The Arunachal Pradesh CM said the state's lone RT-PCR laboratory has been under tremendous pressure as people stuck outside because of the lockdown have started arriving. Earlier in the day, Khandu held a meeting with members of the Arunachal chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and deliberated on ramping up the state's testing capacity using cheaper and faster machines such as TrueNat, official sources said. "Fight to contain #coronavirus must not have compromising effect on economy. Northeast has great potential areas for investment, particularly in horti & agri sector. I request PM @naremdramodi Ji to continue working to bring in investment for the region," Khandu tweeted. All Northeastern states are working closely and as a team to collectively fight the coronavirus, he added. In another post, Khandu said, "In the fight against #coronavirus, our tribal bodies, community apex bodies, women organisations have been actively working on the ground carrying forward the message of PM @narendramodi Ji of using face mask, to maintain social distance, to volunteer to fight #COVID19." He also praised the "decisive" leadership of the prime minister and said the lockdown has helped slow the spread of the coronavirus. Khandu said the pandemic has prompted states to revisit the status of health infrastructure and work to create a robust health care system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pema-khandu-seeks-from-pm-faster-covid-19-testing-machines-investment-836386.html
11-05-2020||National||Manmohan Singh’s condition improving; coronavirus test comes negative||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who was rushed to AIIMS on Sunday after he developed reaction to medication and complained of uneasiness, is recuperating well and had tested negative for COVID-19, a Congress functionary said here on Monday. The 87-year-old economist-turned-politician, had no fever throughout Monday and was expected to be discharged from AIIMS in a day or two. The Congress functionary said that Singh had tested negative for COVID-19 and results for a series of other tests were awaited. Earlier, hospital sources said Singh was admitted to AIIMS for observation after he developed a febrile reaction to a new medication. Singh was under the care of Dr Nitish Naik, professor of cardiology at the AIIMS. Singh has a history of diabetes and had also undergone bypass surgeries in 1990 and 2009 and a stenting procedure in 2004. A man of few words and calm demeanour, Singh was one of the longest serving prime ministers having served two consecutive five-year terms, a feat achieved only by Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi. Prayers wishing Singh a speedy recovery poured in from across the country as soon as the news about his illness spread. Singh is a member of the Rajya Sabha from Rajasthan. His last ‘public appearance’ was on May 6, when he participated in a video conference of chief ministers of Congress-ruled states convened by Congress President Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manmohan-singh-s-condition-improving-coronavirus-test-comes-negative-836390.html
11-05-2020||National||Delhi govt seeks suggestions from stakeholders for reopening schools post COVID-19 lockdown||The Delhi government has sought suggestions from different stakeholders including students, teachers and principals about the roadmap for reopening schools post COVID-19 lockdown. An online suggestion form has been put up on the website of the Directorate of Education, where students, their teachers, principals and parents can give their inputs, an official statement said. "Respondents submitting practical and out of the box suggestions will be invited to share their thoughts with Education Minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia through online platform. "The dialogue sessions will be centred on how each stakeholder views the challenges and opportunities created by COVID-19 situation, constraints we are likely to face in times to come and steps that needs to be taken from now onwards to create an education set up that ensures equitable quality learning and well being of all children in post lockdown phase," it added. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the central government announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. Later, a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which has now been extended till May 17. The Delhi government has already announced summer vacation in its schools till June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-seeks-suggestions-from-stakeholders-for-reopening-schools-post-covid-19-lockdown-836391.html
11-05-2020||National||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao opposes resumption of train services now||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to resume the passenger train services at this juncture, saying allowing them would lead to movement of pepole and pose problems in testing them for COVID-19 and quarantining. Rao, who spoke during the video conference held by Modi with state chief ministers, observed that the impact of COVID-19 has been more in major cities, including Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Hyderabad, an official release said here. "Chief Minister Sri K Chandrashekhar Rao has urged Prime Minister Sri Narendra Modi not to revive the passenger train services, which were stopped as part of preventive measures to contain spread of coronavirus in the country," it said. As many as 15 trains are to be operated by the Railways from Tuesday on the Rajdhani route from Delhi to all the major cities, including Secunderabad here, in the country. Rao told Modi that resumption of passenger train services at this juncture would lead to movement of people from one destination to another. Nobody knows who is going from where to where.It is not possible to conduct tests on everyone. It is also difficult to put all those who travelled by trains under quarantine. Hence, passengers trains should not be allowed to ply, he said. Rao strongly favoured allowing migrant workers to return to their native places, besides rescheduling the loans of states and raising Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-cm-k-chandrasekhar-rao-opposes-resumption-of-train-services-now-836396.html
11-05-2020||National||Model suggests cyclical work schedule for one-third of the workforce post lockdown||Allowing one-third of the workforce to resume their duty while keeping the rest in a lockdown condition along with widespread testing, quarantine and contact tracing can significantly reduce the COVID-19 burden on the health-care system while keeping the economy moving. This has been suggested by a consortium of Indian scientists on Monday on the basis of a new and sophisticated disease prediction model. The prediction comes on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had wide-ranging discussions on the exit strategy with the Chief Ministers post lockdown 3.0. The researchers examined two different exit strategies for an Indian city affected by the epidemic. In the first scenario, the entire workforce goes for the work for a fixed number of days and then gets locked down for a fixed number of days before the cycle repeats.  The second scenario is one in which one-third people go to work daily while two-thirds are under lockdown. Each group’s turn for work comes after a specific period cyclically. “The second strategy is more effective, and in combination with large scale testing, tracing and quarantine, the stress on healthcare facilities can be reduced extensively, while keeping the economy moving,” the consortium named Indian Scientists Response to COVID-19 (ISRC) said in a statement. For the second strategy, the efficacy could be as much as 50% depending on certain conditions. “From both of these points of view - the peak of hospitalisations and the total number who will have to be hospitalized before the epidemic goes away - the second strategy (of allowing one-third of the workforce at a time) is better,” Gautam Menon, a professor at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai and one of the members of the team that developed the model told DH. Several Indian disease prediction and epidemiological forecasting models concluded that the lockdown had several benefits in arresting the progress of the disease. But opinions are divided on how such a nationwide shut off would continue in the face of a looming economic crisis. “The way forward is to have region-specific lockdowns and tight guarding of the hotspot boundaries so that infection cannot spread out from those places to neighbouring regions. People will have to follow public hygiene norms - which may be hard to implement given such socially accepted habits as spitting in public and jostling in queues,” observed IMSc professor Sitabhra Sinha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/model-suggests-cyclical-work-schedule-for-one-third-of-the-workforce-post-lockdown-836399.html
11-05-2020||National||Shramik Special train to Karnataka soon||The 968 people from Karantaka stranded in Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh will travel to Bengaluru in a Shramik special train soon.  Karnataka Government sent the list of people enrolled in Seva Sindu website to Delhi Government.  Delhi Government  informed Karnataka Government to operate the train on May 14 while the state government requested for May 13. However, final date will be known on Tuesday, said Karnataka Bhavan officials. Karnataka Government already announced that it will bear the ticket expenditure of all passengers. Officials in Karnataka Bhavan in co-ordination with Delhi government is making logistics for ferrying these stranded people. Upon reaching Bengaluru, officials in Karnataka will make arrangements for passengers' institutional quarantine or home quarantine as per requirement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shramik-special-train-to-karnataka-soon-836400.html
11-05-2020||National||Uddhav requests PM Modi to start local trains for essential services||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has urged the Centre to start suburban trains in Mumbai for people into the essential services. Thackeray made this request to prime minister Narendra Modi during his video-conference with CMs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uddhav-requests-pm-modi-to-start-local-trains-for-essential-services-836417.html
11-05-2020||National||Allahabad University executive council votes against its renaming to Prayagraj||The Allahabad University’s executive council has decided against changing the name of the Centre-run varsity following the renaming of the district to Prayagraj, officials said on Monday. A varsity spokesperson said the executive council could not meet because of the coronavirus lockdown. So the opinion of its 15 members was sought through email. “Three members did not respond, while the remaining 12 responded in the negative and a resolution has been passed against changing the name,” Shailendra Mishra told PTI. “The members wanted the name retained,” Mishra added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allahabad-university-executive-council-votes-against-its-renaming-to-prayagraj-836419.html
11-05-2020||National||Delhi-Goa train being run to exploit green zone tag, says MLA||The proposed passenger train service between Delhi and Madgaon near here was to bring "non Goans" to the coastal state as it is now a green zone with no COVID-19 cases, said Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte on Monday. The railways had announced that it would run 15 pairs of trains from Tuesday between Delhi and Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi. "We are fortunately in a green zone as far the COVID- 19 outbreak is concerned. This tag of green zone has created a lot of attraction towards Goa, wherein non-Goans want to come here and stay," Khaunte alleged. Taking a swipe at Chief Minister Pramod Sawant's statement on Monday that several people from across the border were being smuggled into Goa, Khaunte said it should be viewed seriously as "we don't know how many people have entered the state without being tested for COVID-19". He said "influential people" were being allowed to come into the state at the expense of "genuine Goans". He also claimed several houses that were closed during last month's health survey across the state have now opened with people living in them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-goa-train-being-run-to-exploit-green-zone-tag-says-mla-836423.html
11-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: MHA asks railways to run at least 100 special trains a day to ensure migrants return home||The Home Ministry on Monday asked the Railways to start running at least 100 special trains per day for the next few weeks to ensure the return of migrant workers to their native places, an official said. Addressing a press conference, Home Ministry Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said the ministry held a meeting with the nodal officers of Railways and State Governments on Monday. "It was emphasised that at least 100 trains should be run daily for the next few weeks to ensure return of migrant labourers," she said. Srivastava said the Home Ministry in a letter to the state government has urged to ensure that no migrant labourer should be allowed to travel by foot on the roads or railway tracks. "If they are found travelling by foot on road or railway tracks adequate efforts should be made to arrange bus or train for them. Till the arrangement is made, the labourers should be taken to the nearest shelter home and sufficient arrangements for food, etc. be made for them," she said.  Srivastava said so far 468 such special trains have been run in which a total of over five lakh people have travelled, with 101 trains running on Sunday alone. The train services, which were completely stopped in the country in the wake of the COVID 19 outbreak, will resume in a phased manner from Tuesday with 15 special trains departing from the New Delhi station for different destinations, she said. The Home Ministry has issued an exhaustive standard operating procedure under the Disaster Management Act to avoid any spread of coronavirus during train travel, she said.  Only railway passengers with confirmed e-tickets will be allowed to enter a platform and they will be screened before boarding the train, she said. Only asymptomatic ones will be allowed to board the trains and the passengers will have to mandatorily wear face masks or face covers besides maintaining social distancing during the travel, she said. The official said travel from home to the railway station and vice versa will be in conformity with the zone-wise travel restrictions placed in the country in the wake of the lockdown. "Upon reaching their destinations, passengers will have to follow health protocols of the state government," she said. She said the Home Ministry has also written to the state governments asking them to ensure seamless travel of doctors, nurses, paramedics, sanitation workers and ambulances. On the mission to bring Indians stranded abroad, she said as on Sunday 23 flights have brought over 4,000 passengers into the country. Naval Ship INS Jalashwa has returned to Kochi with 698 passengers from the Maldives including 105 women and four children on Sunday while INS Magar has started from Male with 200 stranded passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-mha-asks-railways-to-run-at-least-100-special-trains-a-day-to-ensure-migrants-return-home-836424.html
11-05-2020||National||Vizag LG Chem leak: After four days, locals return to altered lives||Four days after abandoning homes and belongings to save their lives from the engulfing styrene fumes, locals of the five villages near the LG Chem have, from Monday, started returning to their altered lives. While being careful avoiding the toxin exposed materials and surfaces for the next several days, every one of the local populace is required to get their health checked-up every month for a year. Air, water, and soil of the villages would be tested regularly for a prolonged period of time, to analyse the mid to long term effects of the contamination. Locals grieve that the LG Polymers leak has added to the suffering due to the COVID-19 spread. The noxious vapors on wee hours of Thursday killed 12 people including two kids, and hundreds are still under hospital treatment. About 15,000 inhabitants of RR Venkatpuram, Venkatadri Nagar, Nandamuri Nagar, Paidimamba Colony and SC-BC Colony were evacuated by the district authorities as the NDRF and other experts tried to fix the seep. A team from CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, which studied the styrene vapour effects on the area habitation, vegetation and livestock, has submitted a report. “We have advised that no crop, vegetables in the fields, gardens in three KM vicinity should be consumed. No water from the surrounding water bodies including the nearby Megadrigedda reservoir should be utilised till further review two weeks later,” a CSIR-NEERI team member told DH. NEERI experts said the contamination levels in the villages are now at the most 1.5 PPM - “safe since even up to 9 PPM is acceptable.” On the condition of the leaked tank inside the LG unit, the expert said, “There is no threat now since the styrene inside has completely polymerised –becoming a solid ball. That tank, anyway, has to be disposed of.” The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation personnel are sanitising the roads, houses as per standard operating procedures, while supplying water tanks. A list of Do's and Don't is recommended for the returning locals. Allowing proper ventilation of the houses and thorough cleaning, officials directed people to dispose of all food materials including fridge contents. Packed, contained food materials and dining-kitchen ware should be cleaned before consumption. Bedsheets, curtains, clothes should be washed and dried in the sun. Use of incense sticks like traditional fresheners is recommended. All the affected trees and plants should be removed, and no local fodder should be given to the cattle. Milk from cows, buffaloes etc., unfit for consumption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vizag-lg-chem-leak-after-four-days-locals-return-to-altered-lives-836425.html
11-05-2020||National||Took my coronavirus positive report as my new posting order, says recovered CRPF jawan||I took the news of contracting coronavirus as my ‘new posting order’ like being sent to a Naxal or terrorist affected area in the past, 35-year-old CRPF jawan Satyabir Singh said on Monday post-recovery. The head constable is a radio operator of the 31st battalion of the force that is based in Mayur Vihar Phase-III area of the national capital. The unit made news recently after at least 134 troops living in its premises were found COVID-19 positive, while a 55-year-old sub-inspector succumbed to the disease, making it the first case of death from the pandemic among the various paramilitary forces. The way to defeat COVID-19 is that you should not take the report of your being positive for the disease to your heart and mind, Singh said. The jawan was discharged from Noida's Sharda Hospital on May 9. He is back home practising self-quarantine for some more time. He was admitted to the hospital on April 23. However, his phone keeps ringing as he has now become the 'agony aunt' for the rest of his hospitalised troops and even those who are well. He says his friends now ask him various questions and doubts and seek his help to better prepare against the viral disease. "As soon as someone hears that he or she has coronavirus, they feel sad and deeply disappointed. But I can tell you from my experience that the disease is not to be feared about," Singh told PTI over phone.  “Coronavirus beemari ko haraney ka tareeka hai ki isko dil aur dimaag par nahi lagana hai,” he says in Hindi. "One should not take the coronavirus positive report to one’s heart or mind. That is where you get defeated and the fear of the infection takes over you," Singh, who joined the country's largest paramilitary force in 2007, said. I had been suffering from typhoid when I was detected with the pandemic, he said. "As soon as I got my COVID-19 report, I took it as my new posting. The hospital was my new battleground from where I had to come back victorious and I did," an exuberant Singh said.  He has served tenures in the anti-Naxal operations grid of Chhattisgarh and in the counter-terrorism theatre of Kashmir as part of various CRPF units in his about 12 years of service. "I am the radio operator of the unit and as I am the most vital link between the unit on patrol and its base behind, I am trained to keep myself and my buddies safe. "I have come back successfully and now I will ensure that all my battalion colleagues are back home sooner than later," Singh said. He added that a healthy and nutritious diet is essential during coronavirus treatment as it boosts immunity and supplements energy. "The doctors only give you the regular medicines. They took very good care of us. But a good diet is very essential," he said. The head constable, who hails from Jhajjar in Haryana, said he found that the people who have a "spirited frame of mind and are enthusiastic to get well soon" were discharged soon from the hospital. Singh says his samples were taken five times during the treatment period and the last three came negative after which he was discharged. The jawan also praises his force commanders, especially his neighbours who took care of his son and wife when he was admitted in the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/took-my-coronavirus-positive-report-as-my-new-posting-order-says-recovered-crpf-jawan-836426.html
11-05-2020||National||Two AIADMK men set girl ablaze, CM Palaniswami promises tough action||A 15-year old girl was allegedly set ablaze by two men at a village near here over enmity with her family and she succumbed to burns at a hospital here on Monday and the duo were arrested, police said. The two men belonged to the ruling AIADMK, the leader of opposition and DMK president M K Stalin said and demanded that the police department secure maximum punishment for the alleged offenders. The AIADMK, meanwhile, announced their expulsion from party posts and basic membership as they "brought disrepute and worked against the ideals of the party." Condemning her killing and expressing grief, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said it was ghastly and promised tough legal action against the two men. A case of murder has been registered against them and a probe was on, he said. "I have ordered a solatium of Rs five lakh to the family of the girl," he said. The girl, a class X student, was set ablaze in her village, Sirumadurai, about 28 km from here, allegeldy by 57-year old Murugan and Kaliaperumal (53) on Sunday, a senior police official told PTI. "She was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital (Villupuram) where doctors said she sustained 80 per cent burns. She died today ...," he said, adding the girl gave a dying declaration to a magistrate in the hospital. In her declaration, she named the duo and made it clear that they had set her ablaze, the official added. "Based on her statement to the magistrate we have arrested the two men." The incident has shocked and outraged the people who demanded examplary punishment for the two men in the social media. To a question, the police official said that both the men and the family of the girl had enmity that spanned several years. The official said preliminary investigation has revealed that "the deceased and the accused men are relatives and belong to the same village. The families of the accused and the dead girl had enmity over a couple of issues like those related to land." As people were incensed due to her death, police personnel have been deployed to maintain law and order in the village which is near the temple town of Thiruvennainallur. The girl's body was later handed over to her family for burial, the official said. Political parties including the main opposition, DMK,its allies like the Left parties and AIADMK's ally PMK have sought tough action against the culprits. Stalin, condoling th death, said his party will extend its support to get justice for the girl. Only exemplary punishment will protect children and women, he said, adding the plight of the girl who suffered due to serious burns will outrage everyone with a heart. Similarly, leaders of other parties condoled the death and asked the government to take appropriate steps for examplary punishment for those arrested in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-aiadmk-men-set-girl-ablaze-cm-palaniswami-promises-tough-action-836427.html
11-05-2020||National||Still facing hassles; extortion, corruption rampant despite MHA order, say truckers||Notwithstanding guidelines in place for seamless movement of trucks carrying essentials and goods, truckers on Monday claimed they are still facing high-handedness and harassment especially at state borders and checkposts. Truckers under the aegis of the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) have reiterated their demand for protection, saying the situation on the ground remained unchanged as they are still dealing with extortion, corruption, misbehaviour and even FIRs.  There are so many reports coming from Assam, Bihar, Punjab and Haryana, among others about truck drivers being misbehaved and tortured, according to the truckers' body, which warned of supply disruptions if their "corona warriors" are subject to such inhuman treatment. On Sunday, the AIMTC had said that fruits and vegetables worth Rs 9 crore in 300 trucks were stuck at Rajasthan border and trucks were allowed entry into Delhi after a high-voltage drama. Despite the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) orders to ensure hassle-free movement of essentials and goods, the situation is worsening on the ground and if the government fails to intervene, trucks will be off roads, said the AIMTC, which represents about 95 lakh truckers and entities. "The greed for quick money has blinded the corrupt and rendered them insensitive to the plight of poor truckers who in line of their duty to the people of the country are maintaining the essential supply chain. In Madhya Pradesh, border checkposts are activated and every truck, especially those coming from outside the state, are being extorted money in term of entry fees to the tune of Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000," AIMTC President Kultaran Singh Atwal told PTI. The border checkposts were supposed to be abolished after the roll-out of the GST, but the Regional Transport Office (RTO) lobby in the state got it re-instated citing checking of overloaded vehicles and now passengers in trucks, Atwal said.  "However, the real story behind this is to extract quick bucks from the truckers. This is sheer exploitation by RTOs and their appointed agents, who are no less than hooligans," Atwal alleged. A similar situation persists on KMP (Kundli-Manesar-Palwal) peripheral, Haryana, where traffic police continue to extort money from the truckers and even use force against them, he added. About 300 vehicles carrying fruits and vegetables bound for Delhi were stopped at Behrod (Rajasthan) on Saturday for 4-5 hours and after persuasion with authorities they were allowed to move on but again they were stopped at Shahjahanpur Border (Rajasthan), the AIMTC had said and added that the police personnel drove them back to Rajasthan and only after a day they were allowed to move to Azadpur Mandi of Delhi. Barely 30 per cent of the total trucks are on the roads, and if the government fails to intervene and resolve transporters' issues, days will be not far off when there will be shortage of drivers and essential supplies could be disrupted, AIMTC Secretary General Naveen Gupta told PTI. He said a large number of drivers were approaching the AIMTC for support from Madhya Pradesh and other states, saying illegal extortions ranging from Rs 800 to 3,000 for "entry" into the state have become common there. In a video, drivers -- with their truck numbers UP 21 BN 8896 and UP 21BN 9457 -- are heard saying to AIMTC officials from the Madhya Pradesh border that they are being charged Rs 800-1,000 fee for crossing the border. "It has been reported that the police forcibly made the truckers carry migrant labourers in Indore and Dewas.... the RTOs through the transport department got all checkpost activated and they are allowing such vehicles carrying passengers by extorting money and those not able to pay are detained and FIR lodged against them," AIMTC President Atwal said. In another recorded audio, a driver Suraj Singh vehicle HR 57A0281 is heard saying that he was carrying material to Nagpur from Bhatinda Refinery with Deputy Commissioner's permission, but his licence was taken and a challan was slapped on him. The AIMTC said cases have also been reported from Mizoram where four trucks carrying goods for BSNL were stopped at Baring Border and on Eastern & Western Peripheral highway and drivers were beaten and documents were taken. "The past few days have thrown up stark reality with cases of corruption, harassment and extortion by law enforcers and their agents in various parts of the country," AIMTC officials said adding "the police, control room numbers from MHA do not help on the ground". Stating that more than 20 crore people are directly and indirectly dependent on this sector, the AIMTC has demanded a rescue and relief package. "There is no revenue generation, no financial inflows as payments from parties are restrained and existing finance with the small operators as well as that of big operators is depleting fast. The small operators (more than 85 per cent of the lot) do not have enough resources to sustain their families and won’t be able to pay for the statutory and regulatory compliances even few months after the normalcy is restored," it said. The Road Transport and Highways Ministry earlier this month had said that it is serious to ensure faster resolution of complaints by drivers and transporters engaged in goods supply during the lockdown and has decided to depute highways ministry officials in the control rooms set up under the Home Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/still-facing-hassles-extortion-corruption-rampant-despite-mha-order-say-truckers-836428.html
11-05-2020||National||Aarogya Setu 'most secure' app on smartphones: Govt||Amid concerns over security and privacy issues over Aarogya Setu app, the government on Monday said it was designed to be the “most secure” mobile applications on any smartphones. “Of all the apps you use, Aarogya Setu has been designed to be the most secure,” Ajay Sawhney, Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, and Chairman of the Empowered Group 9, told reporters here. His comments come in the wake of a French cybersecurity expert raising concerns over security and privacy of user data on the Aarogya Setu app. Sawhney said Aarogya Setu app uses location data of only those persons who have tested positive for COVID-19 and their data is deleted from the servers 60 days after they have recovered. As on Monday, the app has been downloaded by 9.8 crore users of which only 13,000 were tested positive through the app. “Only the data of those testing positive is on the App servers. The data of everyone else is safe on their phones itself,” Sawhney said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had alleged that the Aarogya Setu app was a “sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a private operator, with no institutional oversight”. “There is no possibility of surveillance or misuse of the app,” Sawhney said. He said that from the data of the 13,000 coronavirus-positive users, the government has managed to trace 1.37 lakh persons who came in touch with them. He also said the government has been able to identify 697 potential hotspots with the help of the app. Sawhney said the app identifies every user through a unique randomised anonymous device id assigned to him during sign up. “All communications between two devices and between device and server are done using device ID. No personal information used for any communication,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aarogya-setu-most-secure-app-on-smartphones-govt-836429.html
11-05-2020||National||Need to look for new opportunities to galvanise tech sector growth: Harsh Vardhan to scientists||With the economy reeling under the coronavirus crisis, Science and Technology Minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday exhorted scientists to prepare for a stronger recovery through self-reliance and look for new opportunities to galvanise in the technology sector. He was addressing a digital conference on the National Technology Day which marks the 1998 Pokhran nuclear tests. "We need to mitigate the widespread economic impact and prepare for a stronger recovery using self-reliance as the new mantra. Thus, we look towards new opportunities to galvanize growth in the technological and industrial sector," Vardhan said. Principal Scientific Advisor to the government K Vijay Raghavan pointed out how technology can "change the way we live our lives and the way we do things in future, particularly when the coronavirus crisis blows over. This is an opportunity to gear up for the future. A better-equipped research and development workforce and ecosystem will prepare India better for future challenges, he said. Applauding the Ministry of Science and Technology's response to COVID-19 in the country, Vardhan emphasised that it reflects the collaborative spirit of the entire science and technology ecosystem. "The Indian government, academia, scientists, startups, entrepreneurs and industry have been working relentlessly to find solutions to combat this pandemic. "We must appreciate the efforts of our scientists, our entrepreneurs and our institutions working to find quick and deployable solutions for COVID-19. New discoveries, industry partnerships, and enhanced researches have thus, been rapidly developed and adopted," the minister said . Within a short period of time, the nation has been able to mobilise a number of researchers to develop new testing kits, protective equipment, respiratory devices, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-look-for-new-opportunities-to-galvanise-tech-sector-growth-harsh-vardhan-to-scientists-836430.html
11-05-2020||National||ICMR, NCDC to start serosurvey to monitor COVID-19 prevalence at district level||Two government research bodies at the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus are in the process of initiating a population-based serosurvey to monitor the trend in prevalence of the infection at the district level, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. The Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Centre for Disease Control will collaborate with key stakeholders for the survey at 10 health facilities (6 public and 4 private). A serosurvey involves testing of blood serum of a group of individuals to determine the presence of antibodies against that infection. The ministry said in a document uploaded on its website that there is a need to establish systematic surveillance for SARS-CoV-2 infection in all districts of the country. "This surveillance will be in addition to the routine testing as per current testing guidelines," it stated. The survey will include 200 samples a week and 800 samples per month, it said. It would test outpatient attendees (non-ILI patients) and pregnant women among the low-risk group, and health care workers among the high-risk population. At least 100 samples per week and 400 per month of healthcare workers from selected districts would be tested. The document stated that throat/nasal swabs will be collected for RT-PCR tests and samples would be tested in a one-time pool of 25.  "Results of this sample pooling is only for surveillance purposes. It should not be used for diagnosis of individual patients. In addition to throat/nasal swabs, blood samples should be collected for detecting IgG antibodies for ELISA testing. In subsequent rounds, IgG ELISA based testing of serum samples will replace RTPCR based testing for surveillance purpose," it said. Data on demographic characteristics will be collected on a specifically designed standard data collection form. The data will be analyzed locally for action using standard indicator formats. Indicators for person, place, time and trend analysis will be made. Data collation and dissemination will take place as decided jointly by ICMR and department of health and family welfare, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-ncdc-to-start-serosurvey-to-monitor-covid-19-prevalence-at-district-level-836432.html
11-05-2020||National||Potential for new breakthrough in trade, science in post-COVID-19: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Monday said there will be potential for new breakthrough in economy, trade, scientific research and several other diverse areas in after the coronavirus crisis ends. Addressing the Indo-Bangladesh virtual conference organised by ASSOCHAM, Singh said, in the last six years, the northeastern region has made up for several lapses of the past because for the first time, the region received equal attention on par with the other parts of the country.  New paradigms will emerge after the coronavirus pandemic is over with the potential for new breakthrough in economy, trade, scientific research and several other diverse areas, he said at the video conference. Among those who attended the conference were Bangladesh Commerce Minister Tipu Munshi, Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma and Indian High Commissioner to Bangladesh Riva Ganguli Das. Referring to the development initiatives taken in the northeast, the Union Minister for the Development of the North Eastern Region (DoNER) said such steps not only instilled confidence among the people but also raised the capacity to engage with other parts of India as well as countries across the eastern borders.  As for Bangladesh, Singh said, the Indo-Bangladesh treaty for exchange of enclaves, which was accomplished under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had cleared the decks for ease of business, ease of movement and ease of commuting, which was earlier a tedious task. The minister said this should have been done four-and-half decades ago, right at the time of birth of Bangladesh, but possibly it was not the priority of the earlier governments. Referring to the traditionally friendly relations between the two countries, Singh said it is far more easier to do business with Bangladesh than with many other countries. In addition, he said, the northeastern region has a critical role to play to boost trade and business between the two countries.   In the emerging scenario, the minister said bamboo from the Northeast is going to be an important vehicle of trade not only for India but also for the entire subcontinent, particularly countries like Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/potential-for-new-breakthrough-in-trade-science-in-post-covid-19-jitendra-singh-836437.html
11-05-2020||National||Andhra Pradesh sending styrene stock at Vizag's LG Chem unit to South Korea||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has ordered a drive to identify all hazardous industrial units, to safeguard the state from any potential disasters like the Vizag’s LG Chem mishap last week. While the styrene from the leaky LG Polymers tank is blocked, the remaining stock of styrene at the unit is being sent back to South Korea.  “Chief Minister has instructed officials to shift the styrene tanks to the city outskirts and conduct inspections in all such industries. A statewide drive would be initiated to identify such hazardous units,” a CMO release said, adding that 13,000 tonnes of styrene is being removed from Vizag. According to agriculture minister and in-charge for Visakhapatnam Kurasala Kannababu, the LG Chem unit would remain shut till a high-power committee set up by the CM submits its report. The committee headed by state’s special chief secretary (environment and forests) Neerabh Prasad has commenced its work and visited the mishap site on Sunday. Reddy’s government has on Monday issued cheques of Rs one crore each compensation to the kin of those who died inhaling the toxic styrene vapours leaked from the LG Chem plant near Visakhapatnam on Thursday. Compensation to the hospitalized and other affected would also be provided in the next few days, a ministerial group deployed in Vizag since the toxic incident said. The local population adjacent to the plant sheltered in function halls and such facilities for the last four nights is gradually returning to their houses from Monday.  The chemical unit’s surrounding villages have been sanitized by the Vizag civic body. CM Reddy who is reviewing the situation from Amaravati has directed the ministers Kurasala, Botsa Satyanarayana, Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, Dharmana Krishna Das to spend the Monday night, with one minister at every village, with the locals to provide reassurance. Though the styrene tank leak has stopped with the chemical inside solidifying, villagers around are terrified since the vapors took 12 lives only four days back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-sending-styrene-stock-at-vizags-lg-chem-unit-to-south-korea-836448.html
11-05-2020||National||SC allows use of archaeological monument near Jaipur for social functions||The Supreme Court Monday quashed the blanket ban imposed by the National Green Tribunal on organising social functions like marriages in a monument near Jaipur in Rajasthan and said it would monitor its beautification. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and S Ravindra Bhat allowed the monument --Sisodia Rani Ka Bagh -- built by Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh in 1728, to be used for multi­purpose activities from 8 am to 8 pm. The apex court, however, said it would not be appropriate to permit the use of the monument to hold various functions during the night. "The use of laser lights, loud music, and fireworks is ordered to be completely restrained. Musical and other fountains to be maintained and to be kept in working order," the bench said. It directed the that a consultant be appointed for further beautification of the area and requisite horticultural development and an additional project plan be prepared and placed on record. The apex court said that it would monitor beautification and further developmental work and sought the report of the Consultant and additional plan and development undertaken so far within one month from today. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by the Department of Archaeology and Museums, Jaipur against the 2014 order of National Green Tribunal, Central Zone, Bhopal which held that the monument is part of the forest area and directed that no permission should be granted to organise social functions like marriages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-use-of-archaeological-monument-near-jaipur-for-social-functions-836450.html
11-05-2020||National||COVID-10 death toll in Gujarat crosses 500-mark, Ahmedabad alone has 400 casualties||The death toll from coronavirus in Gujarat crossed 500 marks on Monday after it reported 20 more deaths in the past 24 hours. With this, the number of casualties reached 513  in the state of which 400 have died only in Ahmedabad city hospitals. With a mortality rate of over six per cent, the state continues to be the worst affected state in the country. The state also reported 347 new cases, taking the total cases to 8,542. To bring down the mortality rate, the Gujarat government is airlifting 7 tons of ayurvedic medicines with the help of central government for the patients and others to boost their immunity. Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi informed in her evening news briefing and also said that a record 235 patients were discharged from the hospital in the past 24 hours, taking the total number to 2780. Earlier, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria had visited Ahmedabad to guide the doctors on how to contain the mortality.  Meanwhile, with Ahmedabad alone reporting 267 fresh cases, the total number of cases in the city reached 6,089 out of which 400 have passed away during the treatment. According to the data of the health department, Ahmedabad had taken nearly 40 days to cross 3,000 cases while the figure doubled to 6,000 in the past 11 days. To contain the virus, the authorities on May 7 imposed curfew-like situation in the city with only milk and medicine stores opened till May 15. The officials on Monday announced the opening of home delivery for essential services from May 15 and have mandated cashless transaction. A release stated that "As an abundant caution to prevent corona spread through currency notes, it has been made mandatory/compulsory to accept the digital mode of payments through Unified Payment Interface (UPI) and other platforms. The new rules also state that "every delivery staff will compulsorily have to download Aroyga Setu App on their mobiles."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-10-death-toll-in-gujarat-crosses-500-mark-ahmedabad-alone-has-400-casualties-836452.html
11-05-2020||National||Navy ship Jalashwa berths, greets new arrival in young mother's family||The Southern Naval Command (SNC) of the Navy on Monday felicitated a Keralite who delivered a baby boy shortly after her getting off INS Jalashwa which brought 698 Indians back from Maldives where they were stranded due to COVID-19 pandemic. Navy officials said the SNC representative Lieutenant Commander Remya Savy greeted the parents of the young mother as well her relative, as the COVID-19 protocol prevented physical contact with the passengers. "Lt Cdr Remya conveyed greetings and best wishes to the extended family on behalf of the Flag Officer Commanding-in- Chief, SNC, on the new arrival into the family while expressing happiness over the Navy being instrumental in bringing Sonia Jacob to her motherland on 'Mothers Day' and into long cherished motherhood," a defence spokesman said here. The officer later also connected with Sonia and her spouse Shijo, both under institutional quarantine, via video call and congratulated them by wishing the baby health, happiness and long life, he said. The family members conveyed the gratitude and appreciation of Sonia to the Navy for the care and comfort accorded to her on board the ship. Sonia, working in a hospital in Maldives, delivered the baby at a private hospital. The woman hails from Eraviperoor village in Pathanamthitta district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navy-ship-jalashwa-berths-greets-new-arrival-in-young-mothers-family-836454.html
11-05-2020||National||Sero-survey across districts to study extent of COVID-19 spread||On a day that witnessed the highest ever spike in COVID-19 cases, the Health Ministry has decided to conduct a population-based sero-survey in select districts across the country to monitor the trend of the prevalence of infection. The Health Ministry announced plans to conduct district-level facility-based surveillance for COVID-19 in addition to the routine testing as per current guidelines. The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases jumped by 4,213 to reach 67,152 across the country, while the death toll rose by 97 to reach 2,206, the health ministry said on Monday morning. “Besides facility-based surveillance, ICMR/NCDC in collaboration with key stakeholders and state health departments is initiating a population-based sero-survey in selected districts representing case detection across the country,” the ministry said. A sero-survey involves testing of blood serum of a group of individuals to monitor trends in the prevalence of novel coronavirus or SARS-COV-2 infection at the district level.  A sero-survey help health authorities to assess the extent to which COVID-19 infections have spread throughout the country undetected. The surveillance unit will consist of 10 health facilities (including 6 public and 4 private) from each district. Among the low-risk population, outpatient attendees (non-ILI patients) and pregnant women will be tested while among the high-risk population healthcare workers will be surveyed. At least 100 samples per week and 400 per month from selected districts among the high- risk population, 50 samples per week and 200 per month of outpatient attendees (Non-ILI patients), as well as pregnant women will be collected. The survey will include a total of 200 samples per week and 800 samples per month for the purpose. Throat and nasal swabs will be collected for RT-PCR tests and samples tested in a one time pool of 25. However, the ministry said, results of this sample pooling are only for surveillance purposes. It should not be used for diagnosis of individual patients. “In addition to throat/nasal swabs, blood samples should be collected for detecting IgG antibodies for ELISA testing. In subsequent rounds, IgG ELISA-based testing of serum samples will replace RT-PCR based testing for surveillance purposes,” said the ministry.     The data will also be analyzed locally for action using standard indicator formats. Indicators for person, place, time and trend analysis will be made. The surveillance will be carried out jointly by the district and state health administration, Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, National Centre for Disease Control, Indian Council of Medical Research institutes, community medicine departments of medical colleges and public health institutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sero-survey-across-districts-to-study-extent-of-covid-19-spread-836461.html
11-05-2020||National||Pay GST dues, allow Jharkhand to levy tax on mining to meet COVID-19 challenge: Hemant Soren to PM||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Monday raised with Prime Minister Narendra Modi the issue of financial distress being faced by his state due to the COVID-19 pandemic, seeking payment of GST compensation dues and allowing of special power to impose a tax on mining. Soren also requested the prime minister to expedite the return of migrants to their native states, especially Jharkhand, in a safe and secure manner, in the wake of the recent Aurangabad train mishap in which 16 workers were killed, according to sources in the chief minister's office. He raised the state's concern during the fresh round of consultations between the prime minister and the CMs on ways to strengthen the COVID-19 containment strategy and stepping up of economic activities in a calibrated manner as the 54-day nationwide lockdown nears an end. In the wake of the reverse migration happening in Jharkhand, Soren called for a 50 per cent increase in the existing MGNREGA labour wages for the next one year, the sources said. He also stressed on the need to relax the current wage payment norms and ensure payment of MGNREGA workers on a daily basis, they said. Soren also called for at least 50 per cent increase in the approved labour budget or person days by the Ministry of Rural Development for the fiscal year 2020-2021. State governments are liable to pay unemployment allowance under MGNREGA. In the present context, the chief minister requested the prime minister to allow payment of unemployment allowances to MGNREGA workers from the Centre's share of the MGNREGA project.   In the wake of the depleting revenue and fiscal situation of the state government, the Jharkhand chief minister urged the central government to pay the GST compensation dues to the state at the earliest He called for allowing special powers to the state government to impose special tax on mining. Soren also called for providing a moratorium period of one year to the state government for the loan/debt repayment availed by it from the central government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pay-gst-dues-allow-jharkhand-to-levy-tax-on-mining-to-meet-covid-19-challenge-hemant-soren-to-pm-836462.html
11-05-2020||National||Army jawan killed in lightning strike in J-K's Poonch||One army jawan was killed when lightning struck a forward area in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Monday, officials said. The lightning struck Dobi-Sujiwan area in Mendhar border belt in which the jawan, Sepoy Mohmmad Iqbal, was critically injured, the officials said. He succumbed to injuries later, they said. One other person was injured in the strike, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-jawan-killed-in-lightning-strike-in-j-ks-poonch-836475.html
11-05-2020||National||Army commander reviews security situation, ops preparedness along International Border in J-K||The chief of Western Army Command, Lt Gen R P Singh, visited forwards areas along the International Border (IB) on Monday and reviewed the security situation and operational preparedness of borderline with Pakistan, a defence spokesman said. Lt Gen Singh visited forward areas of the Rising Star Corps in Kathua and Samba Districts to review the current security situation and operational readiness, the spokesman said. The Army commander was accompanied by Lt Gen Upendra Dwivedi, GOC, Rising Star Corps. The Army commander interacted with the commanders of the field formations and was briefed about the operational and logistics preparedness and up-gradation of security infrastructure, he said. The Army commander interacted with troops and lauded them for their high morale and motivation.  He appreciated the high state of preparedness of the Rising Star Corps to thwart any threat manifested by inimical and anti-national elements.  He also commended the efforts of the formations in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-commander-reviews-security-situation-ops-preparedness-along-international-border-in-j-k-836483.html
11-05-2020||National||Food ministry extends deadline for seeding Aadhaar with ration cards till Sept||The food ministry on Monday said the deadline for seeding of Aadhaar with ration cards has been extended till September and stressed that all beneficiaries will continue to get their quota of foodgrains even if they do not possess the biometric identifier. The ministry issued this clarification on reports that ration cards of those who do not provide Aadhar number will be cancelled. "The timeline given to all states/UTs, under the Aadhaar notification of the Department of Food and Public Distribution dated February 7, 2017 (as amended from time-to-time) to complete the seeding of Aadhaar numbers with all ration cards/beneficiaries, has been extended up to September 30, 2020 by the department," an official statement said. Until then, the ministry had issued clear instructions to all states and union territories (UTs) that no genuine beneficiary or household should be denied from entitled quota of food grains, it said. "Their names/ration cards should not be deleted/cancelled only on the ground of not possessing an Aadhaar number," the ministry said. Instructions have also been issued that grains under the food law should not be denied due to failure of Aadhaar authentication of beneficiary because of poor biometrics of the beneficiary, issues with network connectivity, linking or any other technical reasons. "During the current crisis situation, a pragmatic approach is needed so that no poor or deserving person or family is denied access to food grains...," the statement said. At present, nearly 90 per cent of all 23.5 crore ration cards are already seeded with Aadhaar numbers of ration cardholders (i.e. at least one member of family). Nearly 85 per cent of all 80 crore beneficiaries have seeded their Aadhaar number with their ration card. Further, all concerned states/UTs are making continuous efforts to complete the Aadhaar seeding of remaining ration cards under the food security law. The ministry has started the implementation of national/inter-state portability of ration card holders under "One Nation One Ration Card" plan as part of a central sector scheme on 'Integrated Management of Public Distribution System' to protect the interest of poor and migratory beneficiaries. "To achieve seamless inter-state portability transactions of a ration card, it is essential to have a centralised repository for maintaining unique ration cards/beneficiaries' data of all states and UTs covered under the NFSA," the statement said. Therefore, the ministry said that the seeding of Aadhaar numbers becomes critical in establishing a unique record of each eligible ration card holder and beneficiary in the country, so that his or her entitlement is protected. Under the NFSA, the Centre provides 5 kg of foodgrains per person per month to around 80 crore people at a highly subsidised price of Rs 2-3 per kg. To provide relief during the lockdown, the Centre is providing an additional 5 kg of foodgrains per month free of cost. This is for three months period till June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/food-ministry-extends-deadline-for-seeding-aadhaar-with-ration-cards-till-sept-836484.html
11-05-2020||National||India says WHO, other international institutions based on last century's model||Even as it did not join the United States to blame the World Health Organization (WHO) for the COVID-19 pandemic, India on Monday said that the agency, like other intergovernmental institutions, is based on last century’s model and “driven more to balance competing individual interests, rather than advance the collective interests of all human kind”.  New Delhi also stressed on an international conversation to enhance capabilities to respond to future threats to biosecurity.    “The current crisis demonstrates that in spite of this common understanding and coordination, major gaps exist,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said, adding: “Catastrophic biological events could possibly occur again. There is a need for an international conversation that will be focused on improving the capacities to respond to such future mega-disasters.” He made the remarks as he virtually addressed the teachers and students of the MIT World Peace University at Pune in Maharashtra on India’s perspective about the importance of multilateralism at the time of a global pandemic. “The whole range of global health structures, and actors – governments, non-state actors, international organisations, development finance institutions and foundations – need to be mobilised in the same spirit towards a 21st century international biosecurity dialogue,” said Shringla. “The current playbook of responding to pandemic and bio threats needs to be updated.” India last month had not joined the United States in launching a tirade against the WHO in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The US President Donald Trump had suspended funding to the agency accusing it of “severely mismanaging and covering up the spread” of the Covid-19 virus from China. New Delhi, however, had refrained from criticizing the WHO, maintaining that the “question” on the role of the agency could be revisited once the world would have had addressed the crisis. India joined Germany, France and 22 other nations in endorsing the WHO as the “backbone” of the efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic – signaling that it had no intention to rally behind the United States, which launched a tirade against the international agency. India also joined the four other nations of the BRICS – Brazil, Russia, China and South Africa – to support the WHO. Shringla on Monday quoted Prime Minister Narendra Modi calling for reforms in the WHO and other multilateral organisations during his participation in the G-20 virtual summit on the COVID-19 pandemic on March 26. “He (Modi) also pointed out the need to strengthen and reform intergovernmental organisations like WHO, which continue to be based on the last Century’s models and which are driven more to balance competing individual interests, rather than advance the collective interests of all human kind,” said the Foreign Secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-who-other-international-institutions-based-on-last-centurys-model-836488.html
11-05-2020||National||Editor of online news portal held for writing on 'change of guard' in Gujarat||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/editor-of-online-news-portal-held-for-writing-on-change-of-guard-in-gujarat-836491.html
11-05-2020||National||Indian Railways to book tickets from counters||The Ministry of Railways on Monday modified its order on ticket booking for AC special trains and said "barest minimum" reservation counters will be opened at railway stations.  These passengers reservation ticket counters will be at stations from where trains will originate or terminate or have stoppages en route.  Only those ticket holders who are sitting as well as former MPs, MLAs/MLCs, freedom fighters, Railway employees with free privilege pass or duty pass can book the tickets in these counters. However general quota tickets should be booked only through IRCTC website or its mobile app, a railway official said. Earlier railways said all passengers, who want to travel in special trains, have book ticket through IRCTC website or mobile app and no counter tickets allowed. In these trains, reservation quota of two berths in 3AC has been earmarked for Divyangjans (differently-abled) and two berths in 1AC, four berths in 2AC for sitting and former MPs.  To discourage non-essential travel, no concessional Unreserved Ticketing System (UTS) and Passenger Reservation System (PRS) tickets for all categories of passengers except students, four categories of Divyangjan (differently-abled) and 11 categories of patients shall be issued.  These concession applicable those ticket booked on or after May 20 onwards said a circular from the railways. There shall be no concessions for senior citizens, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-book-tickets-from-counters-836510.html
11-05-2020||National||Stuck in US, pregnant woman, hubby and 18-month- child move SC for evacuation from May 13 flight||Stuck in the USA for over three months, a Bengaluru resident, her husband and their 18-month-old daughter have approached the Supreme Court for allowing them to take an Air India flight from the USA on May 13 as any delay would imperil her health due to advanced stage of her pregnancy. Pooja Choudhary, her husband Vikas and daughter Vihana wanted the top court to ensure they can get back from the USA through the flight, scheduled to depart from San Francisco on May 13, 2020, or at the next earliest possible opportunity. "It is the duty of the State to ensure that the Petitioner who is pregnant and is stuck in USA in a vulnerable condition is brought back to India in time and is given proper treatment as it is not only the question of the petitioner’s life alone but also the unborn child," they said. In a joint plea made through advocate Sanjay M Nuli, the petitioners also sought a direction to the Union government to ensure access to proper medical facilities till she was repatriated to India as its absence would prove fatal to both her and the foetus. A bench of L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna would consider the matter on Tuesday, May 12.  The petitioners pointed out that a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court has on Friday directed the Union government to consider case of some doctors and nurses stranded in the UAE with advanced stage of pregnancy. On the grounds of parity and principle of equality as enshrined under Article 14 of the Constitution, they should be allowed with the relief.   The woman said she wanted to deliver her child in India and wanted to be evacuated from the USA and to return to their residence in Bengaluru, after being stranded over there following the business trip. She also said she has been suffering psychologically having regard to the fact that she is stranded in the USA with an expected delivery date of July 17 nears. If her evacuation was delayed, she would not be allowed to fly owing to her advanced stage of pregnancy, their plea stated. During their stay, the petitioners approached the authorities concerned including Embassy in the US for evacuation but their names were not included in the scheduled flight. The petitioners contended they were stranded in Dayton, Nevada in the USA where most hospitals have been converted for Covid-19 treatment and they were not having insurance and were not in a financial position to afford to get treatment in the private Hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stuck-in-us-pregnant-woman-hubby-and-18-month-child-move-sc-for-evacuation-from-may-13-flight-836516.html
11-05-2020||National Politics||DH Toon: Amit Shah refutes illness claims, says he is fine||Denying rumours that he was seriously ill, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said he remains in perfect health and does not suffer from any ailment. Shah's statement came after social media was abuzz with speculation over his health, with some even suggesting that he was suffering from cancer and could even lose his life, in the past few days citing his "absence" in public. The Aarogya Setu app and its privacy policy leave many questions unanswered – the first being, which government agencies manage the app, and have access to the data to begin with. The MoHFW is central to the COVID-19 response, and ostensibly should have access. However, the app is run by the NIC, and the orders mandating the app are issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, led by Amit Shah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-amit-shah-refutes-illness-claims-says-he-is-fine-836112.html
11-05-2020||National Politics||Make modest opening of road, air transport to start economic activity: Congress leader P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday urged the government to allow operation of road and air transport, saying it was the only way economic and commercial activities can effectively resume. He also welcomed the government's decision to start select inter-state train services. The government has decided to start train services from May 12 connecting Delhi to some select stations across the country, bookings for which will begin from Monday by the IRCTC. "We welcome the decision of the government to cautiously start operation of interstate passenger trains. The same modest opening should be started with road transport and air transport," the former finance minister said. The only way economic and commercial activity can effectively begin, is to open road, rail and air services for passengersand goods. "The only way economic and commercial activity can effectively begin, is to open road, rail and air services for passengers and goods," Chidambaram said on Twitter. The Congress has also demanded a relief package for the poor and an economic stimulus package to help the industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/make-modest-opening-of-road-air-transport-to-start-economic-activity-congress-leader-p-chidambaram-836197.html
11-05-2020||National Politics||COVID-19 fight can't be excuse to crush human rights, exploit workers: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi||Gandhi said there cannot be any compromise on the basic principles by allowing unsafe workplaces. "Many states are amending labour laws. We are together fighting against corona, but this cannot be an excuse to crush human rights, allow unsafe workplaces, exploit workers and suppress their voice," he said. "There cannot be any compromise on these basic principles," he added. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also said it would be dangerous and disastrous to loosen labour, land and environment laws in the name of economic revival and stimulus. "In the name of economic revival and stimulus, it will be dangerous and disastrous to loosen labour, land and environmental laws and regulations as the Modi govt is planning. "The first steps have already been taken. This is a quack remedy like demonetisation," Ramesh tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-fight-cant-be-excuse-to-crush-human-rights-exploit-workers-congress-leader-rahul-gandhi-836206.html
11-05-2020||National Politics||Shameful that BJP-ruled states amending labour laws to lure foreign investors: Congress||The Congress on Monday said it was shameful that BJP-ruled states were amending labour laws under the cover of a pandemic to lure foreign investors and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to not allow this. Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil appealed to the Central government to deny permission to states amending labour laws "to strip workers of their basic rights". He said labour laws have been suspended by the BJP governments of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat.  "This is yet another shocking but unsurprising blow to workers and labourers by BJP governments. "If the prime minister has little concern for workers and labourers, then he should himself tell these states to not go ahead with amending labour laws and not allow them in doing so. We would expect the prime minister to intervene today itself," he told reporters through video at a press conference. He said it was "shocking and heart-breaking" that at a time when the entire nation is dealing with an unprecedented pandemic, which has disproportionately ravaged and devastated the lives of the poor, the Modi government has taken this as an opportunity to deprive them of their rights. "This is shameful and once again highlights the true nature and priorities of this 'Suit-Boot ki Sarkar'," he said. Gohil said as these laws are in the Concurrent List, no such suspension can take place without the explicit approval of the Central government. "We, therefore, ask the Modi government to deny any permission that strip workers of their basic rights and have the potential of diminishing their livelihood. "We also ask that trade unions be consulted before such an adverse step is taken," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shameful-that-bjp-ruled-states-amending-labour-laws-to-lure-foreign-investors-congress-836291.html
11-05-2020||National Politics||Centre ignoring domestic migrant workers: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut on Monday targeted the Centre for not making sufficient transport facility for migrant labourers to return home in the coronavirus-enforced lockdown but arranging special flights to bring back Indians stranded abroad. He took potshots, through a cartoon, at the BJP-led government at the Centre over its 'Vande Bharat' mission and wondered if domestic migrant workers are paying the price for staying back in the country. The senior Sena leader in the evening tweeted the cartoon where migrant labourers walking on railway tracks look frustrated as they do not have state provided means to return home. A person in the cartoon looking at an aircraft bringing back stranded Indians from abroad says, "Our only fault was that we continued working here in our country." 'Vande Bharat' mission is written on the plane. The mega mission is aimed at evacuating stranded Indians from abroad. Shiv Sena head and chief minister of Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray has been demanding arrangement of adequate number of special trains for safe return of migrant labourers to their home states. Meanwhile, the Shiv Sena, in an editorial in its mouthpiece "Saamana' targeted the BJP over its candidates for the May 21 polls to the Legislative Council and said the opposition party does not have enough votes in the assembly to get its fourth candidate elected. The party chose a candidate like Gopichand Padalkar for MLC polls, who in the Lok Sabha elections had appealed to people to not vote for the BJP (Padalkar was not with BJP at that time). It has not given tickets to its key leaders like Vinod Tawde, Pankaja Munde and Eknath Khadse," it said. The editorial expressed surprise over the candidate filed by the Congress, a constituent of the ruling coalition. It was expected that an aggressive and well educated person like Sachin Sawant will get Congress nomination," it said. Sawant is Maharashtra Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson. The Congress has fielded Rajesh Rathod, a little known face.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-ignoring-domestic-migrant-workers-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-836442.html
11-05-2020||National Politics||Involve panchayats in battle against coronavirus, Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik urges PM Modi||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to involve panchayats in the fight against COVID-19, saying the battle is going to be long. Patnaik put forward the suggestion during a video conference Prime Minister Narendra Modi had with chief ministers of different states. Emphasising on the need for adopting a "decentralized mechanism" to strengthen the process of containing the spread of the coronavirus, the Odisha chief minister said a smaller area instead of an entire district should be classified as a red, orange or green zone on the basis of the severity of the disease. "A smaller and scientific unit can replace a district as a unit for zoning, and we should allow local administration to decide this area. As the fight is going to be long, it is important that we involve panchayats," he said. Advocating a greater role for local bodies in the battle against the coronavirus, the chief minister said the Union government may modify existing schemes to incentivise and actively involve Panchayati Raj institutions in COVID-19 management.  He also suggested that "broad principles" be evolved at the national level for enforcement of the lockdown and other regulations. To revive economic activities, the Centre may come up with a standard operating procedure (SOP), Patnaik said.  "As our production lines are interlinked and so are our value addition processes cutting across state boundaries, a national SOP should be the guideline for rebooting the economy," the chief minister said. On resumption of train services, he said their movement should be regulated in consultation with the states concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/involve-panchayats-in-battle-against-coronavirus-odisha-cm-naveen-patnaik-urges-pm-modi-836453.html
11-05-2020||National Politics||Chirag Paswan slams Bihar govt’s ‘delayed, less than adequate’ response to migrant crisis||In an embarrassment to the ruling NDA in Bihar, outside partner Lok Janshakti Party Monday slammed the state government’s "delayed" and "less than adequate" response to the hardships faced by stranded migrant workers and students. LJP chief Chirag Paswan, the son of party’s founding president and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, caused a flutter by making public a letter he wrote to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and following it up with an interview to a news channel. “Our party is supporting, but not a part of the government in Bihar,” junior Paswan told the channel. “We are not satisfied with the arrangements in place for facilitating the return of students from places like Kota and migrant workers spread across the country.” The LJP’s recent stands over several issues have led to much speculation in the political circles of Bihar where Assembly elections are due by the end of the year. In his capacity as a Union minister, Ram Vilas Paswan has been hitting out at the state government for its alleged failure to provide the Centre with details of more than one million people who were not getting ration benefits because they did not have ration cards. Chirag, the MP from Jamui, lamented that Chief Minister Kumar agreed to bring back students from Rajasthan’s Kota, where they had been stuck since the imposition of lockdown, allegedly after much delay and up on his relentless request. He also said that he believed the state government was making efforts to ensure that all students and migrant workers reach their homes, but, he added, these appeared to be “inadequate”. Chirag also reiterated points he raised in his letter to Kumar, which was shared on social media. He criticized the government for creating a “tedious” registration system for migrant workers who have to enter their details online, saying they may not have the requisite education to do it. He also said that thousands of young boys and girls from Bihar are still stuck at Kota, waiting for their turn to catch a train back home. Every year a large number of medical and engineering aspirants from Bihar go to Kota, the coaching hub in Rajasthan. The LJP chief, who has of late been using the prefix ‘yuva Bihari’ to his name on his official Twitter handle, was, however, full of praise for Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and said the senior BJP leader has assured him over phone that as many trains as possible will be run to whichever part of Bihar the state government indicates. Asked about his criticism of the state government, despite it being ruled by the NDA of which his party was a part, Chirag said, "We are supporting the government in the state. We are not part of it and, therefore, have no responsibility to share". His party is a part of the NDA government at the Centre. Notably, his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras was a minister in the state cabinet, but following his election to the Lok Sabha, the state government has no representation from the LJP. When asked why he was not choosing to come out openly in revolt against a government he was so critical of, Chirag cryptically replied "this is not the time to do so". There was no immediate response from the JD(U), headed by Nitish Kumar, to the criticism. The young LJP leader had left the party sore in March also when during the course of his Bihar First-Bihari First state-wide tour, which had to be curtailed following the coronavirus outbreak, he highlighted many “failures” of the CM in his 15-year rule. The BJP, which apart from ruling the Centre is a junior partner in the state government, has been maintaining a telling silence over the minor constituent’s frequent run-ins with the Chief Minister’s party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chirag-paswan-slams-bihar-govt-s-delayed-less-than-adequate-response-to-migrant-crisis-836476.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Samajwadi Party supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav admitted to hospital again||Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav was admitted to Medanta Hospital in the city on Sunday night after he complained of a stomach ache, according to multiple news reports.  This was just a day after he was discharged. This is the second time in the past five days that the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister had to be hospitalised. He was previously admitted to the hospital on Wednesday after he complained of stomach and urine-related problems, a party spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary had said. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister (80) had gone to the Medanta Hospital here Wednesday night for his routine checkup, but the doctors admitted him for monitoring his health over some stomach and urine-related issues, Chaudhary had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/samajwadi-party-supremo-mulayam-singh-yadav-admitted-to-hospital-again-836138.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Fresh COVID-19 case in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli, district's tally rises to 23||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli on Monday, pushing the district's tally to 23, a senior officer said. Shamli had become coronavirus-free and was declared an orange zone a week ago after all 18 patients in the district recovered. Later, fresh cases were reported in the district. A trader who used to go to Delhi everyday to buy vegetables tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, Shamli District Magistrate Jasjit Kaur said. There are five active cases in the district. All these patients are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Jhinjhana town, she told reporters here. Earlier, two vegetable market agents and three of their family members had tested positive for COVID-19 in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fresh-covid-19-case-in-uttar-pradeshs-shamli-districts-tally-rises-to-23-836159.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Requested IAF to allow resumption of work at Darbhanga airport: Puri||The Civil Aviation Ministry has requested the Indian Air Force (IAF) to allow resumption of construction work for the Darbhanga airport, Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Monday. The Darbhanga airport is being constructed as a civil enclave, which is part of an IAF air base allocated for civil aviation operations. "A request has been made to the IAF to allow the work to restart. Once we begin, all works should be over by October 2020," the civil aviation minister said on Twitter. Puri said, "Work on Darbhanga airport was (going on) in full swing till it had to be temporarily halted due to the lockdown necessitated by our fight against COVID-19." India has been under lockdown since March 25 to stem the spread of coronavirus, which has infected 67,152 people and killed 2,206 in the country so far. "An interim civil enclave is being developed by the AAI (Airport Authority of India) on land leased by IAF. This includes a terminal building with capacity to handle 150 passengers which is 95 per cent complete," Puri said. "Work to strengthen the present IAF apron for two aircraft of Airbus category is also 50 per cent complete," he noted. All commercial passenger flight operations have been suspended for the lockdown period. However, cargo flights, medical evacuation flights and special flights approved by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation have been allowed to operate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/requested-iaf-to-allow-resumption-of-work-at-darbhanga-airport-puri-836174.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||40 houses gutted in fire in Uttar Pradesh's Chitrakoot||At least 40 houses were gutted in a fire in Uttar Pradesh's Chitrakoot district, police said on Monday. The fire broke out on Sunday evening in the district's Surwal village, they said. Station House Officer (SHO) of Rajapur police station Gulab Chandra Tripathi said the fire broke out in a house around 7:30 pm on Sunday and quickly spread to others due to a dust storm. Fifty families live in the area, he said. The exact cause of the fire has not been ascertained yet, Tripathi said. Household items worth lakhs of rupees were burnt in the fire. Revenue officials are evaluating the loss, he said. Information about anyone injured in the fire or any casualty was not available. Village head Shabbir Khan alleged that fire tenders arrived after almost one-and-a-half hour of reporting the incident. By the time they reached the spot, virtually everything had been burnt, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/40-houses-gutted-in-fire-in-uttar-pradeshs-chitrakoot-836192.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court orders to set up high-powered panel to decide 4G internet services in Jammu and Kashmir||The Supreme Court on Monday directed for immediate setting up of a high-powered special panel headed by Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs and comprising other officers, including Chief Secretary of Jammu and Kashmir, to decide the issue of restoring 4G internet services over there. A bench of Justices N V Ramana R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai declined to pass any order itself for providing speed net services. The court, however, formed the special committee "to look into the prevailing circumstances and immediately determine the necessity of the continuation of the restrictions in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir".  The Union government has submitted that continuous infiltration, foreign influence, violent extremism and issues of national integrity are prevalent in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which are serious issues. At the same time, the court is also cognisant of the concerns relating to the ongoing pandemic and the hardships that may be faced by the citizens, the bench said. The court said that instead of passing a general order restricting internet across the Union Territory, the panel should take a district-wise decision on the access of internet as mandated in the Anuradha Bhasin judgement. The court said it has to ensure a balance between national security and human rights. Although the orders -- restricting internet -- indicated that they were passed for a limited period of time, the order did not provide any reasons to reflect that all the districts of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir required the imposition of such restrictions.  At the same time, we do recognise that the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir has been plagued with militancy, which is required to be taken into consideration, the bench said.  The court said the panel, also comprising Secretary of Ministry of Communications, would consider the plea by NGO 'Foundation for Media Professionals' and others, including schools and others for 4G Internet service in Jammu and Kashmir. It should consider the alternatives suggested by the petitioners, regarding limiting the restrictions to those areas where it is necessary and the allowing of faster internet (3G or 4G) on a trial basis over certain geographical areas and advise the government, the bench said. The court had on May 4 reserved its order in the matter. The Centre and the Union Territory administration have opposed the plea for 4G internet services, saying terrorists might use it to threaten the national security. During the hearing, the petitioners claimed the absence of 4G internet services affected students studies as schools were not able to hold video conferencing. Their counsel also claimed the citizens right to access medical help was seriously jeopardised. The UT administration, for its part, submitted a report after a complete lockdown imposed following the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution. The report included details of when the landline was first started, followed by 2G internet services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-orders-to-set-up-high-powered-panel-to-decide-4g-internet-services-in-jammu-and-kashmir-836196.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Palghar Lynching case: Supreme Court extends protection to Arnab Goswami; reserves order on plea for quashing fresh FIR||The Supreme Court on Monday extended protection granted to Republic TV's Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami on April 24 from any coercive actions. It reserved the order on his plea for quashing a fresh FIR lodged by Mumbai police against him on May 2. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah noted the contents of the FIRs previously lodged against him were verbatim, as senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Goswami, sought an independent probe by the CBI into the matter.  The court said it would pass its judgement this week and till then, the petitioner would remain protected against any coercive actions by the police. Salve submitted that the Maharashtra police were trying to stifle an unpleasant voice. The real purpose is to teach a journalist lessons by asking him very silly questions during the investigation in the case. During the questioning, they wanted details of the editorial process, editorial workings and decision-making process  He was repeatedly asked whose money was invested in the channel (Republic TV), the counsel pointed out. "The CEO of the company was questioned for over six hours. What does the CEO of a company get to do with a news telecast that purportedly caused communal problems?" Salve asked. "What are they trying to get at? Who owns the company?  Who is the real owner of the company? This is not a defamation case that you are seeking damages," Salve said. He submitted that there has to be a balance between freedom of speech and sanctity of the criminal investigation. This could have a chilling effect on the freedom of the press. He said the matter should be probed by the CBI. He also maintained there was a political problem between the state (Maharashtra) and the Centre and Goswami has been caught in a crossfire. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for the Centre submitted that 12 hours of questioning of a citizen in such type of case, was really disturbing. He said that there should be an independent probe into the matter. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal for the Maharashtra government said Goswami made allegations against the Congress party. This is purely communal violence, he asserted. He said Goswami should stop this communal violence and communal mongering. He was required to follow decency and morality and others, Sibal said. During the hearing, the bench at one point of time suggested the petitioner to approach the Bombay High Court, saying his plea for quashing the fresh FIR could be considered along with a petition for anticipatory bail. The court had on April 24 granted Goswami interim protection of three weeks in over 100 FIRs registered across the country. However, it had asked him to cooperate in one FIR initially registered in Nagpur and subsequently transferred to Mumbai. The cases were triggered after Goswami on April 21 questioned Congress president Sonia Gandhi's silence in the lynching of two Hindu seers and their driver in Palghar on April 16. However, on May 2, a fresh case was lodged against him with Pydhonie Police Station, Mumbai, based on a complaint filed by one Irfan Abubakar Shaikh with regard to a programme on "fake migrant crisis in Maharashtra in relation to gathering in Bandra". The Maharashtra government also approached the top court to restrain Goswami from "abusing" interim protection of three weeks granted to him on April 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/palghar-lynching-case-supreme-court-extends-protection-to-arnab-goswami-reserves-order-on-plea-for-quashing-fresh-fir-836207.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi records 310 fresh COVID-19 cases; tally now 7,233||The national capital recorded 310 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 7,233, the Delhi government said on Monday. According to the health bulletin, no fresh casualties were reported due to the deadly virus between May 9 and May 10 midnight and the toll stood at 73. Sixty patients have recovered during the duration. According to the bulletin, 97 patients are in ICU and 22 are on ventilator support. While the number of active cases stands at 5,031, 2,129 patients have recovered so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-310-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-now-7233-836208.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC declines to entertain PIL on protection, welfare of sex workers, LGBT members||The Delhi High Court Monday declined to entertain a PIL seeking direction to the Centre and the AAP government to take steps to protect and provide welfare measures such as food, accommodation and medicines, to sex workers and the LGBT community during the COVID-19 lockdown. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal dismissed the plea, by a lawyer, who had sought financial aid, food, shelter and medicines to sex workers and LGBT community members in Delhi to ensure their survival during the lockdown. A detailed order from the court giving reasons for dismissal is awaited. Advocate Anurag Chauhan, in his petition, had also asked for constituting a committee for rehabilitation of sex workers. The petition had also sought setting up of a separate helpline to counsel them and address their problems during the period of the pandemic. The petitioner said he had given a representation to the Delhi Chief Minister and the Lieutenant Governor on May 2, highlighting the grievances of the sex workers and the members of the LGBT community but no steps were taken, hence he moved the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-declines-to-entertain-pil-on-protection-welfare-of-sex-workers-lgbt-members-836216.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Internet suspension makes COVID-19 online dashboard defunct in Kashmir||Since May 5, no fresh updates have been made on the portal, which is available on the website of Department of Ecology, Environment and Remote Sensing. The dashboard has been showing outdated data due to the suspension of internet services.  “The team responsible for updating the portal did not have internet access. Since the employees are doing work from home, most of them do not have broadband facilities available,” an official, looking after the dashboard, said. He said that earlier when the internet was available, the portal was updated as per the daily media bulletin issued by the government on COVID-19. “The portal was proving to be quite informative for the general public with the COVID-19 related data presented in the form of charts, log tables, etc,” he said. The 2G internet suspension has also hit the door-to-door health audit being conducted by the government across Kashmir. Officials said the ground-level workers, who were conducting the survey using a mobile app “Swasthya Nidhi” to collect data, are unable to do so in absence of internet service. “The internet is also vital to fight COVID-19 as the government-run mobile apps for contact tracing such as ‘Aarogya Setu’ and ‘Talaash’ are defunct without internet,” officials said.  The 2G mobile internet services were suspended on Wednesday morning amidst COVID-19 lockdown restrictions, impeding the work-from-home (WFH) regimen of professionals and students attending online classes. Doctors, healthcare workers, researchers and students in Kashmir had already raised concerns about restricted information due to slow-speed internet. While they were demanding restoration of full-speed 4G internet so that people can be better informed and get critical information about the coronavirus pandemic, authorities even snapped 2G services for the last six days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-internet-suspension-makes-covid-19-online-dashboard-defunct-in-kashmir-836217.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||After Riyaz Naikoo's killing, Hizbul Mujahideen appoints Ghazi Haider as new chief||After the killing of Riyaz Naikoo, Hizbul Mujahideen has reportedly appointed 26-year-old Saifullah Mir aka Ghazi Haider as the new chief of the indigenous militant outfit in Jammu and Kashmir. Mir’s appointment to lead the Hizbul was announced by Saleem Hashmi, Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) based spokesperson of the outfit. Hashmi, also named Zafar-ul-Islam, has been appointed as deputy to Mir while another militant, Abu Tariq Bhai, was nominated as his chief military adviser. Mir, a 12th standard pass out, who hails from Malangpora in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district, was a close aide of Naikoo and was given the name Ghazi Haider. Naikoo, who had taken over as chief of the Hizbul in early 2017, was killed by security forces last Wednesday in his native village Bighpora in Pulwama. Naikoo was one of the longest surviving militants in Kashmir and was active since 2012. Mir, who also goes by ‘Doctor Saif’ code name because he treated injured militants, was recruited by Naikoo in 2014 and came on the radar of security agencies in 2017. According to police records, Mir was the so-called district commander of the Hizbul in Pulwama before being elevated as so-called chief after the death of his mentor Naikoo. Formed in 1989, the Hizbul is one of the largest and oldest militant groups operating in Kashmir. The outfit is led by Specially Designated Global Terrorist Mohammad Yusuf Shah, also known as Syed Salahuddin, who is based in the PoK.   A senior police officer told DH that after Naikoo’s death, Junaid Ashraf Sehrai (30), son of Ashraf Sehrai, a successor of hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani, is the only known face still active in Kashmir. “The Hizbul would have appointed him as the new chief, but as he would have come in the radar of security agencies, the outfit decided to appoint Ghazi Haider,” he said. “The other reason for appointing Ghazi Haider as chief is that he is familiar with Riyaz Naikoo’s network and activities to raise funds and recruit local boys into the militancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-riyaz-naikoos-killing-hizbul-mujahideen-appoints-ghazi-haider-as-new-chief-836220.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: High-altitude meadow back to life with movement of tribal nomads in JK's Bhaderwah||Amid the COVID-19 outbreak that delayed the bi-annual movement of tribal nomads this year, the high-altitude meadows in this picturesque valley of Jammu and Kashmir's Doda district came back to life with over 450 families of the Bakerwal community reaching here with their livestock. The tribal nomads, hailing from Kathua district and different areas of neighbouring Punjab, have crossed the 14,600 feet high snow-covered Chattar-Gala pass on foot to enter the Chenab Valley along with thousands of their sheep, goats and horses since last one week. The Jammu and Kashmir administration issued thousands of passes to nomadic tribes belonging to Gujjars and Bakerwals over the past fortnight to facilitate their bi-annual movement, which usually starts from March-April, but was delayed this year due to the COVID-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown. Traditionally, locals used to welcome these nomadic tribes, who have been visiting the numerous grasslands of the Chenab Valley since centuries. However, this year the locals seem to be a bit scared about their presence as they apprehend that some of them might be carriers of the deadly virus and can become an active source of spreading the disease in the district, which had so far remained coronavirus free. Addressing the apprehensions of the locals, the district administration has taken various measures, including setting up of several special health facilities for screening of all nomads who enter the twin districts of Doda and Kishtwar either by roads or by crossing the high-altitude passes bordering the Bhaderwah Valley. "Beside police and army, we have specially engaged the forest department who have been asked to maintain round-the-clock tight vigil at all the entrance routes in the forest area traditionally used by the nomads, including the snowbound Chattar-Galla pass, Kailash, Seoj and Padri Gali of Bhadarwah Forest Division," District Development Commissioner, Doda, Sagar Dattaray Doifode told PTI.  He said forest officials are also registering each and every nomad who enters into the district via high-altitude passes and sending them to designated hospitals for counselling, health checkup and necessary tests, only then they are issued certificates and permission to move further. According to official figures, every year thousands of nomadic families of Bakerwals and Gujjars, along with their herds of cattle, come to the high-altitude meadows of the Chenab Valley, especially the twin districts of Doda and Kishtwar, for summer months.  The herder families begin their journey to the alpine pastures for grazing during the summer, before returning to warmer districts of Jammu in October ahead of the winter. The nomads, however, maintained that they are fully aware of the danger of coronavirus and have been taking all precautions in accordance with the guidelines and advisories issued by the government from time-to-time.  "We are from Bathindi village of Kathua and have reached here on foot after crossing snowbound passes. Everyone of us is taking all the precautions as advised by the doctors at Kathua and forest officials here," 70-year-old Sharafat Din, who had reached Jaie meadow of Bhadarwah, said, showing the hospital stamp on his forearm.  "We are fully aware of COVID-19 danger as you can see all of us are wearing face covers and maintaining social distancing. We have been asked not to visit markets and populated areas so we are following all the instructions as we know it's for our safety as well," Shama Begum, 19, a Bakerwal girl, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-high-altitude-meadow-back-to-life-with-movement-of-tribal-nomads-in-jks-bhaderwah-836221.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: 4 discharged in Chhattisgarh, active cases now 6||The total number of people discharged has now reached 53, leaving the state with six active COVID-19 cases, they added. "Four male patients, two each from Kabirdham and Surajpur districts, were discharged after two consecutive tests came out negative for the infection. The four are migrant labourers who had returned to Chhattisgarh from other states. They have been advised to remain in quarantine for the next 14 days," an AIIMS public relations officer told PTI. Chhattisgarh COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 59; New cases nil; Deaths nil; Discharged53; Active cases 6; People tested so far 25,282||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-4-discharged-in-chhattisgarh-active-cases-now-6-836225.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Active COVID-19 cases in Delhi touch 5,000, tally crosses 7,000||In what could be stretching the health infrastructure, the number of active cases rose to 5,031, including 981 in home isolation. Incidentally, the number of COVID-19 positive cases in home isolation suddenly dipped from 1,428 to 981.  May alone accounts for more than half of the cases -- 3,718 or 51.44% of total cases -- reported in the capital. The capital recorded its first case on March 2 while it had crossed the 6,000-mark on May 8. On May 1, Delhi had reported 223 cases, which increased to 386 on May 2. The capital reported 427 cases on May 3, 349 cases on May 4, 206 on May 5, 428 on May 6, 448 on May 7, 338 on May 8, 224 or May 9 and 381 on May 10. So far, Delhi has conducted tests on 97,678, including testing of 3,868 fresh samples. No deaths were reported in the latest health bulletin with the toll remaining at 73 while 60 people were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,129. Amidst a mismatch between death toll in official health bulletin and those reported by hospitals, the Delhi government on Sunday issued fresh orders to hospitals to report deaths in hospitals in a timely manner. The order had said that both public and private hospitals "are not reporting the deaths of positive cases of COVID-19 occurring in their hospitals in a timely and regular" manner despite repeated reminders.  It said death summaries of deceased patients are not being provided to Death Audit Committee, "resulting in incorrect/delayed reports" being submitted. The order came after media highlighted that the death toll in bulletins and individual verification in hospitals showed a mismatch. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital authorities said they had reported 52 cases to the government while only 26 reflected in the bulletin, while Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan hospital reported 55 deaths while only five reflected in the official toll. The Delhi government, however, denied hiding of data. According to the new Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), hospitals will have to appoint a nodal for sending a daily report of deaths, including copies of death summary and medical files. Even if no death has happened, the nodal officer will have to submit a report on this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-active-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-touch-5000-tally-crosses-7000-836234.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Two narcotics smugglers arrested, heroin recovered by police in Jammu and Kashmir||Two alleged narcotic smugglers were arrested after heroin was recovered from them in Jammu city on Monday, an official said. A police team of Janipur was on patrolling duty at Upper Paloura when it came across a car parked on a road side, the official said. During search of the vehicle, 100 grams of heroin was recovered from the possession of the two persons sitting in it, who were identified as Abdul Majeed and Yasir Mohd, officials said. Police arrested both the accused, seized the narcotic and a registered case under relevant legal provisions, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-narcotics-smugglers-arrested-heroin-recovered-by-police-in-jammu-and-kashmir-836237.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||One lakh additional beds in UP's COVID-19 hospitals by May-end: UP CM Adityanath||In a bid to ensure effective control over the coronavirus disease, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said 25,000 additional beds will be arranged till May 20 in various dedicated COVID-19 hospitals of the state and the number will be increased to 1 lakh beds by the end of May. Chairing a meeting of senior UP government officials at his residence on Monday, Adityanath said, "For effective control over COVID-19 infection in the state, it is necessary to maintain special alertness and vigilance".  Directing that 25,000 additional beds should be arranged in COVID-19 hospitals in the state by May 20, Adityanath said, "It should be ensured that 1 lakh beds should be arranged in the COVID hospitals by end of May. It should also be ensured that the infection does not spread through mandis." The chief minister said the migrant workers should be treated with respect. "A ration kit will be provided to migrant labourers. The destitutes (niraashrit) will be given a ration kit and Rs 1,000 as maintenance allowance," he said. Adityanath directed that monitoring committees should be formed in all the village panchayats and urban local bodies, a statement issued by the UP Government said. He also said that while undertaking inter-district and inter-state transportation, it should be ensured that no person should travel in an illegal manner. The labourers should be motivated to go to industrial units which are functioning, the UP government's statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-lakh-additional-beds-in-ups-covid-19-hospitals-by-may-end-up-cm-adityanath-836257.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Teen gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh; 11-year-old eyewitness killed||Two youths allegedly gang-raped a teen and allegedly killed her 11-year old brother who had seen their act at a village in Uttar Pradesh's Etah district, about 300 kilometres from Lucknow. Police sources said that the two youths, residents of the same village, barged into the teen's house when she was alone and allegedly gang-raped her. The victim's younger brother returned suddenly and protested when he witnessed his sister being sexually assaulted, sources said. The youths allegedly strangled the minor with a towel.  The alleged culprits, who hailed from influential families, then allegedly forced the victim's parents to bury their son and warned them against approaching the police. The parents decided, however, to meet senior police officials in Etah on Sunday and a case was registered in this regard. Police said that the body of the minor would be exhumed and a postmortem examination would be conducted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teen-gang-raped-in-uttar-pradesh-11-year-old-eyewitness-killed-836258.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Desperate migrant workers turn violent at Uttar Pradesh borders||Desperate to return home, hundreds of hungry and exhausted migrant workers turned violent after being stopped by the police at Uttar Pradesh's borders with Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. According to the sources, UP and Rajasthan cops also clashed at the Bharatpur border over entry of thousands of migrant workers into UP on Sunday. Sources said that thousands of migrant workers from UP had assembled at Bharatpur border but were allegedly prevented from entering UP by the state police. Some migrants broke the barrier and forcibly entered UP, sources said. A few cops were also injured in the scuffle. According to another report, migrant workers indulged in heavy stone pelting on the police in Jhansi district, when the latter refused to permit their vehicle to enter the state from MP border. Four cops were injured in the stone pelting. Around five thousand migrant workers created a ruckus and blocked the national highway in Mahoba district in UP in protest against lack of food and drinking water at the quarantine centre set-up on the MP border.   The workers wanted to proceed towards their destinations in eastern UP region as there was allegedly no food or water at the quarantine centre but were not allowed by the police. According to the reports, migrant workers from different parts in the country continued to walk to their native villages in UP. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has appealed to the migrant workers not to set off on foot or by any other mode of transport as the state government would be making arrangements to bring them back home from wherever they are.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/desperate-migrant-workers-turn-violent-at-uttar-pradesh-borders-836260.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Recovered coronavirus patients in Jammu and Kashmir face social discrimination||At 45 per cent, Jammu and Kashmir has been effectively fighting coronavirus to register a high rate of recovery but patients declared COVID-19 free are now battling discrimination and in some cases ostracism from the society. Of the 861 positive cases of COVID-19 detected in Jammu and Kashmir, 383 have recovered which is among the highest, in terms of percentage, among states and union territories across the country. However, patients declared COVID-19 free by doctors are facing tough times while carrying out normal day-to-day activities. One of the recovered patients said he needed to see a dentist to address his toothache but the dentist refused to see him. “I have a toothache since the past few days. I do not know how to satisfy the dentist that I am not (COVID-19) infected anymore,” a patient, who was discharged from a hospital here, told the doctors who treated him at the COVID facility.  Another patient said he might need some documentary proof from health authorities which will certify that he is COVID-free now. “I bought a gas cylinder recently. As soon as the guy came to know that I was COVID positive earlier, he asked many stupid questions. He even asked if he can touch the currency notes that I gave him,” he said. Another recovered COVID patient said that officials of a private telecom company refused to install a broadband Internet connection at his residence.  “Every person to-date considers us as COVID-19 patient. I applied for Internet broadband connection but they are afraid of me,” said the patient, who also wanted that he be given a certificate of being “as normal as others” in the society. “I had applied for the Internet connection so that my kids can attend online classes which have become the new normal in the wake of the lockdown. My kids are asking many questions .... I don't have answers,” he said. Such incidents have left recovered COVID patients frustrated as they are unable to carry out routine activities. The plight of these patients has prompted Dr Naveed Nazir Shah, who is heading the COVID-19 hospital at Dalgate, to issue an appeal to the people not to discriminate against those who have recovered. “Unfortunate that the recovered COVID patients are being stigmatised by society and denied basic amenities. Please treat them as normal,” Shah said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recovered-coronavirus-patients-in-jammu-and-kashmir-face-social-discrimination-836266.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||High alert in Kashmir to thwart possible fidayeen attack||With intelligence agencies warning of a possible fidayeen (suicide) attack by militants on the 17th of Ramazan, high alert was sounded across Kashmir on Monday. Sources said the choice of May 11 for an attack coincides with the 17th day of Ramazan when the Battle of Badr was fought and won by Prophet Mohammad (pbuh) along with 300 odd companions against a huge army of Arb tribes in 7th century AD. In Islamic history, it is seen as a huge victory in the early days of Islam and a turning point. In the past also, militants in Kashmir have attacked security forces and installations in the valley on 17th day of Ramazan. “There are intelligence reports that Pakistan-backed terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed may carry out attacks targeting security forces on Monday. Security forces expect the terrorists to carry out the attack using a car bomb or a suicide bomber,” they said. A senior police officer said that there were input that militants may carry out a major attack to avenge the killing of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen chief, Riyaz Naikoo, who was killed last Wednesday. “The killing of Naikoo has demoralised the terrorists in the Valley and their Pakistani handlers want to carry out a major attack to boost their morale,” he said. “The threat of fidayeen attack can’t be taken lightly. It is well known that the cadres of Lashker-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad have been able to carry such attacks in Kashmir in the past. If the militants can’t strike on May 11, the threat still remains as they may wait for security agencies to lower the guard after that. So we have to remain on toes,” the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-alert-in-kashmir-to-thwart-possible-fidayeen-attack-836273.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus death rate in Rajasthan lower than national average: State health minister Raghu Sharma||The COVID-19 mortality rate in Rajasthan is 2.83 per cent compared to the national average of 3.3 per cent, the state’s health minister Raghu Sharma said on Monday. Stressing that the situation arising out of COVID-19 pandemic is under control, Sharma said the death rate will go down further due to the commencement of plasma therapy to treat serious coronavirus-infected patients in Jaipur and Jodhpur. He also said that the state's recovery rate for coronavirus patients is 58 per cent against the national average of 29.9 per cent. Similarly, the rate of infection in Rajasthan is 2.35 per cent while the national average is 3.92 per cent, he said.  Sharma said the doubling rate of infected patients in the country is 12 days but in Rajasthan, it is 18 days. He further said that it was necessary for migrant Rajasthanis coming from outside to stay in quarantine for 14 days. Their health checkup will be done and quarantine facilities have been set up in villages and cities across the state for them, he added.  Convalescent plasma therapy aims at transfusing plasma (component of blood) containing antibodies donated by a recovered COVID-19 patient to the serious coronavirus patients harbouring an active infection. The therapy has previously been used against viral illnesses such as rabies, hepatitis B, polio, measles, influenza and Ebola.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-death-rate-in-rajasthan-lower-than-national-average-state-health-minister-raghu-sharma-836318.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Mohali court grants anticipatory bail to ex-DGP Sumedh Saini||A Mohali court on Monday granted anticipatory bail to former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in a 29-year-old disappearance case. The case came up for hearing in the court of Additional District and Sessions judge Monika Goyal in Mohali. "The court has allowed anticipatory bail after hearing our contentions," said APS Deol, the counsel for Saini. Saini and six others had been booked in a case related to the disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani in 1991. Deol said they had contended that the FIR lodged against Saini, a distinguished officer, after 29 years was not maintainable. Registration of FIR after 29 years showed malafide on the part of the complainant, Deol said. He said the Supreme Court in 2011 had already quashed the FIR registered by the CBI in this matter. Moreover, two prosecutions against one person are barred, the counsel contended. Nothing was done by the complainant even after the Supreme Court verdict in 2011, Deol further argued. Former Punjab Director General of Police Sumedh Saini along with six others were booked under sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. They were booked in connection with the disappearance of Multani, who was a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation. The case was registered at the Mataur police station in Mohali after Multani's brother Palwinder Singh Multani lodged a complaint. Balwant Multani, who was a resident of Mohali, was picked up by police after a bomb attack on Saini, who was then the senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh, in 1991. Multani was the son of retired IAS officer Darshan Singh Multani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mohali-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-836348.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Migrant workers hit streets in Rajasthan demanding ration and arrangement to get back home||Hundreds of migrant workers living on rent in Nahri ka Naka area in the city came out on roads, demanding ration and arrangements to send them back to their home states on Monday, an official said. Police had to use mild force to disperse the mob. Nearly 7,000 labourers from different states, mostly from Bihar and West Bengal live in rented accommodations in Shashtri Nagar, Nahri ka Naka and nearby areas, police said. Several of them came out on streets and assembled to press for their demands, they said.  “They were complaining that there was no regular supply of ration. They also want to go back to their home states. When they assembled on streets, they were pushed back and pacified,” police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-workers-hit-streets-in-rajasthan-demanding-ration-and-arrangement-to-get-back-home-836369.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Barring containment zones, economic activities should resume in Delhi: Arvind Kejriwal at PM-CMs meet||Barring containment zones, economic activities should be allowed to resume in the national capital, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said during a video conference chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with CMs of different states on Monday. The fresh round of consultation was held on ways to strengthen the COVID-19 containment strategy and stepping up of economic activities in a calibrated manner as the 54-day nationwide lockdown nears an end. "During the interaction, the chief minister said economic activities should be allowed to resume in Delhi, except in COVID-19 containment zones," a source told PTI. The government has already demanded from the Centre that all 11 districts of Delhi be not treated as 'red zones' so that more economic activities are allowed in the national capital, sources said. They said that the government wants that in Delhi 'red zones' be identified as per municipal wards instead of districts.  Recently, the Union Health Ministry classified the entire national capital, which has 11 districts, as red zone. The city has 272 wards. During the video conference PM Modi told chief ministers that India will have to devise and implement a "balanced strategy" to deal with the coronavirus pandemic, and the biggest challenge for the country will be to ensure that the infection does not spread to villages. Appreciating the role played by the states in the fight against the pandemic, Modi said the entire world is of the view that India has been able to successfully protect itself from the pandemic, according to official sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/barring-containment-zones-economic-activities-should-resume-in-delhi-arvind-kejriwal-at-pm-cms-meet-836403.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Punjab CM favours coronavirus lockdown extension, seeks fiscal support to states||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday pitched for the extension of the coronavirus lockdown, but with a carefully crafted exit strategy providing fiscal support to states. In a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Punjab CM said in view of ‘escalating’ virus cases, continuation of the lockdown was needed.  He said states should be given greater flexibility in micro-planning. The decision on designating red, orange/yellow and green zones should be left to the states, which are more cognizant of the ground realities, he said. The exit strategy should consider and focus on fiscal and economic empowerment of the states, which are responsible for real action directly impinging upon the livelihood and social health of the common man, said the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-favours-coronavirus-lockdown-extension-seeks-fiscal-support-to-states-836421.html
11-05-2020||North and Central||Home Guard jawan from Kanpur volunteers for human trial of coronavirus vaccine||A 35-year-old Home Guard jawan in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur district has offered himself for human trial of COVID-19 vaccine. "I saw on TV how researchers are testing vaccines on animals because no human is willing to come forward and it was then that I decided to volunteer for the cause as there can be no greater service towards this country and humanity," Gupta said. Everyday millions of people in the world are getting infected by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has claimed thousands of lives, he said. "In this hour of crisis, if the country’s scientists need specimens for human trial to develop a vaccine against coronavirus, I am ready to give my body for this experiment,” said Gupta who has two sons aged 5 and 10. “I would be grateful if the concerned authorities use my body to develop the vaccine… Even if I lose my life in this testing, it won't matter," he added.  “I am ready to sacrifice my life so that the lives of crores of people around the world can be saved,” he said further. The home guards are a volunteer paramilitary force functioning as an auxiliary to the state police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/home-guard-jawan-from-kanpur-volunteers-for-human-trial-of-coronavirus-vaccine-836486.html
11-05-2020||Oasis||My cup runneth over||A cup of tea they say, makes everything better. Here is something I realized recently--and like every good facet of life--it was interlaced with tea.  In the pre-Covid-19 times, I would wait for my husband to come back home from work so that we could have a cup of tea together. Since both of us had hectic work schedules, we would look forward to unwinding with a strong cup of tea. Tea offered both possibilities; either we could lose the tedious part of our day in its warmth or we would find the important aspects of our life as it mellowed our hearts and minds. Needless to say, the cup of tea and the togetherness it offered was precious to us. However, it also posed a problem-- since on most days I was home earlier than my husband, I would get impatient if he was delayed. I would call him often, wondering why he was late. Like most ritualistic notions, time was of essence as the routine of drinking tea would lose its significance if we could not have it on time. Most days there would be no issues, but there was also a significant number of days where this precious moment was lost to the demands of time and our hectic lives.  Now that coronavirus has impinged upon our lives, along with all the discontent, we must also be mindful of all the subtle and not so subtle lessons it is imparting to us. WhatI almost failed to notice was the fact that now, my husband and I are both able to have our tea on time and contemplate on the mysteries of life without having to worry about delay or the subsequent resentment. It is only when the earth’s vibrations reduced a little, when time offered us a moment to step back, when we unheeded the race and instead thought about where we were going, we found gems in the lees of our cup. Time had bequeathed us with these gift of togetherness, peace and love; yet we fail to notice that some of our wishes have been granted.  Gratitude for both big and small things can turn what we have into enough--especially a cup of tea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/my-cup-runneth-over-836447.html
11-05-2020||Opinion||COVID-19: A reality check||It is hard to eradicate infectious diseases. It took decades of vaccination to eradicate smallpox. Polio vaccines have also been available for decades, but polio is still endemic in some countries. No fewer than five influenza pandemics have shaken the world in the last 150 years and influenza is still with us, even though an influenza vaccine has also been available for decades. What is necessary for a pandemic to die down? Perhaps the best answer is that herd immunity must develop. Developing herd immunity  What is herd immunity? It is when a large percentage of the population has been exposed to the disease and has become immune to it. So, if somebody who is not immune gets the disease, the disease can’t go around much because people who are contacts of the infected person are already immune. Usually, about 70 percent of the population needs to be immune before herd immunity becomes a meaningful protection against the spread of the disease. How does herd immunity develop? Before vaccines became available, this would happen by the spread of the virus through the population. A large number of people would be infected, many would die, but most would survive and become immune to the illness. After vaccines became available, herd immunity developed through universal immunisation, or at least through mass immunisation programs if the entire population could not be immunised. In this context, it must be remembered that even in developed countries about five percent of people, called anti-vaxxers, refuse to have their children vaccinated. This is why, for example, outbreaks of measles continue to be reported in North America and Europe. Vaccination is a desirable method for the development of herd immunity. However, there is no COVID-19 vaccine presently available.  If the COVID-19 pandemic has to end, it will end only when herd immunity develops, and that will happen either after at least 70 percent of the population has been exposed, because the virus has run through the population, or after universal immunisation has been achieved with an effective vaccine against the disease. Vaccine will take time There are about 115 vaccines presently under development of which at least six have reached the stage of testing in humans. It usually takes 5-10 years for vaccine development. Even if a COVID-19 vaccine is developed at the fastest possible pace, safety speed breakers will line the way. After all, it would not do for billions of humans to be vaccinated only to find that the vaccine has unintended consequences in a small percentage of persons. A small percentage of billions of humans translates into a very large number of humans. The latest estimate is that it could take at least 18 months for a COVID-19 vaccine to reach us. That’s a long time to wait for vaccine-associated herd immunity. So we must learn to live with the idea that COVID-19 will be with us for a long time ahead. Learning to live with COVID-19 must involve solutions that reduce COVID-19 deaths without disproportionately increasing morbidity and mortality from other causes.  Adding COVID-19 to list of existing diseases Lockdown is good to the extent that it slows the spread of the virus and buys time until a treatment is discovered, or until a vaccine becomes available. Unfortunately, discovering a treatment or making a vaccine for a new disease is not something that is easily done; HIV/AIDS, SARS, MERS, and Ebola are viral diseases that are excellent examples of this. And as already stated, the vaccine is still far away. Lockdown is bad to the extent that it denies patients with other diseases the opportunity to obtain treatment for those diseases, and so people will suffer and die from it. Lockdown is particularly problematic where it harms the economy, thereby compromising the funds available for healthcare. Even before lockdown, a Global Burden of Diseases study found that, in India, nearly 2,000 children aged 0-5 years were dying of malnutrition each day. In a lockdown-affected economy, the number of malnutrition deaths would be far higher. These 2,000 deaths daily are only for malnutrition and only for children in a narrow age band. What about other communicable and non-communicable diseases, and persons in other age bands, most especially the elderly who already have a heavy burden of diseases accumulated during their lifetime? If the lockdown is lifted, people will die as COVID-19 spreads. If the lockdown is extended, people will die of other causes. This is the harsh new reality. We must add COVID-19 to the list of cardiovascular diseases, cancers, malnutrition, and other conditions that are currently leading causes of death.  There is a slender hope. COVID-19 does not seem to be devastating India, as it has devastated Europe and North America. One hopes that this trend holds true as lockdown is lifted. (Dr Chittaranjan Andrade is Dean, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-a-reality-check-836186.html
11-05-2020||Panorama||The jobs challenge got worse post-COVID-19||Thus, annually the challenge of the job is to create 15 million jobs or livelihoods every year. This number needs to be reduced due to an embarrassing fact. That relates to female labour force participation rate, which has been falling and is at an abysmal low of 20%. Which means, only one in five women of working age are in a paid job or seeking work. So, if you net that out (although we must strive to increase women’s participation in the workforce), then the challenge of the annual job is reduced to around seven million jobs (assuming not all 100% of males are seeking jobs). Since 2004-5 in the past 16 years, despite a low female participation, India should have generated 112 million jobs. But the actual record is lower. And the quality of jobs thus generated is quite low, which is an entirely different matter. The increase in organised sector employment has not even grown at 0.5% per year. Based on data from the Employee Provident Fund Organisation and the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation, the Prime Minister had said last year, that the country had created 12 million jobs in the previous year. This is certainly an overestimate, and there was much debate about the data discrepancy, overlap, duplication and fictitious entries.  The fact is that a large proportion of India’s labour force, especially the youth in the age bracket of 16 to 24, are Not (N) in Employment (E), in Education (E), or Training (T). These are called the NEET cohort. So, what are they doing? This is a global problem of youth unemployment. The World Bank had estimated that the NEET cohort for youth globally is two billion. Most of them are in South Asia. Now, jump to COVID-19 data. During normal times, the US adds roughly 0.8 million new jobs every month. This is a gross number since some jobs are also lost, and have to be netted out. Due to the pandemic, in the month of April, the US lost 21 million jobs! Hence, the unemployment rate has shot up to 15%, the worst since WW II. In the same month, as per the estimate of the CMIE, India lost 122 million jobs, and the unemployment rate shot up to 27%. It is higher than 30% in urban India. Just the plight of the migrant workers, and images of them trudging on highways and railway tracks offer some confirmation of this. Many jobs in hospitality, restaurants and airlines are lost forever. Even some of the frontline jobs in retail, malls and cinemas will be lost. As international firms move out of China, many are going back to America and developed countries, and are not moving to India or Vietnam. This is because of the trend in automation and also due to American tax incentives. Even erstwhile labour intensive jobs such as making garments or shoes are not immune to automation. A World Bank report from 2016 had predicted that 69% of India’s manufacturing jobs are vulnerable to the threat of automation. The demand for jobs like driving Uber and Ola cabs may be adversely affected by post-COVID-19 cautious behaviour. As the work-from-home trend intensifies, even the demand for new commercial real estate construction might be badly affected. Which means construction jobs, a strong driver ofemployment growth have a cloudy outlook. Addressing this jobs challenge will need a Herculean effort. Innovative approaches such as introducing an urban counterpart to the rural employment guarantee (NREGA), allowing flexible contracts exempt from harsh labour laws, or enhancing credit of working capital loans to the self-employed and SMEs are some measures. In the medium term, large-scale job creation (and destruction) needs a much more flexible and frictionless labour market, for which a strong social safety net is a must. What if you lose your job, but not health insurance? What if you lose your monthly income but get paid unemployment insurance? What if your livelihood collapses, but there is a social security safety net. Does all this sound utopian? This indeed is the state of labour markets in most developed countries. The benefits to the unemployed are funded bya social security tax paid by all employers and employees. With safety nets in place in those countries, the labour laws themselves are less burdensome on the employers. So effectively there is protection for the worker, not the job. In a hire-and-fire framework, people lose jobs but not some basic protection. A worker may be jobless for as long as six or even nine months but is covered by some social protection. It is not seen as an incentive to be “lazy” and just depend on unemployment dole for temporary survival. The lax labour laws also do not mean that there aren’t laws for workplace safety and hygiene, or against sexual and other harassment, and in some cases, also for assurance of bargaining power for unions. As many states experiment with dismantling so-called draconian labour laws, it is worth pointing out that less regulation has to be accompanied by greater social protection. Without the latter, workers are left more vulnerable. In any case in India, since 90% of the labour force is in the informal sector, not covered by any employment contract, nor any health or retirement benefits, the relaxation of labour laws at the state-level will not really affect them directly. They might benefit indirectly to the extent the less regulation leads to increase in overall hiring and employment. That remains to be seen. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-jobs-challenge-got-worse-post-covid-19-836446.html
11-05-2020||Right in the Middle||The jumping queen||We had never had a dog but the theft of our newly bought car’s stereo more than a decade back galvanised us to have one. She was a cute little brown pup with light golden stripes-– a female, of the Great Dane breed who arrived on the palm of my brother. We named her Brandy.  I still remember when we took her out for walks, some questioned if she was really a dog. Though she was always friendly, her appearance frightened every soul. I saw people change their paths after they saw her. We soon hired a trainer for her. Albeit, we had brought him aboard for some basics, he went a step ahead, telling us to also train her for dog shows. We conceded within an eye’s blink we saw him teaching her jumps over many barricades on our terrace. Initially, the training seemed arduous to her as she evinced no interest, declaring her a duffer, and adding he had never seen an adamant beast like her. But for the handsome salary he pocketed every week, he went on and his efforts finally bore fruit. She jumped the way he wanted and we admired watching her like cheerleaders in a cricket stadium.  She was soon a star in all the dog shows, always returning home with medals. Honestly, she was now jumping so much that whenever we left her on the terrace, she would start jumping on her own. Her passion was such that she started jumping to several near and far off terraces of other homes and we were inundated with complaints. Once she tore clothes that were drying on the washing line on a neighbour's terrace, and another time she scared children playing. Interestingly, post her roaming she returned on her own but her complaints worried us and we suspended her further training and didn't let her go on the terrace anymore. This gave her a hard time and she went on scratching the terrace door. Sometimes we laughed and sometimes got irked for the training we organised for her and we finally realised that she was more suited for the farm and not meant for a small urban home. We gave Brandy to one of our relatives who lived at a village farmhouse. The jumping queen is no more but her memories continue to live with us who made a unique history of jumping terraces!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-jumping-queen-836445.html
11-05-2020||Second Edit||And Donald Trump promises Americans the Moon||The recent issuance of an executive order by US President Donald Trump authorising private, commercial uses of the Moon, Mars, meteors and other space bodies is a violation of the accepted idea that outer space and the objects in it are global commons. The order has viewed all space bodies as “off-earth resources’’ which are to be used and exploited. The Trump administration will look at the possibility of "large-scale economic development of space", including private lunar landers staking out de facto 'property rights' for Americans on the moon. US companies and individuals will be granted these rights, which they can use for developing the land or for other purposes. The moon and other heavenly bodies will now be pieces of real estate and mining grants, and a President who was a properly developer would not find anything wrong in it.   This militates against the idea that space, including planetary systems, the oceans, the atmosphere and even certain areas of science like genetic knowledge are global commons. The accepted view is that they belong to everyone and should benefit mankind collectively. There have been attempts to create a legal framework for this, though the laws need to be developed further. The Outer Space Treaty of 1967, signed by over 100 countries, laid down that space exploration should be for the benefit of humanity. The 1979 Moon Agreement specifically declared that the surface, sub-surface and resources of the moon shall not be treated as private property. The US, like other space powers, has not signed the treaty. India has signed it but has not ratified it. It has been observed that the treaty is very inadequate though it was formulated under the auspices of the UN and tried to create an international framework of laws to guide the use of outer space resources.  President Trump’s order clearly says that "the United States does not view outer space as a global commons" and describes the Moon Agreement as a "failed attempt at constraining free enterprise’’. The order was signed when the world and the US are busy fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. It can lead to competition among space powers to establish their own proprietary regions or sovereign patches on the Moon or Mars or other space bodies. That can also lead to a free-for-all with even private companies setting themselves up in space and claiming ownership of resources. A new colonialism may be emerging, with unknown consequences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/and-donald-trump-promises-americans-the-moon-836440.html
11-05-2020||South||14-year-old girl set ablaze by duo in Tamil Nadu dies; 2 AIADMK men held||In a horrific incident, a 14-year-old girl died after she was set on fire allegedly by two local functionaries of the ruling AIADMK in Villupuram district in Tamil Nadu. The incident took place on Sunday and the girl was admitted to the Government Villupuram Medical College and Hospital (GVMCH) where she died on Monday. Based on a declaration by the girl to Villupuram Judicial Magistrate-I K Arun Kumar, the district police has arrested G Murugan (52) and K Kaliyaperumal (60) -- both AIADMK functionaries. The girl, who gave the declaration on Sunday, had said the duo tied her mouth with a cloth and set her on fire. “We are probing all angles. The incident took place on Sunday and we have taken into custody both men who were named by the girl. The investigation is on and the duo have had the previous enmity with the father of the deceased,” Villupuram District Superintendent of Police (SP) S Jayakumar told DH. However, the duo’s “previous enmity” with the minor girl’s family is said to be the reason behind the crime. Murugan, husband of a former councillor, and Jayapal, the minor girl’s father, are understood to have had “personal enmity” for the past few years and have indulged in regular altercations. As the incident led to a political uproar with DMK president M K Stalin demanding strict action against the ruling party functionaries, the AIADMK expelled the duo from the party. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami promised strict against those responsible and announced Rs 5 lakh solatium to the family of the girl. Police said the incident took place on Sunday when the minor girl was alone at their home in Sirumadurai village near Thiruvennainallur in the district. Her father Jayapal owns a shop outside their house. “Her father Jayapal and mother were not at home when the incident took place. The duo entered the house and set her ablaze after an argument. When neighbours saw smoke coming out of the house, they went inside and were shocked to see the sight. The girl was shifted to the government hospital immediately,” another police official said. He added that the duo was arrested for attacking Jayapal’s uncle eight years ago and was out on bail. The girl’s father admitted that his family has had “previous enmity” with Murugan and his daughter was alone as he had gone to police station regarding an altercation that took place at his shop on Saturday night. GVMCH dean Prof. Dr. R Kundavi Devi told DH that the minor girl breathed her last at around 10 am on Monday. “The girl was admitted with nearly 90 percent burn injuries and she could not be saved despite treatment. She died on Monday,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/14-year-old-girl-set-ablaze-by-duo-in-tamil-nadu-dies-2-aiadmk-men-held-836190.html
11-05-2020||South||Agriculture experts advise Telangana to implement govt regulated farming||Agriculture experts and officials have suggested to the Telangana government that there should be a regulated policy in the state by which farmers should cultivate crops as suggested by the government and they should follow the administration's directions on the cropping pattern. At a review meeting here on Sunday, chaired by Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao,they advised the government that those farmers who have not cultivated the crops as suggested by the government should not be given the 'Rythu Bandhu' (an agriculture investment support scheme) benefits and they also should not be paid the Minimum Support Price for their produce, an official release said. Rao held a review on crop cultivation pattern in the state, identification of alternative crops, to make farmers go in for a regulatory cultivation, ensuring the Minimum Support Price for the agriculture produce and other related issues. The experts from the agriculture sector said instead of farmers cultivating the crops as per their wishes, the farmers should invariably go in for the crops as suggested by the agriculture scientists, officials and experts and a policy in this regard should be enacted, the release said. The agriculture experts, who gave several suggestions to the government on measures to be taken to make agriculture profitable in Telangana state, also made it clear that crops should be cultivated in the State, based on the food habits of the people and those having high demand in the markets. The government should decide on which crop the farmer should cultivate and it is important that the entire cultivation is done based on this policy, they made it clear. To cultivate in this pattern, there should be government regulation and that awareness should come among farmers on this matter, they said. Also, to make farmers get used to the new cultivation policy, the government should act with some stringent measures, they proposed. Rao said he will directly meet the field level agriculture officers on the comprehensive agriculture policy to be implemented in the state. The chief minister noted that farmers should go in for diversification of crops instead of cultivating a same crop and incurr losses, the release added. On Saturday, Rao had instructed the officials to prepare a comprehensive agriculture policy for the state with an aim to make the agriculture sector profitable. Rao said he would be talking to farmers through clusters, farmers groups such as Rythu Bandhu Samithis and agriculture officers through a video conference very soon.PTI VVK SS PTI PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/agriculture-experts-advise-telangana-to-implement-govt-regulated-farming-836200.html
11-05-2020||South||COVID-19: Despite Rs 400 crore loss, TTD confident of paying full salaries for three months||A Rs 400 crore revenue loss notwithstanding, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) which governs the country's 'richest' shrine, Sri Venkateswara Temple here, has not implemented a pay cut for its nearly 23,000 staff and is confident of paying full salaries for the next two to three months, a top official has revealed. The surge of devotees may have waned following the nationwide lockdown and their cash offerings along with it, but the shrine is banking on other sources of income like interest on fixed desposits to feed its 8,000 permanent employees,besides the 15,000 outsourced staff at this hill shrine located on the holy Tirumala. TTD Chairman Y V Subba Reddy said the board has been incurring a loss of Rs 200 crore per month, ever since the temple was closed after the Centre imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 24 in a bid to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Incidentally, TTD had implemented entry curbs to the temple from March 20 itself as a precaution, he said. "Despite severe financial constraints, TTD would be in a position to manage (full) salary payments to all its permanent staff and outsourced workers, and pensioners for the next two or three months," Reddy told PTI. The TTD Board is expected to meet its requirements from alternative sources of income like fixed desposits, which yield a whopping Rs 700 crore annual interest, a temple official said. It has Rs 12,000 crore in FDs in various nationalised banks which ensure the said returns. He added the board had in February approved budget proposals envisaging a total revenue of about Rs 3,310 crore during the fiscal year and of this cash offerings made by devotees were projected to be Rs 1,351 crore.  About 2.5 crore devotees throng the temple annually, the official added. Though the 2000 year-old shrine remains closed in line with the national lockdown, all rituals are being conducted uninterruptedly and flawlessly by the priests, Reddy said. Besides being involved in many charitable activities, TTD has several educational institutions and health care facilities under its control to serve the needy public and these aspects are also being taken care of, Reddy added. The Centre had earlier extended lockdown, scheduled to end on May 4, by another two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-despite-rs-400-crore-loss-ttd-confident-of-paying-full-salaries-for-three-months-836227.html
11-05-2020||South||Advance planning, effective execution: How Kerala is fighting its battle against COVID-19||Prema, aged 44, is among the 26,740-odd Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) in Kerala who have been playing a key role in fighting COVID-19 at the grass root levels. When the first COVID-19 case was reported on January 30, two more in the subsequent days and a spike from March 8, Kerala health sector remained unshaken as the plan to face even a community outbreak was already in place. This vision of the top echelons of Kerala Health Department and the well-coordinated activities up to the grass-root levels helped Kerala put up an impressive fight against COVID-19 with close to 100 percent recovery rate and 0.6 percent novel coronavirus mortality rate till date.  How effective quarantine was ensured Vigil by health officials, local bodies and police, played a key role in effective home quarantine and deal with community spread if it was reported. Sreevidya, an ASHA of Madhur in Kasaragod district that shares borders with Karnataka, tells how the grass-root level systems worked to contain the COVID-19 spread in the district, which witnessed up to 178 COVID-19 positive cases coming down to nil with zero mortality. "As soon as an alert against COVID-19 came, ASHA workers, with support on local authorities, would trace NRIs in their regions. Once an NRI reached his house, the NRI and his family would be advised to remain in home quarantine. Contacts of each person will be collected in advance and in case a person is later tests positive, all his contacts would be swiftly quarantined," said Sreevidya. Even as technology-based surveillance systems were there, ASHA has traditional surveillance mechanisms like alerting neighbours of those on home quarantine about the chances of contracting the infection if the persons advised to remain on home quarantine moves out of their house. Hence, the neighbours would give alert in case of any home quarantine violations in their neighbourhoods, said Prema, who is also the state president of ASHA union in Kerala.  Apart from strictly enforcing the lockdown norms using police, the Kerala government also initiated various measures like doorstep delivery of essential commodities to ensure that the people have no reasons to move out of their houses. The comparatively higher level of compliance to lockdown norms by Keralites also helped in containing the COVID-19 spread. Early detection led to high recovery While COVID-19 patients aged above 65 were considered as a high-risk group, Kerala witnessed even a couple aged around 90 recovering from novel coronavirus.  Dr Santhosh Kumar, chairman of the state-level medical board for COVID-19 control, said that owing to the effectiveness of Kerala's health network, most of the COVID-19 patients could be traced at initial stages of infection. This, as well as the health infrastructure put in place well in advanced to fight the virus, helped in attaining high recovery rate and low mortality.  He said that even as the state was generally following ICMR guidelines for COVID-19 treatment, necessary modifications were being made based on conditions of each patient. Preparations for possible spike in coming days With NRIs and Keralites from other states started to come in, Kerala is still facing a risk of a further spike in COVID-19 cases. Already, five NRIs who were evacuated tested positive for the virus. Anticipating this risk, Kerala made advance measures like online registration for those who wish to return to Kerala. Around 4.3 lakh NRIs and 1.7 lakh from other states have already registered. This data is being distributed at the local levels.  Any Keralite coming into the state from aboard or other states would be allowed to remain in home quarantine only once the authorities at local levels are convinced of adequate home quarantine facility. Otherwise, they would be shifted to the institutional quarantine as the state has kept such facilities ready for 1.65 lakh persons already. Dr Santhosh said that the state could very well contain a further spike in COVID-19 due to local contact if all those who return to the state strictly adhere to the government channels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/advance-planning-effective-execution-how-kerala-is-fighting-its-battle-against-covid-19-836264.html
11-05-2020||South||Ex-servicemen join volunteers in reaching rations to tribals, stranded truckers||Lt Commander Satya (retd. Indian Navy) trekked for 14 hours in the toughest terrains of the Western Ghats in Tamil Nadu in April to take essential commodities to 230 families of a tribal community. He is not a lone 'fighter' who is braving all odds to help the tribals, stranded truckers and the poor families struggling to get food during this COVID-19 lockdown. He is part of Armour of Care (AoC)- a group of volunteers comprising ex-army officers, doctors and young civilians who have teamed up to feed the hungry since the lockdown came into force on March 25. Satya, as he is known, helped reach about one ton ration goods to the tribal families to help them survive during these hard times. After the Coimbatore-based group learnt tribals were struggling to get food and their survival was at stake, their members swung into action and distributed rice and other essential commodities, a volunteer of AoC said. The volunteer added that the tribal settlements had received help during the lockdown for the first time from AoC. The AoC has covered about 11 villages having about 200 families around Pillur dam, Mettupalayam. On Monday, the AoC members delivered 40 kits of ration through its volunteers to a stranded trucker at Thandalam near Chennai and were pleasantly surprised after accomplishing the task. A stranded truck driver Ansari called them several times since the last two days pleading that he was in dire need for essential commodities. However, what happened later moved the AoC members. After receiving the goodies, Ansari called up to say he apportioned the ration for almost 100 people. "They are all like me... how can I eat alone? he asked. Recently, the AoC purchased three tonnes of cabbage from a farmer in Karnataka bordering Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri in Tamil Nadu, and distributed the same to the community kitchens in Chennai that are involved in preparing food and also to the poor and stranded people in the metro. They reached out after the farmer raised an SOS that he was unable to sell the produce, harvested at a cost of around Rs four lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-servicemen-join-volunteers-in-reaching-rations-to-tribals-stranded-truckers-836293.html
11-05-2020||South||Vande Bharat Mission: 118 people stranded in US land in Hyderabad||As many as 118 people hailing from India stranded in the USA landed at GMR-led Rajiv Gandhi International Airport here on Monday as part of the biggest ever off-shore evacuation drive of Indian Citizens under the Vande Bharat Mission. The airport handled the second arrival evacuation flight from the USAby the national carrier - Air India flight AI 1617 - from San Franciscovia Mumbai at the Hyderabad airport, airport sources said. Another batch of Indians from Abu Dhabi (UAE) by Air India Flight AI 1920 is expected to arrive at around 9.30 pm on Monday, they said. To facilitate the arriving passengers and aircraft crew, the airport has kept the international arrivals and the entire stretch right from aerobridge to arrivals ramp fully sanitised and fumigated. The airport also enforced the social distancing among passengers right from the aerobridge to across the terminal, the sources added. All arriving passengers and aircraft crew were brought out from the aircraft in a batch of 20-25 persons each. Each passenger or crew member was screened by the thermal cameras positioned at the aerobridge exit under supervision of the Airport Health officials (APHO) as per the directives of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare prior to Immigration formalities. After the health screening of passengers, CISF personnel in their protective gears escorted the group of passengers to immigration clearance, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vande-bharat-mission-118-people-stranded-in-us-land-in-hyderabad-836295.html
11-05-2020||South||Vizag gas leak: 13,000 tons of styrene being evacuated to South Korea||Days after its leaked vapour killed 12 people, about 13,000 tonnes of styrene from the LG Polymers plant at RR Venkatapuram near Visakhapatnam is being shipped back to the company's headquarters in Seoul, South Korea. Besides in one other tank inside the plant, the company had stored styrene, imported from Singapore, in two tanks in the Visakhapatnam Port. The AP government authorities took up the issue with the Ministry of Shipping and arranged a special container to send the chemical back to Seoul. "We are shipping about 8,000 tonnes of styrene by a container vessel on Monday and another will carry the remaining 5,000 in the next couple of days," Visakhapatnam district Collector V Vinay Chand said. The leftover styrene in the tank inside the plant, from where the vapour leak occurred, had solidified and the temperature came down to 73 degrees Celsius. There had been a vociferous demand from people of Venkatapuram and surrounding villages that the plant be completely shutdown as it posed a threat to their lives. The vapour leak from the plastics manufacturing plant in the wee hours of May 7 caused the death of 12 people besides leaving over 400 hospitalised. On Saturday, irate villagers staged a protest in front of the plant, with bodies of the deceased, demanding that it be closed down forthwith. Meanwhile, the situation at RR Venkatapuram and surrounding villages was fully under control and villagers would be allowed to return from Monday evening. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, who reviewed the situation with ministers and officials through videoconference, directed the ministers to spend the night in each of the five affected villages to instil confidence in the people. On the other hand, ministers Botsa Satyanarayana and K Kanna Babu handed over Rs one crore each as ex-gratia to the kin of five people killed in the vapour leak tragedy. So far the legal heirs of only these five victims were identified and the remaining too would be paid the ex-gratia once the process was completed, the ministers said. "The other families are currently far away from the city.Once they return, we will complete the formalities," the ministers added. The Chief Minister, meanwhile, directed the authorities to open unencumbered accounts in banks and pay Rs 10,000 as financial aid to each of the villagers affected by the vapour leak. He asked them to complete the process in the next three days. Jagan directed that the list of beneficiaries be displayed in the respective village secretariats to ensure transparency. He also wanted clinics to be opened in these villages to ensure proper medicare to the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-leak-13000-tons-of-styrene-being-evacuated-to-south-korea-836323.html
11-05-2020||South||Don't allow train, air services in Tamil Nadu till May 31: CM Palaniswami to PM Modi||Citing increasing COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Monday came out against resumption of passenger train services in the state till May 31. Participating in a video conference held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Chief Ministers, he also urged the former not to allow regular air services till the month-end in the state, where the number of coronavirus cases has crossed the 7,000 mark, an official release said here. "We know from media that regular train service to Chennai (from Delhi) and from Chennai will commence from May 12. As the positive cases in Chennai are showing an increasing trend, don't permit train service up to 31.5.2020, in my state," Palaniswami told Modi. "I request you not to begin regular air services till 31.5.2020," the release quoted the Chief Minister as having further said. Modi chaired the fresh round of consultation with CMs on ways to strengthen the COVID-19 containment strategy and stepping up of economic activities as the 54-day nationwide lockdown nears an end.  The railways has announced the resumption of a limited number of passenger services after an almost a 50-day hiatus since the national lockdown came into force in March. As many as 15 trains are to run from Tuesday on the Rajdhani route from Delhi to all the major cities, including Chennai, in the country. Tamil Nadu has been witnessing a steady spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in the past several days after the wholesale Koyambedu vegetable market emerged as a major hotspot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dont-allow-train-air-services-in-tamil-nadu-till-may-31-cm-palaniswami-to-pm-modi-836347.html
11-05-2020||South||Kasargod again in COVID-19 grip; 7 more test positive in Kerala||A day after Kasargod district in Kerala that shares borders with Karnataka brought the COVID-19 active cases to nil from 178, four fresh cases were reported in the district, apart from three more in Kerala. All the four fresh cases in Kasargod were Keralites who returned from Maharashtra through Talapady border couple of days back and were under observation owing to symptoms. Three of them hailing from Kumbla and Mngalpady had travelled together. A person who reached Kerala from Chennai was also tested positive in Palakkad district.  An NRI hailing from Malappuram district, who was evacuated from Kuwait, was also tested positive, taking the total evacuated NRI's tested positive in Kerala to six.  An 11-month old child got infected in Wayanad. He is the grandchild of a truck driver who contracted COVID-19 after travelling to  Koyambedu market in Tamilnadu. Five others, including his wife and daughter, had contracted an infection from the truck driver.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kasargod-again-in-covid-19-grip-7-more-test-positive-in-kerala-836404.html
11-05-2020||South||Row over reference to Tablighi meet in bulletin||A reference to the Nizamuddin Tablighi meets as an event that caused the spread of COVID-19 to many in a bulletin of Kerala Public Service Commission (KPSC) has triggered a row in Kerala. Three official of the KPSC, which is the recruitment authority to Kerala government services, has been kept off from the duties of bulletin preparations and an internal inquiry was initiated. It was in a column on contemporary issues and news in the April 15 issue of the fortnightly bulletin that a mention was made about Nizamuddin meet as the even that caused COVID-19 infection to many people. KPSC chairman M K Sakeer said that the column was meant for contemporary topics and it was being prepared based on the reports in leading media at the time of preparing each bulletin. It seems that the issue was now being raised with vested interest groups, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-over-reference-to-tablighi-meet-in-bulletin-836418.html
11-05-2020||South||Do not resume air and trains services in TN till May 31: CM to PM||With Tamil Nadu witnessing an increasing number of COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday asked the Centre not to resume regular air and train services till May 31. During a video-conferencing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Palaniswami told him that 13,284 people consisting of migrant labourers and those who came for treatment have been sent back to their native states in 12 trains. He also said the state was planned to send willing migrant labourers and others in 61 trains from Monday to Sunday. “I request you not to begin regular Air services till 31.5.2020. We know from Press that regular train service to Chennai and from Chennai will commence from 12th May. As the positive cases in Chennai are showing an increasing trend, do not permit train service up to 31.5.2020, in my state,” Palaniswami told Modi.  The Railways has plans to operate special trains between New Delhi and Chennai from May 12. The state has over 7,000 cases and the number of patients is on an upward swing. Meanwhile, the relaxations in lockdown restrictions came into effect on Monday with standalone shops opening in Chennai and elsewhere in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/do-not-resume-air-and-trains-services-in-tn-till-may-31-cm-to-pm-836422.html
11-05-2020||South||Karnataka, Kerala discuss steps on containing COVID-19||Karnataka and Kerala on Monday discussed the measures taken to contain coronavirus and stressed on sharing information to control the disease besides quality treatment for patients. Through video conference, Karnataka Medical Education Minister D K Sudhakar spoke to the Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja and discussed the steps adopted for tracing, testing and treatment of the disease, the outcome, and measures to be taken to address the challenges following easing of lockdown restrictions, an official release said. They discussed control and treatment practices adopted to fight COVID-19 and shared details in their 50-minute conversation.  The two ministers agreed to have regular dialogue to exchange information on disease control and quality treatment for patients. Explaining the steps taken for better management of COVID-19, Shailaja said that soon after students returned from Wuhan, Kerala had taken proper precautions to prevent spread of the virus. The press note quoted Shailaja as saying that Kerala is equipped with health facilities at Taluk level and it became easier for the state to quarantine the infected and treat them at various levels.  This has reduced the mortality rate in Kerala, she added. Shailaja said 'Asha' workers have been playing a key role in breaking the chain of infection. In addition to it, the police are taking action to prevent people from coming in contact with infected people. She appreciated the measures taken by Karnataka and emphasised on its assistance too, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-kerala-discuss-steps-on-containing-covid-19-836431.html
11-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally crosses 8,000; Chennai has over 4,000 cases||Tamil Nadu on Monday reported the biggest spike in COVID-19 numbers in a single day with swab samples of 798 people rendering positive for Coronavirus, pushing the tally to 8,000. The number of positive cases in state capital Chennai went beyond the 4,000-mark with 538 of the 798 belonging to the city. The state has 8,002 positive cases, including 53 deaths and 2,051 recoveries. Six people – four from Chennai and one each from Cuddalore and Kanyakumari – died on Monday, in a cause of concern for the state as the number of deaths increase. Chennai has 4,371 cases. Tamil Nadu has been witnessing a massive spike in numbers for the past few weeks as the government adopted a “targeted testing” method as the Koyamedu cluster grows every passing day. “Till now 2,54,899 samples have been taken and sent for testing 2,45,562 samples were tested negative. Testing of 1,335 samples is under process. 10,947 samples are repeat samples. 2,051 COVID-19 positive patients have been discharged following treatment till today. Hence, 5,895 active cases are under treatment as on today,” an update from the Health Department said.  As of Saturday, the Koyambedu cluster alone accounted for 1,867 cases, while the Health Department did not give updated numbers on Sunday and Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-8000-chennai-has-over-4000-cases-836435.html
11-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM says 9,000 guest workers sent home; more to go in a week||A total of 9,000 guest workers stranded in Tamil Nadu due to coronavirus lockdown have been sent to their native states by special trains so far and arrangements would be made for the return of others in a week, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said on Monday. The government has been taking all steps for staggered departure of guest workers if they choose to go home and also based on the concurrence of their home states, he said. "So far 9,000 guest workers have been sent to their respective states on eight trains and following the concurrence of concerned state governments," the Chief Minister said in an official release. Efforts were afoot to send the remaining workers to their homes in a week after getting the nod of their respective state governments, he said. "Till such time, I appeal to guest workers to stay put in their respective camps," he said following recent reports of some workers trying to reach railway stations out of anxiety. Recently, he had said that sending home all the guest workers who are in thousands in Tamil Nadu was not possible. Chennai Police Commissioner A K Viswanathan on Sunday visited guest workers from northern states housed at suburban Pallavaram and inspected the amenities there and assured them that they will soon be sent home. Meanwhile, a special train departed from Katpadi (Vellore) to Howrah in West Bengal at noon carrying 1,126 passengers registered and nominated by the state government. "Thermal screening of passengers done and social distancing ensured while boarding and on board," office of the Southern Railway General Manager tweeted. Vellore district officials said of the eight trains operated from Tamil Nadu so far, four, including the one that departed on Monday, originated from Katpadi, around 130 km from here. Those who departed to Howrah were stranded patients, including children, who had come to the CMC Hospital in Vellore for medical treatment and they were provided food and water for use during their journey. Days ago, two trains to Hatia in Jharkhand one to Dhanapur in Bihar were operated and totally 4,630 people including guest workers and those who had come for medical treatment had gone back to their respective home states from Katpadi, the Vellore district authorities said. On Sunday, nearly 1,000 workers from Tamil Nadu, stranded in Maharashtra, reached Tiruchirappalli by a special train. Also, Southern Railway operated similar services to ferry over 3,000 workers to destinations in Manipur and Andhra Pradesh among others from Tamil Nadu. On May 9 too special trains were operated from a couple of cities in Tamil Nadu to various destinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-says-9000-guest-workers-sent-home-more-to-go-in-a-week-836485.html
11-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: Kerala seeks 'flexiblity' in making changes in lockdown guidelines||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday suggested to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that states should have the "flexibility" in changing lockdown guidelines and allowing public and Metro rail services by following social distancing norms, except in red zones. Vijayan, who spoke during the video conference held by Modi with state Chief Ministers, also suggested that antibody test be conducted on expatriates before they arrive here from various countries. "Kerala has a substantial population of Non Residents staying abroad.  Some of them are coming back in special flights and many more are likely to come back. Whenever they are transported by special flights, they should be subjected to antibody test prior to boarding", he said, adding there was a possibility of many travelers getting infected if this was not done. "We are already facing a situation wherein five positive cases were reported from passengers who came to the state in chartered flights last week", he said. As states were facing challenges of COVID-19 in different degrees, each one should have the "flexibility" in making reasonable changes in lockdown related guidelines within their respective jurisdiction, he said. After assessing the situation prevailing in a state, the respective states should have the flexibility to allow public transport, subject to social distancing norms and restrictions within districts, he said. The Chief Minister suggested that Metro rail transport be allowed in cities other than in Red zones, subject to similar restrictions.  Three-wheeler transport can also be allowed subject to capacity restrictions after considering the situation in a district by the state governments, he said. Vijayan also wanted states to be allowed to operate Industrial and Trade establishments, taking into consideration the ground situation, but with restrictions like social distancing in areas, except containment zones. On the lines of Shramik special trains to take migrant workers back to their states, Vijayan also wanted special trains to bring back Keralites stranded in various states. Pointing out that the state has already demanded a special train from Delhi to Kerala, mainly for students, he said tickets for these trains should be issued according to the registrations made with the state government. This is because the state had given priority to students, those with medical emergencies, aged people and likewise. However, railways have started online bookings regardless of the state's registration, he said, adding this would only help undermine Kerala's efforts to curb the spread of COVID-19. Kerala also wanted non-stop trains from Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru to bring back its people stranded due to the lockdown. The Chief Minister said those arriving in Kerala from other states or abroad are effectively monitored in-home quarantine by government departments and Local Self Government institutions, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-kerala-seeks-flexiblity-in-making-changes-in-lockdown-guidelines-836505.html
11-05-2020||South||Petition wants Goa freed from 'Indian invasion'; sedition case filed||The Crime Branch of the Goa Police on Monday registered an FIR against a signatory of an online petition addressed to UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres and others, which demands that Goa needs to be freed from "Indian invasion" and "illegal occupation". The First Information Report filed under section 124 A (sedition) read with 34 (common intention) has been filed on the basis of a complaint of one Nitin Patkaro, who heads a Goa-based organisation 'Revolutionary Indians' against the petition, which has already been endorsed online by over 4000 signatories. "Atanasio Lobo and others with their common intention made online petition addressed to Heads of Nations under the caption 'Free Goa from Indian Invasion' and its illegal occupation against UN resolution' thereby, attempting to excite disloyalty towards the government established law in India. Hence, offence under Section 124 A read with 34 IPC," the FIR filed by the Crime Branch reads. Goa was ruled by the Portuguese for a period of 451 years before it was liberated by the Indian armed forces in 1961. Prior to the liberation of Goa orchestrated through 'Operation Vijay', Portugal had raised before the UN, the issue of the advance of the Indian armed forces into the coastal region, which was still held by the colonial forces. The online petition uploaded by Atanasio Lobo, addressed to Guterres and other world leaders and diplomat however requests that the UN General Assembly resolve to, and re-instate Goa in the UN list of “Non-Self Governing Territories”. "Goa might not have attained sovereignty but that right does not lapse, a right that cannot be assumed by others, a right which is inherent to people. In this case, the right belongs to the Goans and has to be exercised consciously and freely within the framework established by the United Nations Charter," the petition demands, adding that there is urgent need for the "current members of the UN to review the matter of Goa’s invasion and continuing illegal occupation by India".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/petition-wants-goa-freed-from-indian-invasion-sedition-case-filed-836515.html
11-05-2020||State||Karnataka receives single-day COVID-19 shock with 54 cases||Karnataka's single-day spike in COVID-19 cases reached a new high on Sunday with the state recording 54 cases, out of which 40 involved people who travelled to the state from other parts of the country. A member of the COVID Task Force said that aside from cases sprouting up in the state due to recent travel histories, “silent districts” which have not reported a single case so far, would soon start registering outbreaks. This showed that adequate testing is not being carried out on people prior to interstate movement, experts said, who also pointed out that the relaxation of lockdown has led to a rash of new cases since May 4. According to data from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, there have been over 234 virus cases in the last six days, whereas the last six days before lockdown saw only 102 cases. Dr R Balasubramanium, director of the Swami Vivekananda Movement, described the lifting of the lockdown as a disaster which could potentially see the number of cases in the country reach anywhere from three to four lakh in a short period of time.  “The movement of people across the border, especially migrants, will exacerbate the situation because many of those leaving have not been tested for COVID,” he said. Pankaj Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare, said the lifting of lockdown was done keeping in mind both the impact of the disease and the need to safeguard livelihoods. “This was not a decision made lightly. But we, as a state, have to tread a careful and balanced path. People can say that by lifting the lockdown we will cause the outbreak to spread, but we also had the livelihoods of the people to consider,” he said. He added that the state was strictly monitoring and institutionally quarantining people returning to the state. “We can expect the numbers of cases to rise in the days to come. But it is only based on our institutional carrying capacity that we will allow people back in. We will not open the floodgates,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-receives-single-day-covid-19-shock-with-54-cases-836086.html
11-05-2020||State||240 Kannadigas, techie’s body to arrive at KIA from London||As many as 240 Kannadigas and the body of techie Shivaraj Gadegeppagowda Patil, a Hubballi resident who committed suicide in the UK, will arrive on a special Air India flight at the Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru, at 3 am on Monday. The aircraft took off from London hours before the Karnataka government decided not to allow bodies of Kannadigas who passed away in other states to be brought back. The wife and son of Shivaraj, who passed away 58 days ago in London, are also travelling in the flight. Other passengers include Congress MLC Jayamala’s daughter Soundarya, students and a few stranded tourists. Most of the passengers are returning due to health emergencies. The AI flight will be the first aircraft to land in Karnataka as part of the Union government’s ‘Vande Bharat’ repatriation mission.  Meanwhile, the B S Yediyurappa government has decided to not allow the bodies of Kannadigas who died in other states to be brought back. “If someone dies in other states, their body shall not be brought to Karnataka. Their last rites shall be performed wherever they are,” a statement read.  The government said that it didn’t matter if the person died outside a red zone. “Their last rites will be done at the place of their death,” it added. Last rites in Bengaluru The last rites of 37-year-old Shivaraj will be performed in Bengaluru today. The father of the deceased techie will be arriving in the state capital to perform the cremation. Shivaraj, who was residing in London since 2011, had committed suicide on March 13 due to personal reasons. But with passenger flights suspended due to the lockdown, the body was not repatriated to India. Since the parents of Shivaraj, residents of Navanagar in Hubballi, wanted to see their son for one final time, family members and forums in the UK contacted the Indian Embassy in London. Later, the UK government assured them of making arrangements to shift the body. On Sunday, Shivaraj’s body was moved to the special aircraft for transportation from London to Bengaluru.  On arrival, the body will be shifted via an ambulance and the last rites will be performed in Bengaluru on Monday evening. Speaking to DH, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Deepa Cholan said they have received a written communication from the state government regarding the arrival of Shivaraj’s body.  Sources in the district administration informed DH that neighbours were against bringing the body to the house fearing spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/240-kannadigas-techie-s-body-to-arrive-at-kia-from-london-836087.html
11-05-2020||State||Karnataka to bear train fare of stranded Kannadigas||The state government will bear the train fares of stranded Kannadigas keen to return to the state from different parts of the country. Tourists, students and those with health conditions will be given priority, said the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) on Sunday evening. However, train services to Karnataka will depend on the number of people who have applied to return to the state. Trains are yet to be earmarked to ferry the stranded Kannadigas. The state government also imposed a few conditions for those seeking to return. They include online registration, permission only for those stranded in other states and mandatory 14-day quarantine among others. “They will be allowed according to the availability of quarantine facilities,” a statement by the CMO said. Only those who are ready to undergo quarantine must register their names, the statement added. The decision came in the wake of widespread criticism over the issue of charging train fares from migrant labourers impoverished by the lockdown that has lasted more than 45 days.  Opposition parties, especially the Congress, have fiercely attacked the Centre over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-bear-train-fare-of-stranded-kannadigas-836089.html
11-05-2020||State||Karnataka reports 10 new COVID-19 cases, tally at 858||Ten new positive cases of COVID-19 have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of infections in the state to 858, the Health department said on Monday. "Ten new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon... Till date 858 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 31 deaths and 422 discharges," the department said in its mid-day situation update.  The ten new cases include- three from Davangere, two each from Bidar and Bagalkote, one each from Kalaburagi, Shiggavi in Haveri and Vijayapura. Seven cases are men, three are women. While most cases are contacts of patients already tested positive, one each are with travel history to Mumbai and Ahmedabad. One person's contact tracing is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-10-new-covid-19-cases-tally-at-858-836179.html
11-05-2020||State||Karnataka: Special package for teachers in unaided institutions sought||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Monday urged Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to announce a special package for teachers working in private unaided educational institutions, who are in financial distress due to COVID-19-induced lockdown. In a letter to the Chief Minister, the JD(S) patriarch, appreciating the state government's functioning in addressing the situation arising out of COVID-19 pandemic, complimented it for announcing a special package for the unorganised sector workers, whose daily life was affected by the lockdown.  "In the same way, teachers working in private sector are in financial distress due to the lockdown," Gowda said. Pointing out that the contributions of teachers working in unaided private educational institutions is huge in improving the quality of education, he said, "Due to the lockdown for the last two months, these educational institutions have faced financial stress and are facing problem in paying teachers. The main reason for this is non- payment of RTE dues by the education department." Gowda, in his letter, said the RTE dues of Rs 1,300 crore that were pending should be released immediately to address the financial distress faced by teachers.  He also sought financial assistance to bail out private unaided school and college managements. The Chief Minister should call a meeting of education minister and department officials and protect the interest of teachers, Gowda added. The Yediyurappa government on Wednesday had announced Rs 1,610-crore relief package for the benefit of those in distress due to the lockdown. The measures, announced as part of the package, included compensation of Rs 5,000 each to thousands of washermen, barbers, autorickshaw and taxi drivers, whose daily life has been affected. The government had also announced one-time financial relief of Rs 5,000 each to over 11,000 cobbler-families in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-special-package-for-teachers-in-unaided-institutions-sought-836311.html
11-05-2020||State||BJP MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar demands waiver of home loan interest during COVID-19 lockdown||The BJP Rajya Sabha member from Karnataka Rajeev Chandrasekhar on Monday demanded that the Centre waive interest on home loans during the COVID-19 'force majeure' period. He wrote to Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, referring to the April 29 meeting of the Central Advisory Council, formed as per the Real Estate Regulation and Development Act (RERA) guidelines. Puri is also the chairman of the CAC. The BJP MP pointed out that a decision was taken at the meeting to provide six months extension for all active RERA registered projects due to the COVID-19 lockdown and to allow further extension on special cases after looking into the merits of each case. Just as relief is being given to the builders, the interest of home buyers who are undergoing unimaginable economic hardships in these unprecedented times of COVID-19 lockdown needs protection, the MP said. "The interest part on the principal amount of the Loan during this COVID-19 force majeure period should be waived for the homebuyers. For no fault of the buyers, they need not pay both rent and Equated Monthly Installment (EMI)," the MP said. 'Force Majeure' clause is a contractual provision that addresses circumstances in which contractual performance becomes impossible or impractical due to events that could not be foreseen, and are not within party's control. He insisted that the extension of completion time for RERA registered projects be for the actual lockdown period only and that projects should not be delayed for the home buyers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-mp-rajeev-chandrasekhar-demands-waiver-of-home-loan-interest-during-covid-19-lockdown-836317.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Power generation continues unabated||The nationwide lockdown, clamped to mitigate the spread of coronavirus, has brought the country to a grinding halt. Factories have fallen silent. But the deafening sound of turbines and generators continues to reverberate the five power generating stations of Sharavathy Valley Project. The five stations, including Bhadra, have generated 666.988 million units (MU) and 579.089 MU power in March and April respectively.  Of the 24 generating units in Sharavathy valley, 21 are functioning while the remaining three are under temporary repairs. In these testing times, the power units are duly adhering to the guidelines laid by the government.  Sharavathy Generating Station (SGS) generated 543.57 MU and 473.03 MU in March and April respectively while Gerusoppa Power House generated 53.54 MU and 45.60 MU, Mahatma Gandhi Hydro Electric Station 31.91 MU and 29.14, Linganamakki powerhouse 30.48 MU and 24.03 MU and Bhadra power station has generated 7.47 MU in March and 7.30 MU in April. State consumption during March/April-2020 has decreased by 5.31% and 13.28% respectively compared to 2019 as industries, business establishments are shut in the wake of coronavirus-enforced lockdown. But generation in all five hydro powerhouses of Sharavathy Valley project increased compared to the corresponding period in 2019 due to good water storage in reservoirs and proper maintenance of units by a team of dedicated engineers and workers. Sharavathy Valley Project Chief Engineer Chaithanya Prabhu told DH, "Karnataka state's power consumption in March 2020 was 7,254.94 MU against 7661.760 in 2019. Similarly, power consumption in April 2020 was 6150.66 MU against 7,092.328 in 2019." Of the total workforce of 350, about 250 worked in all five stations during the lockdown and the others were kept in reserve. Spares and machines were used much cautiously during the lockdown as the possibility of getting them repaired or procuring new were less due to restrictions, he said. He further said that the team received timely advice, guidance & maximum possible administrative, technical and financial support from KPCL managing director V Ponnuraj, technical consultant Zafrulla and finance director R Nagaraj on a daily basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/power-generation-continues-unabated-836091.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM BSY to discuss COVID-19 issues with PM Modi as Opposition seeks special package||Amid pressure from the opposition to seek a special COVID-19 economic package from the Centre, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said he will discuss all issues with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and put forth the state's stand. "As Chief Minister of the state, I would clearly state our stand and suggest what needs to be done to the Prime Minister during the meeting," Yediyurappa told reporters here. Asked whether he will seek any package, he merely said, "I will discuss about everything." With the focus on boosting economic activities amid a graded exit from the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers of various states via video conference later on Monday. This will be his fifth interaction with the chief ministers after the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in the country. Demanding that COVID-19 be declared a national disaster, a delegation of opposition parties led by leader of opposition Siddaramaiah that met Yediyurappa on Friday had asked the state government to pressurise the Centre to provide it a Rs 50,000 crore special economic package to help those in distress due to the lockdown induced by the pandemic. Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy too on Monday asked Yediyurappa to urge Modi to announce 'COVID package' for the state. He said people, industrialists and parliamentarians have generously contributed towards PM Cares fund for the fight against the coronavirus and Yediyurappa should remind Modi about lack of financial assistance from the centre to face COVID-19. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi will discuss with Chief Ministers of various states regarding coronavirus control and lockdown.In this meeting state CM B S Yediyurappa will also be present...he should urge Modi to give special COVID package for the state," Kumaraswamy tweeted. Sating that the numbers reflect that COVID-19 is increasing in the state, Kumaraswamy said along with tightening medical measures, financial compensation need to be given to those who have faced losses. "A big state like Karnataka that contributes hugely to the centre by collecting taxes, should get package," he said. During the meeting along with COVID package, Yediyurappa should also ask about GST amount,drought and flood relief amount that are pending, he said. Due to lockdown the state is facing financial distress and if there is no adequate assistance from the centre, controlling COVID-19 will be difficult,the JDS leader added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bsy-to-discuss-covid-19-issues-with-pm-modi-as-opposition-seeks-special-package-836219.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka eyes foreign companies seeking exit from China||Karnataka has constituted a special task force to woo “disenchanted” multinational companies from Japan, US, South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore among others that are looking to shift out of China following the COVID-19 outbreak.  The special investment promotion task force will be headed by the chief secretary and comprise representatives from Korean, American, Taiwanese, French and German companies that are operating in Karnataka. “There is a pushback against China by several countries. Rising labour costs, shofiages of workforce, a trade war with the United States, the rise of manufacturing hubs in South-East Asia and now a pandemic that originated on its mainland, China may not be able to retain its position as the world's largest factory in the post Covid global economic order (sic),” the government said in an order issued Monday.  “The Japanese government is paying Japanese companies to shut their manufacturing plants in China. American companies are also planning shutdowns. So are other countries like South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore etc planning to shut their facilities in China and see India as an alternative manufacturing hub,” the order said, calling this “an opportunity for India to attract them here.” The task force will identify sectors in which Karnataka can attract investment due to relocation of industries from other countries. The task force will also formulate special incentive packages and facilitations that are needed to attract these investments.  The task force will also look at key infrastructure projects that should be undertaken or expedited to attract investments and measures to fast-track clearances, besides recommending outreach activities and brand-building to position Karnataka as an attractive investment destination.   The constitution of the special task forces comes days after Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar held talks with industry leaders including Infosys cofounders Nandan Nilekani, Kris Gopalakrishnan and Biocon CMD Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw. They suggested the government draw up a list of 100 firms looking to move out of China that can be attracted to the state.  They also asked the government to improve the single-window clearance system for investment approvals and ease land acquisition regulations.  Soon after the World Economic Forum at Davos earlier this year, the government announced a policy change that will allow investors to purchase land from farmers in a 30-day time frame. A 30-day limit to authorise the conversion of agricultural land for non-agricultural or industrial purposes was also announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-eyes-foreign-companies-seeking-exit-from-china-836228.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Will make our stand clear with PM Modi, says BS Yediyurappa||With the Opposition mounting pressure on the ruling BJP to demand from the Centre a special package to deal with the COVID-19 lockdown, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said he will “discuss everything” with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday.  Yediyurappa is scheduled to attend a video conference on Monday afternoon with Modi along with other chief ministers to discuss Lockdown 3.0 and the way forward.  “As chief minister, I will clearly spell out our state's stand with the PM and give suggestions on what should be done,” Yediyurappa told reporters. Asked about the special economic package, he said: “I'll discuss everything there (in the video conference).” Under Lockdown 3.0, Karnataka has provided sufficient relaxation by allowing economic activities - industries, shops and liquor sale - in line with guidelines issued by the Centre.  The Opposition Congress has asked the CM to press for a Rs 50,000 crore special package from the Centre.  Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) added his voice to the Opposition chorus on Monday. Kumaraswamy said Yediyurappa should ask for a ‘COVID package’ for the state.  “Yediyurappa should tell Modi that Karnataka hasn’t received the right amount of financial aid to deal with COVID-19, despite the PM CARES fund receiving liberal donations from MPs, industrialists and citizens,” the JD(S) leader said in a tweet.    Kumaraswamy pointed out that COVID-19 cases are on the rise in Karnataka. “So, we need to tighten our healthcare measures. Also, we need to provide relief to those who have suffered losses. A big state like Karnataka that generates a large amount of taxes for the Centre should get the right package,” he argued, adding that Yediyurappa should ask Modi for the GST compensation, flood-drought relief and other pending funds.  “At this juncture, when the state is suffering financial difficulty because of the lockdown, bringing COVID-19 under control will be hard without assistance from the Centre,” Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-make-our-stand-clear-with-pm-modi-says-bs-yediyurappa-836236.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mobile fever clinics take COVID-19 test to people's doorstep at a price||The KSRTC’s old buses have been transformed to erase the last mile gap between citizens and fever clinics that have formed the frontline of the administration in its fight against COVID-19. However, unlike government hospitals, those with symptoms have to pay Rs 3,750 to get a test done. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday flagged off the KSRTC bus converted into a Mobile Fever Clinic. The bus is divided into two zones of beds and a consultation area with hygiene conditions. Four Mobile Bus Clinics will be deployed across Bengaluru, each of them with a team consisting of a doctor, three nurses, and one lab technician with several volunteers facilitating the process.  A swab collection facility also included in the said bus. The team will be starting from red zones and will try to screen the maximum number of residents from these zones for symptoms and quarantine the ones who test positive.  At the mobile clinic, people can avail of free tests for glucose and blood pressure levels. The swab of those with symptoms will be collected immediately for COVID-19 testing by Biognosys Technologies, authorised by ICMR, at a discounted cost of Rs 3,750, the KSRTC said. “Residents also have the option to do blood tests (CBC, ESR, CRP) with SRL labs for a discounted price of Rs 300,” the corporation said.  The information about any person testing positive for the Coronavirus will be shared with the government. The clinics have been built with assistance from Housejoy, a private company, Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya, and ACT Covid-19 Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mobile-fever-clinics-take-covid-19-test-to-peoples-doorstep-at-a-price-836242.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP leader blames 'Tablighis, Ajmeris' for coronavirus spread||Blaming the recent spurt in COVID-19 cases in Karnataka on 'Tablighis and Ajmeris', Karnataka BJP general secretary N Ravikumar charged that they were entering the state like “thieves” and spreading the virus. Addressing a media briefing, Ravikumar said: "What do you call the mentality (of persons) that infects and kills oneself and other members of the society? If this is neither Jihad nor a conspiracy, what is it then?" Ravikumar also demanded strict action against those spreading the virus, claiming that 1,890 Tablighis and 500 Ajmeris "entering cities like thieves" were the reason for the spread of the virus. To a question on Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging people not to blame any community for the spread of the disease, Ravikumar said that it was the stand of the government and not the party. It can be recalled that Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa publicly chided those blaming a particular community for the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-leader-blames-tablighis-ajmeris-for-coronavirus-spread-836345.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Micromanage containment zones, resume public transport: BS Yediyurappa tells PM||Karnataka wants to do away with the red-orange-green zoning of districts, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa told Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, while recommending micromanaging the containment of COVID-19. Yediyurappa also pitched for resumption of public transport services in non-containment zones.  “Only containment zones have to be identified and strictly cordoned...50-100 metres around known clusters may be declared as containment zones,” Yediyurappa said during his video conference with Modi, according to a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO).  Earlier, Karnataka protested categorising Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural as red zones and mooted dividing the state capital into zones for micromanaging the pandemic and relaxing lockdown restrictions.  The government also favoured hospitalisation of only those COVID-19 patients with “severe symptoms,” Yediyurappa said. “We must make tele-medicine the new protocol to approach this pandemic.”   Karnataka told the Centre that malls, theatres, diners and establishments with centrally-controlled air conditioning should remain closed while all other economic activities in “stand-alone establishments” can resume. “All domestic and international travel should not be permitted at least till the end of May,” the CM said, adding that international travelers will be placed under compulsory institutional quarantine for 14 days whereas, interstate travellers will also be institutionally quarantined and tested.  “All interstate travelers should be issued a health clearance certificate at the place of origin of journey by local authorities/hospital. Those without a health clearance certificate, to be placed under compulsory quarantine,” he said. Karnataka also sought a nationwide testing guideline “to determine the minimum number of tests per million to be carried out in each state.” Only those with symptoms and the need for hospitalization should be tested, the CM suggested. The state government has increased its testing capacity “on war footing”, the CM pointed out. “There were only two labs with a testing capacity of about 300 per day in February and today we have 35 labs with a testing capacity exceeding 6,000 tests per day. Our state recently crossed the one lakh tests milestone. We are on track to set up 60 labs by this month-end,” Yediyurappa said. Giving his government a pat on the back, Yediyurappa said the ‘tracing, tracking, testing and treating’ approach helped keep the COVID-19 numbers in the state comparatively low. “Till date, the government, through detailed survey, has identified and tested 4,419 SARI cases and 12,525 ILI cases in the state for COVID-19,” he said. The government has imparted online training for 93,723 healthcare personnel. A total of 58.10 lakh citizens have downloaded the Arogya Setu mobile app, which has been integrated with ApthaMitra for telephonic monitoring and treatments of suspected cases, the CM informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/micromanage-containment-zones-resume-public-transport-bs-yediyurappa-tells-pm-836438.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Migrant workers, people in a fix: Kharge||Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday charged that migrant workers and the people are in a fix due to the sudden announcement of lockdown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking to DH, he said the Centre should have given one week’s time prior to the lockdown announcement to facilitate the migrant workers and others to travel back home. They would have remained calm if they had reached their native places, he said.  Kharge said the wrong policies of the prime minister had further pushed the migrant labourers to a corner. Some lost their lives no fault. The Union government has neglected the issues of migrant workers. It should ensure adequate food grains to the people of the nation, hesaid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/migrant-workers-people-in-a-fix-kharge-836465.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Yettinahole project unlikely before March 2021||The long-pending Yettinahole project has yet again hit a roadblock due to COVID-19 crisis. The first stage of the project, which was expected to be commissioned by monsoon this year, has now been pushed for next year.  According to Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, the project is likely to see the light of day only by March 2021. He reviewed the project on Monday. He directed the officials to ensure that the project is not delayed beyond this time frame. Allocating Rs 1,500 crore for the project in the 2020-21 budget, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa had announced that the project would be commissioned this year itself. “The government accords priority to the Yettinahole project which provides safe drinking water to the districts of Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Tumakuru, Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagar, Chikkaballapur and Kolar, facing severe scarcity of drinking water. A programme has been formulated to complete the lift component works of the first stage of this project and to commission it on a trial basis in the coming monsoon season,” the CM’s budget speech read.  Contrary to the plans, work related to the project is unlikely to be resumed before October 2020, according to officials in the department. “If the works had continued, the first stage would have been commissioned this year. However, owing to the lockdown, all works came to a grinding halt. By the time normalcy is restored, monsoon would have set in, making it difficult for the work to be taken up. It is unlikely to recommence before October,” a source in the department said.  Jarkiholi, in the meeting, is also said to have noted that there were pending land acquisition hurdles in connection with the project which needed to be resolved at the earliest.  The ambitious project, which got clearance from NGT in March 2019, is expected to cater to drinking water needs (24.01 tmcft of water) of 68.35 lakh people in the beneficiary districts. This apart, 527 micro-irrigation tanks have also been planned to be filled to recharge groundwater levels in these districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yettinahole-project-unlikely-before-march-2021-836467.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: Sudhakar interacts with Kerala minister||Karnataka Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar held a video conference on Monday with Kerala Health Minister KK Shailaja and discussed control and treatment practices adopted to fight COVID-19 in both the states. For more than 50 minutes, the two states discussed in detail the steps adopted for tracing, testing and treating the disease, the outcome, and the measures to be taken to address the challenges following the lifting of the lockdown. The two ministers agreed to have regular dialogue to exchange information on disease control and quality treatment for patients. Explaining the steps taken for better management of COVID-19, Minister Shailaja said that soon after students returned from Wuhan, Kerala had taken proper precautions to prevent the spread of the virus. Kerala is equipped with health facilities at the taluk-level and it became easier for them to quarantine the infected and treat them at various levels. This has reduced the mortality rate in Kerala, she said. Emphasising the efforts put by Kerala to contain the virus, the minister said the population density in Kerala is sparse compared to Karnataka. With health department staff, Ashas are helping to break the chain of infection.  The state is also receiving assistance from the CCB police. Stringent action was taken to avoid contact with the infected people. It’s a challenge now to tackle migrant workers as a large number of migrants from other states and abroad have registered to return after the lockdown. Many who have recently arrived from Chennai have tested positive, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-sudhakar-interacts-with-kerala-minister-836469.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NTPC Kudgi plant contract workers left to fend for themselves||More than 250 contract workers of NTPC’s Kudgi thermal power plant on Monday staged a protest at the entrance of the plant demanding the officials of the corporation to make arrangements to send them home. Hundreds of contract workers from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha work in the 4GW power plant. The workers alleged that the company has left them to fend for themselves after the coronavirus-enforced nationwide lockdown. “All contract workers were relieved off their duties in March after the lockdown was enforced to mitigate the virus spread. Contractors have not paid us for the last two months. We are struggling here without proper shelter and food. Repeated pleas to the NTPC officials to make arrangements to send the contract workers to their respective state have failed to yield the desired results,” the agitating workers complained. P K Pandey and K P Singh, the contract labourers from Bihar, poured out their woes to DH, “The police officials are demanding Rs 6,000 from each contract worker to make arrangements to send them home. We don’t have money for a square meal. How can arrange such a largeamount?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ntpc-kudgi-plant-contract-workers-left-to-fend-for-themselves-836470.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||5 UP workers set out to native on bicycles from Bengaluru||Five migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh employed by a granite contractor in Bengaluru bought five new bicycles only to reach their native place. They set out from Bengaluru to reach their destination, about 1,200 kilometres away from Bengaluru, on May 7. On Sunday, they halted for a while for some rest at Santhpur on Bidar-Nanded highway.  They had already covered a distance of 700 kilometres by then. They told DH that they were forced to purchase new bicycles to reach their native place due to non-availability of transport. According to them, even after the lockdown was imposed they worked for 15 days and then the work was halted. They considered it better to reach their native than staying back in Bengaluru. They termed it a difficult task to cover the distance of 1,200 kilometres on bicycles. They requested many truck drivers on the highway to ferry them, but none of the drivers responded. On their way, people offered them food, besides showing affection, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/5-up-workers-set-out-to-native-on-bicycles-from-bengaluru-836472.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Mandya techie cremated near state border||The last rites of a techie from Mandya, who passed away in Maharashtra due to cardiac arrest, were conducted near Kognoli, Nippani taluk, on Karnataka-Maharashtra border, on Sunday night. T A Soumya (38), a native of Tailur, Maddur taluk, died in Pune on Sunday. As she wasn’t a COVID-19 patient, Sharat, her husband, brought the body from Pune. The Mandya District Administration had denied him permission to bring the body to the district. Sharat was waiting near the border for the approval for the e-pass he had applied. His daughter Yukta and his father Appayya were with him, said Assistant Commissioner, Chikkodi Sub-Division, Ravindra Karlinganavar. On receiving the information, Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi and his team met them and convinced them to conduct last rites on the banks of river Doodhganga. The last rites were performed accordingly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-mandya-techie-cremated-near-state-border-836473.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Task force to woo firms moving out of China: Shettar||Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said on Monday that a proposal has been sent to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to form a task force under chief secretary to facilitate companies moving out of China to invest in the state. Single window clearances and concessions will be given to the companies, he said. Shettar informed reporters here that due to COVID-19 crisis, many of the MNCs are moving out of China and “we want to woo them for investment in the state by providing them land and facilities”. “Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have taken measures to woo companies into their states and we do not want to lag behind,” Shettar added. Chinese companies will be invited to the state by the task force that would comprise of senior officials and ambassadors of different countries. Companies investing in the state will be provided with the benefits of ease of doing business, single-window clearances and the land reforms Act, amended during the last session of the legislature. Labour laws too have been amended to help new industries, he said. Shettar, who is the district in-charge minister, reviewed the COVID-19 control measures taken by the district administration. ‘Quarantining those from red zone’  The minister said anybody entering the state from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and other states identified as red zones will be compulsorily kept in institutional quarantine for the minimum observation period. Their samples will be tested and will be allowed to go home if the results are negative for COVID-19. He told reporters that most of the recent cases in the state were labourers and others who have come from outside. Those entering other parts of the district from Nippani will be screened and kept in institutional quarantine, he said. The minister complimented the district administration for preventing the 38 persons who had been to Ajmer in Rajasthan from reaching their homes and for keeping them in institutional quarantine. Among them, 30 have tested positive. Belagavi would have been in the green zone, but for the cases that were reported after the arrival of those who attended a religious gathering of Tablighi Jamaat at Delhi in March. The Ajmer cases were a new threat, he added. People who visited Ajmer and have returned should get themselves and their family members tested, Shettar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/task-force-to-woo-firms-moving-out-of-china-shettar-836474.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Tumakuru dist hospital needs more nurses, staff||As the numbers of COVID-19 cases (and also suspected cases) are rising in Tumakuru city and the district, the number of people being admitted to quarantine and isolation wards is alsorising. According to a source in the district hospital, there is a need for more nurses and ‘D’ Group workers in the district hospital. A proposal has been sent to the Health Department. The hospital is expecting that District In-Charge Minister J C Madhuswamy will intervene and get them the needed resources, the source added.   Currently, there are 82 nurses and over 100 ‘D’ Group workers. The request is for an additional 15 nurses and 20 ‘D’ Group workers to carry medicines and screen patients said the hospital sources.    A total of 11 cases have tested positive for the virus in the district. Of these, two died and two recovered. There are seven positive cases in the district as of now. All people who have been in primary and secondary contact with the infected people have been quarantined at the district hospital, according to the hospital sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tumakuru-dist-hospital-needs-more-nurses-staff-836477.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka IAS officer Manivannan's transfer raises eyebrows||In a surprise development, the Karnataka state government late on Monday evening transferred IAS officer P Manivannan out of the Labour department reportedly due to differences over distribution of food kits to construction workers among other things.  Manivannan was the principal secretary of the labour department. The officer has also been removed as the principal secretary of the information and public relations department. He has not been given a new posting.  He will be replaced by MSME & Mines principal secretary M Maheshwar Rao, who will now hold concurrent charge of the labour and information & public relations departments.  Speculation is rife on why Manivannan was transferred.  According to sources, Manivannan apparently had differences with Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar over the supply of food kits to construction workers affected by the COVID-19 lockdown. “There was pressure from legislators that they be given the food kits for distribution and the minister was on the same page. But Manivannan resisted this,” a senior IAS officer in the know said.  Also, legislators are said to have complained of “mismanagement” and “poor handling” of the distribution of food kits to the workers.  “Plus, the fact that he was so active on social media might have worked against him,” a source said, pointing out that some in the government and the ruling party took exception to the way the officer used social media, which they thought was “too much.”  Notably, Manivannan's transfer comes days after the Karnataka Employers' Association (KEA) lodged a complaint with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, accusing the officer of "high handedness."  In its petition to the CM, KEA president BC Prabhakar asked the government to "change the leadership" in the Labour department. "The Labour secretary has been actively encouraging workers to register their complaints regarding non-payment of wages or retrenchment with an assurance that strict action will be taken against employers. Encouraged by this open call, more than 700 workmen have reportedly registered their complaints in the ‘Dasoha’ website," the KEA said.  "When no work has taken place during the lockdown period, the hands of the employers have been tied due to the lockdown and therefore, they have been unable to run their businesses and produce wealth," it said, adding that the Labour department was "provoking and instigating workmen" and "vitiating the entire atmosphere of harmonious relationship that has always existed in Karnataka."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ias-officer-manivannans-transfer-raises-eyebrows-836480.html
11-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||IRCTC website crash, limited tickets push stranded passengers to edge||Booking of tickets for the special inter-state trains was delayed as the IRCTC website crashed for several hours on Monday, with officials stating that the high demand for a limited number of tickets may have led to the crash. As part of the move to restart normal operations of trains, the Indian Railways had notified 15 pairs of trains across the country. Though the bookings were to begin at 4 pm, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) site was down till 5.30 pm. The Ministry of Railways stated that “data pertaining to special trains were being fed” to the site. While the ministry said that the bookings began at 6 pm, information on many trains was not loaded for many trains till 6.30 pm. The website started accepting bookings for some trains around 6.30 pm, with tickets for the Tuesday train from New Delhi to Bengaluru (02692) getting sold out within 10 minutes. Even at 7.30 pm, DH could not access the site to book a ticket for the train from New Delhi to Bengaluru, which began operations on May 14. “The data pertaining to many trains were not loaded at all until 7 pm. Even for the Bengaluru-Delhi trains, bookings for only two days were open,” said Mysuru-based railway activist Yogendra Swamy. By 8 pm, tickets to Delhi were sold out for all the days till May 17, with many users questioning the officials. “We are unable to even search for the trains between the allowed stations and you guys are saying that tickets got sold out. Just thinking, is just opened up only for Media people,” Sandeep Kalaskar tweeted. By late evening, Twitter’s India trend put IRCTC in fourth place with nearly 14,000 people speaking about the issue. Many posted screenshots of the app page that either showed that tickets were sold out or that the train was not available.  An official in IRCTC's head office in Delhi suspected that huge traffic to the website may have caused it to crash. "We are not sure whether it is due to a surge in the number of visitors or if there is another problem. The website has handled a large amount of traffic earlier," he said. The official said not all visitors were coming to the website for ticket bookings. "The news that Railways are running special trains may have made many to check for booking availability and refunds, leading to crashes," he said. By 9.15 pm, approximately 30,000 PNRs had been generated and reservations issued to more than 54,000 passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/irctc-website-crash-limited-tickets-push-stranded-passengers-to-edge-836520.html
11-05-2020||West||Maharahstra records highest single-day spike; Tally crosses 22,171||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 1,278 new COVID-19 cases and 53 deaths, 19 from worst-hit Mumbai, taking the total case count to 22,171 and the number of fatalities to 832, a Health official said. Explaining the spike, the official said 665 patients detected in the last few days were updated and included in the 1,278 cases as per a list prepared by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Of the 53 deaths, 19 were reported from Mumbai, 14 from Malegaon in Nashik district, five each from Pune and Jalgaon, two in Dhule, one each from Dhule rural, Pimpri Chinchwad, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Nandurbar, Solapur and Vasai-Virar, he said. "The 14 COVID-19 deaths from Malegaon were from the period between April 27 and May 10. They have been reported today," he said, adding that one person from Madhya Pradesh also died due to COVID-19 here. "With this, the total number of the COVID-19 deaths in the state has gone up to 832," he said.  Of the total 22,171 coronavirus positive cases and 832 deaths so far, Mumbai accounts for 13,739 cases and 508 fatalities, he said. While2,44,327 people are placed under home quarantine, 14,465 are under institutional quarantine, the official said. Pune, another coronavirus hotspot, has so far reported 2,377 cases and 146 deaths, he said. Thane division which consists of Mumbai city reported 16,680 cases and 544 deaths while Pune division reported 3,048 cases and 168 deaths so far, he said. Nashik division has 976 COVID-19 positive cases and reported 64 deaths followed by Kolhapur division reporting 98 cases and three deaths, he said. Aurangabad has 641 positive cases and reported 14 deaths while Latur division 73 cases and four deaths, he said. The number of cases in Vidarbha region stands at 362 cases and 24 deaths in Akola division, and 257 cases and two deaths in Nagpur division, he added. A total of 36 people from other states are receiving treatment in Maharashtra while nine patients have succumbed to the COVID-19 infection so far, the official said. The state has performed 2,38,766 tests so far, of which 2,15,903 were negative and 22,171 have been tested positive. The number of containment zones is 1,237 and 12,768 squads have completed surveillance of 55.61 lakh population. The state government has so far discharged 4,199 patients after recovery, he added. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 22,171, deaths 832, discharged 4,199, active cases 17,140 and people tested so far 2,38,766.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharahstra-records-highest-single-day-spike-tally-crosses-22171-836108.html
11-05-2020||West||Letting migrants walk home amid lockdown on humanitarian ground: Maharashtra Home Minister||With thousands of migrant workers desperate to return home even by marching on foot, the Maharashtra government has decided not to be harsh with them and let them go on humanitarian ground despite violation of lockdown norms, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has said. Talking to PTI, Deshmukh said had the train services commenced earlier, as the state government was demanding, the sufferings of labourers would have been much less. "It is true that migrant labourers who are walking back to their home towns hundreds of kilometres away are in a way violating lockdown norms, but we are letting them go on humanitarian ground, Deshmukh said. Last month, hundreds of migrant labourers gathered near Bandra station here, demanding that transportation arrangements be made for them to go back to their native places. Police then baton-charged the workers to disperse them. Deshmukh said the state government earlier tried to be strict, but extension of the lockdown "pushed the migrant labourers to the edge". "They are so desperate to go home that they are ready to even face the wrath of law enforcement agencies. Hence, we decided not to be harsh with them. It is not alone my ministry but the government as a whole is trying to help them, the minister said. "Had the train services commenced earlier, as the Uddhav Thackeray government has been demanding, the sufferings of labourers would have been much less," he said. Deshmukh said there was some communication gap (between the state government and labourers) which could have been corrected earlier. "We never thought the lockdown would get extended for such a long time. We tried to speak to migrant labourers. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray also made several appeals, but the migrant workers decided to return home, he said.  Deshmukh said the government tried to convince migrant labourers not to leave the state by telling them that some industries have resumed and there would be more relaxations in days to come. "During my visit to temporary shelter homes, a group of workers told me they might come back after Diwali, but now they want to go home, the minister said. They are taking a huge risk by setting off on foot to their native places as they do not have money and resources to complete the journey, he noted. The minister also said the Maharashtra government has borne the cost of transporting 10,000 workers belonging Madhya Pradesh who were in Telangana. "The Telangana government dropped them at the Maharashtra border. Our government provided them shelter and food and later dropped them at the Madhya Pradesh border. The Maharashtra government did not charge anything for it, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/letting-migrants-walk-home-amid-lockdown-on-humanitarian-ground-maharashtra-home-minister-836137.html
11-05-2020||West||Will Maha govt procure food grains for migrants, poor? asks Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court has directed the Maharashtra government to take a decision on whether it would procure additional food grains from the Food Corporation of India for supplying to migrant workers and other needy persons who do not have ration cards. Justice S C Gupte gave the directive last Friday while hearing a petition filed by Pune resident Vanita Chavan, raising concerns over the supply of food grains to the poor and needy persons during the coronavirus-enforced lockdown. In her plea, Chavan claimed there has not been proper distribution of food grains through ration shops in the state. She sought a direction to the government to make available food grains to persons who do not have ration cards, like the migrant workers and wandering tribes. The state government told the court on Friday that it has so far not taken a decision on the directive issued by the Centre allowing all states and Union Territories to increase their requirement of food grains under the Open Market Sale Scheme (OMSC) for distribution outside the targeted public distribution system. The court noted that the Centre has advised all state governments and Union Territories to take additional quantity of food grains from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) under OMSC, to fulfil their requirement for those persons who are not covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). "It is possible for the state to act under this advisory and take additional food grains from FCI for the needs of wandering tribes and other people stranded within the state, who do not hold ration cards and who come under non- NFSA categories," Justice Gupte said.  "Considering the peculiar situation prevalent in the state as a result of COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown introduced by the state due to it, it is imperative for the state to take a decision on this issue, the court said. The bench posted the matter for further hearing on May 12, when the government will have to file an affidavit stating its decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-maha-govt-procure-food-grains-for-migrants-poor-asks-bombay-hc-836195.html
11-05-2020||West||Uddhav Thackeray files nomination for MLC polls||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and four other candidates from the ruling alliance filed their nominations on Monday for the May 21 MLC polls. The chief minister, who is currently not a member of either of the Houses of the state Legislature, submitted his nomination papers to the election officer here. He was accompanied by his wife Rashmi Thackeray, son and state Cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray and Shiv Sena's Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut. Neelam Gorhe, the deputy chairperson of Maharashtra Legislative Council, also filed her nomination papers from the Shiv Sena. Besides, NCP leaders Shashikant Shinde and Amol Mitkari and Congress' Rajesh Rathod also filed their papers. Elections for nine seats of the state Legislative Council are scheduled on May 21. The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, has fielded five candidates. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is also president of the Shiv Sena, is set to enter the Legislative Council unopposed as the Congress on Sunday announced that it would withdraw one of its two nominees. The opposition BJP has announced four candidates - Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil, Gopichand Padalkar, Praveen Datke and Ajit Gopchhade - who filed their nominations on Friday. Monday is the last day for filing nominations. The scrutiny of papers will take place on Tuesday and the last date for withdrawal of papers is May 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-files-nomination-for-mlc-polls-836205.html
11-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Migrant workers leave Mumbai for UP in taxis, auto rickshaws||They pegged the number of 'kaali peeli' taxis and autos leaving the city to 1000 and 5000 respectively. A cyclist on the Mumbai-Agra highway told PTI that he saw migrants travelling in trucks, auto rickshaws and bikes on way to their native places in central and north India. Union officials said with increasing possibility of further extension of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, several auto and taxi drivers are going to their native places in their black and yellow coloured auto rickshaws and taxis. A L Quadros of the Mumbai Taximens Union said over 1000 black and yellow taxis and 5000 auto rickshaws from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region have left the region. There are around 45000 black and yellow cabs and around 5 lakh auto rickshaws in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, he said. "Due to the lockdown for almost two months, the cabbies and auto drivers are left with no money and hence instead of dying without food here, they are preferring to go to their native place," said Quadros. According to union leaders, the cabbies and auto rickshaws drivers are leaving Mumbai in groups of 20 to 50 or more and are headed to UP, Bihar, Mandhya Pradesh and Jharkhand, while some cabbies are also going to Karnataka. "After another extension of the lockdown and the easing of restrictions on migrants, the auto drivers started to travel back to their native places in their auto rickshaws in groups since last week," said K K Tiwari, leader of the Swabhiman Taxi-Rickshaw Union. Shashank Rao, leader of Mumbai Auto Rickshawmens Union said that as bus and truck drivers were asking for exorbitant fare, the drivers are preferring to take their own vehicles to travel back home as these are anyway going to remain parked in Mumbai if they travel by any other mode of transport. "Packing their luggage, a few drivers are travelling with families, while many drivers, who have their families at their native place, are going with other drivers and friends," said Rao. According to union leaders, taxi and auto drivers are going to native places sans any e-pass issued by the police, as they consider it a time and money consuming task. RTO officials said auto and taxi permit holders are allowed to travel to native places by getting online temporary permits, which are valid for a few months.  Quadros said Maharashtra government should issue a notification and waive the temporary permit condition for taxis and autos till things normalise. "The drivers don't have necessary facilities like internet connection and printers to get online permits, and the transport department cannot issue these offline due to staff shortage," said Quadros. Sujit Singh, an auto driver from Mumbai's Vakola area said he left for Uttar Pradesh in a group of about 50 auto rickshaws from their area on Saturday and on Monday morning reached Madhya Pradesh, travelling via Nashik.  "There is no sign of lifting of lockdown and the condition due to coronavirus is worsening further. Hence I decided to return to my native place," said Singh, adding that they had applied for e-pass but they did not get it so they are carrying health certificates with them to show to police and other authorities if they ask. Singh said the group did not face any issues enroute except police checkup at a couple of locations before Nashik. "We did not face any issue while entering MP as well. In fact, the police there offered us which was food arranged with the help of some organisations," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-migrant-workers-leave-mumbai-for-up-in-taxis-auto-rickshaws-836212.html
11-05-2020||West||Gujarat: Nirma Limited labourers vandalise staff bus after train cancellation||Hundreds of labourers working at the Nirma Limited's detergent plant in Gujarat's Bhavnagar district allegedly went on a rampage and vandalised a staff bus in the early hours of Monday after a Shramik Special train to Uttar Pradesh from here was cancelled, police said. The incident took place at the labourers' colony near Nirma plant in Kala Talav area after the workers got angry thinking the company was not letting them go to their native place during the lockdown, "which was not true", Superintendent of Police Jaipalsinh Rathore said. "Some of the labourers were supposed to catch a special train to Uttar Pradesh from Bhavnagar railway station on Monday morning. When they were being taken to the station in a staff bus, the company management learnt the train was cancelled due to some reason. Thus, the bus took a u-turn mid-way and came back to the labourers' colony," he said. The labourers thought the company was not allowing them to go, the official said. "After returning, they went on a rampage and broke some window panes and windscreen of the bus," he said. Police lodged an FIR under charges of rioting and a process was underway to arrest 10 of the labourers, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-nirma-limited-labourers-vandalise-staff-bus-after-train-cancellation-836218.html
11-05-2020||West||827 who landed in Mumbai kept under institutional quarantine||As many as 827 Indians who landed at the Mumbai international airport from abroad so far since Sunday have been kept under institutional quarantine as per the guidelines for COVID-19, a civic official said. However, none of them has been shifted to any isolation facility, he said. Isolation separates sick people with a contagious disease from those who are not sick, while quarantine separates and restricts the movement of people who were exposed to a contagious disease to see if they become sick. So far, four flights have landed in the city - one each from London, Singapore and Manila on Sunday and one from San Francisco on Monday, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. Excluding the crew members, the flight from San Francisco had 105 passengers onboard, and the flights from London, Singapore and Manila carried 329,243 and 150 passengers, respectively, he said. "None of them has been shifted to an isolation facility," the official said. Out of the total passengers who landed here, those belonging to Mumbai were kept under mandatory institutional quarantine in hotels near the airport, while those hailing from other cities were taken to their respective places by state transport buses and tourist cabs, sources said. The civic body has reserved over 3,340 rooms in 88 hotels for keeping these passengers brought back to India under 'Mission Vande Bharat', under institutional quarantine. Only passengers with coronavirus symptoms like fever, cough, cold and breathlessness will be shifted to isolation facilities, whereas those without any such symptoms will be kept under mandatory institutional quarantine, as per the BMC. After landing at the airport here, all passengers were screened and also sensitised about coronavirus, the BMC official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/827-who-landed-in-mumbai-kept-under-institutional-quarantine-836274.html
11-05-2020||West||Over 1,000 cops coronavirus positive in Maharashtra||In a number that reflects the plight of those on the frontlines, over 1,000 police personnel have been found COVID-19 positive in Maharashtra in the last two months. A total of six cops have died batting COVID-19 in the state, which is the worst-affected in the country. As many as 113 have been treated and discharged. “It is exemplary that the entire 2.25 lakh strong police force is working for long hours through what is one of the biggest public health challenges we are facing," home minister Anil Deshmukh said. “To those who say this will affect the morale of the police, I want to affirm that in difficult times, the efficiency of police has, in fact, doubled," he said. He however admitted: “It is essential to underline to the police force that they are not alone in this fight. From the flurry of messages, phone calls and social media posts to me on various platforms, I know this is an issue which the citizenry feels as strongly as me.”  Deshmukh highlighted how whether it was the 26/11 terror attack or the great deluge of 2005 which drowned Mumbai, Maharashtra police has always gone out of its way to help citizens even risking their life and limb.  “This has come to the fore again with the current COVID-19 pandemic as the police personnel form the frontline Covid warriors called out to help with law and order even in areas of high-contagion,” he pointed out. Deshmukh said he has decided to honour the selflessness of police personnel by putting up the Maharashtra Police logo as his DP on WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and asked citizens to join him. The appeal has met with a tremendous response from the length and breadth of the state and many citizens changed their DPs immediately.  This includes grassroots activists, homemakers, collegians, political acitivists, corproate captains, sportspersons and well-known celebs who feel strongly about showing solidarity with the police.  Many well-known personalities responded to Deshmukh's appeal and changed their DPs. These include NCP MP Supriya Sule and Deshmukh's cabinet colleague water resources minister Jayant Patil; cricketer Virat Kohli;  Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra; actors Salman Khan, Shah Rukh Khan, Riteish Deshmukh, Genelia Deshmukh, Ajay Devgn, Arjun Kapoor, Varun Dhawan, Siddharth Malhotra, Suniel Shetty, Gulshan Grover, Rohit Roy, Arjun Bajwa, Vatsal Sheth, Katrina Kaif, Dia Mirza, Tisca Chopra, Bhagyashree, Mrunal Thakur, Pooja Hegde, Hina Khan; music composer Jatin Pandit and his son Rahul; well-known film publicist Saleha Yohann; filmmakers Karan Johar and Sajid Nadiadwala; scriptwriter Rajat Aroraa; ghazal exponents Talat Aziz and Penaz Masani; fashion designer Neeta Lulla, model-choreographer Lubna Adams and Shaurya Pratap Singh among others. Several political activists and functionaries from the NCP and Maha Vikas Aghadi also followed suit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-1000-cops-coronavirus-positive-in-maharashtra-836322.html
11-05-2020||West||Lockdown migration: Mumbai autorickshaws crowd MP highway||The National Highway Number 3, also called Mumbai-Agra Road that touches Indore in Madhya Pradesh through a bypass road, is seeing a steady stream of autorickshaws from the country's commercial capital as people move back to their native towns and villages amid the coronavirus-enforced lockdown that has rendered them jobless. Officials and eye-witnesses put the number of these three-wheelers from Mumbai crossing the Indore Bypass Road at 50 every hour (rpt every hour). Mumbai has the highest number of COVID-19 cases for any city in the country and a strict lockdown since late March has taken almost all autorickshaws and black-and-yellow taxis off the roads there, leaving thousands of drivers and their kin jobless and without adequate cash in hand.  Among them is Baleshwar Yadav (54), who is returning from the country's commercial capital to his native village in Jharkhand's Hazaribagh, with eight people, including two women and three children, cramming into his three-wheeler. "I have been driving an autorickshaw in Mumbai for the past 12 years. But everything is closed there now. I spent two months digging into my savings but that, too, has run out. I have no choice but to return to my village," he told PTI on Monday. Asked about the possibility of returning to Mumbai in the near future, he replied, "Whether it is six months or a year, I have to return because I still have to pay installments on the bank loan with which I bought this vehicle. Till the situation normalises in Mumbai, I will engage myself in agriculture and cattle rearing." Ajay Yadav (36), hailing from Jaunpur district in Uttar Pradesh, said he had been driving an autorickshaw in Mumbai's Goregaon area for the last four years, and had left for his native village two days ago with a couple of friends. "There was no food in Mumbai due to lack of work. We will think of returning to the city later," he said. "Around 50 autorickshaws are passing through this road every hour. Most of them are from Mumbai," claimed Rajkumar Patel, a volunteer at a dining stall set up by a social organisation on the Indore bypass road. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Traffic) Umakant Chaudhary said autorickshaws were being allowed to pass only after those inside are subjected to medical screening when they enter the border of Madhya Pradesh. "We have been seeing a sizeable number of autorickshaws from Mumbai on the Indore Bypass Road over the last one week. We have also received information that some drivers are charging people to transport them to their native places in other states," the DySP said. Chaudhary said CNG-fitted autorickshaws were seen in long queues at fuel pumps on the Indore Bypass road since the number of pumps selling CNG on this route is less. "On this route, CNG pumps open between 6 am and 10 pm. In view of the problems faced by autorickshaws, locals are demanding these pumps be kept open 24 hours," Chaudhary added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-migration-mumbai-autorickshaws-crowd-mp-highway-836327.html
11-05-2020||West||Pre-bid meeting held for bullet train work||Maintaining the pace of the bullet train project even during the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown,  the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited, conducted online pre-bid meetings. The online pre-bid meetings for some segments of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail project were organised on Monday, through video conferencing for three active tenders. The main objective of these meetings was to clear doubts of potential bidders before they submit their final bidding documents. The online pre-bid meetings received exceptional response and were attended by various construction companies, members from JICC from Japan, senior officers from NHSRCL and Chief Project Managers/NHSRCL from sites offices located in various cities in Gujarat.  The prospective bidders also appreciated the efforts made by NHSRCL to clarify their queries related to the contracts through the online pre-bid meetings. The pre-bid meetings were carried out for the following three contracts, a spokesperson said. Despite the lockdown, NHSRCL teams in headoffice and project site offices are working online to ensure that the project related work pertaining to Mumbai- Ahmedabad High Speed project is being carried out without any delays.  Regular review meetings are also being organised to monitor the progress of the project. NHSRCL is leveraging the technology to stay connected with its stakeholders to ensure continuous momentum in offering support in such tough times.  The project related tasks like finalisation of bid documents, architectural designs and drawings of structures are being finalised. The training programs related to capacity and skill building are also being organised through IT solutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pre-bid-meeting-held-for-bullet-train-work-836353.html
11-05-2020||West||Mumbai lockdown: Over 100 booked for offering prayers on road||A case was registered on more than 100 people for offering namaz on a street in Dongri in Mumbai last week in violation of lockdown and prohibitory orders in place for the novel coronavirus outbreak, police said on Monday. The case under relevant sections of the IPC, Disaster Management Act was registered by police after suo motu (on its own) cognizance was taken of the act which took place on Thursday night on SVP Road in the area, a Dongri police station official said.  "On Thursday, a 72-year-old local resident died of natural causes. Since he was part of an organisation called Raza Academy, its members organised a 'janaza namaz' on the road. We registered a case against 100-125 people," the official said. Confirming the development, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Dongri division) Avinash Dharmadhikari said, "We have registered a case against some 100 members of Raza Academy for violating lockdown norms. However, no arrest has been made so far." An official said the case has been registered under sections 188 (disobeying the order of public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC and provisions of Disaster Management Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-lockdown-over-100-booked-for-offering-prayers-on-road-836434.html
11-05-2020||West||Govt likely to make Aarogya Setu app mandatory for flyers post lockdown||The Centre is likely to make it mandatory for people to have Aarogya Setu mobile application installed in their phones while taking a flight post-lockdown, officials said on Monday. "Preliminary discussions regarding making this app mandatory for air passengers have been done with the airlines," the government officials noted, adding that the Civil Aviation Ministry is yet to take a decision in this regard.  The mobile application helps users identify whether they are at risk of COVID-19. It also provides people with important information, including ways to avoid coronavirus and its symptoms. The app gives colour coded-designation to users as per their health status and travel history. It helps the user know if he or she is near anyone who has tested positive for the virus. "If the proposal is approved in the Aviation ministry, passengers who do not have the app on their phone would not be allowed to board their flight," the officials noted. The third phase of coronavirus-triggered lockdown will end on May 17. The government is yet to take a decision regarding resumption of commercial passenger flight services.  India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected more than 67,100 people and killed over 2,200 till now in the country. All commercial passenger flight operations have been suspended for the lockdown period. However, cargo flights, medical evacuation flights and special flights approved by the aviation regulator DGCA have been allowed to operate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/govt-likely-to-make-aarogya-setu-app-mandatory-for-flyers-post-lockdown-836478.html
