12-05-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Coronavirus: Nine more persons test COVID-19 positive in Karnataka's Dharwad||This takes the total number of those tested positive in the district to 21. Among them, seven persons have already recovered and discharged. As on Tuesday morning, the active cases in Dharwad district stood at 14. Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan said on Tuesday that those who came from Ahmedabad were received and kept at government quarantine at the University of Agricultural Sciences in Dharwad and the samples of their blood and throat swab were sent for test.  The lab reports that came on Tuesday have confirmed that the nine persons have tested positive for COVID-19. All the nine infected are male and are identified as P-879 (55), P 880 (31), P 881(25), P 882(70), P 883(26), P 884(18), P 885(19), P 886 (20) and P 887 (27). DC Deepa said that all these nine persons were admitted to the super speciality facility at the KIMS hospital, Hubballi after they tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/coronavirus-nine-more-persons-test-covid-19-positive-in-karnatakas-dharwad-836682.html
12-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Coronavirus: Minor tests COVID-19 positive in Kalaburagi; two more persons test positive in Bidar||The increasing number of positive cases in the district has created anxiety among the people of the district.  Meanwhile, in Bidar, two youth aged between 23 and 30 years tested positive for COVID-19. They contracted the virus after they roamed in a containment zone of the city. They are undergoing treatment at the BRIMS here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/coronavirus-minor-tests-covid-19-positive-in-kalaburagi-two-more-persons-test-positive-in-bidar-836716.html
12-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two COVID-19 positive cases reported in Yadgir||Though the district has the highest number of migrant workers in Kalyana Karnataka region, it had been COVID-19-free so far.  The test results of a 38-year-old man and a 33- year-old woman came back positive. They have a history of travelling to Ahmedabad in Gujarat.   Deputy Commissioner M Kurmarao said, so far, about 60,000 migrant workers have travelled back home after the first round of nationwide lockdown was enforced to contain the spread of COVID-19. We conducted a house-to-house survey in the district. The migrants who returned home have completed a 14-mandatory quarantine, he explained.  Meanwhile, the deputy commissioner has ordered for a complete lockdown of the district from Monday midnight to Tuesday midnight. Except for medical stores and essential services, all business establishments have been ordered to down their shutters||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-in-yadgir-836680.html
12-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Karnataka's Hassan reports five COVID-19 positive cases, loses green zone tag||The positive cases at the end of lockdown 3.0 have come as a shocker for the people of the district. All the five cases, including two girls, have a travel history to Mumbai, Maharashtra.  Patient 900 is a 36-year-old man, P901, a 27-year-old woman, P902, a seven-year-old girl, P903, a 44-year-old man and P904, a four-year-old girl.  All are being treated at the designated COVID-19 hospital in Hassan. It may be mentioned that there was confusion over a positive case from Hassan on Monday evening and the Deputy Commissioner R Girish clarified that there was no such case from Hassan as on May 11. It may be mentioned that the district had returned to normalcy and all economic activities resumed a week ago. Meanwhile, Mandya reported one more COVID-19 positive case on Tuesday. P869 is a 28-year-old man with a travel history to Mumbai. With this, the total number of cases in the district has gone up to 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-karnatakas-hassan-reports-five-covid-19-positive-cases-loses-green-zone-tag-836692.html
12-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||KR Pet man tests positive in Mandya, negative in Mysuru||Mandya reported one more positive case on Tuesday. Patient 869 is a 28-year-old man with a travel history to Mumbai. With this, the total number of cases has gone up to 31 (one from other district). In all, 16 persons have been cured. Fourteen persons are under treatment at the designated hospital and 88 are under hostel quarantine. The patients under home quarantine are 3,540. Confusion prevailed over the case, which is considered as one from other district (Mysuru). The person, who tested negative in Mysuru on April 4, has later tested positive in KR Pet.  The person had returned to Maravanahalli in KR Pet taluk from Mumbai. The person had travelled in a truck from Mumbai on March 24, and reached Bellur Cross in Nagamangala taluk. From there, he travelled to Mysuru, and stayed at his relative’s house near Ring Road. On May 1, he complained of throat pain and cough and got tested himself for Covid. The test conducted on May 4 in Mysuru was negative. As he tested negative, the patient visited KR Pet on May 9. As he had come from Mumbai, he was quarantined in the taluk hospital, where he has tested positive. “We have sought clarification from Mysuru district administration, over the case,” the DC said. The primary contacts have been identified and quarantined. Efforts are on to trace the secondary contacts. Goravanahalli has been announced as prohibited area and police security is beefed up, he explained. As tests have been intensified, the number of Covid cases are on the rise. The people have been violating the norms and are visiting the district via trucks and motorbikes. They should undergo Covid test voluntarily. There is no need to panic, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kr-pet-man-tests-positive-in-mandya-negative-in-mysuru-836912.html
12-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hassan tests 5 positive cases; slips to Orange Zone||Hassan district, which was in a safe position, with a green zone tag, since the lockdown was enforced, registered five positive cases, four of a single family, on Tuesday. The positive cases at the fag end of lockdown 3.0 has come as a shocker to the people of the district. All the five cases, including two girls, have a travel history to Mumbai in Maharashtra. Patient (P) 900 is a 36-yr-old man; P901, 27-yr-old woman; P902, a 7-year-old girl, P903, a 44-yr-old man and P904, a four-year-old girl. All are being treated at the designated COVID hospital in Hassan. Five people, who returned to Hassan from Mumbai, tested positive for COVID-19, and have been shifted to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS), the designated COVID-19 hospital in Hassan on Tuesday. The family members had travelled in a car, hired from Mumbai to Channarayapatna via Arsikere, on May 10. They had registered via ‘Seva Sindhu’ mobile App. They were directly sent to quarantine from the checkpost as they had travelled from Mumbai, the COVID-19 hotspot of the country, said Deputy Commissioner R Girish. Addressing media persons, the DC said, according to the patients, the car driver returned after dropping them. Efforts are on to trace the driver. Another patient had also come from Mumbai, along with his friend from KR Pet, in a car on May 10. He was screened and has tested positive on May 12. As the Mumbai returnees were directly sent to quarantine and had not roamed around in the district, there is no need for a seal-down of their village, he clarified. After five persons from Hassan district tested positive, permission to those seeking entry through ‘Seva Sindhu’ App from other states has been temporarily stalled. Migrants from other states will be quarantined in hostels, and those from other districts will be subject to thermal screening and quarantined only if they show symptoms, the DC clarified. Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda said that those coming from other states are quarantined in the hostels of their respective taluks. There was a confusion over a positive case from Hassan on Monday evening and later, it was identified from Mandya. It may be mentioned that the district had returned to normalcy and all commercial activities resumed a week ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-tests-5-positive-cases-slips-to-orange-zone-836914.html
12-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Row over MLA son’s horse ride||A video clip of Bhuvankumar, son of Gundlupet BJP MLA C S Niranjan Kumar, riding on a horse on Ooty-Mysuru Road, defying lockdown norms, has gone viral on the social media. There is no clarity on the date of horse ride. While the Congress leaders have alleged that it was during the lockdown, the MLA’s supporters have claimed that it was an old video clip. The MLA was not available for contact. The video clip shows the empty road and a motorbike rider wearing a mask. But, Bhuvankumar, is seen riding the horse without any mask.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/row-over-mla-son-s-horse-ride-836919.html
12-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Kumaraswamy warns Karnataka govt against ordinance to amend labour laws and APMC||Warning against any move by the government to amend labour laws and APMC through an ordinance, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday asked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa work in the interest of the people and not budge under any pressure from the centre or to please party bosses. The former Chief Minister questioned the urgency to bring forward such ordinances on important subjects and asked the government to have a public debate on it and also discuss it in the assembly. "I'm warning the government... I have been watching everything silently till now, I have not caused any embarrassment to the government. I want to tell the government, don't push us to do it," Kumaraswamy said. Speaking to reporters here, he said the party has supported the government in its fight against COVID-19 and not criticized it, despite mistakes. "Please don't take our silence as weakness, I'm warning the government," he said, as he told Yediyurappa that he has become Chief Minister to protect the people's interests and asked him not to budge under pressure from the central government or to please the Prime Minister or someone else. His warning came amidst reports that the state government was mulling relaxing some key labour laws in line with those brought in other BJP ruled states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. Also, that it planned to amend the agricultural marketing laws to remove restrictions on sale of farm produce and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere. Alleging that the government planned to bring in modifications in the APMC act, Kumaraswamy said the Cooperative Minister himself had said that the decision to dilute APMCs powers will result in losses of no less than Rs 600 crore to the exchequer and that the state will have to abide by it as it was the decision taken by the centre. "This amendment will end the Agricultural Produce Market Committees and help big private companies. There will be no protection to farmers," he said. Further alleging that there are plans to modify labour laws that include extending work hours, Kumaraswamy accused the government of bringing such "anti-people" amendment through ordinance during the lockdown as none can come out on the streets and protest against it. "Bring those amendments to the assembly, explain the need for them to the house, have a public debate about it... don't bring such ordinance under the directives of the centre, to please someone," he said. The former Chief Minister said he would write to the Governor to use his discretionary powers before approving such ordinances, after a thorough scrutiny.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/kumaraswamy-warns-karnataka-govt-against-ordinance-to-amend-labour-laws-and-apmc-836853.html
12-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah alleges RSS giving communal colour to COVID-19 by blaming Tablighi for spread; BJP refutes allegation||Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday alleged the RSS was giving communal colour to the coronavirus issue in India by blaming the Tablighi Jamaat for the COVID-19 spread, prompting a strong rebuttal from the BJP. "Today they are doing politics alleging that it is spreading through Tablighi in India. Giving political colour to the issue is RSS strategy. It is communal politics at play," Siddaramaiah, who is the Congress Legislature Party leader, said at a press conference. Hitting out at the Centre, he wanted to know who gave the permission for the Tablighi Jamat to hold the conference. "...Wasn't that Centre? In whose hand is Delhi police? The event happened next to a police station." "If you look at the permission given to Tablighi, it makes it clear that there is a conspiracy behind it," he added. According to him, the first mistake was to give permission to the international conference and the second mistake was to allow it to continue when the coronavirus had taken the shape of a pandemic. Refuting Siddaramaiah's allegation, the state BJP spokesperson S Prakash told PTI: "Siddaramaiah should know that the Station House Officer of the police station where the Tablighi Jamaat congregation took place had called the organisers and directed them to wind up the event but they did not heed." He said the government had asked those who attended the congregation to come for medical examination but many disappeared and did not turn up. Speaking on the issue of migrant workers, Siddaramaiah slammed the Centre for the poor handling of the coronavirus situation. A religious congregation in Delhi of the Jamaat in March in which thouands of people from India and abroad had participated has emerged as the biggest coronavirus hotspot. Many of these people have tested positive for the virus. The Congress leader alleged the government failed to act immediately when the virus was spreading across the globe. Speaking about the migrant workers' issue, he claimed the centre did not release money from the PM-CARES fund to pay for the migrant workers stuck all over the country including 5.5 lakh workers in Karnataka. He said the PM CARES has got a fund of Rs 35,000 crore including Rs 3,500 crore from Karnataka and the centre could have used the fund for the migrant workers instead of charging money from them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-alleges-rss-giving-communal-colour-to-covid-19-by-blaming-tablighi-for-spread-bjp-refutes-allegation-836857.html
12-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||RSS giving communal spin to COVID-19: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Tuesday accused the RSS, the BJP’s ideological parent, of communalising the Covid-19 situation by blaming the Tablighi Jamaat for the spread of the virus.  “They are doing politics by saying the virus is spreading because of Tablighi. It’s the RSS’ strategy to give it a communal colour,” the former chief minister told reporters. Siddaramaiah attacked the Centre for allowing the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi despite Covid-19 cases being reported. “The event took place next to a police station. The way the Tablighi event was allowed to take place, it’s clear there’s a conspiracy,” he charged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/rss-giving-communal-spin-to-covid-19-siddaramaiah-836934.html
12-05-2020||National||Sambit Patra booked on charge of hurting religious feelings||An FIR was registered on Monday against BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra here in Chhattisgarh under the charges of promoting enmity between different groups and hurting religious feelings, police said. "The case was registered this evening against Patra at Civil Lines police station based on a complaint lodged by Poornachand Padhi. The probe is underway," Raipur Superintendent of Police Arif Sheikh told PTI. Padhi, who heads Chhattisgarh Youth Congress, referred to a tweet of Patra posted on May 10. The complainant claimed that Patra levelled false allegations against former Prime Ministers Jawahar Lal Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi in connection with the Kashmir issue, 1984 anti-Sikh riots and Bofors scam, as per the FIR. The two former PMs were never convicted in any case of corruption or riots, Padhi stated in his complaint. While the country is battling COVID-19, the act of tweeting such content on social platforms is not only prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony between different religious groups, communities but is likely to disturb the public tranquillity, Padhi stated. The case was registered under sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc), 505(2)(statements conducing to public mischief) and 298 (uttering, words, etc. with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person) of the IPC, police said. Meanwhile, Chhattisgarh BJP spokesperson Sanjay Shrivastav accused the ruling Congress of misusing the state machinery to lodge FIR against leaders of the saffron party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sambit-patra-booked-on-charge-of-hurting-religious-feelings-836534.html
12-05-2020||National||Docs of Delhi civic hospitals write to PM over 'non-payment' of 3-month salary||An association of medics of civic hospitals in Delhi has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, alleging that doctors of the north corporation have not been paid salaries for the last three months. The Municipal Corporation Doctor's Association (MCDA), set up during the time of the erstwhile unified municipal corporation of Delhi, sent the letter in an e-mail last week, officials said. The association, in the letter, has said that doctors are working in "highly stressful" condition due to the coronavirus pandemic. "We have not been given salaries for the last three months (February-April), and we know our duty as a doctor to serve the patients. We are not asking for anything more, but just our salaries," MCDA president Dr R R Gautam said. There was no immediate reaction from the North Delhi Municipal Corporation authorities. "We have been compelled to write to the PM, seeking his interference, as this issue needs to be resolved," Dr R R Gautam said.  Otherwise, only option left for the doctors would be to "resign en masse", the letter said. Ten medical staff, including seven doctors of NDMC-run Hindu Rao Hospital have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past few weeks. It is the largest civic hospital in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/docs-of-delhi-civic-hospitals-write-to-pm-over-non-payment-of-3-month-salary-836535.html
12-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 12, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-12-2020-edition-836556.html
12-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 12||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 72,719 as of May 12.     States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 2,369   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 22,455 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-12-836557.html
12-05-2020||National||DH Cartoon: Shramik Special trains to now have only three stops, Indian Railways revises guidelines amid coronavirus lockdown||Shramik Special trains, ferrying migrant workers, will now carry its full capacity of passengers, says Indian Railways even as Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said the railways has the capacity to operate 300 trains daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-cartoon-shramik-special-trains-to-now-have-only-three-stops-indian-railways-revises-guidelines-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-836558.html
12-05-2020||National||Despite fear of coronavirus spreading, Indian Railways sticks to AC coaches||The South Western Railway on Monday sought to stress that no tickets will be issued at the railway stations for the special trains which will operate from Tuesday, but officials expressed concerns over running AC trains. “Only online E-Ticketing will be done through the IRCTC website...Booking of tickets through ‘agents’, (both IRCTC Agents and Railway Agents) shall not be permitted,” it said. While the measure was seen as a tool to avoid crowds at the station, the decision to run only AC coaches First AC, Second AC and Third AC has come as a surprise.   For the last two months, the Union and several state governments have been discussing the dangers of the AC environments, which are said to provide a conducive environment for growth and spread of pathogens, like the coronavirus. A petition has also been filed in the Delhi High Court against the use of central AC systems. To a question, a senior official in the Railways said, “Even we don’t know why they have limited the services to AC coaches. We think the regular sleeper coaches would have been a better option.” However, the official hinted that the AC trains were preferred due to their high cost. “Most of the people will find it difficult to afford the fare. That, in turn, will reduce the number of people. It will be difficult to control the crowds if sleeper and general coaches are run,” he said. Meanwhile, the railways said that no blankets, curtains and linens will be provided inside the train. “Passengers are advised to carry their own linen,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-fear-of-coronavirus-spreading-indian-railways-sticks-to-ac-coaches-836562.html
12-05-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh cop fined Rs 5,000 for performing 'Singham' stunt at work||A Madhya Pradesh Police sub-inspector was fined Rs 5,000 after he performed a daredevil act of balancing himself on two moving cars, copying the famous stunt from Ajay Devgn-starrer 'Singham'. Manoj Yadav, the in-charge of Narsinghgarh police post in Damoh district, was also warned against any such daredevilry in future, police sources said on Monday. Sporting shades as the hero of the cop drama film and wearing his police uniform, Yadav got the entire episode video-graphed, they said. As the video of the stunt went viral on social media, senior police officials took serious note of it as it will send wrong signals to youngsters, the sources said. Inspector General, Sagar range, Anil Sharma directed Damoh Superintendent of Police Hemant Chauhan to probe the matter. After an investigation, Chauhan imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on the sub-inspector and warned him not to repeat such mistakes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-cop-fined-rs-5000-for-performing-singham-stunt-at-work-836587.html
12-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: COVID-19, a death blow to TB patients in multiple ways||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, DH journalist Varsha Gowda talks to Deputy Executive Director of Stop TB Partnership, Dr Suvanand Sahu on how COVID-19 can affect tuberculosis patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-covid-19-a-death-blow-to-tb-patients-in-multiple-ways-836590.html
12-05-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 2,293; tally climbs to 70,756 in India: Union health ministry||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,293 and the number of cases climbed to 70,756 in the country on Tuesday, registering an increase of 87 fatalities and 3,604 cases in the last 24 hours since Monday 8 am, according to the Union health ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the country stood at 46,008, while 22,454 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the ministry said.  "Thus, around 31.73 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. A total of 87 deaths were reported since Monday morning -- 36 in Maharashtra, 20 in Gujarat, six each in Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, five in West Bengal and one each in Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir. Of the 2,293 deaths, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of fatalities at 868, followed by Gujarat (513), Madhya Pradesh (221), West Bengal (190), Rajasthan (113), Uttar Pradesh (80), Delhi (73), Tamil Nadu (53) and Andhra Pradesh (45). The death toll climbed to 31 in Karnataka as well as in Punjab. Telangana has reported 30 fatalities due to the respiratory disease, Haryana 11, Jammu and Kashmir 10, Bihar six and Kerala four. Jharkhand and Odisha have recorded three COVID-19 fatalities each, while Himachal Pradesh, Assam and Chandigarh have reported two deaths each. Meghalaya and Uttarakhand have reported a fatality each, according to the ministry data. According to the health ministry's website, more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities. The total figure of 70,756 includes foreign nationals.      The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 2,063 in West Bengal, 2,018 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,877 in Punjab. It has risen to 1,275 in Telangana, 879 in Jammu and Kashmir, 862 in Karnataka, 747 in Bihar and 730 in Haryana. Kerala has reported 519 coronavirus cases so far, while Odisha has 414 cases. A total of 174 people have been infected with the virus in Chandigarh and 160 in Jharkhand.  Tripura has reported 152 cases, Uttarakhand 68, Assam 65, Chhattisgarh  and Himachal Pradesh have 55 cases each and Ladakh has registered 42 coronavirus cases so far. Thirty-three COVID-19 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Meghalaya has registered 13 cases, Puducherry 12 and Goa seven. Manipur has two cases, while Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Dadra and Nagar Haveli have reported a case each. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-2293-tally-climbs-to-70756-in-india-union-health-ministry-836593.html
12-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Aarogya Setu app must for people travelling in special trains||Indian Railways has announced that passengers travelling in AC special trains mandatorily need to install Aarogya Setu mobile application on their mobile phone before starting the journey. It is mandatory for passengers to download Aarogya Setu app before commencing the journey, Railway Ministry said in a tweet. The railways announced special trains will connect 15 destinations from New Delhi starting today.  Earlier, the Union Home Ministry had said downloading Aarogya Setu app is not mandatory. The app gives colour coded-designation to users as per their health status and travel history. It helps the user know if he or she is near anyone who has tested positive for the virus the government said. The app was developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technolgy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-aarogya-setu-app-must-for-people-travelling-in-special-trains-836610.html
12-05-2020||National||Promote all class 11 students of West Bengal boards, schools asked||In a letter dated May 11, council president Mahua Das said as decided by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee all class 11 students should be declared promoted to the next class.  The council provides the question papers for the class 11 annual examinations, while the exams are conducted by the schools and papers are checked by internal examiners. Some of the papers of the class 12 board examinations and class 11 annual examinations, being conducted simultaneously, could not be held on the scheduled dates of March 23, March 25 and March 27 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  The government earlier said the higher secondary examinations will be held any day after June 10, while there will be no further annual exams for class 11 in this academic year. Around 11,10,000 students will be promoted from class 11 to class 12 this year with the government's decision, a council source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/promote-all-class-11-students-of-west-bengal-boards-schools-asked-836627.html
12-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to address nation at 8 pm today, unveil Lockdown 4.0 strategy||As per a tweet from the Prime Minister’s Office, Modi will be addressing the nation at 8 pm today evening. In his fourth lockdown address, the Prime Minister is likely to reach out to states, which will be given a larger role in deciding the combat criteria for COVID-19 during Lockdown 4.0 after May 17. Many of the Chief Ministers, including those who could not speak during the six-hour-long meeting on Monday, have been asked to submit their views in writing to the Centre by May 15. In the meeting, Modi had said that he continued to feel optimistic when not even a single state sounded despondent and that this collective determination would make India win in its fight against COVID-19.  The COVID-19 positive cases breached the 70,000-mark on Tuesday (May 12) despite nearly 50 days of lockdown so far. There is now a clear understanding in the government that there is a need to tweak the strategy to ensure that the economy does not go into an irreversible tailspin and the fight for life does not finish the possibility of livelihood in a way that it starts affecting lives substantially. In the meeting, while a number of Chief Ministers batted for another spell of lockdown, most wanted this round of lockdown to stay confined to containment zones with an impetus on accelerating economic activities in other areas to keep the engine of development running. Several of the states pointed out that with the return of migrants, there is a need to concentrate on strict implementation of social distancing guidelines, usage of masks and sanitisation in order to curb the spread of fresh infections, especially in rural areas. In the interaction with CMs, Modi said, “We now have a reasonably clear indication as to the geographical spread of the pandemic in India, including the worst-affected areas. Moreover, over the past few weeks, officials have understood operating procedures in a time such as this, right up to the district level.” He said that this understanding of the spread of COVID-19 would help the country in having a focussed fight against it. “And therefore, we can now further focus our strategy in this battle against coronavirus, as should be the case. We have a two-fold challenge – to reduce the transmission rate of the disease, and to increase public activity gradually while adhering to all the guidelines, and we will have to work towards achieving both these objectives,” he said. Modi said that the effort now should be to stop COVID-19 from spreading to rural areas. The prime minister said the suggestions made by the states for a roadmap on the economy have been given due consideration. Modi said that we must understand that the world had fundamentally changed post-COVID-19. "Now, the world will be pre-corona, post-corona just like the case of the World Wars," he said. "And this would entail significant changes in how we function." He said that the new way of life would be on the principle of “Jan se lekar jag tak”, from an individual to the whole of humanity. The prime minister said that we must all plan for the new reality.  “Even as we look at the gradual withdrawal of the lockdown, we should constantly remember that till we do not find a vaccine or a solution, the biggest weapon with us to fight the virus is social distancing,” he said. He requested all the chief ministers to provide specific feedback on the lockdown. “I request you all to share with me by May 15, a broad strategy on how each one of you would want to deal with the lockdown regime in your particular states. I want states to make a blueprint on how to deal with various nuances during and after the gradual easing of the lockdown,” he said. The prime minister said that we will need an all-encompassing approach to deal with various challenges that will arise before us. With the onset of monsoon, there will be a proliferation of many non-COVID-19 diseases, for which we must prepare and strengthen our medical and health systems. He asked the policymakers to also keep in mind how to embrace new models of teaching and learning in the education sector. The prime minister also expressed concern about the migrant issue in particular as millions want to march back to their home towns. A number of them died in accidents, including 16 who were mowed down on railway tracks in Maharashtra. Modi may also speak on the need for migrants to reach their homes safely, besides creating employment opportunities for them in cities as well as back in their home towns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-address-nation-at-8-pm-today-unveil-lockdown-40-strategy-836633.html
12-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Over 45,000 bookings worth Rs 16 crore so far on special trains, says Indian Railways||Over 80,000 passengers have booked tickets worth over Rs 16 crore on the special trains so far, the Indian Railways said on Tuesday, hours before the first such train is scheduled to depart from the New Delhi station for Bilaspur in Madhya Pradesh. The bookings for these special trains began at 6 pm on Monday. So far, 45,533 bookings (PNRs) worth Rs 16.15 crore have been recorded for the special trains for the next seven days, the railways said, adding that around 82,317 passengers will travel against these bookings.  The railways issued guidelines on Monday for 15 special trains, which will be operated from Tuesday, asking the passengers to carry their own food and linen, and arrive at stations at least 90 minutes before departure for a health screening. On Tuesday, the national transporter said installing the Aarogya Setu mobile application was mandatory for the passengers. The railways will run eight trains on Tuesday -- three from New Delhi terminating at Dibrugarh, Bengaluru and Bilaspur, and one each from Howrah, Rajendra Nagar (Patna), Bengaluru, Mumbai Central and Ahmedabad, which will terminate at Delhi. These special trains will only have air-conditioned coaches. Since the trains will be operated amidst the ongoing nationwide lockdown, only the passengers with confirmed e-tickets will be allowed to enter the stations. The fares of these trains will be equivalent to that of the Rajdhani trains and passengers can book tickets up to seven days in advance.  However, no RAC, wait-list ticket or on-board booking by the ticket-checking staff will be permitted, the railways said. The national transporter had suspended its passenger services in view of the lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-over-45000-bookings-worth-rs-16-crore-so-far-on-special-trains-says-indian-railways-836634.html
12-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Do swab tests not thermal screening, says IMA||With repatriation flights in full swing, the Indian Medical Association has asked for swab tests to be conducted on arriving passengers instead of thermal screening.The IMA-Maharashtra has written a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on this issue. "All passengers arriving in Maharashtra should undergo a swab test RT-PCR, on arrival and send them for the quarantine. This will take care of the untraced persons with or without symptoms," IMA-Maharashtra president Dr Avinash Bhondwe and honorary secretary Dr Pankaj Bandarkar said. The thermal scan of these people which is being done right now, should be discarded as it is absolutely not a reliable method for screening, they asserted in the letter to Thackeray. They also said that while transporting people from one state to another, non-AC trains should be deployed. "The central AC used for any larger space may spread the Coronavirus. Based on these lines only, the Supreme Court of India has asked to stop using central Air Conditioning at SC premises," the letter states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-do-swab-tests-not-thermal-screening-says-ima-836636.html
12-05-2020||National||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh discharged from AIIMS||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was on Tuesday discharged from AIIMS, where he was admitted on Sunday after he developed reaction to a new medicine and complained of uneasiness. “Dr Manmohan Singh has been discharged from AIIMS. Now, he is resting at home,” a Congress functionary said. During his two-day stay in hospital, the 87-year-old economist-turned-politician underwent a series of medical tests, including one for COVID-19, which turned out to be negative. “His test reports were alright,” a Congress functionary said. Singh was admitted to AIIMS for observation after he developed a febrile reaction to a new medication. Singh has a history of diabetes and had also undergone bypass surgeries in 1990 and 2009 and a stenting procedure in 2004. A man of few words and calm demeanour, Singh was one of the longest serving prime ministers having served two consecutive five-year terms, a feat achieved only by Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi. Singh is a member of the Rajya Sabha from Rajasthan. His last ‘public appearance’ was on May 6, when he participated in a video conference of chief ministers of Congress-ruled states convened by Congress President Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-prime-minister-manmohan-singh-discharged-from-aiims-836637.html
12-05-2020||National||Indian Railways makes installing Aarogya Setu mobile app 'mandatory' for travel||The Indian Railways, which had on Monday "advised" the passengers availing the special trains that started operating on Tuesday to install the government's Aarogya Setu mobile application, has now made it "mandatory" to do so. While the guidelines issued by the railways for the 15 pairs of special trains running between Delhi and major cities of the country did not say installing the mobile app was mandatory, a late night (12:24 am) tweet by the railway ministry made it compulsory. "Indian Railways is going to start few passenger train services. It is mandatory for passengers to download Aarogya Setu app in their mobile phones, before commencing their journey," the tweet said. Sources said it was made mandatory after a Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) missive, following Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with chief ministers. Passengers, who do not have the app installed on their mobile phones, might be asked to do so after their arrival at the station, they added. Indian Railways is going to start few passenger trains services. It is mandatory for passengers to download Aarogya Setu app in their mobile phones, before commencing their journey Download this app now - However, there is no clarity yet on if and how the app will be enforced, officials said, as the Supreme Court, in a directive, has said making it mandatory is illegal. The Aarogya Setu app has been installed on 9.8 crore smartphones so far and is used by the government for contact-tracing and disseminating medical advisories to users in order to contain the spread of COVID-19. The MHA has also said installing the mobile app will be a must for those living in the COVID-19 containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-makes-installing-aarogya-setu-mobile-app-mandatory-for-travel-836650.html
12-05-2020||National||Minorities flourishing in India; Islamophobia allegations attempt to defame country: Naqvi||Minorities are "flourishing" in India and have been an equal partner in development without discrimination under the Modi government, Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Tuesday, dismissing allegations of Islamophobia as an attempt to defame the country. The "Narendra Modi phobia club” has been unable to digest the inclusive growth under the prime minister and is engaged in a "nefarious campaign" in India and abroad through fake propaganda alleging "intolerance, communalism and discrimination" against minorities in India, Naqvi said. In a blog titled "Islamophobia -- Bogey of Bogus Bashing Brigade", the minority affairs minister argued that the "Modi phobia club" is playing the “Islamophobia card" to harm the pluralistic fabric of India, but will not succeed. Naqvi's remarks come days after a wave of angry reactions on Twitter by citizens and rights activists from various Arab countries following allegations that Muslims are being blamed for spreading COVID-19 in parts of India. Also, the 57-member prominent international Mulim grouping, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, recently accused India of "Islamophobia". India has dismissed all such allegations. "Minorities in India are flourishing equally with all the citizens with a sense of equality, security and prosperity. Misinformation against such a gracious and tolerant country and its effective leadership is nothing but the height of ignorance and mental bankruptcy," Naqvi said. He claimed that no riot took place in last 5 years of the Modi government and it was after "nefarious preaching" by those who were irked by this that the Delhi riots happened. Naqvi said the women who sat on protests at Shaheen Bagh cannot be termed "anti-nationals" but they had been "misguided by the bogus bashing brigade”. This brigade pushed these women on a path which had an “entry gate” but no “exit gate”, the minister said. This was a “calculated conspiracy” by the brigade that wants to defame and disgrace Modi and India, Naqvi said. He also argued that for the "first time since Independence", India has forged close and strong ties with nearly all Islamic nations and countries such as Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Afghanistan, Russia, Palestine, Mauritius and the Maldives have conferred Modi with their highest civilian awards. "The United Nations has also conferred Narendra Modi with the prestigious 'Champions of the Earth Award'. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's global acceptance and popularity doesn't need any certificate," Naqvi said. The Modi government never planned development on the basis of Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians or on region and caste, and its priority has been the poor and deprived, Naqvi said, adding that still some people with a “prejudiced mindset” are trying to defame India by raising the bogey of Islamophobia. There is not a single incident of discrimination against any section of the society, including minorities under the Modi government, the minister asserted. All sections, including minorities, are strongly moving forward on the path of “development with dignity” under the Modi government, he said. When the challenges due to the coronavirus were in initial stages across the world in early January and several countries, including Pakistan, had not taken care of their people abroad, it was the Modi government that brought back thousands of Indians stranded in Wuhan (China), Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and other countries, Naqvi said, adding that a majority of these people were Muslims. In the recent Vande Bharat Mission also, the Indian government is bringing back thousands of Indians from countries such as the Maldives, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Qatar and other countries which include a large number of Muslims, he pointed out. "Strong eternal commitment of my country will defeat and demolish the fake and fabricated Islamophobia card of the 'India bashing brigade'," Naqvi said in his blog.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minorities-flourishing-in-india-islamophobia-allegations-attempt-to-defame-country-naqvi-836653.html
12-05-2020||National||Air India HQ sealed for two days after employee tests positive for coronavirus||"Airlines House has been sealed for Tuesday and Wednesday," an official said.  The employee posted at the Gurudwara Rakabganj Road building tested positive on Monday evening, he said. The government-run Air India is the only airline participating in the Vande Bharat Mission, under which the carrier would operate 64 flights between May 7 and May 14 to repatriate around 15,000 stranded Indians from 12 countries on a payment basis. India has been under a lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the virus, which has infected more than 70,000 people and killed around 2,290 people in the country till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-hq-sealed-for-two-days-after-employee-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-836654.html
12-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Shramik special trains ferry over 6 lakh stranded migrants||The national transporter has started operating Shramik trains on May 1 with four trains. "As on May 12, 2020, a total of 542 “Shramik Special” trains have been started out of which 448 trains had reached its destination and 94 trains are in transit," a statement from railway ministry said.  These 448 trains were terminated in various states like Andhra Pradesh (1 Train), Bihar (117 Trains), Chattisgarh (1 Train), Himachal Pradesh (1 Train), Jharkhand (27 Trains), Karnataka (1 Train), Madhya Pradesh (38 Trains), Maharashtra (3 Trains), Odisha (29 Trains), Rajasthan(4 Trains), Tamil Nadu (1 Train), Telangana(2 Trains), Uttar Pradesh (221 Trains), West Bengal(2 Trains). These trains have ferried migrants to cities including Tiruchchirappalli, Titlagarh, Barauni, Khandwa, Jagannathpur, Khurda Road, Prayagraj, Chhapra, Balia, Gaya, Purnia, Varanasi, Darbhanga, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Jaunpur, Hatia, Basti, Katihar, Danapur, Muzaffarpur and Saharsa Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Monday appealed the states to approve more trains so that more stranded people including migrant workers, students and tourists could be sent to their home. He also said that the railway allocated 1,200 trains for running as Shramik special trains and it is ready to operate 300 trains daily. The Railways also announced to run Shramik trains with full capacity, with 72 passengers in each coach instead of earlier 54 passengers. Earlier, Railway was not allocating middle berth in Shramik special trains to ensure social distancing norms. To operate Shramik trains, the Railways requires both sending and receiving states approval.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-shramik-special-trains-ferry-over-6-lakh-stranded-migrants-836677.html
12-05-2020||National||13 COVID-19 deaths in Delhi; cases now at 7,639||Thirteen COVID-19 related deaths, the highest for a single day, was reported in Delhi taking the total to 86 even as fresh cases surged to 406, a medical bulletin said on Tuesday (May 12). With this, Delhi has 7,639 cases of which 4,124 of 53.98% of the total cases were reported in May alone. The bulletin, however, did not make it clear whether these deaths happened during the past 24 hours or whether they died earlier and added to the list of COVID-19 casualties by the Delhi government’s Death Audit Committee. One of the positives would be that 383 people were discharged, taking the total to 2,512 even as those under treatment remained above 5,000. At present, 3,978 are being treated in hospitals while 1,073 mild cases are in home isolation. The number of testings also crossed one lakh mark with Delhi now tested 1,06,109 people, including 9,431 fresh samples. May alone accounts for more than half of the cases -- 4,124 or 53.99% of total cases -- reported in the capital. The capital recorded its first case on March 2 while it had crossed the 6,000 mark on May 8.  On May 1, Delhi had reported 223 cases which saw an increase to 386 on May 2. The capital reported 427 cases on May 3, 349 cases on May 4, 206 on May 5, 428 on May 6, 448 on May 7, 338 on May 8, 224, or May 9, 381 on May 10 and 310 on May 11. Meanwhile, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced Rs one crore compensation to the family of a municipal contractual teacher, who died due to COVID-19. Bekati Sarkar was engaged in food distribution in hunger relief centres.  Kejriwal said she had distributed food to poor on April 10, 17 and 18 but did not attend duty on April 25. During the enquiry, it was found that she was hospitalised, first in Ambedkar hospital and later in Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital where she breathed her last on May 4. "She is a Corona warrior and we have decided to give Rs one crore as compensation to her family," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-covid-19-deaths-in-delhi-cases-now-at-7639-836678.html
12-05-2020||National||2 workers die, 1 critical in boiler explosion at NLC India plant: CMD||Two of the eight workers injured in a boiler explosion at a thermal plant of NLC India last week have succumbed to their injuries, company's Chairman and Managing Director Rakesh Kumar said. Of the remaining six who were injured, one is still critical while four are recovering, he told PTI on Tuesday. Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi has ordered statutory and non statutory payment of at least Rs 15 lakh to the family of the deceased, irrespective of whether employee was regular or contractual. In addition to the compensation, the company will offer regular employment to the next of the kin of the deceased. Kumar said the senior management of the company will contribute their one day's salary to the family of the deceased. Besides, Kumar said, NLC India will bear the medical expenses of the injured workers. Last week, a fire broke out at the company's power plant at Neyveli, Tamil Nadu, resulting in burn injuries to two regular employees and six contract workers. The company has roped in former chairman of Central Electricity Authority A S Bakshi to investigate into the explosion incident. NLC India is a navratna company under the coal ministry. The main activity of the PSU is mining and power generation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-workers-die-1-critical-in-boiler-explosion-at-nlc-india-plant-cmd-836679.html
12-05-2020||National||India has shown leadership in fight against COVID-19: Senior diplomat||India has shown leadership in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and has been on the "front foot" in helping other countries combat the disease, the country's Consul General here has said, noting that the ingenuity and skills of its people will help the country's economy to bounce back. Sandeep Chakravorty was speaking during a virtual discussion organised by Indian-American community leader Jagdish Sewhani here on India's response to the COVID-19. “From a policy point of view, India is very clear that we have to stop the virus and not let it spread" and the government is undertaking all efforts to contain the virus," Chakravorty, India's Consul General in New York, said. Addressing members of the Indian-American community and organisations participating in the discussion, he said India has been on the “front foot” in helping other countries, including by sending shipments of essential medical supplies to various nations, including the US. “We have shown leadership in the G-20 and the SAARC countries,” in efforts to fight the pandemic, he said. Chakravorty said India's strategy for combating COVID-19 has several elements - lockdown, medical preparedness, support to those who have been affected by disruption in their lives as well as international cooperation. He noted that though the economy will be impacted, “it is really going to be our ingenuity, our skills, our ability in how quickly we can bounce back.” “Our priority was in saving lives,” Chakravorty said, adding that the economy can rebound but lives lost once will never be able to recover. “I think the way India has tackled with the COVID-19 crisis will really provide India with leadership in the world because we can really bounce back. India is trying to see that it can relocate some of the supply chains which are getting disrupted, moving out from other geographies and coming back to India,” he said. Sewhani, President of the American India Public Affairs Committee, said that the pandemic has presented an opportunity for India to attract businesses and companies that could be looking to move out of China due to the outbreak and diversify into other markets. “The world is looking at India for investments as alternative to China. India will emerge as a global manufacturing hub in the coming years,” he said, adding that the ease of doing business in India has improved substantially under Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  “The government must go out of its way and offer better personal income tax for foreigners. For a promoter-based company, this is a big big issue. No promoter will put money unless he can come to India to supervise, monitor and manage his investments,” he said. Sewhani stressed that with changes in the tax law, such visits are quite restrained and prohibitive as a foreign investor cannot stay in India for more than 180 days. “This is exactly what China has tackled well,” he said, adding that in order to encourage foreign investors, China changed the tax laws to allow them to stay for six years and only if they stay in China for more than 183 days in any one of those six years, are they taxed on global income. “We must adopt something similar to encourage promoter driven companies to invest in India. Such encouragement will make a success out of ‘Make In India' policy, helping the country become not only a five trillion dollar economy but a 10 trillion economy in future," he said. Commenting on the massive repatriation exercise ‘Vande Bharat’ to bring back stranded Indians from abroad, Chakravorty said the government is working very hard to ensure those most in distress, such as people with serious medical conditions, are brought back home as a priority. “The government has not forgotten Indians who are stranded abroad and we will make all efforts” to bring them back to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-shown-leadership-in-fight-against-covid-19-senior-diplomat-836685.html
12-05-2020||National||What will restaurants look like post COVID-19 lockdown?||Browse the menu on your phone, order and settle down, your companion just about within earshot and the rest of the crowd in the restaurant unseen and possibly unheard too – high on tech and low on people connect, this is perhaps what ‘contactless dining’ will look like in the immediate post-corona future. The futuristic tomorrow, perhaps envisaged only in books, is here and ‘contactless dining’ is the centrepiece of furious debate with some restaurateurs dismissing it as a contradiction in terms, others looking to introduce the concept and aggregators such as Zomato aggressively promoting it. As the industry ponders the uncertainties of the future where cosy dinners and large celebrations have both faded away, at least for now, contactless is the buzzword for the times – contactless delivery of groceries, food and essential, and now dining too. But contactless dining -- being pushed by aggregators, including Paytm, Zomato, and Dine Out, and aimed at reassuring customers -- is not practical in the dining out experience, say several restaurant owners.  Anurag Katriar, president of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said the sheer thought that dining can be contactless is “rubbish”. “It’s like somebody saying, 'Can I have chilli chicken without chilli or chicken’?” Katriar told PTI. While the process will allow customers to browse the menu, place an order and make payments, all through their phones, contact during certain elements of the dining experience, including the food being cooked, served and consumed at the restaurant table is inevitable.  “Essentially what is being proposed is an ordering system wherein you don’t look at a physical menu, you order your food digitally from your own phone. The idea is great, but it cannot qualify to be contactless dining.  “The menu is one of the hundreds of touch points consumers go through right from the time they enter the restaurant, so the idea is good but the nomenclature is absolutely a misnomer,” Katriar explained. The right word could perhaps be “digital ordering”, he suggested. It could also be called “smart dining”, said Karan Tanna. Or “less contact dining”, added Priyank Sukhija. Tanna, founder of Ghost Kitchen, said dining is an “experience” and “not possible without any contact”. In fact, he said the so-called new concept is nothing more than a “slight shift of events to the digital”. “Customers can use their phones to see the menus, place an order and make payments. This will avoid contact with hard copies of menus, restaurant menu tablets and bill folders. Besides this, nothing really changes. Preparing the food and serving the food will be done by humans,” he said. Sukhija, who owns restaurant chains, including Lord Of The Drinks, Café Jalwa, Tamasha, Lazeez Affaire, RPM, and Flying Saucer, agreed with him. “There will always be someone who will be making your food, plating it and serving it. So you can’t avoid that part of the dining process. There would be times when people might want to instruct the server regarding certain customisations — less spicy, more cheesy etc. “Besides, when you are at a restaurant, you use the washroom, you might give your car to the valet, so you cannot completely avoid contact,” he said.  However, Sukhija admitted he was indeed looking at aggregators to introduce the concept of ordering digitally across his restaurants as soon as they are allowed to open. It’s all about leveraging technology, believe Paytm and Zomato, which recently announced plans to introduce an additional option on their respective apps for contactless dining in the post lockdown world.   “Post the lockdown, the nation will require a safe and hygienic food ordering and dining experience which prompted us to build a ‘Contactless In-store Ordering’ for restaurants and eateries.  “We're leveraging technology to make the entire experience of ordering food contactless, and eliminate physical contact with menus, servers, bills and cash,” said Paytm Vice President Nikhil Saigal. Zomato explained the concept further in a blog post. “Contactless dining minimises customer contact with anything that someone else might have touched – by eliminating the use of high-touch elements at restaurants. Imagine a full-stack tech enabled dining experience, but with the least risk to health and safety,” it said. Sukhija is also planning to go the extra mile to assure his customers of “top notch hygiene” at his restaurants. His customers will have access to the live feed of the kitchen, and their own food being prepared, a feature that is also being incorporated by Roseate Hotels and Resorts. “The link to the video of their food being prepared will reassure our guests that utmost care is being taken with their food,” said Ankur Bhatia, executive director, Roseate Hotels & Resorts. The practice of pre-booking tables and selecting from the menu on restaurant tablets was prevalent before the pandemic and is likely to become more popular in the coming days, said Yogeshwar Sharma, executive director and CEO of Select Infrastructure Pvt Ltd (Select Citywalk).   “With the upcoming changing dynamics this concept will certainly gain pace and will be practiced in most of the restaurants across India,” he said. Customers are key to the whole concept working out. And those like 28-year-old Shiuli Chakravorty are apprehensive and also sceptical about hygiene practices in restaurants. Getting the menu, bill, and placing orders through the phone is “cool”, but not a solution to the hygiene fears that people have. “At the end of the day, they will have to bring me my food, the cutlery, the napkins etc. If medicine or vaccination is out in the market, I will go out immediately. But before that, even if the government opens the lockdown, I won't be eating outside for sure,” she said.  Gurgaon-based homemaker Prisha Mandavaya echoed her, saying she doesn’t see herself or her family dining out anytime soon. “It is good to know that restaurants have started brainstorming on this and are coming up with innovative ways, but the risk will always be there. When out, we can't be not using the place's furniture, crockery and other things,” the 44-year-old said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-will-restaurants-look-like-post-covid-19-lockdown-836706.html
12-05-2020||National||NITK develops low cost, reusable faceshields to fight COVID-19||National Institute of Technology Karnataka (NITK), Surathkal has developed low-cost, reusable, transparent face shields using locally available materials. Dr. Arun M Isloor, Professor and Head at Department of Chemistry, NITK Surathkal is supervising a team of volunteers of NITK, Surathkal for preparing such low-cost face shield. “For making this type of transparent face shields, it costs maximum of Rs 12,” said Prof Isloor. One of the important reasons for the rapid spread of the COVID-19 across the globe is due to the lack of availability of Personal Protecting Equipment (PPE) such as hand gloves, protective coverage, masks, face shield etc. Because of the non-availability of the face shields, police personnel and health workers who are directly dealing with COVID-19 infected patients are at high risk, he said.  As part of the first phase, 300 such face shields were released by Prof K Uma Maheshwar Rao, Director of NITK and were handed over to Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, as a part of NITK’s step towards the fight against COVID-19.  Explaining the materials used,  Dr. Isloor said “I have used a Yoga mat, polyester transparent sheet, a synthetic adhesive and velcro tape for manufacturing the face shields. The face shields can be used for at least 90-100 days and can be reused by just washing it thoroughly using soap water or by using 3-4 drops of hand sanitizer.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitk-develops-low-cost-reusable-faceshields-to-fight-covid-19-836720.html
12-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi applauds nurses for role in fight against coronavirus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday applauded nurses for their role in keeping people healthy, saying the country is grateful to them for their "great work" in the fight against novel coronavirus. "International Day of the Nurse is a special day to express gratitude to the phenomenal nurses working round the clock to keep our planet healthy. Presently, they are doing great work towards defeating COVID-19," the prime minister wrote on Twitter. "We are extremely grateful to the nurses and their families," he said. Inspired by Florence Nightingale,  the hardworking nursing staff personify abundant compassion, Modi said. "Today, we also reiterate our commitment to keep working for welfare of nurses and devote greater attention to opportunities in this field so that there is no shortage of caregivers," he said. According to the World Health Organisation, the International Day of the Nurse is observed on the birth anniversary of Florence Nightingale, considered the founder of modern nursing. This year marks her 200th birth anniversary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-applauds-nurses-for-role-in-fight-against-coronavirus-836721.html
12-05-2020||National||Returning migrant workers trigger spike in coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh||With more returning migrant workers testing positive for coronavirus, the number of COVID-19 cases continue to rise sharply in Uttar Pradesh. According to the official sources, several youths, who had returned to UP from Mumbai, Delhi and some other places by 'Sharmik Specials' in the past few days, have been found to be infected with the virus. The number of COVID 19 cases in the state has risen from 2,998 to over 3,600 in the past six days. Incidentally, the migrant workers have arrived in large numbers in the state during the same time. As many as 67 of the 75 districts in the state have been affected by the virus, officials said. Although the migrant workers were screened after arriving at the railway stations and before being allowed to board buses for their native towns and villages, many among them have tested positive, sources said.    ''What is causing more concern is that the virus has spread to the districts, hitherto unaffected by the infection, after the return of the migrant workers,'' said an official. Two youths, who had arrived at Ambedkar Nagar district from Delhi, tested positive on Monday. A youth, who had travelled by one of the 'shramik specials' from Gujarat to Ballia, also tested positive. Incidentally, Ballia had been unaffected by the virus before the case. With lakhs of migrant workers set to return to the state in the next few days, the spike in the COVID-19 cases in UP ia likely to rise further in the days to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/returning-migrant-workers-trigger-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-836724.html
12-05-2020||National||Resumption of passenger trains provides relief to people stranded due to lockdown||Stranded for over 50 days due to the lockdown and suspension of passenger train services, many people in the national capital will finally be able to reach their destinations in different parts of the country after the railways resumed services on Tuesday.   Three special AC trains will leave the New Delhi railway station for Dibrugarh, Bengaluru and Bilaspur. The train to Dibrugarh in Assam will leave at 4.45 p.m, while the one leaving for Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh and Bengaluru in Karnataka will leave the New Delhi station at 5.30 p.m and 9.15 p.m respectively.   Entry to the station has been facilitated from the Paharganj side for all confirmed ticket holders. No entry for passengers holding such tickets will be permitted from the Ajmeri Gate side, the railways said. Railway authorities have put barricades outside the station premises and only those with confirmed tickets are being allowed to enter.  All passengers are undergoing thermal screening before entering the station premises. For this purpose, they have also been asked to reach the station 90 minutes prior to the departure of the train.  A senior Railway Police Force officer said every passenger is being subjected to thermal screening. Hand sanitiser machines have also been placed at the entrance and the passengers are being advised to sanitise their hands before entering the station premises.  Syed Yasir, a private retail sector executive, said due to the resumption of services he will now be able to go to Nagpur to be with his family on Eid.   Surendra, an engineer with a PSU, was on an assignment in Agra when the lockdown was announced. After the Railways decided to resume passenger train services, he came to Delhi in a private vehicle to board the train to Bengaluru.  "I was on an assignment in Agra where I was stuck. I have come from Agra in a private vehicle and now going to board the train to Bengaluru," Surendra, who identified himself with his first name, said.  Five more trains bound for Delhi will leave from Patna, Bengaluru, Howrah, Mumbai and Ahmedabad, the railways said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/resumption-of-passenger-trains-provides-relief-to-people-stranded-due-to-lockdown-836726.html
12-05-2020||National||542 'Shramik Special' trains have run so far, 6.48 lakh migrants ferried; now 100 such trains daily||The railways has operated 542 "Shramik Special" trains since May 1 and ferried home 6.48 lakh migrants stranded in various parts of the country amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, officials said on Tuesday. On Monday, a statement issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said the railways will now run 100 "Shramik Special" trains on a daily basis to facilitate a faster movement of workers. Of the 542 trains run so far, 448 have reached their destinations and 94 are in transit. The 448 trains were terminated in various states, including Uttar Pradesh (221), Bihar (117), Madhya Pradesh (38), Odisha (29), Jharkhand (27), Rajasthan (four), Maharashtra (three), Telangana and West Bengal (two each), and Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu (one each). The trains have ferried migrants to cities such as Tiruchirappalli, Titlagarh, Barauni, Khandwa, Jagannathpur, Khurda Road, Prayagraj, Chhapra, Balia, Gaya, Purnia, Varanasi, Darbhanga, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Jaunpur, Hatia, Basti, Katihar, Danapur, Muzzaffarpur, Saharsa etc. A proper screening of the passengers is carried out before they board the trains. During the journey, the passengers are given free meals and water. From Monday, these "Shramik Special" trains started carrying around 1,700 passengers each, instead of the earlier 1,200, to ferry as many workers home as possible. While initially these trains had no stoppages, the railways announced on Monday that up to three stoppages in the destination states will be allowed. The decision was taken after several state governments made a request in this regard, officials said. While the railways is yet to announce the cost incurred on these special services, officials indicated that the national transporter is spending around Rs 80 lakh per service. The Centre had earlier stated that the cost of the services was shared on a 85:15 ratio with the states. Since the "Shramik Special" train service started, Gujarat has remained the top originating state, followed by Kerala. Bihar and Uttar Pradesh top the list of receiving states. Earlier, the railways drew flak from opposition parties for charging for these services. In its guidelines, the national transporter has said the trains will ply only if they have a 90-per cent occupancy and the "states should collect the ticket fare".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/542-shramik-special-trains-have-run-so-far-648-lakh-migrants-ferried-now-100-such-trains-daily-836743.html
12-05-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh official caught kicking migrant worker in viral video||The humiliation of the migrant workers, who have been fleeing industrial towns in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Punjab and other parts of the country amid the lockdown and arriving in Uttar Pradesh, continues. After being sprayed with disinfectant a few days ago, they are now allegedly being humiliated by those very government officials, who have been entrusted with the responsibility of sending them home with dignity. A senior official allegedly kicked a migrant worker while he was trying to board a bus to his native village in UP's Pratapgarh district. The matter came to light when a video showing the chief revenue officer of Pratapgarh, identified as Shriram Yadav, kicking a migrant worker went viral on the social networking sites. It appears that the officer got angry after the worker stopped for a second before boarding the bus. Official sources said that the official has been issued a ''stern warning'' by the district magistrate. The opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) has demanded severe action against the official. Earlier, the migrant workers were sprayed with disinfectant at Lucknow railway station and Bareilly bus station. The workers were also facing social boycott at their native villages. Complaints of harassment have poured in from different parts in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-official-caught-kicking-migrant-worker-in-viral-video-836745.html
12-05-2020||National||All support extended to staff at headquarters, Air India says after employee tests positive for COVID-19||National carrier Air India on Tuesday said all support is being extended to its staff stationed at the airline's headquarters in New Delhi after an employee tested positive for COVID-19, following which the building has been sealed for two days. "One of the employees attending the office at Airlines House has tested positive for COVID-19. The employee had attended (office) last Wednesday and tested positive on Monday," Air india spokesperson said in a statement to PTI. As Air India accords top priority to safety and well-being of its employees, all support is being extended to the staff concerned, according to the statement. Air India headquarters will remain closed for sanitisation for two days, adhering to protocol, the spokesperson said. As per sources, the employee was diagnosed with coronavirus infection through an RT-PCR test done at a private lab in New Delhi on May 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-support-extended-to-staff-at-headquarters-air-india-says-after-employee-tests-positive-for-covid-19-836746.html
12-05-2020||National||Plasma donation by singer Kanika Kapoor not happening now||A fortnight after Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor offered to donate plasma for the treatment of other COVID-19 patients, the idea has fizzled out. A doctor at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) here said they cannot use the plasma because of her family’s medical history. The singer faces a police case after allegedly hiding her COVID-19 status. Plasma therapy, still at the trial stage for treating those infected with coronavirus, involves transfusion of plasma extracted from the blood of a recovered COVID-19 patient to someone suffering from it. On April 27, Kapoor had expressed a desire to donate plasma for treating other patients, doctors said. A blood test cleared her for the procedure. Later, she mentioned her family’s medical history and asked doctors if she was a fit case for plasma donation, they said. Doctors said she did not refuse to donate plasma but now they are also reluctant to accept it because of her family’s medical history. “Information about family history cannot be shared with the media as it is against medical ethics,” Dr Tulika Chandra, Head of Department of Transfusion Medicine at KGMU, told PTI. “Kanika Kapoor’s plasma cannot be taken for the treatment of a COVID-19 patient, but taking her plasma for research can be considered,” she said “If in future her plasma is needed for research, it could be considered," she added. Despite repeated attempts, Kapoor could not be contacted for comment. Five recovered patients have donated plasma at KGMU so far, a doctor said. The singer tested positive for coronavirus on March 20 and faced controversy over whether she should have gone into self-quarantine following her return from a trip abroad. She was booked for negligence and committing acts likely to spread the infection after she attended at least three gatherings in Lucknow, according to police. One of the parties was also attended by former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje and her son Dushyant Singh. They later went into self-quarantine. The singer had denied the charge that she put anybody at possible risk. In a statement on April 26, Kapoor said she was aware of "several versions” about her diagnosis, but "negativity thrown at a person does not change the reality". She said some of these stories were fuelled by her silence till then and the truth will eventually prevail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plasma-donation-by-singer-kanika-kapoor-not-happening-now-836751.html
12-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: 30 migrants try to travel from Maharashtra to UP in truck; stopped after 1500-km journey||At least 30 migrant workers managed to travel almost 1,500 km in a truck from Maharashtra by dodging police at multiple checkpoints in the route by covering the trailer under a large plastic sheet, police said here. But they ran out of luck Monday evening here, when they were caught by the police in Khatauli town after nearly three-day of travel, they said. Police here said that since the trailer was covered with a tripal (a large plastic sheet), it gave the impression that it was carrying vegetables. They said upon checking it was found that nine of the 30 migrant labourers were headed to Muzaffarnagar and the rest to Aligarh, also in Uttar Pradesh. The nine workers who were going to Muzaffarnagar were stopped here for further action for violation of lockdown norms, the rest were sent to Aligarh for the administration in the district to take it further, the police said. The workers said they believed they were not stopped at various checkpoints in the router as police thought the vehicle was carrying vegetables.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-migrants-try-to-travel-from-maharashtra-to-up-in-truck-stopped-after-1500-km-journey-836756.html
12-05-2020||National||SpiceJet operates maiden cargo flight to Philippines carrying 17 tonnes of essential supplies||SpiceJet said it operated its maiden freighter flight from India to Philippines on Tuesday carrying 17 tonnes of essential supplies, including medical cargo. "The airline deployed its Boeing 737 freighter aircraft for the assignment, which departed for Cebu (in Philippines) from Kolkata's Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International airport early this morning," SpiceJet said in its press release. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of coronavirus, which has infected more than 70,000 people and killed around 2,290 people in the country till now. While scheduled commercial passenger flights have been suspended for the lockdown period, cargo flights, medical evacuation flights and special flights approved by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) are allowed to operate. SpiceJet said it has operated around 950 cargo flights since the lockdown began in the country. Out of these 950 flights, 350 were international cargo flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spicejet-operates-maiden-cargo-flight-to-philippines-carrying-17-tonnes-of-essential-supplies-836762.html
12-05-2020||National||Immediate spike likely in inter-city mobility after train, bus services resume operations: Study||An immediate spike in inter-city travel is expected within two weeks of resumption of train and bus services as many people, who are stuck in different cities, will look for an opportunity to return to their bases, according to a survey by IntrCity RailYatri. However, the inter-city mobility industry in India, which was in an expansion mode, has been slowed down by the coronavirus pandemic, according to the survey by the multi-modal intercity mobility platform, covering more than 20,000 users across metros, tier-1 and tier-2 cities. Interestingly, 38.41 per cent of travellers indicated that they would consider travelling this year if the pandemic has been effectively controlled. Leisure travel would take the biggest hit with a sharp drop of 71 per cent in planned holidays and festive travel. Only 29 per cent of the respondents plan to travel this year for social or festive occasions. "An immediate spike is expected in inter-city mobility in the immediate 0-2 weeks period once trains and inter-city buses start to operate. People are looking for an opportunity to return to their base," the survey said. A high (30 per cent) number of travellers are stuck in the wrong city as the lockdown took many Indians by surprise, it added. According to the survey, social distancing will drive a near-total shift from offline to online bookings. "Despite strong and persistent efforts by online brands, offline bookings have historically dominated in India. This finally looks set to change and is a big opportunity for online brands," it said, adding the biggest impact would be on bus bookings, specifically on 'last-minute' sales by agents and touts at popular boarding-points. When it comes to the preferred mode of travel, tourists are unlikely to change their choice in the post-COVID-19 era. "Upon asking which mode of transport best addresses 'Social Distancing' – most travellers prefer to stick to their original preference of bus or train. However, this "bias" is significantly more pronounced in bus and train travellers, as compared to flight travellers," it said. Flight travellers are the most pessimistic in comparison to those by train and bus. Domestic flyers constitute the most nervous cohort, followed by train and bus, it added. "Over 50 per cent of travellers who prefer travelling by sleeper bus or train are far more confident about travelling within the next three months. Therefore, train and bus travellers displayed a far greater sense of optimism as regards to resuming their inter-city travel," the survey added. Despite India experiencing one of the most severe lockdowns in the world, the overall travel sentiment is biased towards optimism of things becoming normal again, it added. However, the inter-city mobility industry in India will require to put in place innovations, diversification and safety measures to meet with challenges. "How soon we will recover from the crisis will depend upon the extent of 'safe zone travel' and 'safe destinations' and the ability to transform and innovate within the industry and adjust to travellers 'new' expectations," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/immediate-spike-likely-in-inter-city-mobility-after-train-bus-services-resume-operations-study-836766.html
12-05-2020||National||Chhattisgarh Guv urges CM to prevent alcohol-related crimes during coronavirus lockdown||Chhattisgarh Governor Anusuiya Uikey has asked Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel to take a policy decision to prevent alcohol-related crimes during the COVID-19 lockdown in the state, an official said on Tuesday. In a letter to Baghel, the governor raised concerns about incidents of drunk people misbehaving with journalists, officials, health personnel and sanitation workers during the lockdown, a release issued by the Raj Bhavan said. "At a time when the administration and police machinery were battling the COVID-19 pandemic, such acts by drunk people with criminal tendencies, weaken the morale of corona warriors and common people," she said in the letter. Apart from this, incidents of domestic violence due to alcoholism have also increased and this needs to be checked effectively, she added. The governor urged the Chief Minister to take an appropriate policy decision to prevent such offences, the release stated. Notably, in a memorandum to the governor, the opposition BJP on Monday had urged her to direct the state government to ban the sale of liquor in the state and withdraw its decision facilitating home delivery of alcohol. Liquor outlets, which were shut since March when the lockdown was imposed, were reopened on May 4 everywhere, except in COVID-19 containments zones in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-guv-urges-cm-to-prevent-alcohol-related-crimes-during-coronavirus-lockdown-836774.html
12-05-2020||National||101 labourers on way from Bengaluru to Rajasthan detained||About 101 labourers on their way towards Rajasthan from Bengaluru in a goods truck were detained near a border checkpost at Hirebagewadi village in Belagavi taluk on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway and have been sent into institutional quarantine on Tuesday. Labourers comprising of men, women and children had been traveling towards Rajasthan in a goods truck without permission from Karnataka and even their home state. In the morning hours, police and other department personnel manning the check post near Hirebagewadi detained them. They were brought to the CPEd (College of Physical Education) ground for inquiry and later were sent into institutional quarantine at Social Welfare Department Hostel at Nehru Nagar. Among the labourers one of them had excess temperature during health checkup and has been referred to the District Hospital for treatment, informed Belagavi City Corporation Commissioner K H Jagadish. In the month of April too, more than 300 labourers in two goods trucks on their way to Rajasthan had been detained on the city outskirts and quarantined. Again 101 of them managing to reach the city from Bengaluru has raised many eyebrows and about the checks carried out at checkpoints all the way from Bengaluru to Belagavi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/101-labourers-on-way-from-bengaluru-to-rajasthan-detained-836775.html
12-05-2020||National||Post lockdown: Securities Appellate Tribunal to restore physical hearing in phased manner||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has put in place a post-lockdown plan, wherein restoration of physical hearing will happen in a phased manner. The tribunal is closed till May 15 in view of the nationwide lockdown announced by the government to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The nationwide lockdown since March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus is scheduled to end on May 17. "As and when the lockdown is lifted and normalcy returns, the tribunal would start functioning albeit in a phased manner," SAT said in a notification dated May 8. It, further, said, physical court hearing would commence subject to compliance of social distancing norms and other guidelines issued by it for all the stakeholders. "For the first two weeks, after reopening, only urgent matters would be taken up for hearing. What constitutes an urgent matter would be the prerogative of the bench. This would be reviewed periodically," the tribunal noted. The tribunal said it is taking preventive measures in its own internal functioning to ensure safety and wellness of its staff. Besides, the tribunal said it plans to take similar steps in the interest of all stakeholders including representative authorities and litigants in order to ensure social distancing as well as hygiene and accordingly has come out with several instructions for them. For the time being, tribunal's staff would be required to report at 11 am instead of 9.30 am. Further, the tribunal will function from 11.30 am to 4.30 pm and these timings would be reviewed periodically. The decision was taken to avoid rush hours of local trains and buses. In order to maintain social distancing and to ensure that courtroom is not overcrowded and till such time complete normalcy is restored, the tribunal said entry in the courtroom would be restricted. Further, advocates have been requested to advice their clients not to come to the tribunal unless their presence is indispensable. To avoid overcrowding inside the courtroom, at no point there should not be more than 20 advocates or authorised representative or litigant at a time inside the courtroom. Advocates and others need to ensure that they sit at a distance of two chairs in order to maintain social distancing.  Besides, wearing of masks in tribunal's premises would be mandatory, in addition, all stakeholders have been advised to download Aarogya Setu app on their respective mobile before starting for the tribunal. These guidelines would remain in force till such time it is revised or supplemented from time to time, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/post-lockdown-securities-appellate-tribunal-to-restore-physical-hearing-in-phased-manner-836776.html
12-05-2020||National||Without nurses, other health workers, we will not win battle against epidemics: Harsh Vardhan||On the occasion of International Nurses' Day, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday lauded nursing professionals for their continuous work during the COVID-19 pandemic, calling them the "strong and pivotal pillars" of the healthcare delivery system. "Without nurses and other health workers, we will not win the battle against epidemic outbreaks," the minister said. Vardhan also stressed on the need for nurses to apprise themselves of all the protocols, information about this disease, about infection prevention and control, so that not only they can protect themselves ably but also provide the best advice to all. Stating that the strengths of nurses are being put to great challenge due to the current COVID-19 health crisis, Vardhan said, "I am reminded today of bravehearts like Jyoti Vithal Raksha, Staff Nurse from Pune, Anita Govindrao Rathod, Assistant Matron, Pune  and  Margaret, Nursing Officer, ESI Hospital, Jhilmil, whom we have recently lost. I offer my condolences to their families. "I also stand with you to resolve that we will continue to fight this disease, keep our morale high, and also take necessary precautions and trainings to protect ourselves by following protocols." To protect the frontline healthcare workers, Vardhan said an ordinance has been promulgated to protect healthcare personnel against any violence. The ordinance provides for making acts of violence against doctors and healthcare and sanitation workers cognizable and non-bailable offences. It also provides compensation for injuries to healthcare service personnel and for damage to or loss of the property in which healthcare service personnel may have a direct interest in relation to the epidemic. Additionally, the government has also approved the 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package: Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting COVID-19' to provide an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh for ninety (90) days to a total of around 22.12 lakh public healthcare providers, including community health workers, who may have to be in direct contact with COVID-19 patients and who may be at risk of being impacted by the virus, he said. It will also include accidental loss of life on account of contacting COVID-19.   The minister also urged that nurses should take full benefits from the various webinars organised by AIIMS, Delhi and the Indian Nursing Council to apprise themselves about all the precautions that are needed to be taken while working during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/without-nurses-other-health-workers-we-will-not-win-battle-against-epidemics-harsh-vardhan-836778.html
12-05-2020||National||Coronavirus home quarantine cannot be restricted to 14 days: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court has held that home quarantine period for COVID-19 patients cannot be limited to the mandatory 14 days only as there is no certainty about the virus' virulence, gestation period or time taken for an infected person to manifest the symptoms. Justice C Hari Shankar said that at a time when COVID-19 or coronavirus has left the global community "befuddled" and the administration here is "traversing uncharted territory", it needs to be given the requisite freedom or "play in the joints" to formulate and implement its policy to deal with the pandemic. "The executive must, in such a circumstance, be afforded the requisite play in the joints, so as to formulate and implement its policy, as meaningfully and efficiently as possible. Absent any legal or constitutional infraction, courts have to be slow in subjecting executive action taken in context of COVID-19 crisis to searching judicial scrutiny," the court said. "In this background, this court is unwilling to hold that in each and every case, the period of home quarantine must stand limited to 14 days and no more," it added. The court held however that any person not displaying the coronavirus symptoms nor has tested positive for the disease, if quarantined for more than 14 days, can represent against it to the authorities who have to either give reasons for it or lift the restriction. The court's observations and directions came while disposing of plea questioning the manner in which the authorities were implementing the quarantine guidelines as one of the 72 families, which had contact with a coronavirus infected pizza delivery person, was put in quarantine for over 30 days. The order came on the petition by a photo-journalist, Amit Bhargava, who was put in quarantine from midnight of March 24-25, when he had first contact with the delivery person, till April 28 -- for a period of over 30 days as against the stipulated 14 days. His lawyer, Shyel Trehan, had told the court there was no justification to put her client under quarantine of more than 14 days from April 14 as his first contact was on March 24-25 and he had not tested positive for COVID-19 within 14 days from then. The court said that "arithmetically and logically speaking" she had a point, however, the virus was "presently not known to subscribe to dictates either of arithmetic or of logic". PTI HMP SKV SA||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-home-quarantine-cannot-be-restricted-to-14-days-delhi-high-court-836779.html
12-05-2020||National||Case against Nirav Modi very short on proof, his legal team tells UK court||Nirav Modi's legal team on Tuesday told a UK court hearing the fugitive diamond merchant's five-day extradition trial that the case of fraud and money laundering against him is not backed up with the underlying evidence that proves his dishonesty. Modi's legal team made the remarks a day after Crown Prosecution Service barrister Helen Malcolm, appearing on behalf of the Indian authorities, told the court that Modi acquired “eye watering amounts of money” fraudulently from the Punjab National Bank (PNB).  The 49-year-old jeweller is wanted in India on charges of defrauding PNB by deceitfully obtaining letters of undertaking (LoUs), or bank guarantees, and then laundering the proceeds of the funds through a complex set of worldwide transactions using dummy companies. The five-day extradition trial had opened at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London on Monday, when the CPS argued on behalf of the Indian authorities to lay out the estimated USD 2-billion fraud and money laundering case against Modi. CPS barrister Malcolm told the court that between 2011 and 2018, Modi had stolen “eye-watering” sums of money under the pretext of importing pearls into India. "The difficulty is that none of this is proved. There is a lot of detail but the government of India’s case is very long on assertion but very short on proof,” said Modi’s barrister Clare Montgomery, as the defence began its counter-arguments in the case on Tuesday. Modi has been following the court proceedings via videolink from a room at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London, where he has been lodged since his arrest in March last year. Dressed in formals, he has been listening intently and can be seen occasionally making notes as he refers to a large folder on a desk. The court has heard repeated references as precedence from liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya’s extradition case, which now awaits a Supreme Court level appeal approval.  Modi is expected to be lodged in the same Barrack 12 at Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai where Mallya is to be held following extradition in relation to his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines’ unpaid loans to Indian banks. While the CPS referred to the video and other assurances related to the prison cell already provided as sufficient proof of prison conditions in India meeting international human rights requirements, Modi’s lawyer indicated that they would be presenting a witness to prove that it lacked any provisions in relation to Modi’s fragile “mental health condition”. District Judge Samuel Goozee is presiding over the hearing, which is expected to conclude on Friday and is being conducted partly in a remote format to abide by the social distancing norms in place due to the coronavirus pandemic. While some of the legal counsels are physically present in court, the others are accessing the proceedings via videolink or through conference call. On Monday, Malcolm appeared via videolink to lay out the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) case against Modi co-conspiring with bankers at PNB to misuse at least 150 bank guarantees in 2017. She also laid out details of how the diamond merchant and his brother then went on to intimidate witnesses, even threatening them with death, to try and cover up the fraud. Modi has made repeated attempts at bail but remains behind bars as he is deemed a flight risk. The jeweller was arrested on March 19, 2019, on an extradition warrant executed by Scotland Yard on charges of fraud and money laundering brought by the Indian government and certified by the UK Home Office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/case-against-nirav-modi-very-short-on-proof-his-legal-team-tells-uk-court-836785.html
12-05-2020||National||National Aerospace Laboratories develops non-invasive ventilator for coronavirus patients||The National Aerospace Laboratories said it has developed a non-invasive BiPAP ventilator to treat COVID-19 patients, in 'record' 36 days. The ventilator named 'SwasthVayu' is the culmination of efforts of team of technocrats, medical practitioners and scientists at NAL, who worked relentlessly amid the lockdown. The major advantage of this device was that it was simple to use without any specialized nursing, cost effective, compact and configured with majority of indigenous components, the premier aerospace lab of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research said in a release. It was ideal for treating COVID -19 patients in wards, make-shift hospitals, dispensaries and home in current Indian scenario. CSIR-NAL is in process of taking it forward with the regulatory authorities for the approval and expected to get shortly, it said adding that the dialogue has already been initiated with major public and private industries as a partner for mass production. The system has been certified for safety and performance by NABL accredited agencies and has undergone stringent biomedical tests and beta clinical trials at NAL Health Centre. Director of CSIR-NAL, Jitendra J Jadhav said based on global experience and specific inputs from pulmonologists in India and abroad, the lab has developed the BiPAP non invasive ventilator. The ventilator is equipped with an externally connected oxygen concentrator which will be ideal to treat moderate or mid-stage severe COVID-19 patients, who do not require intubation and invasive ventilation.  CSIR NAL has enabled a spin-off technology based on its expertise in the aerospace design domain, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-aerospace-laboratories-develops-non-invasive-ventilator-for-coronavirus-patients-836788.html
12-05-2020||National||Gujarat High Court declares BJP minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama's election as void||The Election Commission constituted a three-member committee of officers headed by its Secretary-General, Umesh Sinha, to study the Gujarat High Court’s judgment invalidating the 2017 election of the state’s Education and Law Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama from Dholka Assembly constituency.  Chief Election Commissioner, Sunil Arora, spoke to EC Secretary-General on telephone and directed that a three member committee of officers headed by Sinha, himself, and consisting of two Deputy Election Commissioner Chandra Bhushan Kumar and Director (Law) Vijay Pandey as members, would examine the details of the judgment and present before the poll-panel at the earliest, the commission stated in a press release.  It also said that the EC had already asked the State Government of Gujarat to initiate disciplinary action against the then Returning Officer and Deputy Collector Dhaval Jani and the proceedings were underway. Jani had also been removed from election duties during the Lok Sabha elections in view of the interim order of the High Court in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-high-court-declares-bjp-minister-bhupendrasinh-chudasamas-election-as-void-836790.html
12-05-2020||National||139 Indian students stranded in Philippines arrive in Gujarat||A special flight from Manila carrying 139 Indian students stranded in Philippines due to the travel restrictions landed at the Ahmedabad airport on Tuesday morning, the Gujarat government said. These students from the state had gone to Philippines for higher studies and got stuck there due to lockdown. A release from the Gujarat government said "139 students were evacuated from Manila, the capital of Philippines. They reached the Ahmedabad airport on Tuesday morning in a special flight." After their arrival, they were sent to their respective districts where they will be kept under institutional quarantine for 14 days, it said. State authorities earlier announced that nearly 1,000 students hailing from Gujarat will be brought back from different countries. The Union government recently started the 'Vande Bharat Mission' to evacuate Indians stranded in different parts of the world due to travel restrictions in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/139-indian-students-stranded-in-philippines-arrive-in-gujarat-836794.html
12-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Tripura resumes border trade with Bangladesh amid protests by locals||Tripura resumed border trade with neighbouring Bangladesh despite protests by some locals, who fear the step could result spread of Coronavirus from across the border. Trucks carrying cement and some other items crossed the Mohurighat Integrated Check Point (ICP) in Belonia in Tripura South district on Monday amid tight security as worried residents staged a protest and urged the government to postpone the same till the lockdown is lifted. Some of them also blocked the road halting movement of trucks for a few hours before police and government officials rushed there and intervened. Sources said officials of Tripura South district assured the protesters that adequate safety measures were being taken but they argued that they were scared as Feni, Comilia and Bramanbaria areas in Bangladesh side had reported COVID-19 positive cases. The local people also said that they were in fear that, as the Muhurighat integrated check post area is thickly populated and very near to the Belonia town, there was the possibility of infection from Bangladeshi truck drivers and other people involved in the import and export business. Tripura South is in 'green zone' for COVID-19 so far.   Tripura had closed all the ICPs to prevent the spread of Coronavirus before the country-wide lockdown was clamped by the Centre. Public fear about fresh infection increased after 150 BSF persons and their family members living in two camps in Dhalai district tested COVID-19 positive since May 2.   Tripura had declared itself as "COVID-19 free state" on April 29 after two persons, who had tested COVID-19 positive recovered and were discharged. But the shock was in store as the BSF camps saw outbreak of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tripura-resumes-border-trade-with-bangladesh-amid-protests-by-locals-836795.html
12-05-2020||National||States with good primary healthcare system managed COVID-19 well: Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw||States with good primary healthcare system have fared better in containing the spread of COVID-19, biotechnology industry veteran Kiran Mazumdar- Shaw said on Tuesday. The Executive Chairperson of bio-pharmaceuticals company, Biocon Ltd, also hit out at people not wearing face-masks in public places and said they don't understand the gravity of the disease. She called for a behavioural change in people with an enhanced focus on discipline and cleanliness. Citing Karnataka and Kerala, Mazumdar-Shaw said they have managed the COVID-19 well as they have got a very good primary health care ecosystem. Kerala is a shining example of this. She also said that Thailand is able to contain any epidemic as it has an excellent primary healthcare structure. People in countries like Japan, Vietnam and Thailand wear face-masks all the time in public places even before the COVID-19 pandemic. And then, they are naturally very clean people, disciplined. India will have to become a cleaner country, she told PTI. What better time than now to focus much more on initiatives like Swachh Bharat and practices such as wearing masks and cleaning hands, she said. According to her, the coronavirus is breaking out in very dense and poor clusters in India. So, poverty and density of the population seem to be a combination, which really allows the virus to spread. One has to do mass testing in those areas, and isolate and quarantine anyone testing positive. India has no option but to open up the economy with safeguards like temperature checks, mask-wearing, physical distancing. When restrictions are removed, the number of COVID-19 cases is bound to increase and it's not a cause for worry. Mortality rate is what we really need to focus on. Mazumdar-Shaw said this is the time to decentralise responsibilities and empower district administrations to manage the disease by tracing, tracking, isolating and treating infected people. While one cannot lift the lockdown in places where there is a huge surge in cases, she said all cities should not be declared as red-zones. For example, wards (there are 200 of them in Bengaluru) which are hot-spots should be sealed off while the rest of the areas should be opened up. She is finding that uneducated in villages are following the rules like wearing of masks in public places more than the educated in urban areas. If you go to cities, our people are useless, they are supposed to be educated and they don't even wear a mask. For a country like India, you need strict discipline, Mazumdar-Shaw said, adding, penalty should be mandatorily imposed for spitting in public and not wearing masks. Somehow, we don't care, we are not disciplined, and everyone thinks I am fine, I am safe, nothing will happen to me, they don't even understand what this viral infection is about. Nobody can say that they are safe from the virus, she said. It is a behavioural change that we need. And to bring about this kind of behavioural change is tough but at least there is a fear factor that will bring this behavioural change, Mazumdar-Shaw added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-with-good-primary-healthcare-system-managed-covid-19-well-kiran-mazumdar-shaw-836799.html
12-05-2020||National||Companies cautiously resume work as India begins reopening economy||Top companies across sectors - automobile maker Maruti Suzuki, consumer electronics giant Samsung to IT giant Infosys - have reopened factories and offices as India took its first steps towards resuming economic activity after weeks under a near-total coronavirus lockdown. While the government has allowed businesses to resume under strict guidelines, companies are not rushing to achieve pre-COVID-19 run-rates and instead are calibrating staff strength as they are aware that any incident of infection can prove costly. Companies said employee safety and workplace hygiene is the prime focus.  While Maruti resumed operations at its Manesar plant in Haryana on Tuesday, Infosys opened offices in some cities with up to 5 per cent staff and plans to gradually raise employee strength to 40 per cent. Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) has less than 1 per cent of its employees currently in India offices. Mahindra & Mahindra too started operations at its factories with a limited number of workers. Flipkart, Panasonic India, Whirlpool and Dabur are among a host of companies that have put in place plans to restart operations with a small section of staff. Tata group-owned jewellery brand Tanishq has announced its plans to reopen its 328 stores across the country in a phased manner. The government imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 25, and it has already been extended twice -- first until May 3 and then again until May 17. However, some curbs have been eased beginning April 20 with permission being given to industries in rural areas to restart. Later, production, sale and transport of goods in areas where virus cases are less severe have also been allowed. However, the process of restarting factories and businesses is likely to be protracted, with production only gradually ramping up towards operational capacity levels. IHS Markit said although the limited restart of some industries has been permitted since April 20, India will still suffer severe disruptions to its industrial output due to the protracted lockdown. "The Indian economy is facing a recession in the 2020-21 financial year for the first time since 1979-80, during the second OPEC oil crisis shock," IHS Markit said. "Consequently, IHS Markit expects the lockdown measures to result in a contraction of Indian industrial production in the 2020-21 financial year."  But several companies across sectors ranging from textiles to consumer electronics and liquor to pharma have partially resumed operations after getting permission from local authorities. While Panasonic India and South Asia President & CEO Manish Sharma said the company plans to start operations at its factory with 30 per cent capacity and slowly take it up to 50 per cent in a month's time, Samsung Electronics India said its Noida factory has started limited operations. The Noida factory of Dixon Technologies too has resumed operations. The firm's Tirupati and Dehradun plants too have started operations at about one-third capacity, which will be scaled up to 75-80 per cent in the next one week, said Sunil Vachani, Chairman, Dixon Technologies. Neeraj Bahl, the CEO of BSH Home Appliances -- German company which manufactures and sells under Bosch and Siemens brands in India -- said the firm is in process of starting production in its Tamil Nadu factory with limited staff. Mahendra Singhi, President, Cement Manufacturers Association (CMA), said 25-30 per cent of cement production capacity in the country has resumed. JK Lakshmi Cement director Shailendra Chouksey said the firm has clearances to operate all its seven plants in five states with reduced staff strength and following government's COVID-19 guidelines for factories. "However, these measures alone shall not suffice. Unless construction is allowed rather encouraged to resume operations", the sector outlook would not be very good, he said. Consumer Electronics and Appliances Manufacturers Association (CEAMA) president Kamal Nandi said slowly retail operations are opening up in green and orange zones. "Roughly industry's 30-35 per cent outlets are open throughout the country though geographically not equally distributed." "We have also got permission to open factories in green and orange zones. Most of the brands are preparing to resume operations. Some brands started last week and some would start from this week. Even more important, the supplier's plant is opening up and we are all preparing to resume operations and slowly production would start," he said. There is still no pressing need for the brands to go ahead and start mass production from day one as there is a lot of inventory in warehouses and with dealers, he added. Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) director-general Rajesh Menon said the auto sector lost over Rs 90,000 crore in revenue due to the lockdown. Ashok Leyland MD & CEO Vipin Sondhi said these are truly unprecedented times, and the government and industry need to work closely to bring the industry back on its feet. The government is said to be working on a second fiscal package to support businesses, particularly small and mid-sized companies that account for about a third of India's gross domestic product (GDP) and employ more than 11 crore people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/companies-cautiously-resume-work-as-india-begins-reopening-economy-836800.html
12-05-2020||National||HC junks Karti Chidambaram's plea against transfer of tax evasion case to special court||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition by Congress MP Karthi P Chidambaram and his wife challenging the transfer of a tax evasion case filed against them before a lower court to a Special Court for MPs and MLAs. It also rejected another plea from both the petitioners to quash the complaint lodged by the I-T department in connection with the case. The matter relates to alleged non-disclosure of Rs 6.38 crore incomes by Karti and Rs 1.35 crore by his wife Srinidhi Chidambaram in 2015. According to the Income Tax department, Karti, elected to Lok Sabha from Sivaganga constituency in 2019 elections, and his wife had received the amount in cash for the sale of a land at Muttukadu near here years ago, but did not disclose it in their I-T returns. The Deputy Director of I-T department, Chennai had filed a complaint on September 12, 2018 against the petitioners before the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Court-II (Economic Offences) for offences under sections 276 c (1) and 277 of the IT Act. Subsequently, the case was transferred to the Special court. Rejecting the arguments of the petitioner that he was neither an MP nor MLA as on the date of alleged offence or when the complaints were lodged, Justice M Sundar said, "as Hon'ble Supreme Court has directed all pending cases to be transferred, this argument fails." "Likewise, the argument that only one of the petitioners has become an MP is of no avail to petitioners, as Hon'ble Supreme Court has directed transfer of all cases involving sitting or former MPs and MLAs." On January 7, the special court dismissed the discharge application moved by the duo and directed the prosecution to proceed further with framing charges against the accused. Subsequently, Karti moved the high court challenging the dismissal. He also obtained an interim stay against the prosecution from framing charges against him and his wife. The high court judge refused to quash the complaints filed by the I-T department, concurring with their submission that they were not registered based on the assessments, but following searches made in one of the companies named Advantage Strategic Consulting Pvt. Ltd, in which Kathi is a Director, as informed to the Court. The judge in his final orders said the prosecution was by way of criminal complaints other than that of a police report. A careful reading of the complaints among others in the context of retraction submission of petitioners leaves no room for doubt that these were clearly matters for trial and no ground for quash has been made out, he said. The point regarding prosecution being launched on the basis of statement of third parties (purchaser company) gets neutralised by the position of prosecution that there was corroboration between soft copies seized from company in which Chidambaram is a Director and the purchaser. Besides being a matter for trial, it puts to rest the ground that prosecution was based solely on statements of third parties (purchaser company). "The court is of the considered view that issues that arise in the criminal complaints are matters for trial and no ground has been made out for quashing the same," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-junks-karti-chidambarams-plea-against-transfer-of-tax-evasion-case-to-special-court-836803.html
12-05-2020||National||Lockdown: Maharashtra group booked for wedding anniversary function||Twelve people, including members of two families, were booked for celebrating a wedding anniversary late Monday night in Aurangabad in Maharashtra amid prohibitory orders for the lockdown for novel coronavirus outbreak, police said. The celebration took place at around 11 pm near Sanjaynagar and Mukundwadi areas, both virus hotspots in the district, an official pointed out. "We registered a case under sections of the IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act. All 12 were issued a warning and released," said Pundalik Nagar police station in charge Ghanshyam Sonavane.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-maharashtra-group-booked-for-wedding-anniversary-function-836807.html
12-05-2020||National||Railways resume passenger services as first two trains depart from New Delhi station||As the Indian Railways resumed its passenger services on Tuesday, two trains chugged out of New Delhi on time carrying 2,299 passengers on board. One train will depart for Bengaluru at 9.15 pm on Tuesday. The New Delhi railway station, in the heart of the city, saw the departure of two special trains for Bilaspur and Dibrugarh, around 50 days after the nationwide lockdown caused suspension of all passenger train services. A total of 1,177 passengers are booked on the New Delhi-Bilaspur special train, which departed at 4 pm, while 1,122 passengers are booked on the New Delhi-Dibrugarh special train that departed at 4:45 pm. A total of 1,162 passengers are booked on the New Delhi-Bengaluru special train, which will leave at 9:15 pm. "Total 3,461 passengers to leave New Delhi today," the railways said. A total of 741 PNRs were generated for the 1,177 passengers travelling in the New Delhi-Bilaspur special train, while a total 442 PNRs were generated for 1,122 passengers travelling in the New Delhi-Dibrugarh special train. A total of 804 PNRs were generated for the 1,162 passengers travelling on the New Delhi-Bengaluru special train. The railways regulated passengers even before the entry to the station. Passengers were asked if they had downloaded the Aarogya Setu app and most of them answered in the affirmative, the officials said. Passengers who boarded the Bilaspur bound train sanitised their hands at the entry gates, wore masks and carried minimal baggage as advised by the railways. As they entered the station, the officials guided them to their designated coaches resulting in minimal crowd at platforms. Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav was also present at the station. On Tuesday, five other trains bound for New Delhi will leave from Patna, Bengaluru, Howrah, Mumbai and Ahmedabad, the railways said. The Northern Railways said in a statement that entry to the New Delhi railway station will be allowed only from the Paharganj side for all confirmed ticket holders and no entry for passengers will be permitted from the Ajmeri Gate side. For now, the railways has issued a timetable for trains to be run between May 12 and May 20. These trains will have only AC classes i.e. first, second and third AC. The fare structure will be as applicable for the Rajdhani trains (excluding catering charges). On May 13, eight trains will depart from the national capital for Howrah, Rajendra Nagar, Jammu Tawi, Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai, Ranchi, Mumbai Central and Ahmedabad. Another train will leave Bhubaneswar for New Delhi. On May 14, the only train leaving the New Delhi railway station will head to Bhubaneswar, while one train each will leave Dibrugarh, Jammu Tawi, Bilaspur and Ranchi for the national capital.   On May 15, one train each will leave Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai Central for New Delhi while one bound for Madgaon will depart from New Delhi. As per the timetable, no train is scheduled on May 16 and May 19. Passenger services from Madgaon to New Delhi and New Delhi to Secunderabad will resume on May 17. The only train scheduled on May 18 is from Agartala to New Delhi, while two trains scheduled on May 20 are from New Delhi to Agartala and Secunderabad to New Delhi.   The officials said, as per the guidelines, e-tickets issued by the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will work as an e-pass for the movement of drivers to and from the station to pick or drop passengers.   Bookings will be available only on the IRCTC's website (www.irctc.co.in) for general quota passengers, while bare minimum reservation counters will be open on the routes of these special train for parliamentarians, freedom fighters and others who can book their tickets there. Concessions can only be availed by patients, students and people with disabilities while no concessions for senior citizens are applicable. The railways has also earmarked reservation quota of two berths in 3AC for Divyangjans and two berths in 1AC and four berths in 2AC for sitting and former parliamentarians. On arrival at the destination, passengers will have to adhere to health protocols prescribed by the destination state/union territory, they said. Under normal circumstances, the New Delhi railway station is one of the busiest stations in the country. A total of 351 trains arrive/depart from this station daily with a footfall of more than 5.20 lakh passengers each day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-resume-passenger-services-as-first-two-trains-depart-from-new-delhi-station-836808.html
12-05-2020||National||Observe May 14 as Demands Day for safety of 'Corona Warriors': CITU||The CPI(M)-affiliated Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) will observe Thursday as 'Demands Day' for safety of COVID-19 frontline workers, saying symbolic gestures like clapping, clanging of utensils and showering flower petals will only end up in "pseudo satisfaction" and what they need is safety gears and insurance coverage for treatment. The CITU appealed to workers and people to to express solidarity to the frontline workers in "all possible ways" by wearing badges or displaying banners and placards in support of their cause at doorsteps and workplaces as well as by distributing food, masks and other safety gear. It said people should maintain physical distance while extending social solidarity. "Clapping and clanging of utensils and showering flowers to a few may be symbolic respect and appreciation for pseudo satisfaction for a few, but will help the real corona warriors very little in their fight for life- theirs and of others. In this situation, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) calls upon all the frontline workers to observe Demands Day on May 14 thoughout the country wearing badges/carrying placards of our demands," the CITU said. The demands include utilising the PM-CARES fund for providing safety gears to all frontline workers, Personal Protection Equipment for those who are engaged in containment areas and red zones, frequent and random free COVID-19 tests for all frontline workers, Rs 50 lakh insurance coverage for all frontline workers that covers treatment of their family too and additional incentive of Rs 25,000 per month for all contract and scheme workers engaged in COVID-19 duty among others. Other demands include minimum Rs 5 lakh compensation for all those who got infected while on duty, Rs 7,500 for all non-income tax payers and free ration for the needy and poor. The CITU said the trade union movement in the country is concerned about the safety of COVID-19 warriors along with the issues of distress of migrant workers and the attack on the rights of the working class by various governments. It said the cases of the frontline workers getting infected with COVID-19 and succumbing to it is also alarmingly increasing and it was mainly due to the lack of safety gears. According to the government, CITU said, at least 548 doctors, nurses and paramedical staff have been infected as on three days ago. This does not include ASHA and anganwadi workers or even ward boys, sanitation workers, security guards, lab attendants, peons, laundry and kitchen staff among others, the organisation said. “Daily we are getting reports of field workers- ASHA, anganwadi workers getting infected. Many cases of workers collapsing and dying on duty were reported, but they were not even tested for COVID-19. In most of the states, most of these workers are not entitled to the much publicised Rs 50 lakh insurance package and the insurance do not cover the expenses for treatment," it said. It said the Maharashtra government has said that there are 487 police personnel infected in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/observe-may-14-as-demands-day-for-safety-of-corona-warriors-citu-836814.html
12-05-2020||National||Delhi HC allows father to communicate with minor daughter on video call||The Delhi High Court Tuesday allowed a father to communicate daily with his four-and-a half-year-old daughter, who is in the mother's custody, through video call till the COVID-19 lockdown is lifted. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula, conducting the hearing through video conferencing, was informed that the child who was earlier not willing to talk to her father, spoke to him through video call after the last hearing on May 8. The man approached the court seeking a direction to the wife to comply with a consensual order passed by the court in April last year, according to which the father was allowed to meet the minor between 2.00 P.M. to 6.00 P.M. every Saturday and was allowed to speak to the child twice a week at a convenient time.  The couple is engaged in a matrimonial dispute and the child is in the custody of her mother. The bench disposed of the plea, saying “Keeping in view the aforesaid as well as the COVID-19 pandemic, this court directs that till the lockdown is lifted, the appellant-wife shall ensure that the minor child has a WhatsApp/Google Duo/Zoom video chat with the respondent-father everyday between 6.00 P.M. to 6.30 P.M.” It said that after lifting of the lockdown, the interim order of April last year shall be restored in its entirety and shall be complied with. On May 8, the court was informed by the woman that it was impossible to comply with last year's order as the child was not willing to talk to her father. However, the court had directed the woman to ensure that the minor has a WhatsApp/Google Duo/Zoom video chat with her father at least for half an hour every day. After which, the child spoke to her father by way of video call, the court was informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-allows-father-to-communicate-with-minor-daughter-on-video-call-836818.html
12-05-2020||National||Vande Bharat Mission: AI to operate 149 repatriation flights to 31 countries in phase II amid coronavirus lockdown||Air India is planning to operate 149 repatriation flights to 31 countries between May 16 and May 22 during the second phase of the Vande Bharat mission to bring back home Indians stranded abroad amid the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, officials said. During the first phase of the Vande Bharat mission, Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express are scheduled to operate total 64 flights between May 7 and May 14 to bring approximately 15,000 Indians from 12 countries on a payment basis. "In the second phase, Air India and Air India Express will operate 149 flights to countries such as the USA, the UAE, Canada, Saudi Arabia, the UK, Malaysia, Oman, Kazakhstan, Australia, Ukraine, Qatar and Indonesia," the airline officials stated. Other countries to where the national carrier would operate flights between May 16 and May 22 are Russia, Philippines, France, Singapore, Ireland, Kyrgyzstan, Kuwait, Japan, Georgia, Germany and Tajikistan, officials noted. The flights during the second phase will also be operated to Bahrain, Armenia, Thailand, Italy, Nepal, Belarus, Nigeria and Bangladesh, they mentioned. The officials stated that out of the aforementioned 149 repatriation flights, 31 would land in Kerala, 22 in Delhi, 17 in Karnataka, 16 in Telangana, 14 in Gujarat, 12 in Rajasthan, nine in Andhra Pradesh and seven in Punjab. During phase II of the Vande Bharat mission, six flights each would have as their destinations Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, three flights Odisha, two will land in Chandigarh, one each will reach Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express have operated 31 inbound flights during the first five days of Vande Bharat mission, bringing 6,037 stranded Indians home amid the coronavirus triggered lockdown, the Ministry of Civil Aviation said on Tuesday. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected more than 70,000 people and killed around 2,290 people in the country till now. All scheduled commercial passenger flights have been suspended for the lockdown period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vande-bharat-mission-ai-to-operate-149-repatriation-flights-to-31-countries-in-phase-ii-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-836819.html
12-05-2020||National||Arogya Setu app now mandatory for journey in special trains||The Indian Railway has announced that passengers travelling in AC special trains mandatorily install Aarogya Setu application in their mobile phones before starting journey. It is mandatory for passengers to dowload Aarogya Setu app before commencing journey, Railway Ministry tweeted late last night. The railways announced special trains from 15 destinatios, connecting New Delhi from Tuesday onwards. The mobile application helps users identify whether they are at risk of COVID-19. It also provides people with important information, including ways to avoid coronavirus and its symptoms. The app gives colour coded-designation to users as per their health status and travel history. It helps the user know if he or she is near anyone who has tested positive for the virus. The government claimed that so far more than 9.8 crore people have downloaded the app. It helped to generate information about 697 COVID-19 potential hotspots in the country. It also alerted 1.4 lakh people about possible risk of infection due to proximity to infected persons. The app was developed by National Informatics Centre (NIC) under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arogya-setu-app-now-mandatory-for-journey-in-special-trains-836825.html
12-05-2020||National||Post-lockdown flights: Civil aviation ministry suggests no cabin baggage in initial phase||Filling up of a detailed questionnaire related to COVID-19, carrying no cabin baggage, using Aarogya Setu app and reaching airport at least two hours before a flight departure might well be among the requirements for air passengers during the initial phase after resumption of commercial flights. The civil aviation ministry has come out with a draft Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for restarting commercial air passenger services in the country, which remain suspended since March 25 in the wake of the lockdown to curb spreading of coronavirus infections. Green status on Aarogya Setu app, web check-in, and temperature checks for all domestic departing and arriving passengers have also been proposed.  The draft SOP, accessed by PTI, has also mooted rostering the same set of cabin and cockpit crew as long as possible in order to prevent possible cross contamination. Not just for passengers, the draft SOP has suggested measures that could be followed by security agencies as well as airport operators, including doing away with identity card checks at airport entry gates and ensuring social distancing requirements. Another suggestion is to keep three rows of an aircraft vacant for isolating any passenger who has a medical emergency onboard. The draft SOP was prepared after discussions with stakeholders, including airlines and airport operators. Comments have been sought from the stakeholders on it, according to sources. Notably, the draft document is silent on leaving the middle seat of the aircraft vacant for maintaining social distancing. Aviation regulator DGCA had made a suggestion about leaving middle seat vacant, prior to suspension of commercial flight services in March.  "A questionnaire to be circulated to the passenger and filled up by them in advance about their past history related to COVID-19 and quarantine, if any, in last one month. "Any passenger who has undergone quarantine in the last one month to be sent for security at the isolated security check unit only," as per the document. According to the document, passengers should be advised to familiarise themselves about the new procedures at the airport, especially about social distancing norms and ensuring minimum touching of various surfaces. They should also be familiar with baggage limitations, COVID-19 questionnaire, need to register on Aarogya Setu app, possibly slower processes at airports and use of authorised taxis to reach airport, it said. The ministry has proposed that passengers should reach the airport at least two hours before a flight and do away with passenger identity checks at airport entry gates to minimise rush at the entry points. Passengers can do web check–in and carrying cabin baggage should not be allowed in the initial phase of operations, as per the document. Further, the ministry has suggested that passengers denied travel due to high temperature or age should be permitted to change their date of travel without penalty and airlines would have to maintain their records. Airports should have an isolation zone in the terminal building as well as the airside for passengers showing symptoms and state governments should provide requisite help with medical infrastructure in case an airport does not have an APHO (Airport Health Organisation) set-up, it noted. Airports would have to put in place distance markings, disinfecting all common areas like lifts, escalators, chairs in seating areas, food and beverages, and retail outlets. Availability of moveable hand wash cart or alcohol-based hand sanitisers within the terminal should be ensured, the ministry has proposed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/post-lockdown-flights-civil-aviation-ministry-suggests-no-cabin-baggage-in-initial-phase-836826.html
12-05-2020||National||SC asks govt to consider plea to evacuate pregnant woman from the US||The Supreme Court on Tuesday came to rescue a woman from Bengaluru by asking the Union government to do the needful as she wanted evacuation from the USA due to the advanced stage of her pregnancy. The Centre agreed to let her board the flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru on Wednesday. Taking up the matter, a bench of L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, and Sanjiv Khanna asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to consider the plea made by Pooja Choudhary. Initially, the court wanted to put her plea for consideration on Wednesday but her counsel Sanjay M Nuli submitted that her petition would become ineffective by then as an Air India Flight was scheduled to take off from San Francisco on May 13. Nuli also submitted the top court had passed an order in another case directing for giving priority to a group of women in evacuation from the UAE as they were in the advanced stage of pregnancy. The court then called Mehta who said in view of the health condition of the petitioner, a serious attempt is being made to allow her to board the flight. Stuck in the USA for over three months after the suspension of flights due to COVID-19 pandemic, the Bengaluru resident, her husband, and their 18-month-old daughter had approached the Supreme Court as any delay in evacuation would imperil her health due to advanced stage of her pregnancy. The petitioners contended they were stranded in Dayton, Nevada in the USA where most hospitals have been converted for COVID-19 treatment and they were not having insurance and were not in a financial position to afford to get treatment in the private Hospitals.  "It is the duty of the State to ensure that the Petitioner who is pregnant and is stuck in the USA in a vulnerable condition is brought back to India in time and is given proper treatment as it is not only the question of the petitioner’s life alone but also the unborn child," they said. The woman said she wanted to deliver her child in India. She has been suffering psychologically having regard to the fact that she is stranded in the USA with expected delivery date of July 17 nears.  During their stay, the petitioners approached the authorities concerned including Embassy in the USA for evacuation but their names were not included in the list of passengers of the scheduled flight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-govt-to-consider-plea-to-evacuate-pregnant-woman-from-the-us-836827.html
12-05-2020||National||Kerala witnesses fresh spike in COVID-19 cases; tightens vigil on outsiders||With 23 of the 32 COVID active cases in Kerala now being reported on persons who came from other states and countries, Kerala is tightening vigil on those entering the state from other places. Five persons tested positive in the state on Tuesday (May 12) included four NRIs and one from Chennai. So far 11 NRIs evacuated and 12 persons who came from other states over the last few days were tested positive leading to a fresh spike in COVID cases in the state. The active cases in Kerala that came down to 16 last week have now doubled to 32.  Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that all those who enter Kerala by any modes of transport without obtaining the entry pass by online registration would have to remain in institutional quarantine for 14 days.  Those coming with valid passes and do not have any symptoms need to undergo 'room quarantine' in their homes. Police, health officials, and local bodies will strictly ensure that those on room quarantine in homes do not violate it. Kerala has expressed concerns over operating air-conditioned trains as it further enhances COVID-19 spread. The state is also insisting on anti-body tests on all NRIs before being evacuated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-witnesses-fresh-spike-in-covid-19-cases-tightens-vigil-on-outsiders-836828.html
12-05-2020||National||Yogi Adityanath pitches for job creation under MGNREGA||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday asked for the creation of 50 lakh jobs per day under the MGNREGA, more than double the current numbers. He said in view of the coronavirus outbreak, stranded workers are returning to the state, hence, jobs in large numbers are needed, a statement said.     Currently, the scheme provides employment to around 20 lakh rural poor per day in the state, the CM said in a video conference with gram rozgar sevaks, hired on contract for the implementation of the scheme. The CM said lakhs of people can be given jobs under it and at MSMEs units, for which the government has prepared a roadmap. "We should strive towards connecting 50 lakh people every day with the MGNREGA in the state. The state's economy will get a new strength,” he said. The CM stressed that women self-help groups too can be given the task of making uniforms for over 1.80 crore schoolchildren every year in the state.   “We can inspire people and women self-help groups for many such works. Many people can contribute to job creation,” he said. The CM asked the gram rozgar sevaks to work under their senior officials to extend the benefit of the MGNREGA to the maximum number of people. The CM also transferred an an honorarium of Rs 225.39 crore into the accounts of 35,818 rozgaar sevaks at his official residence here. The gram rozgaar sevaks are involved in the distribution of job cards, allotment of work and taking attendance of labourers on a daily basis under the MGNREGA, the statement said. "The Rural Development Department has solved the problems related to rozgar sevaks today. These issues were pending since November 2016," Adityanath said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-adityanath-pitches-for-job-creation-under-mgnrega-836832.html
12-05-2020||National||Haven’t gained anything as usual from meeting with PM Modi: Mamata Banerjee||Hours ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled address to the nation West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday that before every meeting with Prime Minister she expects that the state will get some Central aid but ends up empty-handed. “We are not blaming anyone but whenever the is a meeting with the Prime Minister we expect that we will get something (financial aid) but we don’t get anything. The centre is yet to clear our dues of Rs. 52,000 crore,” said Banerjee. As for Monday’s meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi Banerjee said that he had said that the COVID-19 crisis will not be over soon and we will have to learn to live with the virus. The Chief Minister also said that phase by phase her government is thinking of approving 100 more special trans to bring back people from Bengal who are stuck in other states due to the lockdown. “More than 1 lakh people have entered Bengal so far...We can not able to allow a large number of at once because they have to be screened. Nearly 90,000 people have arrived in Bengal by bus,” said Banerjee. Without directly naming the party she lashed out at BJP alleging that they are trying to malign Bengal because the party came to the state from outside.  Indicating that thee will be relaxations even in areas which are in red zone districts Banerjee said that her government is planning to divide such in three categories. While there will be no relaxations in category A, areas in containment zones, some relaxations will be provided in areas under category B depending on the severity of the infection. Areas outside containment zones will be under category C. Meanwhile, with 110 fresh cases, the number of active cases in Bengal reached 1363 on Tuesday. Eight more persons died directly due to the virus taking the tally to 126. The earlier state government has said that 72 had died due to comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haven-t-gained-anything-as-usual-from-meeting-with-pm-modi-mamata-banerjee-836836.html
12-05-2020||National||Air pollution shortens life by 3 years: Study||By Kapil Kajal The increasing air pollution in Bengaluru is giving rise to a number of life-threatening diseases, and thereby reducing life expectancy, scientists say. According to a study by the Max Planck Institute for Chemistry and the University Medical Center, Mainz, the global loss of life expectancy caused by air pollution is higher than many other risk factors such as smoking, infectious diseases or violence. According to the study, air pollution caused 8.8 million premature deaths in 2015 and caused an average reduction in life expectancy per capita of 2.9 years while in comparison, tobacco smoking reduces the life expectancy by an average of 2.2 years (7.2 million deaths), HIV/AIDS by 0.7 years (1 million deaths), parasitic and vector-borne diseases such as malaria, by 0.6 years (600,000 deaths).  "Given the huge impact on public health and the global population, one could say that our results indicate an air pollution pandemic," stated Jos Lelieveld, the primary author of the study. The health effects of exposure to air pollution range from increased hospital admissions and emergency room visits to increased risk of premature death and an estimated 4.2 million premature deaths globally, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).     India highly impacted According to a report by The Lancet, 76.8% of the Indian population of India has been exposed to high air pollution.  In 2017, 1.24 million deaths were caused due to air pollution in India, out of which 51.4% of the people were below 70 years, it mentioned while adding that air pollution reduces life expectancy by two years in India.  A 2019 report by the Centre for Science and Environment stated that air pollution is the third-highest cause of death among all health risks ranking, just above smoking in India, and this is a combined effect of particulate matter, ozone and household air pollution, reported PTI. The chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) due to air pollution is at 49%, followed by lung cancer deaths at 33% per cent, diabetes and ischaemic heart disease at 22% each and stroke at 15%, added the report. Bengaluru, most vulnerable The WHO says pollutants with the strongest evidence for a public health concern are particulate matter, ozone, nitrogen dioxide and sulphur dioxide. The level of these pollutants is rising rapidly in Bengaluru because of the vehicular emission, industrial fumes, municipal and agricultural waste sites and waste incineration, among other things.  Dr H Paramesh, a professor at the Divecha Center for Climate Change in the Indian Institute of Science, stated that beside COPD and asthma which are the major non-communicable diseases, air pollution is also affecting the people of Bengaluru by giving them cancer, heart disease, stroke and diabetes which reduce the life expectancy of every person. DrParamesh said that any particular disease from the disease that can be diagnosed with air pollution can reduce up to a month to 10 years of life expectancy depending on the seriousness of the disease. According to Paramesh, the incidence of asthma in children increased from 9% in 1979 to 25.5% in 2009 and asthma has increased from 20% to 72.5% between 1994 and 2009 in Bengaluru. An environmentalist Sandeep Anirudhan stated that though medical science has been able to increase the life expectancy from 47 in 1970, to more than 69 in 2019, but it can be further increased to over 75 if there is no air pollution but unfortunately the same science and technology is helping increase the air pollution and killing the people.  If proper steps to reduce air pollution isn’t taken, we’ll see a reduction in life expectancy in the future, he added.  (Author is Bengaluru - based freelance writer and a member of 101Reporters.com, a pan-India network of grassroots reporters.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-pollution-shortens-life-by-3-years-study-836841.html
12-05-2020||National||PM Modi approves Rs 2 lakh for kin of migrants run over by goods train in Aurangabad, Rs 50K for injured||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Tuesday approved ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the kin of the 16 migrant labourers who were run over by a goods train near  Aurangabad in Maharashtra on May 8. The Prime Minister has sanctioned ex-gratia out of Prime Ministers National Relief Fund (PMNRF) at Rs 2 lakh each to the next of kin of the persons deceased and Rs 50,000 each to the persons who got seriously injured in the train accident in Aurangabad District, Maharashtra," his office said. It asked the Railways to furnish details of the total fund required, along with the names of the deceased, their next of the kin and the seriously injured persons with their complete postal addresses. The amount will be disbursed to the beneficiaries through the Ministry of Railways.  The migrant workers were trying to walk along the railway track from Jalna to Bhusawal in Maharashtra, hoping to catch a train from Aurangabad to get back to their homes in Madhya Pradesh. After walking around 36 km night they fell to sleep on the tracks and run over by goods trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-approves-rs-2-lakh-for-kin-of-migrants-run-over-by-goods-train-in-aurangabad-rs-50k-for-injured-836844.html
12-05-2020||National||US CDC pledges $3.6 million to support COVID-19 response in India||The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has pledged $ 3.6 million assistance to India to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. The assistance by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) will support activities related to prevention, preparedness and response to COVID-19 in India, the American Embassy in New Delhi said.   The initial tranche of funding will seek to further strengthen and support the efforts of the Government of India to increase laboratory capacity for the SARS-COV-2 testing, including molecular diagnostics and serology.  The funds will also be used to support the development of Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) centers of excellence that can improve the ability of hospital networks to detect COVID-19 and strengthen local health systems through enhanced surveillance and monitoring systems.  The US Embassy in New Delhi stated that the CDC would work with local partners to assist in the development of a strong public health workforce to support India’s capacity to respond not only to the COVID-19 pandemic, but to future threats as well.  “The scope of support will include planning for health emergency operations centers to further strengthen public health emergency management capacities.  In addition, the CDC India program will provide technical assistance for the Government of India’s ongoing crisis emergency and risk communication efforts,” it said.   The CDC’s India Office has been collaborating with sub-national and national government institutes to support the COVID-19 response in India since January. “Collaboration efforts are focused on lab strengthening, infection prevention and control, health workforce development, emergency management, risk communication, and community engagement,” said the US Embassy in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-cdc-pledges-36-million-to-support-covid-19-response-in-india-836848.html
12-05-2020||National||Doubling time of COVID-19 cases now 12.2 days: Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||The doubling time of COVID-19 cases has now improved to 12.2 days from 10.9 days, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday, highlighting the need for enhanced surveillance and contact-tracing in view of migrants and expats returning home. Vardhan said the fatality rate is 3.2 per cent while the recovery rate is progressively increasing and stands at 31.74 per cent. Reviewing measures for management of COVID-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh with MoS for Health Ashwini Choubey, he asked the states and UTs to focus on surveillance, testing, contact-tracing and timely treatment of all the returnees.  According to the Health Ministry, the death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,293 and the positive cases climbed to 70,756, registering an increase of 87 deaths and 3,604 cases in the last 24 hours till Tuesday 8am. "While the doubling time in the past 14 days was 10.9, it has improved to 12.2 in the last three days," Vardhan was quoted as saying in a statement. Of the total active cases, as on Monday, 2.37 per cent patients are in ICU, 0.41 per cent on ventilators and 1.82 per cent on oxygen support, he said. The minister said the testing capacity has increased to 1 lakh tests per day with 347 government laboratories and 137 private labs. "Cumulatively, 17,62,840 tests have been done so far for COVID-19. Whereas, 86,191 samples were tested on Monday," he said.  The Centre, states and UTs are taking cohesive efforts to combat the coronavirus and "this provides us the assurance that the country is well-prepared to face any eventuality due to COVID-19", he said. During the meeting, the Union health minister also stressed on ramping up surveillance for severe acute respiratory infections (SARI)/Influenza Like Illness (ILI), which will help in identifying any possible hidden infections at an early stage and in its timely containment. He praised the work done for SARI/ILI surveillance and contact-tracing in Uttarakhand. Ladakh stated that it has started mobile medical vans in far-flung areas for non-COVID services. RK Mathur, the LG of Ladakh, said his administration is keeping doctors and police personnel in reserve to deploy on rotational basis. Vardhan pointed out that as the usage tobacco is fairly high in Ladakh, spitting in public places needs to be banned as per the guidelines issued earlier. Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said Ayurvedic immunity boosters have been provided to front-line health workers, police personnel and paramilitary forces. Sirmaur district is providing training to barbers and salon operators to prepare them for post-lockdown. The states and UTs were advised to keep adequate stock of essential medicines and timely release of salaries and incentives to boost the morale of front-line health workers. The meeting was also attended by Jammu and Kashmir LG Girish Chandra Murmu and Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doubling-time-of-covid-19-cases-now-122-days-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-836850.html
12-05-2020||National||MP: Migrant worker dies in Shramik special train||A migrant worker died on board a Pune-Prayagraj Shramik Special train in Madhya Pradesh on Monday. Akhilesh Kumar, 34 died during the journey and the body was taken off the train at Majhgawan in Madhya Pradesh's Satna district, the officials said.  Kumar was used to working at a hotel in Pune, was returning to his hometown in Gonda in Uttar Pradesh. "The migrant worker died on the Pune-Prayagraj special train and his body was attended to in Madhya Pradesh. A post-mortem has been conducted," Railway Protection Force (RPF) Director General (DG) Arun Kumar confirmed. He said there was no confirmation yet on whether the migrant had tested positive for coronavirus. Two migrants were returning in Shramik Special trains in  Uttar Pradesh in separate incidents on Saturday.   In the first incident a 29-year-old migrant worker from Sitapur, identified as Kanhaiya Lal, died in a Shramik Special returning from Bhavnagar in Gujarat to Basti in Uttar Pradesh. Yadav said Kanhaiya Lal suddenly collapsed on his seat in the train, prompting his co-passengers to rush to his help. When the train reached Lucknow, the doctors examined the man and found him dead, the In the other incident, a 34-year-old Hiralal found dead in a train returning from Dhola in Gujarat. He was found lying unconscious during the checking of the train after all its passengers had deboarded it at Lucknow. He was rushed to Balrampur Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, the SP said, adding his family members have been informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-migrant-worker-dies-in-shramik-special-train-836851.html
12-05-2020||National||Opposition leaders to protest against labour laws on May 13||Leaders of eight opposition parties, including CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, his CPI counterpart D Raja and LJD patron Sharad Yadav, will stage a protest in the national capital against the suspension of labour laws in several states of the country amid COVID-19 lockdown. These eight leaders had last week written to President Ram Nath Kovind urging him to nullify changes being made in labour laws "using the pretext" of COVID-19, saying he should intervene to stop "such naked savagery" against the working class at this crucial juncture when the unity of all people is needed to fight the pandemic. The leaders will hold the protest at A K Gopalan Bhavan, the CPI(M) headquarters, at 12 noon by maintaining "physical distancing" and other norms that have to be followed. Senior RJD MP Manoj K Jha, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) president Thol Thirumavalavan as well as General Secretaries of CPI(ML)-L (Dipankar Bhattacharya), Forward Bloc (Debabrata Biswas) and RSP (Manoj Bhattacharya) will also take part in the protest. Asserting that "workers are not slaves", Yechury said labour laws are being suspended with impunity in states while workers are facing pay cuts and retrenchment. "The labour laws are being abolished. There are large-scale job-loss and salary cuts and the same corporations which have generously donated to the private fund in the name of the Prime Minister have done this. Workers are paying for this," he said during a digital press conference. Accusing the Narendra Modi government of not giving the legitimate dues to the states, he said it is going ahead with over-centralisation, which is an affront to the federal structure of the country. Asked whether the migrant workers' issue will have a political impact, Yechury said the government has given the "rawest possible deal" and it will face "negative repercussions" for sure in the future but the immediate issue before the country is to address the COVID-19 situation. "The Centre has put the responsibility on states on dealing with migrant workers and they will have to make arrangements. The Centre will now pass on the responsibility to states and if the latter fails, they will put the blame on states. That cannot be allowed," he said. He said tackling COVID-19 must be the "single-minded" focus but the government and any "retrograde" distractions like over-centralisation, negating federalism and trampling on workers' rights will have to be tackled. On Monday, trade unions, including RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), have come out against the move by states like Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha, freezing labour laws, saying states have not so far been able to convince the public how labour laws are hurdles in economic activities and about the emergent situation requiring the extreme step of suspension of labour laws. Separately, ten other central trade unions, including CITU, AITUC and INTUC, said it was considering approaching the International Labour Organisation (ILO) against the government for "gross violation of labour standards".  “Central Trade Unions consider these moves as an inhuman crime and brutality on the working people, besides being a gross violation of the Right to Freedom of Association(ILO Convention 87), Rights to Collective Bargaining( ILO Convention 98) and also the internationally accepted norm of eight hour working day – espoused by Core Conventions of International Labour Organisation  (ILO). The ILO Convention 144 in regard to Tripartism has also been undermined by the Government,” they said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-leaders-to-protest-against-labour-laws-on-may-13-836852.html
12-05-2020||National||SC notice to SFIO on bail plea by Rotomac cos directors in Rs 7,500 cr fraud||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a response from the Union government on a plea for bail made by Rotomac group of companies directors Sujay Desai and Uday J Desai in a case related to Rs 7,500 crore financial fraud with public sector banks and other institutions. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna issued notice to the Ministry of Corporate Affairs' Serious Fraud Investigation Office on the petition by the Desais. The court put the matter for consideration next week. The petitioners led by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi challenged the validity of the Allahabad High Court's order of May 5, rejecting their plea for the interim bail. Both Sujay and Uday were arrested on March 19, in the case where the investigation was ordered on February 21 into 11 companies of Rotomac group and Frost International Ltd. They were arrested for the commission of the offence of fraud with Public Sector Banks and Financial Institutions involving a total amount of Rs 4000 crores approximately in RGPL and Rs 3500 crores in FIL.  In their special leave petition, the petitioners contended they were suffering from diabetes and asthma and faced a great risk of contracting COVID-19 as they were confined to district jail Kanpur Nagar, which was already overcrowded. The High Court has refused them bail, saying in view of "nature and gravity of the offence which shakes the conscience of the society and public at large" and the facts that the investigation was still pending. It has also noted there were strong apprehensions that there would be chances of tampering of evidence by them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-sfio-on-bail-plea-by-rotomac-cos-directors-in-rs-7500-cr-fraud-836855.html
12-05-2020||National||Modi's speech: Watch PM's address to nation LIVE here||After an online discussion with chief ministers over the future strategy for the coronavirus lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to address the nation today (Tuesday) at 8 pm. The PM in his speech is expected to talk about the future course of lockdown in the country, the already made relaxations undertaken in various sectors, financial assistance being provided to the "corona warriors" among others. Modi's speech will be telecast live on various platforms including on Twitter, Facebook and YouTube. Watch PM's speech live below:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modis-speech-watch-pms-address-to-nation-live-here-836858.html
12-05-2020||National||Delhi Constable's death shows hospital's reckless attitude: NHRC||The death of a young Delhi Police Constable, who tested positive for COVID-19, showed "reckless and negligent" attitude of hospitals, which may be "lacking in infrastructure and right approach" to deal with the situation, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) said on Tuesday. Constable Amit Kumar (32) died last week while he was being taken to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, a day after another hospital refused to admit him though he had shown symptoms for COVID-19 infection. The NHRC issued notices to the Union Home Secretary and Delhi Chief Secretary seeking reports from them, which should also have Standard Operating Procedure adopted by the hospitals for the COVID-19 patients and status of its implementation. The reports should be submitted within four weeks. In its observations, the NHRC said police personnel, doctors and paramedical staff are frontline fighters to tackle COVID-19 virus and denial of admission in the hospital to a policeman, "who had been doing his duty sincerely", was is a "matter of concern".  "Timely treatment to the young constable may have saved his life. The reported incident seemingly also sends a message that the patients are, perhaps, not being attended by the hospitals and COVID-19 centres, as per standard protocol set by the agencies concerned. It shows the reckless and negligent attitude of the hospital authorities," the NHRC said. It also indicated that "perhaps the hospital authorities are lacking in infrastructure and right approach to deal" with COVID-19 patients. The hospitals are required to tackle the situation very sensibly with a humane approach, it said. The Constable was first taken to Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital by one of his colleagues where a COVID-19 test was conducted but was not admitted in the hospital. The victim, later, complained of breathlessness and was taken to the Ram Manohar Lohia hospital but he could not reach hospital and died on the way. Before being taken to Deep Chand Bandhu hospital, the NHRC said Kumar was taken to a COVID-19 centre at Haidarpur from where he was diverted to the Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital. The patient was kept waiting for hours and then he was taken to Deepchand Bandhu hospital from where he was referred to a COVID-19 centre at Ashok Vihar where the doctors agreed to admit him on condition that he will have to manage everything on his own. The colleague accompanying him told them that he is not even able to talk and will not be able to manage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-constables-death-shows-hospitals-reckless-attitude-nhrc-836859.html
12-05-2020||National||Lockdown: Indian Railways, Postal dept tie-up for door delivery, pick up of parcels||In a first of its kind initiative in the country, the Railways and Postal department in Kerala have entered into a tie-up for door delivery and pick up of parcels to help people during the lockdown from Tuesday. The Thiruvananthapuram division of Southern Railways and Department of Posts, Kerala circle, came together for the initiative. The service has been started to mitigate the difficulties being faced by customers in sending and receiving parcels through the railway network during the lockdown period, a railway release said.  It would cater to the growing number of customers using the daily parcel trains between Thiruvananthapuram Central Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram Central Chennai Egmore. Under this initiative, the first of its kind in the country, postal personnel will collect the parcel from the consigners premises and get them booked, the release said. The transshipment will be through Railways from the nearest railway station to the destination railway station. From there, the parcel will again be collected and delivered to the consignee at his doorstep by the Department of Posts. A minimum charge will be collected from the customer under Logistics Post levied by Postal Department in addition to the charges levied by Indian Railways, the release said. The service will be initially available at Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kottayam, Ernakulam Town, Aluva and Thrisur.  The Consigner may call the Rail Post dedicated phone numbers Land line 0471 2464425, Mobile 94479 57388; 96339 73640 in advance to book the parcel or call 24/7 Railway Parcel Helpline Number 91 95678 69381 for assistance. This door-to-door transshipment facility would be available till the lockdown is over or for the next one month, whichever is later. Customers may avail of the facility to transport their items upto 3.5 tonnes as a single shipment, the release said. The Memorandum of Understanding for the service was signed by Dr Rajesh Chandran, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Thiruvananthapuram Division and Sayeed Rasheed, Director of Postal Services, Kerala Circle in the presence of Shirish Kumar Sinha, Divisional Railway Manager, Thiruvananthapuram Division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-indian-railways-postal-dept-tie-up-for-door-delivery-pick-up-of-parcels-836869.html
12-05-2020||National||'Be vocal for local' - PM Modi urges India to buy local products with pride||In his address to the nation on Tuesday, PM Narendra Modi made a big appeal to the citizens of the country. Bringing a new slogan - 'Vocal for local' - PM urged people of India to increasingly purchase local products. The PM urged people of India to believe in and purchase local products in order to strengthen the economy. He said that India's local products have helped the country immensely in tackling the coronavirus crisis. "Coronavirus has made us realise that local market and local manufaturing are powerful tools to grow economy. All the global brands were also local at some point of time. They became global from local due to their pride in their products. Hence, we need to buy local products and also have pride in those products. We have to be vocal for local to improve our economy," the PM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/be-vocal-for-local-pm-modi-urges-india-to-buy-local-products-with-pride-836872.html
12-05-2020||National||Atma Nirbhar Bharat: PM Modi offers Rs 20 lakh cr economic package ahead of Lockdown 4.0||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced an economic relief package of Rs 20 lakh crore — about 10% of India’s GDP — that will cover the land, labour, industry, entrepreneurs, farmers and migrant workers to fight the impact of COVID-19 in a better way and make the lockdown-battered economy self-reliant.  Only Japan, the US and Germany have announced a stimulus bigger than 10% of their GDP. The details of the package — which includes earlier measures unveiled by the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India — will be revealed by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman from Wednesday onwards. "The special economic package would be the main component of 'Atma-Nirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India)'," Modi said in his fifth address to the nation. “Corona will be with us for a long time but our lives cannot revolve around corona…We won’t let our focus stray,” he added. “It is for migrants and farmers who work for the nation day and night, no matter the circumstances,” the Prime Minister said emphasising on migrant workers, several of whom lost their lives while trying to reach their native places during the lockdown. Some even staged protests demanding transport facility to their homes.  Modi said the package will “focus on land, labour, liquidity and law”. “It will help small business, labourers, farmers, strengthen local markets, production and supply chains,” the prime minister said, adding “it is time to become vocal for local”. Soon after the announcement, India Inc said the stimulus was far bigger than what they had asked for. “Everything we asked for can be executed and implemented in this package. It is more than what we asked for,” CII and Ficci said, adding this is the time to dream big for India. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman took to Twitter to praise the announcement. “For every section of our society, there is something in the #AatmaNirbharBharat  We should make #Local our mantra. Every big product, branded product, were #Local sometimes,” she tweeted. The Niti Aayog had put forward the proposal for a stimulus equivalent to 10% of the GDP. The incentive came more than a month after the finance minister had announced a Rs 1.76 lakh crore stimulus. The Centre came under attack after the stimulus, which economists and other stakeholders said was too little to tackle the woes of India’s 130 crore people.     Subsequently, the RBI announced a Rs 3.4 lakh crore monetary stimulus. Modi’s Rs 20 lakh crore package will include all of that. The Prime Minister’s address came a day after he held a marathon six-hour meeting with chief ministers, with almost all of them asking for a large financial package. He said self-reliant India will stand on five pillars – Economy, infrastructure, tech-driven system, vibrant demography and demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atma-nirbhar-bharat-pm-modi-offers-rs-20-lakh-cr-economic-package-ahead-of-lockdown-40-836874.html
12-05-2020||National||New Delhi Railway Station comes alive as passenger trains resume services||After a gap of more than 50 days, New Delhi Railway Station came alive on Tuesday as a large number of passengers gathered to catch trains as Indian Railways resumed partial services. As three AC Special trains were scheduled to resume journey from New Delhi Railway station to Bilaspur, Bengaluru, and Dibrugarh, the passengers started thronging the station area more than 5 to 6 hour early than prescribed 90 minutes.  The top officials from Northern Railways were also present at Station early in the day to make arrangements for passengers. Apart from cleaning, spraying of disinfection continued at the station premises. Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Delhi Police personnel and other staff were seen busy arranging the passengers to stand in queue and go through thermal screening.  Since the railway allowed passengers entry from only one gate at Paharganj side, there was a long queue outside the station premises.  Only confirmed ticket holders were allowed inside the station and hand sanitiser was kept outside to ensure all passengers disinfected their hands before boarding trains.   After the suspension of passengers trains, all the activities at the New Delhi Railway station, one of most busy stations were more than 370 trains originated or passed through and more 5 lakh passengers arrived and departed daily, almost came to standstill. Except for freight trains and parcel trains movement, there were not many activities in the station. However, with the resumption of select passenger trains, the station was brought to life. The staff members were also in a joyful mood. The railway staff served lemon juice to passengers and made a frequent announcement about precautions they have to take during the journey.  The starting of services brought a big relief to people who have been stuck in Delhi and surrounding areas for the past more than 50 days due to the nationwide lockdown.  Despite sweltering heat and standing in queue for long hours, passengers were in the jubilant mood to catch a train to go to their homes and other destinations.  Though some struggled to reach the station due to the absence of public transportation, they were happy as finally, the train operations have started.  Suraj, who wanted to catch Bilaspur train came to the station, said, "since no bus and auto services, I had to walk for than 8 km to reach Railway station." "Since most of the taxi drivers were reluctant to come here, I had to depend on my distant relative to reach here," said Rachana, who was waiting to catch Dibrugarh train.  Though my train is at 9.30 pm, I came early so that I should not miss it. I am happy I am going to Bengaluru to join duty said another passenger, Pavan Verma.  Around 3,400 passengers have boarded the trains at New Delhi station, a railway official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-delhi-railway-station-comes-alive-as-passenger-trains-resume-services-836877.html
12-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Here are key takeaways from PM Modi's address to nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Tuesday, addressed the nation. In his address, PM spoke about being self-reliant in the 21st century and the COVID-19 crisis must be turned into an opportunity.   Here are the key takeaways from PM Modi's speech: 1) When the crisis started then not even a single PPE kit was manufactured in India, only a few N95 masks were available. Today 2 Lakh PPE kits and 2 lakh N95 masks are manufactured in India. 2) India's self-reliance will be based on five pillars -- economy, infrastructure, technology-driven system, vibrant demography and supply-demand chain. 3) PM Modi announced a special economic package that will amount to Rs 20 lakh crore which is nearly 10% of India's GDP. Beginning Wednesday, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman would announce details of the special economic package, PM said. 4) "We need to take this to a higher level. Reforms such as these should be in the entire supply chain of agriculture. This will also ensure that agriculture remains untouched in pandemic situations like this even in the future," PM said.     5) "Corona has made us understand the importance of local manufacturing, local markets & local supply chains. It's not just our need, but also our responsibility. It helped us when everything else was closed down to ensure essential services were continued," PM stated. 6) PM urged people to be 'vocal for local' in this hour of crisis. He asked the people of India to buy more local products. 7) Modi also stated that lockdown 4.0 would be different with new rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-here-are-key-takeaways-from-pm-modis-address-to-nation-836878.html
12-05-2020||National||Maternal malnutrition, low birth weight and short gestation kill lakhs of Indian children every year||Nearly 68% of the under-5 deaths in India can be attributed to the child and maternal malnutrition whereas 83% of the neonatal deaths are due to low birth weight and short gestation, according to two new studies. The prevalence of stunting among children under five years of age in India was 39% while under-weight is seen among 33% of kids. Nearly 270 lakh children are born in India each year. Scrutinising India’s child mortality and growth failure in every state over the last 17 years, the studies report 8-11 fold variations among districts on the mortality and 4-5 times variations on child growth. As many as 11 districts of Uttar Pradesh and a few districts of Bihar, Odisha and Assam are the worst affected ones. At a time when the focus is on battling the COVID-19 pandemic, the studies published in The Lancet and EClinicalMedicine underscored the need to pay attention to other aspects of healthcare that have been bereft of attention since the pandemic broke out. Notwithstanding improvements in the last two decades, the child death numbers continue to be astoundingly high in India.  There were 1.04 million under-5 deaths in India in 2017, of which nearly 50% (0.57 million) were neonatal deaths. The highest number of under-5 deaths was in Uttar Pradesh (312,800 which included 165,800 neonatal deaths) and Bihar (141,500 which included 75,300 neonatal deaths). Under-five mortality rates of 40 or more per 1,000 live births are reported in 88% of the districts in the less developed states, but only in 2% of the districts in the more developed states. Similarly, the neonatal mortality rate was 20 or more per 1000 live births in 93% of the districts in the first group of states but only in 13% of the districts in the second category. “Comparison of child mortality trends in each of the 723 districts has identified the districts with high gaps where more targeted attention is needed," said Rakhi Dandona, professor at the Public Health Foundation of India and the lead author of the child mortality paper. In Uttar Pradesh, which had the highest child mortality rate in 2017, the worst performing zone include a cluster of eight districts in the north-central part (Bahraich, Balrampur, Barabanki, Gonda, Hardoi, Kheri, Shravasti, and Sitapur), three districts in the south (Allahabad, Banda and Chitrakoot), and Lalitpur district in the south-west. In Assam, which had the second-highest child mortality rate in 2017, the worst districts are concentrated in the southern side of the state (Cachar, Dima Hasao, Hallakandi, KarbiAnglong, Karimganj, and West KarbiAnglong). In Bihar, the priority districts are in the north-east (Kishanganj and Purnia) and the south-west (Aurangabad and Kaimur). On the child growth front, seven districts of Odisha (Kalahandi, Koraput, Rayagada, Nuapada, Nabarangapur, Malkangiri and Balangir) and 13 in Uttar Pradesh (Pilibhit, Shahjanpur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur, Bahraich, Sravasti, Balrampur, Siddharth Nagar, Gonda, Barabanki, Faizabad, Basti, and Maharajganj) fared the worst on parameters to improve stunting, wasting and underweight among children. “There are five-fold variations in the prevalence of these indicators (stunting, wasting and underweight) between the districts,” observed R Hemalatha, director, National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad and the lead author of the child growth failure paper.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maternal-malnutrition-low-birth-weight-and-short-gestation-kill-lakhs-of-indian-children-every-year-836879.html
12-05-2020||National||Andhra Pradesh, Telangana back to sparring over Krishna river waters||After the bonhomie witnessed last year, the Chandrasekhar Rao and Jaganmohan Reddy governments appear to be at odds now over the sharing of the Krishna river waters from the Srisailam project. A planned irrigation project of the Andhra Pradesh government lifting three TMC of water from the Srisailam reservoir, jointly managed by the two states, has irked the Telangana side. On Monday night, after a meeting on the issue with his cabinet colleagues and senior officials, Rao issued a statement calling AP’s scheme as “unilateral and objectionable.” The AP government has even issued a Government Order to go ahead with the project, Telangana officials stated. “The AP State Reorganization Act stipulates that any new irrigation project planned in AP or Telangana should get clearance from the Apex Committee, which AP government did not. While water from Srisailam should be utilized by both, AP has without even consulting Telangana decided to lift Srisailam waters. If Krishna water is thus diverted by AP, our south Telangana districts will face a drinking and agriculture water crisis. We will complain to the Krishna River Management Board to issue directives stopping the project construction,” Rao said. Stating AP’s plan is against Telangana’s interests, Rao asked officials to prepare for a legal battle approaching the Supreme Court to thwart the project. Rao, at this juncture, reminisced about the “give and take approach” he had proposed to Reddy last June-July after the latter became the CM. Rao and previous AP CM Chandrababu Naidu were sparring over several issues including the water projects. The change of guard in AP was seen as a turning point in AP-Telangana relations towards an amicable resolution of many issues. The two CMs had met at least twice in this regard and the harmony was such that there was even a proposal to take the surplus Godavari waters towards Srisailam through Telangana. “We had extended a friendly hand to AP stating that river waters be utilized setting aside disputes of the past, to benefit farmers on both sides. I took the initiative saying there should not be any ego (while resolving matters). But it is very painful that the AP government declared a new scheme without even consulting with us. This has dented the very spirit needed in mutual cooperation,” Rao rued. Though CM Reddy is yet to respond on his Telangana counterpart’s charges, AP’ irrigation minister Anil Kumar said the project was intended to utilise the Krishna floodwaters, becoming rare, to aid Rayalaseema, Nellore areas. “Krishna water allocations are made clear for the two states and there is no question of drawing from Telangana’s share. Both CMs share a friendly, brotherly relation. Coronavirus situation has put a break in the water sharing discussions,” the minister said, supposing the issue would be resolved soon. AP minister compared their project to the Kalwakurthy, Palamuru-RangaReddy lift irrigation schemes on the Telangana side.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-telangana-back-to-sparring-over-krishna-river-waters-836880.html
12-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Homes of those returning from affected areas to be containment zones in Assam||As thousands head home, the Assam government has decided to turn the homes of those returning from COVID-19 affected areas as 'containment zones' during the quarantine period upto 14-days. "Since it is not possible to test the samples of all coming from the rest of the country, we have decided to collect samples of only those showing symptoms. But all others not showing any symptom must be in-home quarantine. So their homes will be turned into containment zones and no outsiders will be allowed to visit them during the quarantine period ranging between nine to 14-days. They will also not be allowed to move out of their homes or flats till the quarantine period is over," health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told reporters on Tuesday. He said so far 3,597 people had already entered through the Assam-Bengal check gates at Chagalia and Srirampur in western Assam while a train carrying nearly 1,000 passengers hailing from Assam and neighbouring Arunachal Pradesh will reach Dibrugarh in eastern Assam on Wednesday. The Centre on Monday told the state government that a train from Delhi would similarly carry passengers for a week. "This means, a large number of people are on their way back home. As the first train reach Kokrajhar station tomorrow (May 13), we enter a very crucial stage in our fight against COVID-19. So we all must be very careful and strict in making sure that all coming from rest of the country complies with the quarantine protocols to prevent new infections. Those showing symptoms will be quarantined in hospitals while the rest will be put into home quarantine. The community must keep watch on such families and help us to prevent further spread of the virus," Sarma said. "The train will stop at Mughalsarai, Kanpur (UP), Barauni (Bihar) and New Jalpaiguri station in West Bengal and many will board the train there too. All these places are COVID-19 affected areas and there is every possibility of infection," he said. Assam has reported 65 COVID-19 positive cases so far including two deaths, while 39 have been discharged after recovery. But the state fears that the number could spiral if people returning from rest of the country, including the migrant workers, tests positive. Thousands from Assam works in Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharastra, Gujarat, West Bengal and other states.  The state government has also requested the Centre to provide four Shramik special trains to carry passengers from Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai and Hyderabad. The state government will bear 15% fare (upto Rs. 1,000) while the railway will pay the other 85%, Sarma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-homes-of-those-returning-from-affected-areas-to-be-containment-zones-in-assam-836882.html
12-05-2020||National||Delhi HC puts on hold intellectual property rights authority notice on limitation||The Delhi High Court has put on hold the operation of a public notice issued by the intellectual property rights authority giving lawyers and litigants time till May 18 to complete documentation process in cases before it. Justice Rajiv Shakdher, while putting on hold the May 4 public notice of Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trademarks (CGPDTM), said the Supreme Court had in its March 23 order directed that limitation period in all cases would stand extended until further orders with effect from March 15. The judge said no court, tribunal or any authority can act contrary to the order of the Supreme Court.  The CGPDTM, in its May 4 notice, had said that the period of limitation would begin form March 25 when lockdown was imposed and would end on May 17, unless its extended further. The Intellectual Property Attorneys Association (IPAA), represented by senior advocate Chander M Lall and advocate Archana Sahadeva, challenged the notice saying it's contrary to the apex court's order. They also contended that the notice puts an "onerous burden" on litigants and lawyers as it would be difficult for them to access their files and ensure filings and completion of documentation on May 18 as the lockdown will be lifted only on May 17.  Agreeing with IPAA, the court said all authorities, whether civil or judicial, located in India are required to act in aid of orders of the Supreme Court. "Therefore, IPAA is right that the protection against limitation being triggered should commence from March 15 and not March 25 as indicated in the public notice dated May 4," the court said. It also agreed with IPAA that CGPDTM should not have set such a short deadline to complete documentation process. "Therefore, for the moment, the best course forward would be to suspend the operation of the public notice dated May 4. It is ordered accordingly," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-puts-on-hold-intellectual-property-rights-authority-notice-on-limitation-836883.html
12-05-2020||National||Life will never be same for everyone due to changes triggered by coronavirus pandemic: Naidu||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu spoke to people from different walks of life and with several veteran politicians including LK Advani and Manmohan Singh during the lockdown, saying the “virtual seclusion” period provided a rare opportunity to reflect on life and connect with friends. In a Facebook post on Tuesday, Naidu said, "Life will never be the same for everyone in the wake of the changes triggered by the pandemic at the individual as well as the societal level." Naidu said while the lockdown disrupted daily routines, it has also provided a rare opportunity to sit back and reflect on life and connect with relatives and friends. "Seeking to make the best use of this window provided by lockdown, I endeavoured on a ‘Mission Connect’. I made hundreds of telephone calls to speak to my friends, longtime associates, acquaintances -- old and new -- relatives, MPs, spiritual leaders and journalists to enquire about their wellbeing and exchange views," he said. The Vice President said the exercise was very satisfying for him. "This virtual seclusion also provided with an opportunity to speak to several veterans like L K Advani, M M Joshi, Manmohan Singh, Deve Gowda, A K Antony, Shanta Kumar, Ram Naik, Motilal Vora, Ahmed Patel, Keshubhai Patel," he said. Naidu said he also spoke to personalities from different walks of life including MS Swaminathan, ‘Metro Man’ E Sreedharan, Jupudi Hymavathiamma, Turlapati Kutumba Rao and P V Chalapathi Rao and others. The Rajya Sabha Chairman said he also interacted with chief ministers, governors, leaders of various political parties in both houses of Parliament and all MPs of the Rajya Sabha. "I am happy to note that the MPs are actively engaged in the fight against Coronavirus. They have initiated several welfare measures and are supporting various humanitarian initiatives being taken up by both the governments and civil society," he said in the post. Many parliamentarians from time-to-time have assisted relief activities during natural calamities such as floods, cyclones and droughts in their areas, Naidu said, adding that he is confident that their past experiences will come in handy in the fight against coronavirus. Naidu said for the first time since his marriage in 1970, he is spending a significant amount of time at home with his wife Ushamma. "My wife, in particular, is savouring every moment of our togetherness. I never spent more than a week at home. For the first time since our marriage in 1970, I am spending a significant amount of time with my wife Ushamma," he said. The Vice President said he is also delighted to have spoken with people at Udayagiri in Nellore, from where he started his political journey. Naidu said that during the lockdown, he has been holding meetings with senior officers of the Rajya Sabha and the Vice President’s Secretariat from time-to-time at the Upa-Rashtrapathi Niwas, while ensuring everyone followed social distancing norms. He said he is confident that the country will overcome the present crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/life-will-never-be-same-for-everyone-due-to-changes-triggered-by-coronavirus-pandemic-naidu-836884.html
12-05-2020||National||First train with 1,000 passengers arrives in Jammu and Kashmir from Bengaluru||Forty-eight days after the Railways suspended its operations following the countrywide lockdown to prevent COVID-19 spread, the first passenger train carrying 1,100 passengers arrived at the Udhampur railway station in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday from Bengaluru. The train arrived in Udhampur at 11.30 am with passengers, including students, labourers, and businessmen, from Jammu and Kashmir who were stranded in Karnataka since March, reports said. Authorities had made elaborate arrangements to ensure passengers maintain social distance. More than 900 passengers hailed from Kashmir Valley while the rest were from the Jammu division and Union Territory of Ladakh. Upon reaching their hometowns, these passengers will be screened and put under administrative quarantine until they are tested negative. An official spokesman while confirming the arrival of the stranded passengers from Bengaluru said all protocols were framed and procedure established for returnees district wise. “All these passengers were screened before boarding the train in Bangaluru,” he said. The J&K government has decided to use the RTPCR method for testing all people returning to the Union Territory. “All passengers arriving by train or any other means into the UT of Jammu and Kashmir shall be 100 percent tested using the RTPCR method for which the Health and Medical Education Department is making the necessary arrangements,’’ read a government order issued by UT Chief Secretary BVR Subrahmanyam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-train-with-1000-passengers-arrives-in-jammu-and-kashmir-from-bengaluru-836888.html
12-05-2020||National||COVID-19 crisis opportunity to support 'own innovativeness': Ratan Tata||The coronavirus pandemic is like world war and if some funds could be marshalled into certain areas, there could be another wave of innovativeness arising out of a problem just like what happened in World War II or the Cold War, according to veteran industrialist Ratan Tata. The current health crisis is a time to support "our own innovativeness", invest in it and "not dismiss something as being too far out but being something we should look at", said the Chairman Emeritus of Tata group holding firm Tata Sons in an interview on business news channel CNBC-TV18.  "It is not a world war but it is like a world war. There is a dramatic need for vaccine, there is a dramatic need for solutions and strange things happen," Tata said. He further said, "I think we have to look back and say where so and so innovativeness has its roots. Quite often it has its roots at time of crisis and we have a crisis on our hands today and so there is an issue of throw your hands up, you have this crisis and then there is our own innovativeness, it comes to play, that is a time we need to support to invest, to not dismiss something as being too far out but being something we should look at." On the roles that governments can play at present to support collaborations, he cited the example of the US where new industries have been ushered into with the government providing billions of dollars, "which the private sector would not have been able to do", to support "new technologies and biotechnology or in integrated circuits or in total variety of things". "...if we at a time like this had a way of marshalling some funds in certain areas, we could have another wave of innovativeness arising out of a problem just like we have had in World War II or the Cold War. If you look at the plus side of that, it caused innovation to take place which is perhaps not have happened, it would have taken much longer to do than they have done," Tata said.  Reiterating that "this situation does give us an opportunity to innovate", he added, "but it tests us and it involves going through the transformation of looking at a different way to do things caused by shortages in this case or caused by strictures or legislation on the other side. New partnerships, everything is up for grabs." He said the crisis has stretched limit of innovation, which for a few years was thought to be at its limits. "But a hard thing to say is that the virus today has an issue of generating those questions and forcing them on us, otherwise we would go along until there was a more enterprising entrepreneur who thought it. I think we have to look at this as an opportunity to do something that is more innovative than we would have done in 2020," Tata said. Stating that R&D is no longer in silos at present, Tata said, "...today successful R&D is multidisciplinary, many things that we see today would not be there if they were in silos today. So maybe there is a new phase of what we have to look at, which today are not silly, they make sense but there is another page to be turned to deliver something that was not considered possible."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-opportunity-to-support-own-innovativeness-ratan-tata-836893.html
12-05-2020||National||Indian Railways resumes train services, brings relief to passengers||Indian Railway resumed partial passenger train services on Tuesday with operating 8 Special Rajdhani Express bringing relief to passengers who were stranded in different parts of the country due to nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19. Of the planned 15 pairs of Special Rajdhani Express trains from different destinations connecting New Delhi, a total of 8 trains operated on the first day. Remaining trains operated from Wednesday onwards on a daily or weekly basis said railways official. Railways issued separate Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for these special trains where passengers mandatory download Aarogya Setu App, COVID-19 tracing mobile application, and only asymptomatic passengers allowed to board the trains. Demand for these trains so high that despite dynamic fares, tickets were sold out within half an hour of booking for most of the trains on the IRCTC website. Passengers were rushed to stations more than five to six hours early to catch their trains.  The railways made special arrangements at station premises for screening passengers and sanitise their hands before allowing them to enter the train. Since railways not giving blankets and lenin to passengers, AC temperature will be slightly high. To ensure clean air in trains,  fresh air intake is maximized up to 12 times per hour in the AC system of the trains similar to China and Japan, said the official. The national transporter also operated 575 Shramik Special trains from May 1 to May 12 to ferry stranded migrants workers, tourists, and students. The railways suspended the passenger train services on March 22 and halted over 13,500 trains. It was operating only freight and parcel trains and from May 1 it started Shramik express trains. The Indian Railways, one of the largest in the World,  is the lifeline of the country and transport more than 23 million passengers daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-resumes-train-services-brings-relief-to-passengers-836895.html
12-05-2020||National||Four MPs to be nominated as associate members of delimitation commission for J&K||In the absence of Legislative Assembly, regional National Conference (NC) and BJP Lok Sabha members would be nominated as associate members of the delimitation commission empowered to fix boundaries of Assembly segments in the newly carved out Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The law provides that four persons- MLAs of J&K or four Lok Sabha members representing the newly carved out UT-would assist the Election Commission in the delimitation process. “Of the five Lok Sabha MPs from J&K, four would be nominated as associate members of the panel,” a senior official citing legal obligations under the J&K Re-organisation Act, said. Sub-section (3) of Section 60 of Jammu and Kashmir Re-organization Act reads:  “The Election Commission shall, for the purpose of assisting it in the performance of its functions under sub-section (1), associate with itself as associate members, four persons as the Central Government may by order specify, being persons who are the members of the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir or four members of the House of the People representing the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.” After the bifurcation of J&K into two Union Territories, J&K UT has five members in the Lok Sabha including Minister of State Jitendra Singh. Farooq Abdullah, Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi from the NC represent three Valley seats while Jugal Kishore Sharma and Jatindra Singh represent two Jammu LS seats. In March this year, the Centre had notified the constitution of the delimitation commission headed by former Supreme Court judge Justice Ranjana Desai to redraw the assembly and parliamentary constituencies of J&K as per the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019. According to the Act, seven seats are to be added to the present 85 in J&K. At present, the Kashmir region has 46 seats and Jammu 37, besides two nominated members. The new arrangement is likely to tilt the balance of power towards the Jammu region with more MLAs than the Valley in the Union Territory’s legislature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-mps-to-be-nominated-as-associate-members-of-delimitation-commission-for-jk-836898.html
12-05-2020||National||COVID-19 positive Army jawan commits suicide||An Army jawan infected with coronavirus was on Tuesday found hanging from a tree at the premises of a hospital here where he was being treated, police said. The 31-year-old jawan was suffering from lung cancer. He was being treated at the military-run Base Hospital here. His sample was taken for COVID-19 test and the results came as positive, they said. The jawan, a native of Maharashtra, was posted at Itarana Cantt in Alwar district of Rajasthan, police said. The police said they received information about the incident at around 4 am at Naraina Police Station. On visiting the spot, the jawan was found hanging with a nylon rope from a tree behind the COVID-19 ward of the hospital, Deepak Purohit, Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) said. No suicide note was found at the spot, he said. He was suffering from lung cancer and was under treatment at the Base Hospital since May 5. He also tested positive for coronavirus, the official said. The jawan was last seen at around 1 am on Tuesday when he went to the washroom situated behind the COVID-19 ward, he added. The body has been shifted to the mortuary of the hospital, police said. Family members of the deceased living in Alwar have been informed about the incident, they said, adding postmortem will be conducted in the presence of his family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-positive-army-jawan-commits-suicide-836902.html
12-05-2020||National||Roadside dhabas extorting money for releasing parked trucks, alleges truckers body||Truckers on Tuesday alleged that roadside dhabas and local goons are demanding sums ranging from Rs 200 to 300 per day for releasing vehicles that they had parked at their set-ups and other places during the first phase of lockdown. Truckers alleged that vehicles have been forcibly detained by dhaba (eatery) owners in conjunction with local goons who are demanding around Rs 16,000 as parking fee which small operators cannot afford to pay. "Exorbitant parking fee is being charged by roadside dhaba owners where drivers had abandoned their vehicles during lockdown 1.0," All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) President Kultaran Singh Atwal told PTI. "The vehicles are being forcibly detained by dhaba owners in conjunction with local goons and they are charging Rs 200 - Rs 300 per day, which amounts to Rs 16,200 per vehicle, which small operators cannot afford," he claimed. Thousands of vehicles are stranded across the country due to restricted mobility, Atwal said. "This situation is common in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh," he said, charging that rampant extortion of truckers is going on in Madhya Pradesh in the name of entry fee especially at Sendhwa border. Besides cases of theft of batteries, tyres and goods are also concerning the fraternity at large whose loaded vehicles are at risk, he said and demanded, "safety and security" of goods and vehicles stranded on highways. Truckers have claimed that they are still facing high-handedness and harassment, especially at state borders and checkpoints despite guidelines in place for seamless movement of trucks carrying essentials and goods. They reiterated their demand for protection, saying the situation on the ground remained unchanged as they are still dealing with extortion, corruption, misbehaviour and even FIRs. There are so many reports coming from Assam, Bihar, Punjab and Haryana, among others about truck drivers being misbehaved and tortured, according to the truckers' body, which warned of supply disruptions if their "corona warriors" are subject to such inhuman treatment. The AIMTC on Sunday had claimed that 300 trucks carrying fruits and vegetables worth Rs 9 crore were stuck at Rajasthan border and were allowed entry into Delhi only after a high-voltage drama.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/roadside-dhabas-extorting-money-for-releasing-parked-trucks-alleges-truckers-body-836906.html
12-05-2020||National||COVID-19: No cabin baggage, ID checks, moots Centre to re-start air travel||Air travel is likely to change post-lockdown with the government suggesting to airlines and airports to do away with cabin baggage and identity card checks to avoid crowding. Also, air travellers will have to complete web check-in and report at the airport two hours before the departure of the flight. The draft standard operating procedures (SOP) for the resumption of air travel, circulated to airlines and airport operators, also bans those above 80 years from travel in the first phase of resumption of flights. “...suggestions were sought on a draft discussion paper from airlines and airports. The suggestions have now been received. The final SOP is yet to be issued,” a civil aviation ministry spokesman said. Passengers will have to undergo temperature checks at the departure and arrival gates and also have green status on Aarogya Setu app, which has been made mandatory for rail as well as air travel. A PTI report said the draft SOP also mooted rostering the same set of cabin and cockpit crew as long as possible in order to prevent cross-contamination.  India had suspended international commercial passenger flights on March 22 and followed it up with a ban on domestic flights from March 24 as part of measures to arrest the spread of Covid-19. The ban was extended to the end of the nationwide lockdown on May 17. Meanwhile, airports across the country have been preparing for the resumption of flights by putting in additional measures to ensure physical distancing among travellers and utilising technology for disinfection of luggage and trolleys to ensure safe transit. Some of India’s busiest airports such as Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad have already rolled out plans to ensure social distancing at the airport by deploying additional queue managers at kerbside, check-in halls, security check areas and boarding gates, with social distancing markers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-no-cabin-baggage-id-checks-moots-centre-to-re-start-air-travel-836910.html
12-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Goa hikes excise duty on alcohol||Amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, the Goa government imposed a hike in excise tariff on all alcohol products, including beer. According to a notification issued by the state Excise department late on Tuesday, base quality of (Indian-Made Foreign Liquor) has been spiked from Rs 25 to Rs. 30 per bulk litre, while high-grade IMFL has seen an increase from Rs. 2,000 to 2,400. Entry-level beer has also seen an increase from Rs. 22 per bulk litre to Rs. 30, while the premium beer segment has seen an increase from Rs. 38 to Rs. 50 per bulk litre. Prices of wine, locally manufactured country liquor and other grades of alcohol, have also been hiked in the range from 20 to 50 per cent. A liquor store in the state had re-opened in the first week of May after Goa was declared as a Covid-19 free 'green zone'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-goa-hikes-excise-duty-on-alcohol-836916.html
12-05-2020||National||Country disappointed by PM Modi's failure to address migrants' woes: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday termed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address as one that gave the country a headline and said the nation is disappointed by his "failure" to address the woes of millions of migrants. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the mammoth heartbreaking human tragedy of migrant workers walking back home needed compassion, care and safe return. "Dear PM, What you said today gives the country and the media a HEADLINE," he said on Twitter. "When the 'blank page' is filled with 'Heartfelt help of people', the nation and Congress party will respond. "India is deeply disappointed by your utter lack of empathy, sensitivity and failure to address the woes of millions of migrant workers," he said in a series of tweets. His colleague Manish Tewari also tweeted, "PMs speech can be summed up in one word - HEADLINE HUNTING. A NUMBER -20 LAKH CRORES. NO DETAILS." Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, however, welcomed the financial package announced by the prime minister. "The financial package announced by PM Modi ji was much awaited. Better late than never. We welcome this. Now when details emerge, we would know exactly how different sectors would benefit," he tweeted. Another Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said his party had asked for a fiscal injection last month and gave comparative figures of other countries and bemoaned a measly 0.7 per cent of GDP. "If substantially, concretely, new proposal is 10 pc of GDP, it would be great. Both God and devil lie in details, not available. 10 pc should be additional, not counting old pre corona schemes," he tweeted. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said, "Hoping that the Rs 20 lakh crore package is not scripted with same pen which was used to make the promises of giving everyone Rs 15 Lakh, cleaning 'Maa Ganga', bringing back black money in 100 days, transforming Varanasi into Kyoto and ending terrorism with demonetisation." In a big push to revive the economy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced a Rs 20 lakh crore package, which combined the government's recent announcements on supporting key sectors as also measures rolled out by the Reserve Bank of India. In a televised address to the nation, the prime minister said the details about the fourth phase of the lockdown will be made known before May 18, adding it will be different from the earlier phases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/country-disappointed-by-pm-modis-failure-to-address-migrants-woes-congress-836921.html
12-05-2020||National||COVID-19 lockdown 4.0 to have new set of rules: Narendra Modi||A day after his interaction with 30 Chief Ministers, many of which pitched for extending lockdown beyond May 17, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday made it clear that the contours of Lockdown 4.0 will be completely different from the three other lockdowns in the past. “On the basis of recommendations received from states, new rules will be framed, and information about the same will be conveyed before May 18,” the Prime Minister announced in his fifth address to the nation giving clear indications that states will have to play a far bigger role in Lockdown 4.0 than in the past where Centre was leading from the front. Making clear that the nation cannot remain in strict lockdown forever, the Prime Minister noted that though several experts and scientists have said that the virus is going to be part of our lives for a long time, it is also important to ensure that our life does not revolve only around Corona. He exhorted people to work towards their targets while taking precautions like wearing masks and maintaining ‘do gaz doori’ (two yards distance) Modi’s enunciation on the fourth stage of the lockdown being in an altogether new format seeks to strike a balance between life and livelihood in sync with what he said at the Chief Minister’s conference yesterday of “Jan se Jag Tak” (From People to the World). While announcing the lockdown for the first time for 21 days on March 24, the Prime Minister had said ‘Jaan Hai to Jahan Hai”, which he later qualified with “Jaan Bhi, Jahan Bhi”.  The third lockdown ends on May 17 and completes 54 days of the total lockdown of 21 days, then 19 days and then 14 days. The Lockdown 4.0 maybe for close to two weeks. Bihar wanted lockdown till May end while Maharashtra for two weeks more. Telangana has on its own extended till May 29. In the video conference meeting with CMs, Modi had, seeking to shift the focus on containment zones in the coming days, said he is of the firm view that as measures needed in the first phase were not needed in the second phase, similarly, the measures needed in the third phase will not be needed in the fourth.      The Prime Minister had also requested all the chief ministers to share with him a broad strategy on how they would deal with the lockdown regime in their states by May 15. The Prime Minister's Office is said to be in favour of giving states more freedom to decide on the restrictions. “We now have a reasonably clear indication as to the geographical spread of the pandemic in India, including the worst affected areas,” Modi had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-40-to-have-new-set-of-rules-narendra-modi-836930.html
12-05-2020||National||Lockdown 4.0 will be altogether new in format: PM Modi||A day after his interaction with 30 chief ministers, many of whom pitched for extending lockdown beyond May 17, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday made it clear that the contours of Lockdown 4.0 will be completely different from the three other lockdowns in the past. “On the basis of recommendations received from states, new rules will be framed, and information about the same will be conveyed before May 18,” the Prime Minister announced in his fifth address to the nation giving clear indications that states will have to play a far bigger role in Lockdown 4.0 than in the past where Centre was leading from the front. Making clear that the nation cannot remain in strict lockdown forever, the Prime Minister noted that though several experts and scientists have said that the virus is going to be part of our lives for a long time, it is also important to ensure that our life does-not revolve only around coronavirus. He exhorted people to work towards their targets while taking precautions like wearing masks and maintaining ‘do gaz doori’ (two yards distance) Modi’s enunciation on the fourth stage of lockdown, being in an altogether new format, seeks to strike a balance between life and livelihood in sync with what he said at the Chief Minister’s conference yesterday of “Jan se Jag Tak” (From People to the World). While announcing the lockdown for the first time for 21 days on March 24, the Prime Minister had said ‘Jaan Hai to Jahan Hai”, which he later qualified with “Jaan Bhi, Jahan Bhi”.  The third lockdown ends on May 17 and completes 54 days of total lockdown of 21 days, then 19 days and then 14 days. The Lockdown 4.0 may be for close to two weeks. Bihar wanted lockdown till May end while Maharashtra for two weeks more. Telangana has on its own extended till May 29.   In the video conference meeting with CMs, Modi, seeking to shift the focus on containment zones in the coming days, said he is of the firm view that as measures needed in the first phase were not needed in the second phase, similarly, the measures needed in the third phase will not be needed in in the fourth. The Prime Minister had also requested all the chief ministers to share with him a broad strategy on how they would deal with the lockdown regime in their states by May 15. The Prime Minister's Office is said to be in favour of giving states more freedom to decide on the restrictions. “We now have a reasonably clear indication as to the geographical spread of the pandemic in India, including the worst affected areas,” Modi had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-40-will-be-altogether-new-in-format-pm-modi-836931.html
12-05-2020||National||ICMR to conduct survey to estimate prevalence of COVID-19 infection among Indian population||The Indian Council of Medical Research in collaboration with other key stakeholders is conducting a population-based sero survey to estimate the prevalence of coronavirus infection among the Indian population. The survey would be conducted in 69 districts of 21 states and Union Territories, the apex health research body said in a statement on Tuesday. Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Assam and Bihar are some of the states where the survey would be conducted.  The household level cross-sectional survey will cover 24,000 adults distributed equally across four strata of districts categorised on the basis of COVID-19 cases. According to an expert, the exercise can help ascertain if there has been community transmission of the respiratory disease in these areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-to-conduct-survey-to-estimate-prevalence-of-covid-19-infection-among-indian-population-836935.html
12-05-2020||National||Centre identifies 69 districts to study undetected spread of COVID-19||As COVID-19 cases continued to rise, the Health Ministry on Tuesday identified 69 districts across the country, including three in Karnataka to estimate the prevalence of the infection in the Indian population. In Karnataka, the serosurvey will be carried out in Bengaluru Urban, Chitradurga and Kalaburgi districts, a statement by Indian Council of Medical Research said on Tuesday. “This household-level cross-sectional survey will cover 24,000 adults distributed equally across four strata of districts categorized on the basis of reported cases of COVID-19,” the statement said. Sero-survey involves collection and analyses of blood samples to find out the extent to which COVID-19 has spread in the country and provide insights into which communities and populations are most affected by it. “The survey will involve the collection of venous blood samples from 400 randomly selected individuals (one per household) from 10 clusters in each district. Sera from these individuals will be tested for the presence of IgG antibodies using ELISA test developed by ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune,” the ICMR said. It said the results of the survey will provide information about the spread of SARS-CoV-2 infection in different parts of the country.  The survey is coordinated by ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE) and National Institute of Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT), Chennai. The serosurvey is in addition to the hospital-based surveillance to monitor the trend of infection in all districts. India’s COVID-19 count rose to 70,756 on Tuesday morning, an increase of 3,604 in a single day, while the death toll was at 2,293, a rise of 87 since Monday. A separate DH COVID-19 Tracker put the confirmed COVID-19 cases at 72,836 and the death toll at 2,351 at 8:30 p.m. on Tuesday. Besides, three districts in Karnataka, the serosurvey will be carried out in Andhra Pradesh (Krishna, Nellore and Vizianagaram), Assam (Udalguri, Kamrup Metropolitan, and Karbi Anglong), Chhattisgarh (Bijapur, Kabirdham & Surguja), Gujarat (Mahisagar, Narmada and Sabarkatha), Jharkhand (Latehar, Pakur and Simdega), Kerala (Palakkad, Ernakulam and Thrissur), Madhya Pradesh (Dewas, Ujjain and Gwalior), Odisha (Rayagada, Ganjam and Koraput), Rajasthan (Dausa, Jalore and Rajsamand), Tamil Nadu (Tiruvannamalai, Coimbatore and Chennai), Telangana (Kamareddy, Jangoan and Nalgonda). Six districts each have been selected from Bihar (Muzaffarpur, Purnia, Begusarai, Madhubani, Arwal and Buxar), Maharashtra (Beed, Nanded, Parbhani, Jalgaon, Ahmednagar and Sangli) and West Bengal (Alipurduar, Bankura, Jhargram, 24 Paraganas south, Medinipur east and Kolkata). At least one district each from Haryana (Kurukshetra), Jammu and Kashmir (Pulwama), Uttarakhand (Pauri Garhwal), and Himachal Pradesh (Kullu) and two from Punjab (Gurdaspur and Jalandhar) have been selected. In Uttar Pradesh, a total of 9 districts have been shortlisted for the survey – Amroha, Saharanpur, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Bareilly, Balrampur, Mau, Auraiya, Gonda and Unnao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-identifies-69-districts-to-study-undetected-spread-of-covid-19-836937.html
12-05-2020||National||J&K sees biggest single-day jump in COVID-19 count with 55 new cases||Jammu and Kashmir recorded its single biggest day spike in the number of COVID-19 cases on Tuesday with 55 more patients testing positive to take the cumulative tally to 934, including 10 deaths and 455 recovered cases. Among the new positive cases, 42 are from Kashmir, and 13 were reported from Jammu division, officials said. 36 of the new cases are the travelers, who were detected COVID-19 positive today after returning to their native places recently. They said 26 of the fresh cases are from south Kashmir’s Kulgam district followed by Kupwara with 11, Jammu with seven, Anantnag with five, Reasi with two, Kathua with three and Shopian with one. According to the daily Media Bulletin out of 934 positive cases, 469 are Active Positive, 455 have recovered and 10 have died. Out of 53726 test results available, 52792 samples have tested as negative till May 12. Providing district-wise breakup, the Bulletin said that Bandipora has 134 positive cases, Srinagar 136, Anantnag 127, Baramulla 109, Shopian 104, Kupwara 83, Budgam 46, Ganderbal 23, Kulgam 69, Pulwama 13. Similarly, Jammu has 35 positive cases, Udhampur 22, Samba 11, Rajouri four, Kathua 13, Kishtwar, and Ramban one each while Reasi has three.  The advisory informed the public that passengers arriving by trains or any other means into the Union Territory shall be 100% tested for COVID-19. All such passengers will be put into mandatory administrative quarantine till their test results come out to be negative or till they are sent to hospital if test results are positive. All passengers shall be necessarily required to wear face masks / covers and follow social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-sees-biggest-single-day-jump-in-covid-19-count-with-55-new-cases-836942.html
12-05-2020||National||Over 1.5 lakh book tickets for journeys by special trains over next seven days: Rlys||Over 1.5 lakh passengers have booked tickets to travel on the 15 pairs of special trains to be operated over the next seven days, the railways said Tuesday. While three trains departed from the national capital on Tuesday, five started their journeys towards it. Around 8,000 passengers travelled on these eight trains that marked the resumption of passenger rail services since they were disrupted on March 25 due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The bookings for these special trains began at 6 pm on Monday. So far, 90,331 bookings (PNRs) have been generated for the next seven days, the railways said, adding that 1,69,039 passengers will travel against these bookings. The railways issued guidelines on Monday for 15 special trains, which will be operated from Tuesday, asking the passengers to carry their own food and linen, and arrive at the stations at least 90 minutes before departure for a health screening. On Tuesday, the national transporter said installing the Aarogya Setu mobile application was mandatory for the passengers. The railways operated eight trains on Tuesday -- three from New Delhi terminating at Dibrugarh, Bengaluru and Bilaspur, and one each from Howrah, Rajendra Nagar (Patna), Bengaluru, Mumbai Central and Ahmedabad which will terminate at Delhi. All special trains will only have air-conditioned coaches. Since the trains will be operated amidst the ongoing nationwide lockdown, only the passengers with confirmed e-tickets will be allowed to enter the stations. The fares of these trains will be equivalent to that of the Rajdhani trains and passengers can book tickets up to seven days in advance. However, no RAC, wait-list ticket or on-board booking by the ticket-checking staff will be permitted, the railways said. The national transporter had suspended its passenger services over 50 days back in view of the lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-15-lakh-book-tickets-for-journeys-by-special-trains-over-next-seven-days-rlys-836944.html
12-05-2020||National||17000+ prisoners to be released: Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||The coronavirus pandemic sweeping the country is necessitating the release of over 17,000 of the 35,000 plus prisoners in the 60 prisons located in 45 places in Maharashtra, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has said.  “After 158 inmates of the Mumbai's largest prison Arthur Road Jail have tested positive for Covid-19 we decided to take such a huge decision to prevent contagion from spreading to more inmates and staff,” he informed and added, “A process is already underway to release 5,105 undertrials facing sentences of less than seven years on temporary bail and 3,017 convicts on emergency parole.” He further informed how the new decision will see 9,520 undertrials facing a jail term of over seven years also being released on temporary bail taking the total number of inmates released to 17, 642. He quickly clarified thought, “Those charged under MCOCA, TADA, POTA, UAPA, PMLA, NDPS, MPID, Explosive Substances Act, Anti hijacking Act, POCSO, Foreigners in Prison, bank fraud, major financial scams, etc. will not be released.”  Eight prison lockdown   Deshmukh also informed that the Central prisons of Mumbai, Thane, Yerwada and Nashik and the district prisons of Byculla, Kalyan, Aurangabad and Nagpur will all be under complete lockdown. “Neither will a new inmate be sent to these facilities, nor will anyone be sent out. We are looking at keeping the staff too housed within 24x7 till the worst of the pandemic is not behind us.” The Home Minister also said that all the collectors have been told to look for alternate spaces which could work as temporary jails, especially for crowded facilities so that social distancing can be maintained.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/17000-prisoners-to-be-released-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-836948.html
12-05-2020||National||Child mortality, child growth failure indicators improve from 2000 to 2017: Study||Although child mortality and child growth failure indicators have improved substantially across India from 2000 to 2017, inequality between districts has increased within many states, and there are wide variations between the districts, according to findings of the India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative released on Tuesday.  The first comprehensive estimate of district-level trends of child mortality and child growth failure in India published in The Lancet and EClinicalMedicine stated that if the trends observed up to 2017 were to continue, India would meet the SDG 2030 under-5 Mortality Rate (U5MR) target but not the SDG 2030 Neonatal Mortality Rate (NMR) target. "Thirty-four per cent of the districts in India would need higher U5MR reduction and 60 per cent districts would need higher NMR reduction to individually meet the SDG targets," it stated. Child and maternal malnutrition were behind 68 per cent of the under-five fatalities in India, while low-birth-weight and short gestation led to 83 per cent of neonatal deaths. The findings, which are part of two scientific papers on child survival, have been published at a time when the country is fighting COVID-19 pandemic. Health experts say "they remind us that while we must do all that we can to control coronavirus infection, other crucial health issues in India should also continue to receive attention commensurate with their contribution to health loss in India". The studies stated that the under-5 Mortality Rate (U5MR) dropped in India since 2000 by 49 per cent but there is a 6-fold variation in the rate between the states and 11-fold variation between districts of India. There were 1.04 million under-5 deaths in India in 2017, of which 0.57 million were neonatal deaths, down from 2.24 million under-5 deaths, including 1.02 million neonatal deaths in 2000.   The NMR has dropped by 38 per cent since 2000 but there is a 5-fold variation in the rate between the states and 8-fold variation between districts of India, the study stated. "The reduction in NMR has been less than for U5MR, and this reduction has been quite variable across states and districts," the study said. Child growth failure, measured as stunting, wasting and underweight has improved in India since 2000, but their rates vary 4-5 fold between the districts of India and the inequality between districts within many states has increased, it stated. Lower respiratory infections (17·9 pc), preterm birth (15·6 pc), diarrhoeal diseases (9.9 pc), and birth asphyxia and trauma (8.1 pc) were the leading causes of under-5 death in 2017 Preterm birth (27.7 pc), birth asphyxia and trauma (14.5 pc), lower respiratory infections (11 pc) and congenital birth defects (8.6 pc) were the leading causes of neonatal deaths in 2017. Also, 80 per cent of the neonatal deaths were in the early period of 0–6 days. "The district-level trends reported in these papers provide useful guidance for identifying priority districts in each state that need the highest attention," ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said. Rakhi Dandona, Professor at the Public Health Foundation of India and the lead author of the child mortality paper, said comparison of child mortality trends in each of the 723 districts of India with the National Health Policy and SDG targets has identified the districts with high gap where more targeted attention is needed.  Bringing down death numbers among newborns in the first month of life by addressing specific causes of death is crucial. Malnutrition continues to be the leading risk factor for child death and low birth weight is the biggest component in this risk factor.  K Srinath Reddy, President, Public Health Foundation of India said, "Reductions in under-5 child mortality and neonatal mortality are promising as we move towards SDG targets." "Even neonatal mortality which was previously slow to change is now showing improvement. This decline needs to be further accelerated. Child malnutrition is a major determinant along with maternal malnutrition for these deaths and should be accorded highest priority for corrective action," he said, While stark inter-state and inter-district differences in health and nutrition continue to be challenges, these gaps must be bridged through effective and equitable social development, nutrition and environmental health programmes.  "Our preoccupation with COVID-19 should not let these development imperatives slip into the shadows," he underlined. The highest number of under-5 deaths in 2017 were in Uttar Pradesh (312,800 which included 165,800 neonatal deaths) and Bihar (141,500 which included 75,300 neonatal deaths). The study stated U5MR and NMR were lower with the increasing level of development of the states. In 2017, there was 5.7 fold variation in U5MR ranging from 10 per 1000 live births in the more developed (high SDI) state of Kerala to 60 in the less developed (low SDI) state of UP, and 4.5 fold variation for NMR ranging from 7 per 1000 live births in Kerala to 32 in UP. The annual rate of reduction from 2010 to 2017 for U5MR ranged among the states from 2.7 per cent in Nagaland to 6.5 per cent in Telangana, and for NMR from 1.8 per cent in Nagaland to 5.5 per cent in the high SDI state of Tamil Nadu. The annual rate of reduction of NMR was lower than that of U5MR in all states during 2010-2017, but this varied considerably between the states, the study stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/child-mortality-child-growth-failure-indicators-improve-from-2000-to-2017-study-836953.html
12-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0: Here is PM Modi's full speech||Greetings to fellow citizens, for over four months the global community has been in the fight against coronavirus. During this period more than 42 lakh people across the world have been infected with Corona. More than 2.75 Lakh people have died tragically. In India too, people have lost their near and dear ones. I express my heartfelt condolences to all. Friends, a virus has destroyed the world. Crores of people around the world are facing a crisis. World all over is engaged in a battle to save precious lives. We have never seen or heard of such a crisis. This crisis is unthinkable as well as unprecedented for mankind.  However-getting exasperated, losing heart or getting shattered, is not acceptable to mankind.  We have to remain vigilant, closely monitor it, follow the rules of engagement in such a war, save ourselves and move ahead. Today, when the world is in crisis, we must strengthen our resolve. Our great resolve will help overcome this crisis. Friends, we have been hearing since the last century that the 21st century belongs to India. We have seen how the world was before Corona and the global systems in detail. Even after the infliction of the Corona crisis, we are constantly watching the situation as it unfolds across the globe. When we look at these two periods from India's perspective, it seems that the 21st century is the century for India. This is not our dream, rather a responsibility for all of us. But what should be its trajectory? The state of the world today teaches us that a (AtmaNirbhar Bharat) "Self-reliant India" is the only path. It is said in our scriptures - EshahPanthahThat is - self-sufficient India. Friends, as a nation today we stand at a very crucial juncture. Such a big disaster is a signal for India, it has brought a message and an opportunity.I will share my perspective with an example. When the Corona crisis started, there was not a single PPE kit made in India. The N-95 masks were produced in small quantity in India. Today we are in a situation to produce 2 lakh PPE and 2 lakh N-95 masks daily. We were able to do this because India turned this crisis into an opportunity.  This vision of India - turning crisis into opportunity- is going to prove equally effective for our resolve of self-reliant India. Friends, today the meaning of the word self-reliance has changed in the global scenario. The debate on Human Centric Globalization versus Economy Centralized Globalization is on. India's fundamental thinking provides a ray of hope to world. The culture and tradition of India speaks of self-reliance and the soul is VasudhaivaKutumbakam. India does not advocate self-centric arrangements when it comes to self-reliance. India's self-reliance is ingrained in the happiness, cooperation and peace of the world. This is the culture which believes in the welfare of the world, for all the living creatures and the one which considers the whole world as a family. Its premise is 'माता भूमिः पुत्रो अहम् पृथिव्यः' - the culture that considers the earth to be the mother. And when the Bharat Bhumi, becomes self-sufficient, it ensures the possibility of a prosperous world. India's progress has always been integral to the progress of the world. India's goals and actions impact the global welfare. When India is free from open defecation,it has an impact on the image of the world. Be it TB, malnutrition, polio, India's campaigns have influenced the world. International Solar Alliance is India's gift against Global Warming. The initiative of International Yoga Day is India's gift to relieve stress. Indian medicines have given a fresh lease of life to the people in different parts of the world. These steps have brought laurels for India and it makes every Indian feel proud. The world is beginning to believe that India can do very well, so much good for the welfare of mankind can give. The question is - how? The answer to this question is – A Combined resolve of 130 crore citizens for a self-reliant India. Friends, We have a proud history of centuries. When India was prosperous, it was called the golden goose, it was prosperous, and then it always walked tall for the welfare of the world. Then the times changed, the country was caught in the chains of slavery, we longed for development. Today, when India is making rapid strides in its progress, it is still committed to the goal of global welfare. Remember, the Y2K crisis at the beginning of this century. Technology experts from India pulled the world out of that crisis. Today we have the resources, we have the power, and we have the best talent in the world. We will make the best products, will improve our quality further, make the supply chain more modern, we can do this and we will definitely do it. Friends, I had witnessed the Kutch earthquake. There was debris everywhere. Everything was destroyed. It seemed as if Kutch had fallen asleep wearing a sheet of death. In that situation no one could have imagined that the situation would ever change. However, Kutch stood up, Kutch started moving, Kutch moved. This is the grit and determination of we Indians. If we are determined then we can reach our goals and no path will be difficult. And today there is a will and there is a way. That is to make India self-reliant. Our combined resolve is so strong that India can become self-sufficient. Friends, this magnificent building of self-reliant India will stand on five Pillars. First Pillar is Economy, an economy that brings Quantum Jump rather than Incremental change. Second Pillar is Infrastructure, an infrastructure that became the identity of modern India. Third Pillar is Our System. A system that is driven by technology which can fulfill the dreams of the 21st century; a system not based on the policy of the past century. Fourth Pillar is Our Demography. Our Vibrant Demography is our strength in the world's largest democracy, our source of energy for self-reliant India. The fifth pillar is Demand. The cycle of demand and supply chain in our economy, is the strength that needs to be harnessed to its full potential. In order to increase demand in the country and to meet this demand, every stake-holder in our supply chain needs to be empowered. We will strengthen our supply chain, our supply system built up with the smell of the soil and the sweat of our labourers. Friends, amidst the Corona crisis, I am announcing today a special economic package with a new resolution. This economic package will serve as an important link in the 'AtmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyan” (Self Reliant India Campaign)'. Friends, in the recent past economic announcements made by the government related to the Corona crisis, which were the decisions of the Reserve Bank. The economic package that is being announced today, if added, comes to around Rs. 20 lakh crores. This package is about 10 percent of India's GDP. With these various sections of the country and those linked to economic system will get support and strength of 20 lakh crore rupees. This package will give a new impetus to the development journey of the country in 2020 and a new direction to the Self-reliant India campaign. In order to prove the resolve of a self-reliant India, Land, Labor, Liquidity and Laws all have been emphasized in this package. This economic package is for our cottage industry, home industry, our small-scale industry, our MSME, which is a source of livelihood for millions of people, which is the strong foundation of our resolve for a self-reliant India. This economic package is for that labourer of the country, for the farmers of the country who are working day and night for the countrymen in every situation, every season. This economic package is for the middle class of our country, which pays taxes honestly and contributes to the development of the country. This economic package is for Indian industries, which are determined to give a boost to the economic potential of India. Starting tomorrow, over the next few days, the Finance Minister will give you detailed information about this economic package inspired by the 'Self-reliant India campaign'. Friends, it is now imperative for the country to move forward with the commitment of Bold Reforms to create a self-reliant India. You have also experienced that as a result of the reforms over the past 6 years, today even in this time of crisis; India's systems have looked more efficient. Otherwise, who could have thought that the money sent by Government of India will reach directly in the pocket of the poor farmer! But it has happened. That also happened when all the government offices were closed; the means of transport were shut down. This was just a reform related to Janadhan-Aadhaar-Mobile-JAM's Trishakti, the effect of which we have just seen. Now the scope of the reforms has to be broadened, giving a new height. These reforms will be in the entire supply chain related to farming, so that the farmer is also empowered and will have minimal impact on agriculture in any other crisis like corona in future. These reforms will be for, rational tax system, simple and clear rules-of-law, good infrastructure, capable and competent human resources, and building strong financial system. These reforms will encourage business, attract investment and strengthen our resolve for Make in India. Friends, self-reliance is possible only through inner strength and self-belief. Self-reliance also prepares the country for a tough competition in the global supply chain. And today it is the need of the hour that India should play a big role in the global supply chain. Realizing this, many provisions have also been made in the economic package. This will increase the efficiency of all our sectors and also ensure quality. Friends, this crisis is so big, that the biggest systems have been shaken. However, under these circumstances, the country has also seen the resolve and restraint of our poor brothers and sisters, especially the street vendors, hawkers, labourers, those who are working in homes, they have done a lot of penance during this time, they have sacrificed a lot. Who would not have realized their absence? Now it is our duty to make them strong, to take some big steps for their financial requirements. Keeping this in mind, be it poor, labourers, migrant labourers, cattle rearers, be our fishermen, organized sector or unorganized sector, some important decisions will be announced in the economic package for every section. Friends, the Corona crisis has also explained to us the importance of Local manufacturing, Local market and Local supply chain. In times of crisis, this Local has fulfilled our demand, this Local has saved us. Local is not just the need, it is our responsibility also. Time has taught us that we must make the Local as a mantra of our life. The Global Brands you feel today were sometimes also very local like this. But when people started using them, started promoting them, branding them, proud of them, they became Global from Local Products. Therefore, from today every Indian has to become vocal for their local, not only to buy local products, but also to promote them proudly. I am confident that our country can do this. Your efforts have increased my reverence for you every time. I recollect one thing with pride. When I requested you and the nation to buy Khadi and said it will be a great support to our handloom workers. Today, the demand and sales of both Khadi and handloom have reached record levels in a very short time. Not only that, you also made it a big brand. It was a very small effort, but the result was very good. Friends, experts and scientists have pointed out that Corona will remain a part of our lives for a long time. But at the same time, we cannot allow this to happen that our lives will be confined only around the corona. We would wear masks, follow two yards distance and pursue our goals. Therefore, the fourth phase of lockdown, lockdown 4, will be completely redesigned, with new rules. Based on the suggestions we are getting from the states, information related to Lockdown 4 will also be given to you before 18 May. I am confident that by following the rules, we will fight Corona and move forward. Friends, In our culture, it is said 'सर्वम् आत्म वशं सुखम्' i.e. what is in our control, is happiness. Self-reliance leads to happiness, satisfaction and empowerment. Our responsibility to make the 21st century, the century of India, will be fulfilled by the pledge of self-reliant India. This responsibility will only get energy from the life force of 130 crore citizens. This era of self-reliant India will be a new vow for every Indian as well as a new festival. Now we have to move forward with a new resolve and determination. When ethics are filled with duty, the culmination of diligence, the capital of skills, then who can stop India from becoming self-reliant? We can make India a self-reliant nation. We will make India self-reliant. With this resolve, with this belief, I wish you the very best.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-40-here-is-pm-modis-full-speech-836956.html
12-05-2020||National||KTR's cold raises concerns in COVID-19 time; minister responds||A video clip of Telangana’s IT and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao suffering a visibly very bad cold while participating in a public event has raised concerns about his health, especially in the Covid-19 time. The high-profile minister in the Telangana cabinet - son of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao - was in his constituency Siricilla on Monday to take part in a few programmes including the inauguration of new amenities worth about Rs 12 crore at a textile park. Siricilla in north Telangana is famous for its handlooms, which are fast mechanizing. In the said video, KTR, as he is popularly known, is seen blowing his nose into a red hand towel repeatedly while sitting beside officials on the dais and also while he unveiled a plaque. A voice in the video could be heard saying, “Shouldn’t (he) be sent to quarantine?”  The visuals made several of his admirers worried on twitter too. KTR has 2.3 million followers on the popular social media platform. “KTR Sir, disturbed to know that you were down with flu symptoms yesterday in Siricilla. Concerned about your health. You have been a COVID-19 warrior since the virus engulfed us, unmindful of your health. Please reassure us about your health. You are our hope. Please take care,” one G Subramanya Sastry tweeted. Taking note of concerns, KTR explained it as an allergy he is suffering from for a long time. “Many thanks for your concern, Sir. Perfectly well now. Developed an allergic cold (struggling for many years) en route to Sircilla. I did not want to cancel my visit suddenly as it would inconvenience many people. Apologies for any inconvenience I may have caused inadvertently,” KTR replied on Tuesday(May 12) afternoon.   While one Ashok Rangu tweeted saying he prayed to Dharmapuri Lakshminarasimha Swamy for KTR’s wellbeing, some opined the minister should have cancelled his schedule given the prevalence of the virus.  Telangana has, as of Monday night, a total of 1,275 COVID-19 recorded cases, with 30 deaths and 801 recoveries. All 79 new cases reported on Monday are from Hyderabad. Siricilla district has no new case reported in the past 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ktrs-cold-raises-concerns-in-covid-19-time-minister-responds-836957.html
12-05-2020||National||Need to double thermal capacity to maintain base load energy requirement, says Ex-AEC chairman||At a time when most coal-fired power plants are under stress and the focus is on boosting renewable power, former chairman of Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) Anil Kakodkar on Tuesday said there is a need to double thermal capacity to maintain baseload energy requirement. Along with thermal, there is a need to increase the nuclear energy capacity by 30-folds for energy security, Kakodkar said in an online lecture organised by Nehru Science Centre to commemorate the anniversary of the 1998 Pokhran Atomic Test and the National Technology Day. "While we have to take initiatives towards decarbonisation, at the same time to meet the demand for electricity, we will have to have nearly 50 per cent of electricity through renewable resources and 50 per cent through baseload plants like thermal, nuclear and hydro projects," he said. A baseload power plant is a power station that usually provides a continuous supply of electricity throughout the year with some minimum power generation requirement. Kakodkar further said that out of the nearly 230 GW of coal plants, some have to be taken off-grid as they have crossed their life-span and therefore there is a need to double the capacity of coal-fired plants. Nearly 45 GW of coal-fired plants are currently under stress, with more than one lakh crore of debt stuck in these plants. "India should prepare a plan to achieve the generation of 8,000 billion units of energy as against the current production of nearly 1,600 billion units. This will have to be done by having 50 per cent from renewable energy like wind, solar, bio and small hydro projects, while the rest 50 per cent from thermal, nuclear and hydro which are key in maintaining the baseload energy requirement," he added. According to Kakodkar, both solar and wind are variable energy sources and cannot meet the baseload requirements. This can be met only through coal and nuclear, and therefore their capacities will have to be increased. India has set a target of 175 GW of renewable capacity by 2022 and 450 GW by 2030. Currently, India has an installed capacity of 37 GW wind, 34 GW solar, 10 GW bio and nearly 4 GW of small hydro plants, while thermal capacity is around 230 GW, 7 GW of nuclear and 45 GW of hydro capacity. He also said that to achieve the target of bringing global greenhouse gas emissions down, India must take advantage of the technology available.  "This is where the need for nuclear energy, which can be easily met with the 'zero-emission' goal, arises. Due to the contribution of nuclear energy, the cost of reducing carbon emissions can be reduced," he said. There are currently 66 units with a capacity of 49,180 MW, including ongoing and planned projects.  "India will also need to develop technology to use carbon dioxide for many industrial purposes and also for generating electricity. This will also help in tackling the carbon emission issue," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-double-thermal-capacity-to-maintain-base-load-energy-requirement-says-ex-aec-chairman-836958.html
12-05-2020||National||'India will grow with world', Jaishankar tweets to clarify PM's emphasis on self-reliance||“India will grow, but grow with (the) world,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar tweeted on Tuesday, in order to make sure that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emphasis on making India self-reliant is not construed by the international community as a lurch towards protectionism. Jaishankar posted on Twitter soon after the Prime Minister addressed the nation on Tuesday and stressed on rebuilding the economy after the COVID-19 pandemic with focus on making the country self-reliant. Modi also called upon people of the country to be “vocal” about “local” products in order to make them “global brands”. "Be Vocal about Local: PM @narendramodi’s mantra for economic recovery. Vision of a self-reliant India that will convert the #Corona challenge into opportunity,” the External Affairs Minister tweeted, adding: “India will grow, but grow with the world. (India) will contribute fully to global resilience.” India has been arguing against protectionist tendencies particularly the ones shown by the United States ever since Donald Trump took over as President in 2017. It has also been arguing for strengthening multilateralism, even while stressing on reforms in multilateral institutions. Though the COVID-19 crisis triggered apprehensions of a surge in protectionist tendencies around the world, India has been arguing against such moves in its engagements with the international community.   Jaishankar’s tweet on Tuesday appeared to be a move to reassure the world that the Prime Minister’s emphasis on self-reliance did not mean that India would make a move towards protectionism. Modi, himself, too said in his address to the nation that the definition of self-reliance had undergone a change in the globalised world. He clarified that when India talked about self-reliance, it was different from being self-centered. He said that India’s culture considered the world as one family, and progress in India was part of, and also contributed to, the progress in the whole world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-grow-with-world-jaishankar-tweets-to-clarify-pms-emphasis-on-self-reliance-836959.html
12-05-2020||National Politics||A quiet birthday for Tamil Nadu CM K Palaniswamy: PM Narendra Modi, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray extend greetings||"Greetings to Tamil Nadu CM Thiru Edappadi K Palaniswami Ji on his birthday. May Almighty bless him with good health and a long life in service of people. @CMOTamilNadu," the Prime Minister tweeted. The chief minister, known as EPS in party circles thanked Modi and tweeted, "Thank you so much for your wishes and positive words @narendramodi ji." Thackeray also took to Twitter to greet his Tamil Nadu counterpart. "Hearty birthday greetings to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami ji. May this day be the start of a year filled with good luck, good health and much happiness," he said in a tweet. Telangana Governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan, BJP state President L Murugan and PMK founder S Ramadoss also greeted Palaniswami. Meanwhile, party sources said Palaniswami had asked senior leaders and office-bearers not to visit him today. However, many party leaders and functionaries took to social media to wish the chief minister on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/a-quiet-birthday-for-tamil-nadu-cm-k-palaniswamy-pm-narendra-modi-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-extend-greetings-836723.html
12-05-2020||National Politics||Defamation case filed against BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra||Police in Thane registered a non-cognisable case for defamation against BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra on a complaint alleging that he had posted on Twitter certain derogatory tweets, an official said on Tuesday. The complaint was lodged by Brijkishore Dutt at Mahatma Phule police station in Kalyan, said Thane Police PRO Sukhada Narkar. As per the complaint application, Dutt is general secretary of the Maharashtra Youth Congress. Police have filed an NC (non-cognisable) case under section 500 (Punishment for defamation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), another official said. "In such cases, the complainant can approach the court against the respondent," he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/defamation-case-filed-against-bjp-spokesperson-sambit-patra-836771.html
12-05-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi non-committal on helping states tide over fiscal woes: Puducherry CM||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy has claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was non-committal on fiscal assistance to states despite them apprising him of the financial sufferings during a video conference. Therefore, there was no other option for the Union Territory except to borrow from the Reserve Bank of India to tide over the current fiscal crisis, he told reporters here on Monday night after participating in the video conference of chief ministers with Modi. Narayanasamy said he had brought to the Prime Minister's notice the fall in the revenue due to closure of all business establishments, liquor shops and industrial units since the COVID-19 lockdown began in March. He said salaries were paid to the territorial government staff for March and April. But the present situation was grim and hence a way out should be found. "The Prime Minister was non-committal on the fiscal assistance to states and there was no reply whatsoever from him to the projection of fiscal sufferings of the states," he said. Replying to a query, Narayanasamy said he felt that Modi would continue the lockdown beyond May 17 but ease curbs. "A real picture will emerge only on the night of May 17," he said. The Prime Minister asked the Chief Ministers to send him a detailed report before May 15 on the next course of action. Narayanasamy said people should be calm and help win the battle against the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-non-committal-on-helping-states-tide-over-fiscal-woes-puducherry-cm-836824.html
12-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus lockdown unconstitutional, claims Asaduddin Owaisi||AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi has termed the ongoing lockdown in the country to combat COVID-19 "unconstitutional" even as he demanded that the NDA government take measures to provide relief to distressed migrant workers. ".....this lockdown is unconstitutional.Government of India cannot bring lockdown in the entire country under National Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Act. This is against federalism.This is state subject. I don't know why state governments are silent," he said, addressing an online public meeting late on Monday night. Citing the recent deaths of 16 migrant workers who were run over by a goods train at Aurangabad in Maharashtra, Owaisi claimed the lockdown was unplanned and said the migrant labourers were in distress. Observing that migrant workers were walking hundreds of kilometres to reach their native places, he wanted to know what the NDA government has done for them. On combating the coronavirus, he stressed the importance of maintaining social distancing and treating COVID-19 patients without any hate. Amid rising coronavirus cases in the country, the AIMIM leader urged people at Malegaon in Maharashtra, where the virus is spreading fast, to ensure social distancing and discipline. He also appealed to the Maharashtra Chief Minister and others in the state government to pay attention towards Malegaon. Owaisi took strong exception to the alleged arrests of some women in Delhi under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act for raising their voice against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Population Register. Referring to the recent alleged communal clashes at Bhainsa in Telangana, he said the state government must take strong note of the incident. Owaisi urged the Chief Minister to take strong action whoever is at fault in the incidents, whichever religion or party they belong to. One person was injured and window panes of an autorickshaw and car were damaged during the clashes at Bhainsa even though police termed the incident as a stray one. The trouble broke out on Sunday night. As tension mounted in the town, additional police personnel were rushed and senior police officials reviewed the situation even as authorities imposed curfew for 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-unconstitutional-claims-asaduddin-owaisi-836891.html
12-05-2020||National Politics||PM Modi leading from front in coronavirus crisis, has announced world's largest relief package: BJP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced the world's largest holistic relief package and he is leading from the front in this time of the COVID-19 crisis, BJP president J P Nadda said on Tuesday. Thanking Modi for announcing a Rs 20 lakh crore economic relief package, Nadda said this is around 10 per cent of the GDP and the prime minister's proactive approach will build a self-reliant India. READ: "Today, our honourable prime minister has declared the world's largest holistic relief package … to address land, labour, liquidity & laws," Nadda said, adding that this package will support every section of society The BJP chief said the 21st century will be defined by India and in the times of COVID-19, Modi is leading the country from the front. Today, he laid the foundation stone for implementing this, Nadda said. Underlining that self-reliant India is the "mantra" for driving the country towards this new change, Nadda said self-reliance is the panacea to fight COVID-19. Describing the prime minister's economic package as historic, BJP spokesperson Shahnawz Hussain said Modi has shown a new path for development of the country and turned despair into hope by announcing it. Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister Modi "is the biggest package India has ever seen". PTI JTR ANB ANB||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-leading-from-front-in-coronavirus-crisis-has-announced-worlds-largest-relief-package-bjp-836920.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||2G internet services restored in 8 of Kashmir's 10 districts||Mobile internet services at 2G speed were restored in the Kashmir valley, except Pulwama and Shopian districts, hours after the Supreme Court ruled out immediate restoration of 4G services in Jammu and Kashmir. 2G internet services on mobile platforms were restored in eight of the 10 districts of Kashmir late on Monday night, five days after the services were suspended in the wake of the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen chief Riyaz Naikoo in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district last Wednesday. Ordering restoration of 2G internet services, Principal Secretary, Home Shaleen Kabra maintained that high-speed internet can be used by inimical elements to coordinate terror attacks or incite people by circulating propaganda material. The Supreme Court on Monday, while refusing to issue orders for restoration of 4G services on mobile devices in Jammu and Kashmir, directed formation of a special committee to address the contentions raised by the petitioners. All internet services were snapped in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir on August 4 last year, hours before the Centre announced the decision to bifurcate the state into the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. The internet services have since been restored in a phased manner, but the speed is extremely slow, which inhibits exchange of large files like videos, high-resolution pictures and live-streaming of educational classes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2g-internet-services-restored-in-8-of-kashmirs-10-districts-836579.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Migrant labourer walking to Bihar killed near Ambala after being hit by car||A migrant labourer was killed while another seriously injured when a car hit them on the Ambala-Jagadhri highway near Ambala Cantonment on Tuesday morning, police said. A group of migrant labourers told the police that they were headed towards their native village in Bihar's Purnia district from Punjab's Ludhiana on foot when the incident occurred. The driver of the car fled the spot along with the vehicle after the incident, the police said, adding that they have got inputs about the vehicle and the driver would be nabbed soon. The deceased was identified as Ashok Kumar (25) while the injured labourer was admitted to the civil hospital at Ambala Cantonment, they said. One of the labourers, who was part of the group, said around a dozen of them had commenced the journey on foot from Ludhiana two days ago as they were not able to register themselves for boarding one of the special trains of the Indian Railways. The railways is running "Shramik" trains from various places for migrant labourers who want to go back to their native states. One of the labourers said they decided to go back to their village in Bihar as the owner of the factory where they worked removed them from their jobs and there was no arrangement for their accommodation or food. After the post-mortem examination, the body of the deceased will be kept in the mortuary at the civil hospital, the police said, adding that his relatives were being informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-labourer-walking-to-bihar-killed-near-ambala-after-being-hit-by-car-836606.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||2 more die of COVID-19 in Rajasthan, death toll at 115||Rajasthan recorded two more deaths due to coronavirus on Tuesday, while 47 fresh cases of the virus were reported, the health department said. The death toll in the state has climbed to 115, with Jaipur accounting for 59 deaths. "Two deaths occurred, including one each in Jalore and Bikaner districts. As many as 47 fresh cases have been reported in the state today," Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Rohit Kumar Singh, said. While 32 cases were reported from Udaipur; eight were from Jaipur, three from Kota and one case each in Ajmer, Chittorgarh, Hanumangarh and Sikar. A total of 4,035 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. He said so far 2,362 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 2,077 have been discharged from hospitals. There are 1,558 active cases in the state. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-more-die-of-covid-19-in-rajasthan-death-toll-at-115-836632.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Three more test positive for COVID-19 in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh reported three more coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the infection count in the state to 63, a senior health official said. Special Secretary (Health) Nipun Jindal said the fresh cases were reported from Kangra district. The three include a head constable and a man who returned from Punjab's Jalandhar recently. They tested positive for the infection at Tanda's Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC). The state has 21 active cases of the virus -eight in Kangra; six in Chamba; two each in Hamirpur and Bilaspur; and one each in Mandi, Una and Shimla.Thirty-nine people have recovered from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-836645.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Lockdown cannot be lifted fully, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal as he seeks suggestions on relaxations after May 17||He said one has to ensure that one's health is protected from COVID-19 but at the same time, it was also important to save the economy, which was hit badly by the national lockdown since March 25 during which people have suffered. Kejriwal's appeal to people for suggestions came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday gave Chief Ministers time till May 15 to provide a roadmap on what they intend to do after May 17, when the current edition of lockdown ends. He has indicated that the lockdown will have to continue even as some states sought relaxations in norms and more power to states. Referring to Modi setting May 15 as deadline during a video conference with Chief Ministers, Kejriwal said he has asked for suggestions from people on lockdown relaxations. "What do you feel? Should lockdown be lifted or not? The point is cases are spreading. The lifting of lockdown fully is not possible. Whether relaxations should be given? If so, in which all sectors? Should buses, metro, taxis and autos be allowed to operate? Can schools, markets and industrial areas open? I wish people give us suggestions on the way ahead," he told a digital address. He said he would wait for suggestions till 5 pm on Wednesday and in the meantime, he would hold discussions with experts, doctors and other stakeholders to firm up Delhi government's stand on the issue.  "This is no voting. We are collecting suggestions and we will analyse. Good suggestions will be collated and on Wednesday, Delhi government will present to the Centre its view," Kejriwal said. People can call 1031 and record their suggestions, WhatsApp it to 8800007722 or email it delhicm.suggestions@gmail.com. On Monday, Kejriwal asked Modi to allow economic activities across the capital barring containment zones. The whole of Delhi is in a red zone and it has severe restrictions. The Delhi government had earlier too demanded that all the 11 districts in the capital should not be profiled as red zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-cannot-be-lifted-fully-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-as-he-seeks-suggestions-on-relaxations-after-may-17-836649.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Containing virus spread in rural areas after migrants return big challenge: Gehlot||Preventing the spread of the coronavirus in rural areas following the return of lakhs of migrants will be the next big challenge for the state government, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said Tuesday. During an interaction with MLAs and MPs of Jaipur and Ajmer divisions through a video link, Gehlot said nearly 19 lakh migrants have registered to return home. Of them, 4-5 lakh want to go out of Rajasthan to various other states. Calling on the lawmakers to make sure migrants are welcomed, he said they will have to be quarantined after their return to ensure the virus does not spread to villages. It will be the next challenge, he added. Reacting to the issues raised by Jaipur MP Ramcharan Bohra, Gehlot said people were misled that the Congress government in the state was giving relaxations to members of the Muslim community in Jaipur and Jodhpur which could have led to an increase in the number of COVID19 patients. Bohra claimed a man infected around 600 persons in Ramganj and it was due to his carelessness that the virus spread. He also alleged that local MLAs of the Congress party discriminated in distribution of ration in the walled city of Jaipur. Gehlot said one COVID-19 patient can infect many and it is important to properly follow the quarantine protocol. He said revival of economic activities has become crucial and the central government should announce a financial package for states. There is no overdraft in Rajasthan but this may happen if the present situation continues, he said.  The CM sought suggestions from lawmakers for restarting economic activities in coming days.   Several ministers including health minister Raghu Sharma, transport minister Pratap Singh, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria and other MLAs and MPs are attending the VC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/containing-virus-spread-in-rural-areas-after-migrants-return-big-challenge-gehlot-836660.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: CRPF officer kills self over COVID-19 fears in Kashmir||Two paramilitary Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) officers committed suicide after shooting themselves with their service rifles in Kashmir on Tuesday. In the first incident, a CRPF sub-inspector on Tuesday committed suicide after shooting himself with his service rifle at Mattan area of south Kashmir’s Anantnag district. The deceased, identified as Fatah Singh of Jaisalmer in Rajasthan, had reportedly left behind a suicide note that read: “I am afraid, I may have Corona.” Station House Officer (SHO) Akura, Mattan police station Jazib Ahmed said that they have followed the COVID-19 protocol while dealing with the body of the CRPF sub-inspector. “His samples have been taken and post-mortem conducted. Only results would confirm whether he was a COVID-19 positive,” he said.  CRPF spokesman in Srinagar Pankaj Singh said the officer had returned to his unit after performing a day-long duty. “As such, there is no evidence that he had caught COVID-19. Let’s wait for the final report. Details will be shared with the media,” Singh said. Hours after the first incident, an assistant-sub-inspector of the CRPF posted in Srinagar also committed suicide by shooting himself dead with his service rifle. Special Director General of CRPF, Zulfikar Hassan said they were trying to find out the reason for the two boys taking this extreme step. Suicides and fratricide incidents are not uncommon among the CRPF and the Army personnel deployed in Kashmir. In 2006, recognising the rising fratricide and suicide cases among the armed forces, the then Defence Minister had constituted an expert group of psychiatrists under the Defence Institute of Psychological Research in order to suggest remedial measures to prevent suicide and fratricide incidents. Over the last decade, incidents of fratricide have reportedly reduced in the Army as the force has taken measures to address the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-30-crpf-officer-kills-self-over-covid-19-fears-in-kashmir-836661.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||MP: Two die of cardiac arrest in Shramik Special trains||Two passengers of Shramik Special trains died of cardiac arrest in separate incidents in Madhya Pradesh, police said on Tuesday. A migrant worker travelling to Uttar Pradesh's Gonda district and another person returning to Bihar's Aurangabad district died in special trains in the last two days, an official said. Akhilesh Kumar Rana, who worked at a hotel in Pune, was returning to his hometown in Gonda district, when he fell ill and was disembarked at Majhgawa railway station in Satna district on Monday, he said. Doctors declared him dead and initial investigations revealed that he had suffered a cardiac arrest, he said. In a similar incident, a man travelling from Tamil Nadu to Bihar's Aurangabad district was declared dead at Aamla Railway station in Madhya Pradesh's Betul district. Nandkumar Pandey (62), who was travelling with his wife and daughter, had boarded a special train to Bihar from Kathpadi in Tamil Nadu, Aamla's tehsildar Neeraj Kalmegh said.  However, he suffered a cardiac arrest on Sunday night after the train left Nagpur and he was disembarked at Aamla railway station, where doctors declared him dead. The deceased's wife Indu said they were in Tamil Nadu for her husband's treatment, but were stranded there because of the COVID-19 lockdown and had decided to head home after special trains were announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-two-die-of-cardiac-arrest-in-shramik-special-trains-836673.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Supreme Court asks Centre to consider plea on evacuation of pregnant woman from US||The Supreme Court on Tuesday came to the rescue of a woman from Bengaluru, who wanted to be evacuated from the US as she was in an advanced stage of her pregnancy, by asking the Union government to do the needful. A bench of L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to consider the plea made by Pooja Choudhary. Initially, the court wanted to put her plea for consideration on Wednesday but her counsel Sanjay M Nuli submitted that her petition would become ineffective by then as an Air India flight was scheduled to take off from San Francisco on May 13.  Nuli also submitted that the top court had passed an order in another case directing to give priority to a group of women in UAE who wanted to be evacuated as they were in an advanced stage of pregnancy. The court then called Mehta and said, "Mr Solicitor, please do the needful. We will only say the government will do the needful. We are not passing any order". Pooja, her husband Vikas and daughter Vihana wanted the top court to ensure they can get back from the US by the flight, scheduled to depart from San Francisco on May 13, 2020, or at the next earliest possible opportunity. "It is the duty of the State to ensure that the petitioner who is pregnant and is stuck in USA in a vulnerable condition is brought back to India in time and is given proper treatment as it is not only the question of the petitioner’s life alone but also the unborn child," they said. In a joint plea made through advocate Nuli, the petitioners also sought a direction to the Union government to ensure access to proper medical facilities till she was repatriated to India as its absence would prove fatal to both her and the foetus. The woman said she wanted to deliver her child in India. She also said she has been suffering psychologically as she was stranded in the USA with the expected delivery date of July 17 nearing. If her evacuation was delayed, she would not be allowed to fly owing to her advanced stage of pregnancy, their plea stated.  During their stay, the petitioners approached the authorities concerned including the Embassy in the US for evacuation but their names were not included in the scheduled flight. The petitioners contended they were stranded in Dayton, Nevada in the US where most hospitals have been converted for COVID-19 treatment and they were not having insurance and were not in a financial position to afford treatment in the private hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-30-supreme-court-asks-centre-to-consider-plea-on-evacuation-of-pregnant-woman-from-us-836674.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: 81 new COVID-19 cases in Indore, district tally climbs to 2,016||The number of COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district jumped to 2,016 after 81 more people tested positive for the disease in last 24 hours, an official said on Tuesday. The state's worst coronavirus-hit district also reported two more deaths due to the disease, taking the toll to 92, Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia said. The victims included a 95-year-old man and a 62-year- old woman who died at a private hospital here on Sunday. The man had earlier lost his eyesight due to severe diabetes, while the woman was also suffering diabetes and high blood pressure, he said. The outbreak of the deadly viral infection was first reported in the district on March 24, when four persons tested positive for it. Since then, the number of cases has now gone up to 2,016, the official said. So far, 939 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovery, he said. A data analysis showed that in the last 50 days, on an average 40 people tested positive for the disease every day in the district, which falls under the red zone. The data also showed that the COVID-19 death rate in Indore was 4.56 per cent as of Tuesday morning. For the last 17 days, the fatality rate in the district has been below five per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-81-new-covid-19-cases-in-indore-district-tally-climbs-to-2016-836675.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Ajit Jogi is critical, doctors start 'audio therapy'||Former Chhattisgarh chief minister Ajit Jogi's condition is "very critical" and he continues to be on a ventilator support, doctors said on Tuesday. With neurological activities of Jogi, 74, "almost nil" and he remaining in coma, doctors have started "audio therapy" by making him listen to his favourite songs on earphones. Jogi was admitted in Shree Narayana Hospital on May 9 after he suffered a cardiac and respiratory arrest. As per doctors, a sweet tamarind seed had got stuck in Jogi's windpipe. "The condition of Jogi remained very critical and he is still in coma," said Dr Sunil Khemka, Medical Director of the hospital. "His neurological activities are almost nil. Doctors are making all efforts to revive his brain activity. We have also started giving him an 'audio therapy' by making him listen to his favourite songs through earphones, but so far our efforts yielded no success," he said. Functioning of Jogi's heart, blood pressure and urine output remained under control, he added. Meanwhile, nursing staff at the hospital prayed for speedy recovery of Jogi as part of the International Nurses Day on Tuesday, Dr Khemka said. A bureaucrat-turned politician, Jogi had served as the first chief minister of Chhattisgarh from November 2000 to November 2003 in then Congress government, after the state was carved out of Madhya Pradesh. Jogi, the incumbent MLA from Marwahi seat, parted ways with the Congress in 2016 and formed his outfit Janta Congress Chhattisgarh (J).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ajit-jogi-is-critical-doctors-start-audio-therapy-836691.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik, Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, Pratap Sarangi hail role of nurses in fight against coronavirus||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and Union Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi on Monday expressed their gratitude to nurses around the world who had been risking their lives to lead the fight against COVID-19. Patnaik, on the occasion of International Nurses Day, took to Twitter and said their hard work and sacrifices have played a significant role in saving many lives. "On #InternationalNursesDay, my gratitude and tribute to millions of nurses across the world playing the frontliners role in fighting #COVID19. Their determination & sacrifices have enabled us to save more lives & improve case recoveries," the chief minister tweeted. Describing nurses as the centre of the healthcare system, Union Petroleum and Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said they were safeguarding the nation's health by sacrificing their own well-being. "Nurses are at the centre of our healthcare system. They provide compassionate and expert care to patients. On this #InternationalNursesDay, gratitude to all the nurses for the incredible work they are doing to safeguard our nation's health by sacrificing their own well-being," Pradhan posted on his Twitter handle. Union Minister of State for MSME, Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries Pratap Sarangi also hailed the role of nurses in containing COVID-19. "Nursing is not an easy job and those who dedicate their whole lives in this profession must be respected and celebrated! #COVID19 has made more evident that nurses are irreplaceable. Thanks to nurses for caring for us on #InternationalNursesDay & every day," Sarangi tweeted. Among others, BJP national vice-president and former MP Baijayant Panda thanked the nurses for their tireless efforts to save lives. "My deep gratitude to our heroic nurses, who are tirelessly working during this #COVID19 pandemic to save lives. They are away from their families & are working at the frontlines, risking their own lives to protect the lives of others," Panda tweeted. International Nurses Day is observed around the globe on May 12 every year to recognise and honour the contributions made by nurses for the well-being of people. The day also marks the birth anniversary of Florence Nightingale.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/odisha-cm-naveen-patnaik-union-ministers-dharmendra-pradhan-pratap-sarangi-hail-role-of-nurses-in-fight-against-coronavirus-836693.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||India's packed trains ready to roll again despite rising coronavirus cases||Tens of thousands of people have booked out seats on Indian trains that are due to restart on Tuesday after a near seven-week lockdown, raising concerns of spreading the coronavirus in the absence of social distancing. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government is starting to pull back from one of the world's tightest lockdowns of 1.3 billion people that has left millions out of work and stranded in cities far from home while infections keep rising. State-run railways restarted services from New Delhi to 12 cities including Mumbai, Chennai and Bengaluru, and within an hour of opening, all seats were booked out online, a spokesman said. "The trains will run full. Reservations have been made for 54,000 passengers," said another official. Tuesday will only be a small opening for the notoriously overcrowded rail system that in normal times moves more than 20 million people a day. Passengers will have to wear masks throughout the journey and will be screened before they board the train, the railway ministry said. They also have to sign up for a government-backed contact tracing app on their phones, the ministry said. The move comes as India's coronavirus infections reached 70,756, adding 3,604 over the previous day. At the current rate, India is set to surpass the number of infections in China in less than a week. China's case toll now stands at 82,918. Deaths from COVID-19 stood at 2,293 for India and 4,633 for China. India's numbers are still small compared to those of the United States, United Kingdom and Italy, but many state leaders are wary of opening up rail, road and air networks for fear of an exponential rise in infections that would overwhelm the limited medical facilities.  During a video conference with Modi to decide the way out of the lockdown that has battered the economy, the chief minister of eastern Bihar state, Nitish Kumar, said restarting rail services was a "mistake". His state was already seeing a surge in infections as migrant workers from India's big cities such as Mumbai and Delhi reached home, he told the meeting, according to a state official. The chief minister of the southern state of Telangana, K Chandrasekhar Rao, said restarting trains from Delhi, one of the coronavirus hotspots, was risky. "It will not be possible to conduct tests on everyone. It is also difficult to put all those who travelled by train under quarantine,” he said. But pressure has been building on Modi to ease restrictions from political leaders, businesses and people whose livelihoods have been destroyed by the shutdown. Modi is due to address the nation later in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indias-packed-trains-ready-to-roll-again-despite-rising-coronavirus-cases-836694.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||2 migrants who returned from Gujarat test positive for coronavirus in UP’s Hardoi||Two migrant workers who recently returned from Gujarat have tested positive for coronavirus, officials said here on Tuesday. They said the two are aged 35 and 20, and arrived here on May 9 in a private vehicle from Gujarat, where they worked at a steel factory. The two are residents of Saidikhel locality under Shahabad town. After they arrived here, they developed symptoms of coronavirus and reported to a hospital for check-up. Additional District Magistrate Sanjay Singh said their swab samples were sent for testing and the report was received on Monday. Their test reports have returned positive, the ADM said on Tuesday, adding they have been shifted to a COVID hospital here. With these fresh reports, the total number of coronavirus cases in the district reached to six, two of whom have recovered, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-migrants-who-returned-from-gujarat-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-up-s-hardoi-836697.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||15 test positive for COVID-19 in Bihar, total rises to 761||Bihar reported 15 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking the state's virus tally to 761, a top health department official said on Tuesday. While nine of the patients hail from Begusarai, two are from Darbhanga, one each from Nalanda, Samastipur, Sheikhpura and Supaul districts. "We are ascertaining the infection trail," Health Department's Principal Secretary Sanjay Kumar said. Most of the patients are in the 20-40 age group, he said. Coronavirus has spread to 37 of the state's 38 districts, leaving Jamui unaffected. Six fatalities have so far been reported -- one each from Patna, Rohtas, Munger, Vaishali, East Champaran and Sitamarhi. COVID-19 patients, who died during the course of treatment, were also suffering from other serious illnesses. While 377 people have recovered, there are 378 active cases in the state at present. Munger has reported the maximum number of cases at 115, followed by Patna at 70, Rohtas (59), Buxar (56), Nalanda (50), Siwan (33), Kaimur (32), Begusarai (31). These are among the worst affected districts. A total of 36,053 samples have been tested so far at the seven facilities in Patna, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar-total-rises-to-761-836701.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC asks police not to take coercive measures against DMC chief in sedition case||The Delhi High Court Tuesday directed the police not to take coercive measures against Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) Chairman Zafarul Islam Khan till June 22 in a sedition case, his lawyer said. Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri, who conducted hearing through video conferencing, while granting him the interim protection also asked the police to give prior notice to Khan if he has to be called for investigation, his lawyer Vrinda Grover said. Khan approached the high court seeking anticipatory bail in the sedition case lodged against him, citing his old age, health issues and risk of COVID-19 infection. On April 28, Khan had published a post with alleged seditious and hateful comments through his official page on social media. On May 2, based on a complaint, the Delhi Police Special Cell lodged an FIR against Khan under Sections 124A and 153A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for the alleged offences of sedition and promoting feelings of hatred between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence and language.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-asks-police-not-to-take-coercive-measures-against-dmc-chief-in-sedition-case-836732.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi pizza delivery boy who had tested COVID-19-positive recovers, discharged from hospital||A 19-year-old pizza delivery agent who had tested positive for COVID-19 last month in Delhi, prompting authorities to order home-quarantine for 72 families, has been discharged from the hospital, officials said Tuesday. All 16 high-risk contacts of the delivery boy had tested negative in April. They are colleagues of the delivery agent. "The pizza delivery agent was discharged from the hospital last week. He is doing fine now," South Delhi District Magistrate B M Mishra told PTI.  The delivery agent had tested positive for the virus on April 14 and thereafter, the district administration had decided to put 72 families he delivered pizzas to in south Delhi under home-quarantine. The district administration had not conducted COVID-19 test on the members of these families as they had not shown any symptoms of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-pizza-delivery-boy-who-had-tested-covid-19-positive-recovers-discharged-from-hospital-836749.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court seeks CBI response on bail plea of Uttar Pradesh politician D P Yadav||The Supreme Court Tuesday sought response from the CBI on a bail plea of controversial Uttar Pradesh politician D P Yadav, convicted and serving life sentence in a murder case of a lawmaker. Yadav, currently lodged in Dehrudun jail, has sought bail on medical grounds. He was awarded life imprisonment by a CBI court in Dehradun in 2015 for his role in the murder of Mahendra Singh Bhati, an MLA from Ghaziabad's Dadri area. The lawmaker was shot dead at Dadri railway crossing in December 1992. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna issued notice to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and sought its response on the plea of Yadav by next week. Advocate Vikram Chaudhary, appearing for Yadav said that his client was earlier granted interim bail to undergo a spinal surgery at the Yashoda Super speciality Hospital in Ghaziabad and later surrendered after the spinal operation as per the order of the top court. He said that in his fresh plea, Yadav has pointed out that he was facing some post-operative complications and even jail authorities have suggested for his treatment at All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS). The bench said it would like to hear the CBI on the plea and issued notice. On October 23, 2018, the top court had directed Yadav to surrender and go back to jail in Dehradun to serve the remainder term of his life sentence. The top court had taken note of the medical report of the Hospital at Ghaziabad that Yadav had undergone a spinal surgery on October 19 and was likely to be released from the hospital on November 3, 2018. The court took note of the report and directed that Yadav can remain with his family for two weeks and then will have to go back to the jail to serve the remainder of the sentence. It also disposed of Yadav's appeal which was filed challenging the Uttarakhand High Court's order declining his plea for interim bail to undergo the surgery. Yadav, whose appeal in the Uttarkhand High Court against the 2015 trial court verdict is pending, had moved the top court for grant of bail for undergoing the surgery. The high court, on June 14, 2018, had rejected the bail plea of Yadav. The apex court, on September 18, 2018, had granted interim bail for 15 days to Yadav on a condition that he will get himself admitted as in-patient in Yashoda Superspeciality Hospital for the requisite pre-operative checks. It had also asked him to deposit a bail bond of Rs 1 crore and two sureties of like amount for getting the interim bail. Besides Yadav, the trial court had also convicted Pal Singh, Karan Yadav and Praneet Bhati for offences of murder, attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy of the IPC in the murder case. The case was transferred to the CBI court in Dehradun in 2000 on the direction of the Supreme Court after doubts were expressed about a fair trial in the case in Uttar Pradesh where Yadav was an influential politician.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-seeks-cbi-response-on-bail-plea-of-uttar-pradesh-politician-d-p-yadav-836750.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Students stranded in Kanpur sent home in buses||The Uttar Pradesh government has sent 1,200 students, who were stranded in Kanpur due to a coronavirus lockdown, to their homes across the state in 40 buses after a proper medical check-up, officials said on Tuesday. The students were preparing for competitive examinations in Kakadev and Rawatpur coaching hubs and boarded the buses arranged by the state transport department at Centre Park in Shastri Nagar Monday evening, City Magistrate Himanshu Gupta said. "The students were asked to stand in eight rows before counters set up district-wise and maintain distance. The health team checked them using thermal scanners and other tests were also done," Gupta said. The students were given masks, lunch and a bottle of drinking water before the buses were flagged off for various districts, said Additional City Magistrate (VI), Abhishek Singh. Some students said they were getting food only once a day at their hostels. "Only we know how bad this phase has been," said a student pleading anonymity. "Our parents were worried about our health and other problems. Now, we will be able to reach our homes," the student said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-stranded-in-kanpur-sent-home-in-buses-836755.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal seeks suggestions of people, experts on lockdown relaxations post May 17||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal sought suggestions from people on lockdown relaxations post May 17 on Tuesday and said his government will send a proposal on the same to the Centre on Thursday. Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal said people can send suggestions on what his government should do post May 17, adding that those considered worthy will be discussed with experts and doctors. Suggestions can be sent by calling toll-free number 1031, WhatsApp number 8800007722 or by sending emails to delhicm.suggestions@gmail.com by 5 pm on Wednesday. Barring the COVID-19 containment zones, economic activity should be allowed to resume in the national capital, Kejriwal had said on Monday during a video-conference chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the chief ministers of various states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-seeks-suggestions-of-people-experts-on-lockdown-relaxations-post-may-17-836768.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Migrant woman on way to UP gives birth on NH3||A 30-year old woman who was traveling from Mumbai to Uttar Pradesh in a truck with her migrant labourer husband gave birth to a baby boy in Madhya Pradesh's Barwani district, an official said on Tuesday. The woman, named Deepa, began to have labour pains so her husband had the truck stopped at Balsamud Barrier on the intervening night of May 10 and 11, said a local official. The family was on the way to Bahraich in UP with other migrant labourers amid the lockdown. Dr Faizal Ali, a physician based in Ojhar, said he rushed to the spot upon being informed, only to find that the woman had already delivered a baby by the side of Mumbai-Agra Highway (NH-3).  He then took the woman to the Ojhar primary health centre in an ambulance, Dr Ali said, adding that the baby was healthy and weighed around 3.4 kg. Achhevar Lal, the woman's husband, said he decided to leave Mumbai as he was jobless since the last week of March. He asked the truck driver to stop as his wife was in unbearable pain and she delivered by the roadside, he said, adding that other women in the truck did not offer any help though the group halted its journey. The couple already has two daughters, aged three years and one-and-a-half years. The woman and the baby were discharged from the hospital on Monday morning as other travelers in the truck said they wanted to resume the journey, Dr Ali said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-woman-on-way-to-up-gives-birth-on-nh3-836773.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Lockdown: Delhi govt issues SOP for arriving train passengers, those asymptomatic to be allowed to travel||The Delhi government on Tuesday issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for screening of passengers arriving here from outside in special trains. In an order, the Delhi health department said, only asymptomatic persons coming to the national capital would be allowed to go home after ascertaining that they are asymptomatic.  For passengers found symptomatic, standard protocol for testing and quarantine shall be followed, it said. The Railways Tuesday resumed its passenger services after almost 50 days when they were shut due to the coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-delhi-govt-issues-sop-for-arriving-train-passengers-those-asymptomatic-to-be-allowed-to-travel-836781.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Delhi police starts telemedicine service for its personnel||Faced with a rise in coronavirus cases, the Delhi police has started a round-the-clock tele-service for its personnel to seek medical advice for themselves and their family members on how to avoid contracting or cope with the infection, officials said on Tuesday. Police personnel run a high risk of viral infection given the very physical nature of their work and frequent public interaction. Once infected, they can transmit the virus to their family members.  So, under the new initiative, the Station House Officers in 15 districts have started the service. They maintain a list of doctors who have volunteered to be a part of the system and suggest measure to police personnel to take in case they show COVID-19 symptoms. The doctors share timely guidance with the SHOs and the police personnel suspected to have contracted the virus. They also offer counselling to reduce anxiety and stress, the officials said.  More than 100 Delhi police personnel have tested positive for COVID-19. Of them, 35 have recovered and resumed duties, according to police. The demand for remote-diagnosis and treatment through telemedicine has peaked since the coronavirus outbreak as it helps maintain social distance and reduces the risk of virus spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-police-starts-telemedicine-service-for-its-personnel-836797.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Tension simmering in Eastern Ladakh; Chinese helicopters spotted: Sources||Tension is simmering along the India-China border with troops of the two countries maintaining a close watch on each other in the Pangong Tso lake area in Eastern Ladakh, days after nearly 250 soldiers from both sides were engaged in a violent face-off that left many of them injured, sources have confirmed. At least a couple of Chinese military helicopters were spotted flying close to the un-demarcated Sino-India border in the area after the fierce face-off on May 5 following which a fleet of Sukhoi-30 jets of the Indian Air Force too carried out sorties there, the sources said. The troops on both sides held on to their respective positions and even reinforcements were brought in an apprehension of further escalation in tension, the sources said when asked about the face-off. They said tension was still prevailing in the area, though both sides agreed to disengage during a meeting of local commanders on May 6. "The situation remains tense," said a source adding some troops are being kept by both sides in the area following the face-off. When asked, an Army spokesperson said: "Incidents of face-off and aggressive behaviour occur on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Patrols disengage after local level interaction and dialogue. Temporary and short duration face-offs occur as boundary is not resolved." "I clarify that there is no continuing face-off at the Pangong Tso lake. There is no build-up of armed troops in the area," he said. The sources said the spotting of Chinese helicopters in the area was nothing unusual as India too flies a fleet of military choppers in the area from three bases in the region. IAF sources said a range of its aircraft, which also comprises Sukhoi-30 jets, have been carrying out routine sorties in the region including on May 6, adding there was no violation of Indian airspace in the area by the Chinese side. The IAF conducts routine sorties in the region from Leh and Thoise airbases. On May 5, scores of Indian and Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting, sources said, adding a number of soldiers on both sides sustained injuries in the incident. In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector of the Sino-India border on Saturday. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries in the incident. The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control, the de-facto border between the two countries. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping held their first informal summit in April 2018 in the Chinese city of Wuhan, months after the Doklam standoff. In the summit, the two leaders decided to issue "strategic guidance" to their militaries to strengthen communications so that they can build trust and understanding. Modi and Xi held their second informal summit in Mamallapuram near Chennai in October last year with a focus on further broadening bilateral ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tension-simmering-in-eastern-ladakh-chinese-helicopters-spotted-sources-836822.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Migrant workers block section of highway near Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh border||Hundreds of migrant workers on Tuesday briefly blocked a section of the Mumbai-Agra national highway here on the Madhya Pradesh-Maharashtra border alleging mismanagement by authorities in arranging transport. A senior official said the government has arranged buses to shift migrants who are arriving in the inter-state border town from Maharashtra and other areas. While a bulk of these migrants are on their way to their home states in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, many belonged to various districts in Madhya Pradesh. Eye-witnesses said a large number of vehicles queued up on both sides of the road due to the blockade in the afternoon, which was cleared later. Gangadhar, one of the migrants coming from Maharashtra, said Barwani administration had promised to drop people up to the UP border, but no arrangement was seen on the ground, prompting people to block vehicular traffic on the highway. On the other hand, district panchayat CEO Manoj Sareyam said nearly 100 buses were arranged for dropping migrants to the UP border. "We have also arranged for their food and water," he said, adding that desperation and lack of awareness among migrant workers is creating problems. According to eye-witnesses, several migrants were seen sitting on roofs of buses. When asked about crowding on buses, Sareyam denied any knowledge. Meanwhile, the state government has issued directives to all the bordering districts to arrange buses for ferrying migrants to the UP border. "The state government has made arrangements for temporary stay, food, drinking water, first-aid and medicines for all those workers walking down to the border districts of Madhya Pradesh from different states," a public relations department official said in Bhopal. He said 375 more buses have been arranged to transport the migrants to their respective districts in the state and for those to the inter-state borders. From various transit points, migrant workers will be transported to their hometowns or villages (in MP) with the help of local administration, he said, adding that similarly various routes are finalised for migrants from UP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-workers-block-section-of-highway-near-maharashtra-madhya-pradesh-border-836861.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 lockdown relaxations: Delhi govt receives 3 lakh WhatsApp messages within 7 hours||The Delhi government has received around 3 lakh messages on WhatsApp within seven hours of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal seeking suggestions from the people on lockdown relaxations post May 17, sources said on Tuesday. They said that the government has also received 25,000 recorded messages on the 1031 helpline along with 5,000 e-mails. People can send their suggestions by calling on tollfree number 1031 or through WhatsApp number 8800007722, or by sending an e-mail to delhicm.suggestions@gmail.com by 5 pm Wednesday.  Earlier in the day, the chief minister sought suggestions from Delhiites on on how to ease the curbs after May 17, when the lockdown 3.0 ends. However, Kejriwal made it clear that the lockdown cannot be lifted completely given that the city was recording a high number of coronavirus cases daily. He also asked whether buses, metro, taxis and auto-rickshaw should now be allowed to operate in Delhi and if schools, markets and industrial areas should be opened after May 17, when the lockdown 3.0 ends The chief minister said that his government will send a proposal on lockdown relaxations for Delhi to centre on Thursday after discussing the suggestions with experts and doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-relaxations-delhi-govt-receives-3-lakh-whatsapp-messages-within-7-hours-836899.html
12-05-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan arranges buses for migrant workers walking on foot to help them reach home states||The Rajasthan government on Tuesday said it arranged buses for migrant workers walking on foot to help them reach their home states. Fifty-two buses were arranged to pick up migrants walking on foot on the highways in Jaipur, Dausa and Bharatpur districts on Tuesday, an official said. A total of 1,503 labourers were picked up and dropped off at the Uttar Pradesh border in Bharatpur. The migrants were spotted walking on foot on highways towards their homes, he said. "The buses were moved to help the migrants reach different state borders. The migrants were also given water bottles and food packets," Additional Chief Secretary Subodh Agrawal said. He said the arrangements were made under the "No to On Foot Movement" initiative on the directions by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. "No one will be allowed to move on foot. We are making arrangements to provide them (migrants) transport, food and shelter. Our teams are taking care of screenings, food and water, and if necessary, shelter is also being arranged," Agarwal said. Temporary shelters in several schools in Bhusavar, Vair, Dehra Mod and Lulhara in Bharatpur district have been made for passengers coming in buses from Jaipur while camps have been set up in Behnera, Barso, Mai Gujar areas for the passengers coming from Dausa, he said. "Social distancing norms are being followed and the buses are not overcrowded. It is ensured that migrants wear masks and hygiene is maintained," a Dausa district administration official, Mansingh Amera, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-arranges-buses-for-migrant-workers-walking-on-foot-to-help-them-reach-home-states-836949.html
12-05-2020||Opinion||Surveillance as the path out of COVID-19 lockdown||For the first time in history, over 1.3 billion people were asked to stay locked up in their homes. Many did stay home and were able to cope relatively well thanks to the internet and technology that enabled them to work from home and shop from online grocery stores. For another significant section, however, it has been a rough ride. Their daily income has been disrupted and with no support for fulfilling their basic needs of food and shelter, many labourers and migrants have been left hungry and stranded. With the economy dwindling, the government is loosening lockdown restrictions. Lockdown by itself was never a solution. It only bought us time to meet the goals of preparedness and gave us a way to prioritise them. The question that lies in front of us now is how to get out of the lockdown. Some often chide that it is like getting into a chakravyuh: We might know how to get in but the challenge lies in how to get out. Here we describe a tool that can be an effective path out of the lockdown. It is called surveillance. Strengthening surveillance in rural and urban areas In rural areas, ILI surveillance can be done by door-to-door visits by health workers. ANM and ASHA workers can visit the households with a simple checklist of symptoms, providing clear cut definitions for what constitutes a suspect case, a probable case, a confirmed case and contact is a must. By ensuring fast data reporting and analysis at the Public Health Centre and district level, we can detect new cases and identify clusters. Having more cases is the reality that we need to face and not detecting is what has turned out to be dangerous. One can look at Vijayapura and Davangere to understand the importance of this. Nothing happens all of a sudden. A strong surveillance system can detect cases early enough and prevent complications and deaths.  In the short term, the Karnataka government can engage medical institutes and public health institutes to strengthen the surveillance mechanisms in the state. The AYUSH workforce and volunteers can enable active tracing and screening of cases. Considering our huge population and the low human resource in the healthcare workforce, it is essential to have participatory surveillance where the public is also encouraged to self-report the symptoms. The goal is to detect and contain outbreaks among vulnerable populations, especially the elderly, people with disabilities, children in orphanages, who will not be able to seek help themselves etc.  In urban areas, it is important to engage civil society members, NGOs and other volunteers for strengthening the outbreak detection. Therefore, as an immediate measure, participation and coordination of multiple ministries and government bodies towards a common goal is important.  District-level planning Preparing a district action plan similar to national immunisation plans must be the way forward with a robust review mechanism at multiple levels and with clear accountability for action. Adopting district strategies with a sharpened focus on high priority districts can help in addressing the needs of manpower, beds, high flow oxygen, ventilators, isolation facilities and drugs.  Any deaths anywhere in Karnataka should be investigated whether it is due to COVID-19 or not. Monitoring the trends in disease and death at the taluk and district levels will help in evaluating the impact of the pandemic on healthcare systems and society. This will also help to monitor long term epidemiologic trends and evolution of the COVID-19 virus.  Keeping in mind local requirements  Public health authorities should review their local requirements and plan for an adequately-sized workforce of contact tracers. They should also involve private sector providers and NGOs for screening services, with clear segregation of affected areas. Capacity building of healthcare workers to conduct district self-assessments and healthcare workers for better communication have to be arranged through the online mode. Creating greater public awareness The public should be guided in the implementation of control measures like cough etiquette, physical distancing and seeking help in case of any symptoms. The various technological apps developed by the government like Kilkari, Divyang Sarathi and the agrimarket can be made use of by the government to convey messages about COVID-19 awareness. Engagement with the community and their religious and/or other influential leaders will ease the process of spreading the message and contact tracing. Adapting to a new normal Public gatherings, museums, nightclubs and daycare centres will have to still remain closed; wherever possible remote working has to be encouraged and public transport should have a minimum number of passengers. People will have to be vigilant, wear masks, maintain social distancing and go out only for essentials. Making use of the apps to track and maintain safe distance is very helpful and its widespread installation must be encouraged.  Thermal cameras have to be implemented at public spaces and over the counter sales of antipyretics without prescription must be strictly prohibited. Wherever possible, the contact information of the person and the prescribed doctor must be tracked. Many countries have come up with innovative solutions like face mask vending machines, staggered school days, wristbands that buzz if anyone advertently comes too close, technology apps etc. Back to normal or the pre-COVID-19 era is not going to happen anytime soon. Physical distancing, maintaining cough etiquette and hand hygiene will have to become the new normal for the Indian society. Every district has a laboratory under the Integrated Disease Surveillance Project; a strong robust surveillance system should be the way forward. Karnataka can have a Centre for Diseases Control similar to what China and the United States have. Any temporary measure will only be reactive in nature. The long-term measure of public health emergency preparedness is the call for action now. (Deepa R and Giridhara R Babu work at the life-course epidemiology unit, Indian Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/surveillance-as-the-path-out-of-covid-19-lockdown-836577.html
12-05-2020||South||Second wave of coronavirus infections can be tackled, says senior cop in Kerala||However, top police official Vijay Sakhare, whose "triple lock" strategy helped the district keep the virus at bay, said there was nothing to worry as the situation could very well be managed by implementing the same strategy forcefully. The triple lock involves a combination of technology and human surveillance and restricting movement of people in three stages. While Lock-I envisages broader restriction of movement of all people residing in the district, Lock-II is for people living in distinct geographical areas with positive cases and the third stage is targeted effort to keep primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 patient in their homes. The IG ranking officer who was deputed by Chief Minister Pianarayi Vijayan as COVID-19 special officer of Kasaragod on March 23, implemented the triple lock strategy and this effective policing measure helped arrest the spread of the virus. The same strategy was implemented in neighbouring Kannur district and earned positive results when it was turning to become another COVID-19 hotpspot.  In a note prepared by Sakhare on "triple lock strategy", he spoke of the new challenges after people returning through inter-state land borders, including those from red-zones have been permitted to undergo 14 day quarantine at their homes. The international returnees have been asked to observe mandatory quarantine in institutional centres or hotels. "Many of these evacuated persons may turn COVID positive after returning home. Some of them may be symptomatic carriers of COVID-19 and a few may be asymptomatic. In order to meet these challenges and prevent spread of infection in community, 'triple-lock' strategy has to be scaled up," the officer said in the note. "The new returnees to Kasaragod have to be brought under the umbrella of Lock-III," said Sakhare, the Kochi City Police Commissioner who returned from Kasaragod last week after completion of his special assignment. Talking to PTI, he said the residences of the returnees should be monitored continuously by stationing police guards in front of select houses, by covering residences of home quarantined people with mobile patrols, which check physical presence of the person at least twice a day. This would be done by deploying drones in 'drone-beat' over these homes and by using COVID-Safety app. Legal action should be initiated against the violators and their family members for endangering the lives of others in the society, the senior IPS officer said. Another challenge is to ensure that those people who stay at 'institutional quarantine centres' observe quarantine properly and do not socialise with each other. An officer at least of the rank of Sub-inspector should be made in-charge of the centre. He should ensure that no person visited any of the inmates or no inmates stepped out at any point of time. The COVID Safety app should be installed in every inmate's phone to ensure that the person does not violate quarantine, Sakhare said. Similar system should be in place in hotels as well. The hotel staff has to be trained in maintaining quarantine and ensuring that it was observed by the returnees. Sharing his experience as the COVID-19 officer in Kasaragod district, Sakhare said the results of the triple lock strategy have demonstrated that it was extremely successful in containing the spread of virus.  "The success of strategy can be gauged from the fact that it has brought weekly reporting of cases from 64 to barely 5 with in the span of three weeks - a reduction of 92 per cent. In succeeding three weeks, only 5,4 and 2 positive cases were reported and in last 11 days since 1st May, no positive cases were reported- which demonstrates the resounding success of the containment strategy," he claimed. The last Corona positive patient of the first wave of COVID-19 in Kasaragod recovered on May 10 and the district became COVID-free. But few hours later, the second wave of the disease has begun and the district is prepared to meet the challenge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/second-wave-of-coronavirus-infections-can-be-tackled-says-senior-cop-in-kerala-836639.html
12-05-2020||South||SSLC exams in Tamil Nadu to begin from June 1||Tamil Nadu Government on Tuesday announced that the board exams for Class 10 will begin from June 1, even as the state continues to witness a massive spike in the number of people testing positive for coronavirus. As of Monday evening, the state had 8,002 positive cases with Chennai alone accounting for 4,371 COVID-19 patients. Over 5,000 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the first 11 days of May with the Tamil Nadu government attributing the spike in numbers to ramped-up testing. School Education Minister K A Sengottaiyan announced on Tuesday that the board exams for 10th standard will be conducted from June 1 to June 12. The minister also announced that those who could not write the board exams for the 11th and 12th standards held on March 24 and March 26 can appear for them on June 2 and June 4, respectively. The 10th standard exams were originally scheduled to be held from March 27 to April 13 but were postponed due to COVID-19 lockdown. “The Hon’ble Chief Minister has instructed the Health Department to ensure medical facilities for students who appear for the exams. Based on this, the School Education Department will conduct the examination,” Sengottaiyan said. Over 9 lakh students have registered to appear for 10th standard board exams in Tamil Nadu. He also announced that the evaluation of answer sheets of Class 12 exams will begin from May 27 at respective centers. Experts and political parties decried the government’s decision to hold 10th standard exams even before flattening the COVID-19 curve.   DMK President M K Stalin questioned the government’s move and sought an explanation as to why the exams should be conducted as early as June. Experts pointed out that since most of the school may not have enough facilities to screen students, it would be a “risky affair” to conduct exams even as the state witnesses a huge number of cases every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sslc-exams-in-tamil-nadu-to-begin-from-june-1-836761.html
12-05-2020||South||Kerala IT employees start feeling the pinch of coronavirus lockdown||Even as a  woman employee of Wipro at Infopark in Kochi recently committed suicide allegedly owing to job loss, the company has totally denied any sort of layoffs. Anticipating chances for layoffs, Kerala IT parks management has sent notice to all companies not to layoff any employee owing to financial crunches due to COVID-19 as the government extended reliefs like three-month rent waiver for the companies to face the financial crisis due to lockdown. Prathidhwani, a  forum of IT employees in Kerala, already submitted a representation to the Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to ensure that IT companies do not indulge in layoff owing to COVID-19. Rajeev Krishnan, a leader of Prathidhwani, said that already five employees, including those working with some leading firms have approached a grievance cell of the the forum in Technopark with complaints of job loss.  Ashik Sreenivas, secretary of Prathidhwani in government-run Infopark in Kochi, said that around 15 employees of various companies in Kochi approached them seeking assistance for finding fresh jobs. "All companies are forcing employees to resign and employees fall for it owing to concerns over future prospects. While big companies pay at least two months salary as compensation, small companies even deny it," said Ashik. P M Sasi, CEO of Kerala IT parks, said that so far no formal complaints have been received from any employees regarding layoffs. K Sunil Kumar, a placement officer at College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, said that a leading automobile firm that recently started operations in Kerala had indefinitely extended the placement offers given to 18 students. The participation of automobile firms in campus sections was not impressive during this academic year. Meanwhile, major firms like Infosys, TCS and Cognizant, which gave offers to around 100 each, have informed that they would not withdraw the offers. Meanwhile, a woman employee of Wipro Technologies at Infopark recently committed suicide allegedly owing to job loss. However, the company has totally denied any sorts of layoffs. A statement from Wipro said, " We are deeply saddened by the tragic news of the passing of our colleague. Our prayers and thoughts are with her family and we will extend all possible support to them in this hour of grief. We will also extend our cooperation to the local investigating authorities. She was a Wipro employee and there is no truth in the rumors that she was laid off. Separately, the speculation related to the workforce is unfounded and has no basis. Wipro categorically denies these rumors. Also, the company wants to reiterate that there are no retrenchment plans. Wipro has well defined policies and people practices in place.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-it-employees-start-feeling-the-pinch-of-coronavirus-lockdown-836804.html
12-05-2020||South||Kerala organisation slams Railways announcement on running AC coaches; claims it will create more COVID-19 cases||A state-run charitable organisation on Tuesday lashed out at the Railways for its announcement on resuming a limited number of passenger services with fully air-conditioned coaches on full-capacity from Delhi to all major cities and claimed it will create more COVID-19 patients. The Railways has issued new guidelines for travel on 15 pairs of special trains from May 12, asking passengers to carry their own food and linen and arrive at stations at least 90 minutes before departure for health screening. The Railways, which has announced the resumption of a limited number of passenger services after a hiatus of around 50 days due to the ongoing COVID-19 induced lockdown, had said the trains will be air-conditioned and will run on full-capacity on the Rajdhani routes from Delhi to all major cities. Mohammed Asheel, executive director of the charitable organisation--Kerala Social Security Mission-- Tuesday said even the Centre itself had issued guidelines advising people to avoid the usage of AC unless it was necessary. "Even the centre's guidelines clearly asks people not to use AC much and in case they have to use it, the guidelines instruct to keep the temperature between 24 and 30 degrees Celsius. It also provides instructions on humidity," Asheel told PTI. "Even if we have arranged everything in the coaches including the temperature, the windows need to be opened at least once in a while." In-flight travel, there is no other option due to various factors including air pressure in the cabin, and the travel duration is less than three to four hours. "But a journey in an AC compartment lasting 24 to 48 hours where people can freely move is never advisable," Asheel said. Kerala was among the first states in India to report the deadly virus infection, but it has also earned global praise for having effectively managed to contain the outbreak and ensure a high recovery rate compared to other regions. On May 8, Kerala had declared that it had "flattened the curve", but hours later, the state detected more positive COVID-19 cases among those who were airlifted by the Centre from other countries under its 'Vande Bharat' mission. Fresh cases were also detected among those who had reached Kerala from other states. Earlier in the day, Asheel had tweeted that he was tensed about the air-conditioned travel. "The trains starting run today are fully air-conditioned! By the time they reach their destination, many will get the COVID-19 infection if someone has it...Train starts today..bit tensed...to be honest," he tweeted. He said when the government has cheaper and safer options to transport stranded people, arranging AC coaches would be a mistake. The trains would start their journey from Tuesday evening. Kerala Social Security Mission (KSSM), under the Social Justice Department, extends service and support to the destitute, poor, aged, children, women, chronically ill cancer patients and other weaker sections of the population. It identifies, undertakes and implements social security projects for the weaker sections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-organisation-slams-railways-announcement-on-running-ac-coaches-claims-it-will-create-more-covid-19-cases-836831.html
12-05-2020||South||Stop regular trains to Chennai till coronavirus is contained: CM to Centre||With this metropolis reporting nearly 5,000 COVID-19 positive cases so far, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has requested the Union Government not to operate “regular train services” to the state capital till the spread of coronavirus is contained. In letters written to Home Minister Amit Shah and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Palaniswami also flagged the difficulties in accommodating nearly 1,100 passengers who would arrive by special trains this week as all of them need to be screened and tested. “The Railways should arrange quarantine facilities for these passengers till the time they are tested by the state government. Once the testing is over, positive patients will be shifted to hospitals by the state government and those testing negative to quarantine centers. He has also requested the Centre to arrange for this,” a statement from the government said. Railways have decided to operate two special air-conditioned trains from New Delhi to Chennai on May 14 and 16 despite the state government raising a red flag over the resumption of train services. Since reservation for these trains has already begun, the Railways will operate these services alone and an assurance has been given that no further special trains will be operated.   In his letter, Palaniswami also referred to Chennai reporting a massive spurt in the number of people testing positive for coronavirus. “The Chief Minister has placed a demand that regular train services to Chennai should not be resumed till the spread of coronavirus is contained,” the government release added. Chennai has two major railway terminals – Central and Egmore – that handle more than 200 arrivals or departures a day. Sources in the government said the administration was not in the favour of welcoming inter-state railway traffic. They said officials feel allowing rail traffic at a time when the city is witnessing a major surge in number would only make the situation more difficult.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stop-regular-trains-to-chennai-till-coronavirus-is-contained-cm-to-centre-836839.html
12-05-2020||South||Madras High Court notice to Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra on petition claiming illegal detention of migrant workers in Sangli||The Madras High Court on Tuesday issued notice to Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu police on a petition which alleged over 400 migrant workers from the southern state were illegally detained in Sangli district in the western state in view of the coronavirus lockdown and seeking steps to set them free. A bench comprising Justices N.Kirubakaran and R Hemalatha, hearing the petition through video conference, issued notice the Tamil Nadu Director General of Police and Superintendent of Police of the Sangli district. In his habeas corpus petition (filed in cases of alleged illegal detention), petitioner A P Suryaprakasam, an advocate, citing a Tamil TV news channel report, said the workers from different parts of Tamil Nadu were detained in Kupwa village under inhospitable conditions. Government authorities there were demanding Rs 3,500 each from them to permit them to return home, the report said quoting one of the workers, he submitted. He sought a direction from the court to the police to produce all the workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-notice-to-tamil-nadu-maharashtra-on-petition-claiming-illegal-detention-of-migrant-workers-in-sangli-836871.html
12-05-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Kerala asks for more stoppages for special Rajdhani trains||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday sought more stoppages at all major stations in the state for the special Rajdhani trains and preferred non air conditioned trains to prevent spread of COVID-19 infection during travel. "We have requested the Railways to provide more stoppagesin the state for the special Rajdhanitrains as per the stopspermitted for the regular Rajdhani Express", he told reporters here. The state also wantedthe stoppages in otherstates to be avoided toreduce the risk of exposure to passengers and run the trains as non stop services till it enters Kerala. Only three stops -- Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram -- have been allottedto up/down trains to the state. This, Vijayan said, would create immense difficulties for the passengers, especially in Kasaragod and Kannur, as they would have to get down at Mangaluruin Karnataka and travel inter-state.  Kerala has also requested Non air conditioned trains to ferry passengersas there was a possiblity of the infection spreading during the journey in AC trains. Elaborate testing arrangements are being set up at the railway stations, Vijayan said, adding that there would be mandatory 14 days quarantine for those coming by trains. As per the state government guidelines, those having a valid railway ticket for the journey to Kerala should apply for entry pass to the state in the COVID-19 jagratha portal. Those not having it would be moved to institutional quarantine from the station itself. At the entry station, there should be provision for health check up cubicles adhering to COVID-19 containment protocol, all luggagehas to be disinfected at the stations and all officials should use prescribed PPEs and sanitisers. Temperature checking must be carried out with Infra red flash thermometer. Those coming by road should also have entry pass and they can choose the checkpost and day of travel according to the availablity of slots through the portal. The government has also made it clear that those reaching the checkpost without the pass would not be allowed to enter the state. So farover 33,000 people from other states have come to Kerala by road and 19,000 have reached the state from districts under red zones, Vijayan said. Of the 1.33 lakh peope who have applied for passes, over 72,000 are from red zones, he said, adding 89,950 passes have been issued so far. Since seven people who had come from abroad on May 7 have tested postive, all the passengers who had travelled in the flight have been put under surveillance, Vijayan said. DIG A Akbar has been appointed to oversee the security checking of those arriving by trainsand SP rank officers as Special officers at all major railway stations. At least 29,366 guest workers have left Kerala for their respective states in 16 trains,including nine to Bihar alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-kerala-asks-for-more-stoppages-for-special-rajdhani-trains-836903.html
12-05-2020||South||Flight from Dubai with 177 passengers lands at Kannur||An Air India Express repatriation flight from Dubai with 177 passengers and five infants landed at the Kannur airport tonight. The flight landed at 7.24 pm, AIE sources said. This is the first special flight from the Gulf to the Kannur airport. The Air India flight carrying Indian nationals from Bahrain reached the Karipur airport late on Monday night with 182 stranded people. This was the second flight from Bahrain, with the first landing at Kochi airport on May 7. Meanwhile, the Thiruvananthapuram-Doha flight which had been cancelled on Sunday will be reaching the state capital late on Wednesday with 181 passengers. A thermal face detection camera has been installed at the airport and passengers with any symptoms of COVID-19 would be shifted immediately to the Government Medical College hospital and others to quarantine centres. Pregnant women and children would be sent for home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/flight-from-dubai-with-177-passengers-lands-at-kannur-836908.html
12-05-2020||South||Four foreign returnees test coronavirus positive in Tamil Nadu; tally now at 8,718||Though the Tamil Nadu government says it has one of the lowest death rates due to coronavirus in the country, the death toll now stands at 61. An update from the Health Department said all eight but one, who died in the past 24 hours, have co-morbidities.  Out of the 716 cases reported on Tuesday, 510 belonged to this metropolis, which has a total of 4,882 coronavirus patients. Though the Government has stopped giving the break-up of the Koyambedu cluster, sources said those who have been affected due to the cluster is over 2,500 and testing of their contacts is underway. The Koyambedu cluster has affected at least six northern Tamil Nadu districts, besides taking its footprints to Southern Tamil Nadu and beyond the state borders to Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. The latest worry for the Health Department is the foreign returnees who are being lodged at quarantine centers arranged by the government. Over 700 people have so far come from UAE, Kuwait, and Malaysia to Chennai since May 9 and four of them have tested positive so far. “Two people who returned from Kuwait and lodged at a college hostel near Vandalur tested positive on Monday night and were immediately shifted to Chengalpattu Government Hospital. They are being treated there,” a Chengalpattu district official told DH. The other two people tested positive on Tuesday. All of them had returned to Chennai on May 10 by an Air India Express flight.  The official said the foreign returnees are lodged at quarantine centers after their swab samples are collected at the Chennai Airport. Officials with the Health Department said they are keeping a close watch on foreign returnees as they could be potential carriers of coronavirus.  “We take them straight from the airport to quarantine centers though they can choose whether to stay at the free centers or by paying at designated hotels. Still, we need to keep a close watch on them,” a senior official said. Till now, the state has tested 2,66,687 samples of which 11,103 are repeat samples of COVID-19 positive patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-foreign-returnees-test-coronavirus-positive-in-tamil-nadu-tally-now-at-8718-836915.html
12-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: Eight people die, Tamil Nadu tally stands at 8,718||Eight people with co-morbid conditions died of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday and as many as 716 fresh coronavirus cases were reported, pushing the tally to 8,718 in the state, authorities said on Tuesday. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, respiratory distress syndrome and diabetes mellitus were among the comorbidities the four men and four women had, they said. A total of 716 people tested positive, of whom 427 were men and 288 women and the aggregate number of cases stood at 8,718, a health department bulletin said. Till date, 2,134 people have been discharged and on Tuesday alone 83 people were sent home after they recovered from the illness, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-eight-people-die-tamil-nadu-tally-stands-at-8718-836928.html
12-05-2020||South||DMK opposes amendments to certain labour laws in BJP-ruled states||The opposition DMK in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday opposed the amendments to certain labour laws in BJP-ruled states including Uttar Pradesh and demanded Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention in ensuring all such laws were duly followed. Party President M K Stalin wanted the states to withdraw the changes, which he termed as 'anti-labour.' BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have decided to stay labour laws for three years and also announced a series of changes to give a boost to investments hit by COVID-19. Joining the league, Gujarat had eased some labour laws and also increased working hours from 8 to 12 hours. "The Prime Minister should issue a special advisory to all state governments, at least in his capacity as Chairperson of National Disaster Management Authority, that factories must abide by all labour laws and that no state government should disregard any of them," Stalin said in a statement. Calling the amendments by the respective states "anti-worker and anti-people autocratic measures," he said they have extended the 8-hour workday to 12 hours and denied the workers their rights and protection. "From the beginning, the BJP government refused to accept that workers are the backbone of the economy. They are now siding with the employers to exploit the hard work of the workers," Stalin said. Already, the BJP-government at the Centre pushed the workers to the brink of despair during the COVID-19 lockdown leaving the stranded migrant workers to walk home for several miles, while their family members underwent abject poverty, he said. "Dispensing with the labour laws only reveals the dangerous ulterior motive of the BJP governments," Stalin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-opposes-amendments-to-certain-labour-laws-in-bjp-ruled-states-836960.html
12-05-2020||South||Kerala seeks opening of domestic air travel, intra-state passenger trains||Kerala on Tuesday sought opening of domestic air travel,intra-state passenger trains and metro rail services in a memorandum submitted to the Prime Minister. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the time was not ripe to commence inter-state railway services. The state submitted the suggestions as instructed by the Centre after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's video conference with all the Chief Ministers on Monday. "However, we have sought special non-stop trains from Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Delhi, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Chennai, Bengaluru and other major cities," Vijayan told reporters here. The state has suggested intra-district bus service with limited number of passengers and strict health protocols including practice of social distancing. "The state has suggested intra-district bus service but not inter-district services. The bus service can be allowed by strictly following social distancing. Since the buses will have to ply with limited number of passengers, the fares can be hiked to compensate the loss," Vijayan suggested. The memorandum also sought to open hospitality services maintaining strict social distancing inside the restaurants with the seats arranged accordingly. "Industrial and commercial activities should be allowed in rural and urban areas except in the Containment Zones. The government is of the view that the construction work should proceed at a rapid pace and steps to be taken to procure necessary materials. Construction work needs to be completed before the rains," Vijayan said. The Chief Minister had on Monday suggested to the Prime Minister that states should have the "flexibility" in changing lockdown guidelines and allowing public and Metro rail services by following social distancing norms, except in red zones. Vijayan, who spoke during the video conference held by Modi with state Chief Ministers, had also suggested that anti-body test be conducted on expatriates before they arrive here from various countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-seeks-opening-of-domestic-air-travel-intra-state-passenger-trains-836962.html
12-05-2020||State||42 new coronavirus cases in Karnataka, total infections crosses 900 mark||Total number of COVID-19 infections in Karnataka has breached 900 mark, with the state reporting 42 new corona positive cases, the health department said on Tuesday. Interestingly, Hassan that had not reported a single case so far, has confirmed five new infections. "42 new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon.... Till date 904 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 31 deaths and 426 discharges," the department said in its bulletin. 42 new cases include- fifteen from Bagalkote, nine from Dharwad, five from Hassan, three from Bengaluru urban, two each from Dakshina Kannada, Yadgir and Bidar, and one each from Ballari, Chikkaballapura, Mandya and Kalaburagi. Among the cases, 25 are with travel history to Ahmedabad in Gujarat, six are with travel history to Mumbai in Maharashtra, seven are contacts of patients already tested positive, two are from containment zone in Bidar, one with history of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and the others contact is under tracing. At least four out of these 42 cases are children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/42-new-coronavirus-cases-in-karnataka-total-infections-crosses-900-mark-836821.html
12-05-2020||State||New mantra at temples: Theertha, prasada out, sanitisers in||Post lockdown, when you extend your hand for the ‘theertha’ at your neighbourhood temple, the priest may instead squeeze sanitiser into it. And instead of vermilion, he may apply a fever sensor on your forehead.    These could be just some of the COVID-19 temple rituals post lockdown. Though temples have been conducting regular pujas even during the nationwide lockdown, they are closed to devotees in keeping with social distancing norms to prevent spread of COVID-19.   But now, with demands from devotees and priests to reopen temples, the Muzrai department is preparing standard operating procedures. According to official sources, post lockdown, temples in the state will provide sanitisers and will not be allowed to offer teertha and prasada. Besides, social distancing will be a must. “We are yet to decide about the reopening but are preparing ourselves by keeping an SOP ready,” said an official. There are over 34,000 temples under the muzrai department. Speaking about it, Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari told DH, “We will convene a religious council meeting to discuss the reopening of temples and based on the outcome, we will take a decision.” Sources also said devotees may not be allowed to offer flowers, fruits and coconuts. But a few senior priests fear this will affect the livelihood of many families. “Many families sell flowers, fruits, coconuts and other puja material outside temples. If the government bans these offerings, then these families will lose their livelihood,” said a senior priest at a temple in Bengaluru. However, the minister said he will consult senior priests before taking any decisions. “I have even requested the chief minister to release a package for priests” said the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-mantra-at-temples-theertha-prasada-out-sanitisers-in-836966.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Task force to lure industries out of China||Karnataka has constituted a special task force to woo “disenchanted” multinational companies that are looking to shift out of China following the Covid-19 outbreak.  The task force will be headed by the chief secretary and comprises officials, trade bodies and representatives from Korean, American, Taiwanese, French and German companies operating in Karnataka. “There is a pushback against China...,” said a government order. “Rising labour costs, shortages of workforce .... and now a pandemic originated on its mainland, China may not be able to retain position as the world’s largest factory in the post-Covid global economic order (sic).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/task-force-to-lure-industries-out-of-china-836524.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||K’taka reports 14 fresh cases; tally goes up to 862||Karnataka on Monday reported 14 fresh cases of Covid-19, including three with domestic travel history. The new cases have upped the state’s total count to 862. Of which, 404 are active while 426 patients have been discharged post-recovery. The Covid-19 death toll in the state remains at 31.  The Covid-19 cases continued to mount in Davangere with three cases being reported on Monday. Davangere’s total count of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 71. All 71 cases are reported from three areas in the city - Basha Nagar, Jalinagar and Imamnagar. Till April 28, the district was sitting pretty with just three cases, the last being reported on March 29. But the city witnessed a sudden spurt in cases. As many as 68 infections were reported in less than two weeks. The three new cases reported on Monday are: a 33-year-old man (P-850) is a primary contact of a woman (P-663), who in turn is believed to have contracted virus from P-556, an elderly man from Jalinagar who died on May 5. A 30-year-old woman (P-851), a contact of P-662, also tested positive for the virus. Third confirmed case of Covid-19 in Davangere is a 56-year-old woman (P-882), who is said to have contracted virus from a 15-year-old girl (P-667). As on May 11, the district has 65 active cases. Rabakavi’s first case  Bagalkot reported two new cases on Monday, including the first case from Rabakavi-Banahatti, who had a travel history to Ahmedabad, Gujarat. A 20-year-old youth (P-854), who was among the 12 Ahmedabad returnees, tested positive for coronavirus. The youth along with 11 others from the district, had returned home via Mahalingapur check-post on May 8. All 12 were quarantined at a government Urdu school in the town. Throat swab sample of the youth in question had returned positive for virus. He has been shifted to Bagalkot district hospital. Haveri mango trader tests +ve Haveri district saw its third infection with a 25-year-old man, a mango trader from Andalagi in Shiggaon taluk, testing positive on Sunday. Patient 853 had visited Mumbai thrice in April. Efforts are underway to trace his primary and secondarycontacts. Meanwhile, Patient 298, a resident of Kuduchi in Belagavi district and a native of Goa, with a travel history to Nizamuddin, has contracted virus post-recovery. He was discharged from Covid-19 hospital on May 5. His throat swab sample has returned positive for coronavirus on Monday.  Bidar and Mandya districts reported two cases while Vijayapura and Kalaburagi have recorded one case each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/k-taka-reports-14-fresh-cases-tally-goes-up-to-862-836525.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Art meets a humanitarian cause: raising donations through portraits||Raj Gopal J manages a departmental store in Mangaluru. So, when the lockdown began it was only natural for him to start distributing grocery kits for the needy. His brother was the first to urge him to do something, the rest of his family and friends followed. He initially began with people from his community who were unable to provide for themselves. Soon, his work extended beyond caste and creed. Those who got support include daily wage workers and those who had lost their jobs. “When we went to distribute kits to a family, their neighbours too would come up to us and tell us about their inability to procure goods. So, we realised we had to expand,” he said. They have helped over 300 families with grocery in the past 45 days. Each kit contains about 20 items and costs around Rs 1,200. Motivated by his work, Raj Gopal’s niece Nidhi Bolar also pitched in. Since she was in Australia for her education, she couldn’t physically volunteer, but she came up with a way to help. “I was working on a portrait for a friend and I decided to share my process on Instagram. I was quite surprised with the response I received, which got me thinking. I could potentially sell portraits for donation,” she says. In her capacity, across a two week period, she’s managed to raise money for 20 kits. “To get a portrait one had to donate Rs 1,200, which is the price of one kit. Some people have donated more than what I asked, for which I’m really grateful,” she adds. Most people who have asked her for portraits have commissioned them for others. “I’ve even made two portraits of pets,” she adds. Aishwarya Cariappa is one of those who donated to the cause in exchange for a portrait. She got to know of it through her sister, who is a friend of Nidhi. “I’m a designer myself, so it was nice to see other designers use their work to help raise money for charity. It’s a very gratifying feeling and I believe that art helps heal,” she says. Balakrishna and Usha, who got a kit from Raj Gopal, appreciate the fact that Raj Gopal identifies families in need and reaches out to them, instead of waiting for them to approach him. Raj Gopal says they will continue to help people until the lockdown is fully lifted. Nidhi too hopes to continue to contribute with her skills. If you’d like to make a donation and get a portrait done, do check out her Instagram @nidhibolar for more information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/art-meets-a-humanitarian-cause-raising-donations-through-portraits-836530.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Contact tracing, 24x7 coordination, close watch on the quarantined in COVID-19 War Room in Karnataka||The Balabrooie Guesthouse in the city is occupied by the state COVID-19 War Room these days. “It is set up to give a single point of all data, IT and coordination for a state-level overview, to mount the fight against COVID-19,” says IAS officer Munish Moudgil, who is in charge of it. It informs citizens, guides field teams through its IT and data management system. It works 24/7 and in two shifts; a team of 25 works from the location, and another 40, who make up the IT team, work remotely. A cloud-computing network enables digital data movement between the War Room and other sources and nodes of information like the BBMP War Room, district administration offices and the Health Department, showing interdependency.   “The best way to contain COVID-19 is to control the infection at a human-to-human level. For this, we need to identify those who are likely to infect and get infected, then give citizens the best possible information. That’s where our efforts come in,” Moudgil explains. At the crux of the efforts lie six categories: COVID-19 patients, primary & secondary contacts, migrant workers, healthy individuals, vulnerable individuals, and those under or ‘to be under’ quarantine. People move from one category to another. The systems in place track the movements, collate data and give information.  For instance, the Corona Watch app, using GIS mapping, informs citizens about COVID-19 patients’ whereabouts, cases near the user’s house and COVID-19-designated government hospitals. The Health Watch app is used by field workers to collect health data from individuals in the containment zone. “But the core of COVID-19 containment is contact tracing,” says Moudgil. “When a person tests positive, information about his primary and secondary contacts is fed to the contact tracing app, who are then accessed by concerned field teams. They follow up until the contacts are under quarantine.” He admits that contact tracing goes on for up to 72 hours in some cases, while the ideal period is within 24 hours. “South Korea claims it completes tracing within 10 minutes. That’s because of their surveillance system. Considering our society and culture, we want to strike the balance of containing the virus without invading anyone’s privacy,” he says.  Two toll-free helplines, powered by an Interactive Voice Response system and an in-house call centre, address people’s COVID-19-related (and also other) grievances. There is something to be said of human behaviour, too. “Udupi has the highest per capita foreign-returned people in Karnataka. In the last 30 days, there has been one case. There was no outbreak because people knew they should not come out. Elsewhere, we still have cases of people violating quarantine rules. But overall, the increase in tests has not resulted in an increase in the number of cases in Karnataka. So, we can be confident that we’re in a good situation,” he says, “but that’s no reason to be complacent.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/contact-tracing-24x7-coordination-close-watch-on-the-quarantined-in-covid-19-war-room-in-karnataka-836531.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||People arriving from foreign countries to be quarantined in 17 hotels||A total of 17 hotels and 12 hostels had been identified to quarantine people arriving from foreign countries. The flight carrying 177 passengers will land at Mangalore International Airport (MIA) on Tuesday. Only those hailing from DK will be quarantined in Mangaluru and the remaining will be sent back to their districts for quarantine. Probationary IAS officer Rahul Shinde said offficials deployed at the airport would collect all information about the passengers. The passengers will undergo medical check-up at the airport itself. Passengers will be categorised into A and B. Those with cough, fever and cold will be categorised under ‘A’ and they will be quarantined for 14 days at Wenlock Hospital and will be treated for cold and fever. Those asymptomatic passengers will be categorised as ‘B’ and will be quarantined in hotels/hostels. Arrangements had been made to book the hotels online at the airport and ferry passengers to the hotels from the airport, he added. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu Rupesh also prohibited relatives and friends from meeting the passengers at the Airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/people-arriving-from-foreign-countries-to-be-quarantined-in-17-hotels-836532.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sonu Sood arranges buses to K'tata migrant workers||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood has arranged for buses for migrant workers from Karnataka. The 10 buses left Thane for Gulbarga in Karnataka on Monday. Sonu’s team has secured the necessary permissions from Maharashtra and Karnataka governments.“Every Indian deserves to be with their families and dear ones,” he said. In a press statement,  the 46-year-old actor said that he was moved to see the migrants walking on the roads along with small kids and children. “I will continue to do so for migrants from other states,” he said. According to him,  the governments of Maharashtra and Karnataka were fast in processing documents.In fact,  Sonu was shocked after last week’s Aurangabad train run over the incident,  in which 16 migrant workers who were walking from Jalna in Maharashtra to Bhusawal to go to their home districts of Shadol and Umaria in Madhya Pradesh. “This is heartbreaking. People who wanted to reach their homes had a different destiny only because we couldn’t do anything for them. It’s high time we find a solution to this. These are the angels who built our homes where we are enjoying all the comfort,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sonu-sood-arranges-buses-to-ktata-migrant-workers-836533.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Yadgir district locked down for a day||In the wake of the report that a person of the district which was in green zone, tested positive for COVID-19, Deputy Commissioner M Kurmarao has ordered a complete lockdown of the district from Monday midnight to Tuesday midnight to prevent the spread of the virus. Except for medical stores and emergency services, the remaining business establishments have been ordered to down the shutters from Monday midnight. City Municipal Council staff are appraising the businessmen and other petty shop owners of the deputy commissioner's order for lockdown through a loudspeaker in all streets. The police too have taken steps to curb the vehicular movement in the City. Shorapur and Shahapur towns have also been locked down. An audio of a person infecting COVID-19 has gone viral from Monday night, triggering anxiety among the people.  However, the district administration has issued a clarification in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yadgir-district-locked-down-for-a-day-836686.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Shramik train with migrant workers leaves for Bihar from Dakshina Kannada||First Shramik Special train from Mysuru division with 1,428 migrant labourers from Bihar left from Kabakaputtur Railway Station in Dakshina Kannada on Tuesday. The train with a composition of 24 coaches, including 18 sleeper, four general and two ladies-cum-luggage vans will travel to Bapudham Motihari in Bihar via Arsikere Junction, Bellary Junction, Guntakal Junction Vijayawada and Gaya Junction and is scheduled to reach the destination on May 14, said Priya Shetty, Divisional Commercial Manager and PRO.   Adequate quantity of soaps and sanitizers have been provided in each compartment for maintaining personal hygiene and the passengers were sensitised about the contagious nature of COVID-19 infection and the need to observe all precautions scrupulously. Earlier the empty rake before starting from Mysuru on Monday was fully sanitised as per the standard protocol communicated by the Railway Board. A total of 6 Railway Protection Force personnel will be escorting the train end-to-end.  The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has made arrangements for supplying food and water to passengers onboard at Arsikere. IRCTC in coordination with the other Railway Divisions en route will be taking care of catering services, as required.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shramik-train-with-migrant-workers-leaves-for-bihar-from-dakshina-kannada-836769.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Masks, sanitisers will be part of life, says Shettar||Opining that bringing down COVID-19 cases to zero is not possible soon, Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said on Tuesday that wearing masks, using sanitisers and maintaining social distancing would become an integral part of ourlives. “People have responded well to the call by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the lockdown has been a success in controlling the COVID-19 infection, in comparison with countries like USA, Italy, and England. As much as 50% of patients are getting cured and being discharged from hospitals,” he said. After distributing food grains to typists, clerks, and photocopy shopkeepers at the new court complex here on Tuesday, Shettar stated that 25% of industries in the State have already resumed their operations, and economic activities would be encouraged further. A special task force has been constituted to attract industries that are looking to shift out of China, following the COVID-19 outbreak. Priority would be to get more investment in Tier-II  cities, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/masks-sanitisers-will-be-part-of-life-says-shettar-836923.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Opposition flays Karnataka govt plan to do away with ‘notified markets’||Preempting a move to dilute agricultural marketing laws, the Opposition Congress on Tuesday amounted a fresh attack on the BS Yediyurappa administration that looks set to promulgate an ordinance allowing farmers to sell their produce anywhere.  By amending the law, the state government is looking at doing away with the concept of “notified markets,” thereby removing restrictions on the sale of agricultural produce. The government claims this will provide greater market access to farmers hit by the Covid-19 lockdown. Under the proposed amendment, the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC) will lose the power to regulate “marketing of notified agricultural produce in the market yards, market sub-yards and sub-market yards.”  In its May 5 letter to the state government, the Union Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare noted that Karnataka had implemented all necessary reforms, except “limiting regulation of agricultural produce marketing committee (APMC) to within the physical premise of mandi (yard).” The state was asked to consider taking the ordinance route.  The BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have brought a similar amendment.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said the ordinance will be an “anti-farmer” move.  “It will take away the regulatory authority of APMCs over procurement of agriculture produces by private entities. This will allow private companies to dictate the supply and demand which threatens food security and guaranteed price for farmers,” Siddaramaiah said, adding that this should be discussed in the Assembly before implementation.  “If the government really wants to help farmers, they can allow private entities to open markets, but the regulatory authority of those markets should remain with APMCs,” he said.  Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar, who addressed a joint news conference with Siddaramaiah, warned the government of statewide protests if labour laws were relaxed.  “If the government makes any move to snatch the rights of labourers, Congress will hit the streets. We will not allow labour laws to be diluted,” Shivakumar said.  Apparently, the government is working on some changes in labour laws, including increasing work hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/opposition-flays-karnataka-govt-plan-to-do-away-with-notified-markets-836925.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Manivannan to head animal husbandry, fisheries department||Amidst public backlash over his transfer, IAS officer P Manivannan on Tuesday was appointed as the animal husbandry and fisheries secretary. On Monday, the state government had removed Manivannan as the principal secretary to the labour and information and public relations departments, without giving him a new posting. This led to public furore, with netizens demanding that his reinstatement. By Wednesday morning, #BringBackManivannan and #BringBackCaptain were trending on Twitter. The captain is a reference to Manivannan’s association with the Territorial Army. The All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) tweeted: “It is shocking and condemnable that the government has transferred Manivannan because of pressure from industries lobby. How can industries ask government to transfer labour secretary because he tried to implement Central government notification?”  A petition was also started on change.org in the name of “Corona Warriors”. As part of the petition, the petitioners stated, “We want our Captain back at any cost, at least until Covid-19 situation is over. He has been very effective in handling the situation and he cannot be transferred, just like that, without any prior notice. This is absolutely unacceptable!...” By Tuesday evening, the petition had seen close to 3,000 signatories.  By posting Manivannan to Animal Husbandry Department, the government has relieved A B Ibrahim from his concurrent charge of the same. Apparently, Manivannan had differences with Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar on the distribution of food kits to construction workers. Even legislators had complained that the distribution of the kits was “ineffective,” according to sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/manivannan-to-head-animal-husbandry-fisheries-department-836926.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Nurses at govt hospitals redesignated 'nursing officers'||It will be ‘nursing officers’, not ‘nurses’, who will be treating you at government hospitals and colleges as the government has agreed to a demand to change their designation to “end discrimination.” The Karnataka State Government Staff Nurses’ Association, as well as the Government Employees’ Association, had been writing to the government to change the designation. Last month, nurses at the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) had urged the government to look into the issue. BMCRI Permanent Staff Nurses’ Association president Sanoth Kumar B had written to the chief minister stating that the union government notified the change in designation back in 2016 and the state government was yet to follow suit. The state government has issued an order designating staff nurse as “nursing officer” and senior staff nurse as “senior nursing officer.” “There will be no change in the grade/salary,” the order said, adding that such staffers should not demand hike in salary or promotion citing the change in designation. The order came a day before the world celebrated the nurses day on Tuesday. Kumar said the word ‘nurse’ was used in hospitals in a ‘demeaning’ way. “Despite high qualifications like master degrees, the designation made many feel like they are being looked down. We are happy that the government has notified the change as there were no financial implications,” he said. He, however, said the association’s demand for providing NPS and GPF to nursing officers in the Medical Health Education Department was yet to be fulfilled. “We hope the government realises our crucial role in containing Covid-19 and consider our demand”, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nurses-at-govt-hospitals-redesignated-nursing-officers-836927.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kims-Hubballi seeks funds from government||The Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (Kims), Hubballi, has written to the state government seeking the release of funds to meet the expenses towards treating Covid-19 patients. The hospital has so far spent Rs 1.48 crore for purchasing PEP kits, three-layer masks, swab test kits, hand gloves etc, from its own funds. The state-run health facility was already under financial strain. Kims Administrative Officer Rajashree Jainapura said that the hospital has written to the deputy commissioner and principal secretary to the health and family welfare department seeking early release of funds and the department had promised to do so also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kims-hubballi-seeks-funds-from-government-836929.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: All 33 passengers in special bus from Ahmedabad test positive||Thirty-three persons, who travelled from Ahmedabad to Karnataka in a special bus on May 9 have tested positive for COVID-19. This includes even the two bus drivers and a conductor. The stranded tourists, who had attended the Tarkez Jamaat congregation in Ahmedabad commenced their journey on Gujurat on May 7 and reached Karnataka on May 9. The cases came to fore after the district administration of Shivamogga stopped them at Madake Cheeluru check-post and collected swab samples. Eight of the nine persons tested at Shivamogga on May 9 turned positive. Based on the inputs, the district administrations of Dharwad and Davangere tested nine and 16 passengers, respectively, who had accompanied them. All 33 passengers have now turned positive. “Thirty-three passengers who travelled by bus have turned positive,” said Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner KB Shivakumar. “We received alerts from Shivamogga administration on May 10 regarding the travel history of nine passengers in the bus - who got down at Dharwad. All of them were housed at a government quarantine facility. Their swab samples turned positive on May 12” Dharwad Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan said. Bagalkot Deputy Commissioner Captain K Rajendra said, of the 28 other passengers who travelled from Ahmedabad to Bagalkot, 14 tested positives on May 12.  Yadgir, which was so far in the green zone, recorded two positive cases, and these two passengers had returned from Ahmedabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-all-33-passengers-in-special-bus-from-ahmedabad-test-positive-836932.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Yediyurappa connects with Kannadiga nurses||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa reached out to Kannadigas, serving as nurses overseas, on the occasion of International Nurses’ Day on Tuesday.  Among those Yediyurappa spoke with was Madhu Hemegowda, an Italy-based nurse. The chief minister wished Hemegowda good health and lauded him for serving Covid-19 patients in Italy. Hemegowda urged Yediyurappa to ensure all healthcare workers get adequate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and that the general public be educated on social distancing and hand washing.  Yediyurappa also inaugurated the International Nurses’ Day programme organised by the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences. May 12 is dedicated to nurses as it is the birth anniversary of Florence Nightingale, the pioneer of modern nursing. Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar and RGUHS vice-chancellor S Sacchidanand were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-yediyurappa-connects-with-kannadiga-nurses-836936.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannadigas in UAE seek additional flights||Kannadigas in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have sought additional flights to return to Karnataka during a video conference with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa here on Tuesday. Noting that most of the ex-pats in UAE were from the coastal region, they urged the state government to ensure that most of these flights land in the Mangalore InternationalAirport. Many Kannadigas in the UAE were left unemployed due to the lockdown. “Many of them do not have the means to return to Karnataka and the state government should aid them,” representatives of various Kannadiga ex-pat groups urgedthe CM. Yediyurappa said that the government has made all arrangements to bring back the ex-pats, and assured to fulfil all their demands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannadigas-in-uae-seek-additional-flights-836938.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt likely to announce another relief package||The state government is likely to announce another economic relief package for those who were not included in the one announced earlier this month by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Discussions were held on Tuesday to mobilise revenue and identify those in dire need of assistance during the lockdown. Following the announcement of a Rs 1,610-crore economic stimulus last week by Yediyurappa, several groups - including the state BJP unit - had petitioned the CM to include tailors, cooks, priests and other groups in the relief package. According to sources in the CMO, an announcement regarding the same can be expected during the week. Farmers, drivers, construction labourers, weavers and barbers are among the beneficiaries included in the package announced previously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-likely-to-announce-another-relief-package-836940.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Government employees may have to take salary cut soon||Deduction of salaries of government employees looks imminent as the economic crisis brought about by the lockdown threatens to last longer than anticipated.   Even if the government manages to pay salaries for May, the dwindling resources is expected to force its hand to deduct salaries in the coming months, sources in Finance department told DH. While borrowing from the market to finance salaries and key developmental works were discussed by the authorities, the proposal was shot down by the government, wary of repaying the loans with high interest rates starting next fiscal. Delay in the allocation of revenue deficit grants from the Centre has added to the concerns.  According to Finance Department sources, it will be months before economic activity in the state generates the same revenue as it did prior to the Covid-19 pandemic. "Opening small stores will be of little benefit. Government gets revenue from stamps and registrations, motor vehicle taxes and others, which will not pick up till purchasing power of the consumer is restored,” sources said. The government can only pay salaries when it has enough funds, failing which it will be forced to deduct pay, the sources added. While speculation was rife in April on cut in salaries to government employees, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, also the finance minister, had insisted that staffers be paid. The Finance department had recommended cutting pay to offset the revenue deficit.  He did so even as other states decided on salary deduction due to significant reduction in revenue receipts. “This is the second month of lockdown and revenue generation has remained low, even after relaxations were announced. As a result, salary deduction concerns have surfaced again,” an official in the Public Works department, said. When contacted, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) I S N Prasad confirmed that revenue generation was still not up to the mark. “However, there is no decision yet on deducting salaries of government employees,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-employees-may-have-to-take-salary-cut-soon-836941.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Donate textbooks to book bank, education department tells students||The Department of Public Instruction has appealed to students to keep their textbooks safe and donate them to their school’s “book bank” after reopening of the schools. The measure is aimed at overcoming the shortage of textbooks for the coming academic year. The department has decided to trim the present curriculum considering the lack of academic days and this exercised would consume time. Therefore, the students have been told to donate their textbooks to schools which their juniors can refer to they get new textbooks. The primary and secondary education minister has directed headteachers of all state board schools to set up book bank and receive textbooks from passing out students. “Setting up of book banks is mandatory for all schools and teachers must educate students about donating their books during the last working day of the school. In case their siblings need textbooks, the students will be allowed to keep them,” said an official of the department. The government has constituted an expert committee to suggest trimming of the present syllabus. Officials say that they could place the print orders only after the committee submits its report and therefore, availability of textbooks will be delayed during the next academic year  The minister has even requested students who have appeared for their second PU exams to give their textbooks to their juniors for time being.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/donate-textbooks-to-book-bank-education-department-tells-students-836943.html
12-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||63 new COVID-19 cases in Karnataka, highest in a day; most from out of state||Karnataka saw the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases with 63 cases reported on Tuesday. Of these, 42 have a domestic travel history. With this, the number of active cases has surpassed the number of discharged in the state. With a tally of 925, the state is closing in on 1,000 cases. While 11 are in the ICU, 31 have died so far. The state has tested more than one lakh samples. There are 460 active cases and 433 discharged patients in the state. Of the 63 cases reported on Tuesday, 32 are patients who travelled from Ahmedabad. Bagalkot accounted for the maximum of 14 of such cases on Tuesday. One has presented with Influenza-Like-Illness. S Suresh Kumar, Minister-in-charge for COVID-19, said, “We are collecting swabs of migrants during the first two days of quarantine itself.”  Out of the 12 cases from Davangere, six returned from Ahmedabad, while the rest are contacts of previously diagnosed patients. Dharwad has reported nine cases, all of whom have returned from Ahmedabad. Hassan, Kolar and Yadgir have lost their green tags. In Hassan, five people who returned from Mumbai, have tested positive. In Kolar, two have returned from Odisha and one from Chennai.  Two new cases in Yadgir have returned from Ahmedabad. Of the four new cases reported from Bengaluru, three are contacts of a previously diagnosed patient and tracing of contacts is underway for one. In Gadag, one has travel history to Ahmedabad, and two are contacts of a previously diagnosed patient. Dakshina Kannada reported two new cases, Kalaburagi and Chikkaballapur one each. Two cases were reported from Bidar, one case in Mandya has a travel history to Mumbai and contact tracing is underway for one case in Ballari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/63-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-highest-in-a-day-most-from-out-of-state-836965.html
12-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Maharashtra excise department to start e-token for liquor sale||The Maharashtra excise department has decided to start an online token system on a pilot basis for sale of liquor in Pune city to avoid crowding at shops. The move comes after tipplers gathered in large numbers outside liquor shops at several places in the state last week, defying the physical distancing norms to contain the spread of coronavirus. Under the new system, a person can get a token by registering on the state excise departments portal and then go to the shop to buy liquor, a senior department official said on Monday. Only those who get the token can go to the shop and buy liquor. It will help in preventing long queues of people outside liquor shops. Huge crowds outside shops put a lot of pressure on the state administration to enforce physical distancing, he said. The government plans to issue a limited number of tokens for liquor sale to avoid crowding on streets, he said. The system will be started on a pilot basis in Pune city and if found successful, it will be replicated in other parts of the state, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-excise-department-to-start-e-token-for-liquor-sale-836588.html
12-05-2020||West||Mumbai's fishing community hit hard by lockdown||The coronavirus-enforced lockdown has severely affected Mumbai's fisher folk as many of them have been rendered jobless and are finding it hard to sustain their livelihood since fish markets are lying closed. Some of the busiest fish markets, including at the Sassoon Dock in Colaba, Crawford Market in south Mumbai, Bhaucha Dhakka, or ferry wharf near the Dockyard, the Kasara fish market in neighbouring Thane and others, which used to be bustling with activity and business every day are shut. Thousands of fishing boats are lying useless and the community members are staring at a financial crisis. The fish market at the Sassoon Dock alone used to clock a daily turnover of about Rs 2 crore, but is devoid of business activity these days. Over one lakh fishing community members, who were largely dependent for their livelihood on fish sale at the Sassoon Dock and other markets, are finding it difficult to survive. Maharashtra Akhil Bhartiya Koli Mahasangh women's wing member Naina Patil said over 20,000 women from the community sell fish in the city to run their families. "I also sell fish at the Kalina market. But in the wake of the lockdown, all markets are closed and our businesses have stopped. We are now spending our savings to survive. If the markets open in future, from where will we get the money to procure fish for sale." A few NGOs have come forward to help the fisher folk by providing them essential items, she said. "But, this is not enough. We demand that the state and the central government do something for us," Patil said. Akhil Maharashtra Macchimar Kruti Samiti president Damodar Tandel said all the major fish markets and 20 to 25 fishing jetty points in the city are shut. He claimed the fisheries commissioner has laid some conditions for fishing to resume, which are not possible for them to follow. "Earlier, we used to earn about Rs 1,000 per day, but now we are doing some odd jobs to survive as the fishing activity has almost stopped," a fisherwoman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-fishing-community-hit-hard-by-lockdown-836600.html
12-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: New crisis brewing up in Mumbai as auto drivers go back to their homes||With monsoon just a month away and no signs of a partial lifting of lockdown, a new crisis seems to be brewing up in Mumbai and its suburban areas. During the lockdown 3.0, hundreds of autorickshaw and taxi drivers had left for their homes, mainly in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh. The autorickshaw and taxi drivers are very much part of the transportation system of India's financial capital. Many of them have gone in these vehicles itself -- as walking down was full of uncertainties. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, during lockdown 1.0 and lockdown 2.0, they have been virtually left with no source of income or bank balance to rely on. According to various estimates, nearly 50,000 taxis and over two lakh autos ply in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), spread over 6,355 sq km. While the population of MMR is over two crore, nearly 80 lakh plus people use Mumbai's suburban network daily for commuting. Since a large population stays in MMR suburbs, they are heavily dependent on autos for commuting from home to suburban stations and from stations to offices and back. Those who work within 10 to 15 km of their residence, too, are heavily dependent on autos. In Mumbai City, district taxis perform the same function as autos are not allowed. "From the developments, we can expect that the lockdown will be lifted in a month's time. But, it will coincide with the onset of monsoon. Going to workspaces skipping autos, that too during monsoon, is not possible," says Kalyan Chatterjee,  a resident of Vasai.  Auto driver Jagdish Singh, last week, travelled 1,800 km from Mumbai to Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh on his bike - that took him nearly three days. "There is a lot of uncertainty. We are not sure when the lockdown will end and when normal life will start. I was running out of money. Back in the village, I will not starve," said Singh, currently under quarantine. More than 3,000 taxi drivers have left Mumbai, says AL Quadros,  the president of Mumbai Taximen's Union. According to Shashank Rao,  president of Autorickshaw Chalak Malak Sangathana Sanyukt Kruti Samiti, the auto drivers were not left with any option. "Many have left in their autos with their families,"  he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-30-new-crisis-brewing-up-in-mumbai-as-auto-drivers-go-back-to-their-homes-836604.html
12-05-2020||West||Maharashtra Congress bears travel costs of 27,865 migrants: Thorat||The Maharashtra Congress has borne the travel expenses of nearly 27,865 migrant workers and sent them back to their native places, state party president Balasaheb Thorat claimed on Tuesday. Arrangements are being made to send 24,000 more migrant workers from Maharashtra to their native states, Thorat said. "So far, the Maharashtra Congress has paid the travel expenses of 27,865 workers," he said in a statement. Amid the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, several migrant workers, in a desperate bid to return to their native places, started walking hundreds of kilometres while some took whatever mode of transport was available to reach home. Congress President Sonia Gandhi last week said her party's state units will bear the cost of rail travel for all needy migrant workers and labourers stranded at their workplaces and seeking to return home. Thorat said after the announcement, the Maharashtra Congress unit started the process of sending migrants workers back home. The workers were registered at the district level and special trains were made available to take them to their home states. Shramik Special trains were operated from Nagpur to Muzaffarpur, Lucknow, Ballia and Darbhanga, Wardha to Patna, Pune to Lucknow and Bhopal, Miraj to Gorakhpur, Chandrapur to Patna and Ahmednagar to Unnao. Besides, the travel cost of majority of the workers who boarded the trains from Mumbai to Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar was also borne by the Congress, he said, adding that food, masks and sanitisers were provided to the workers during their journey.     Thorat said state Energy Minister Nitin Raut paid for four special trains, whileMinister of State for Agriculture Vishwajeet Kadam and Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development Minister Sunil Kedar paid for two trains to send migrant workers back to their states. State Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar and Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur also paid for sending many workers back home, he said. Thorat also said that 3,567 workers were sent to their native states in private vehicles from Satara, Ahmednagar, Pune,Nagpur, Chandrapur,Kolhapur and Sangli and their travel expenses were also borne by the Congress. The party also arranged for buses and food for stranded workers from Sangamner (Ahmednagar) to the nearest railway station, he said.  Minister of State for Home Satej Patil made arrangements for food during the journey of stranded workers from Kolhapur, he said. Thorat said nearly 18,000 workers belonging to Uttar Pradesh have registered themselves with the district level helplines started by the Congress in Maharashtra. Apart from this, over 24,000 workers hailing from states like Bihar, Rajasthan,Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal andKarnataka have also reached out to the party for help, the minister said, adding that arrangements will be made for them and they will be sent back home soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-congress-bears-travel-costs-of-27865-migrants-thorat-836621.html
12-05-2020||West||Bhupendrasinh Chudasama's election invalid, says Gujarat High Court||In a major embarrassment to the BJP government, the Gujarat High Court on Tuesday invalidated the election of state education and law minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama from Dholka Assembly constituency in 2017 on the ground that he won on the basis of "corrupt practices." The court's order came on a petition moved by Congress leader challenging Chudasama's victory on the grounds of several of irregularities and malpractices. Justice Paresh Upadhyay pronounced the judgment while setting aside the election of Chudasama, a senior BJP leader, on a petition moved by  Congress leader Ashwin Rathod, who had lost to Chudasama from Dholka constituency in the Assembly election by a margin of 327 votes with the connivance of election officers. Justice Upadhyay upheld that there were irregularities in the counting process. Justice Upadhyay also rejected Chudasama's plea to stay the order for challenging it in the Supreme Court. The court has held that the Returning Officer allowed himself "to be used as a tool by the respondent No.2 (Chudasama)." It states that the RO "obediently behaved and danced to the tunes" of the BJP minister. Based on the evidence, the court found that RO and the minister "were not only hands in glove for the furtherance of the prospects of the respondent No. 2 in the election in question, there has also been an arrangement of quid pro quo between them." The court has cited how the RO was promoted as an additional collector and despite instruction from the election commission to conduct a departmental inquiry, the state government didn't proceed. "This is no less than an unholy nexus of the Returning Officer and the respondent No.2 which further fortifies the findings of this Court qua corrupt practice," the judge has stated. "Election was declared void by the court due to the illegal procedure followed against the rules of Election Commission and corrupt practice by the Res. No 13 (returning officer Dhaval Jani) who manipulated the records of election/postal ballot by illegal exclusion which was done behind the back of everyone including the General Observer," said advocate Hetu M Sudarshan who represented the General Observer Vinita Bohra, an IAS officer from Rajasthan cadre. Justice Upadhyay has noted that "429 postal ballot papers were illegally rejected/excluded from consideration by the Returning Officer at the time of counting of votes in the election in question, as against the victory margin of 327 votes." The court, however, refused the petitioner's plea that he should be declared victorious in view of Chudasama's election getting void.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bhupendrasinh-chudasamas-election-invalid-says-gujarat-high-court-836646.html
12-05-2020||West||NCP seeks quota for children of doctors who die of COVID-19||The NCP has demanded Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to give special quota in admissions in government medical colleges to the wards of doctors and nurses who die of COVID-19 while treating the disease patients. Maharashtra unit chief of the doctors' cell of NCP, Narendra Kale, in a letter written to Thackeray on May 9, said doctors in the state have been facing the coronavirus crisis ably, risking their lives. "Some doctors and nurses treating COVID-19 patients have also contracted the disease. Special quota in admissions in government medical colleges be given to the wards of doctors and nurses, who contract the disease and die of it," Kale said in the letter. He also asked the chief minister to ensure that prices of N95 masks and personal protective equipment, used in combating the disease, are controlled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-seeks-quota-for-children-of-doctors-who-die-of-covid-19-836668.html
12-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: 18 more arrested by CID in Palghar lynching case||Eighteen more people have been arrested by Maharashtra Police's CID in the Palghar lynching case, officials said on Tuesday. The Crime Investigation Department (CID) is probing the incident in which three persons, including two seers, who were lynched by a mob of villagers in neighbouring Palghar district last month. With the latest arrests, the number of those held in connection with the case has gone up to 134. These include 24 arrested so far by the CID after it was handed over the case, a senior official from the CID said. All those arrested by the CID were "actively involved in the violence and lynching", another official said. Earlier, 110 people, including nine juveniles, were taken into custody by Palghar Police in the case. The incident took place at Gadchinchle village on April 16 when two monks were heading towards Surat from Mumbai in a car with a driver to attend a funeral. A mob of villagers stopped them and beat them to death on suspicion that they were child-lifters, even as a few police personnel had reached the spot. Some of the accused later fled into the dense forest around the village. The police used drones to hunt them, an official earlier said. One of the persons arrested in the case tested positive for coronavirus earlier this month and was admitted to a government hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-18-more-arrested-by-cid-in-palghar-lynching-case-836698.html
12-05-2020||West||Maharashtra panel decides to temporarily release 50% prisoners from jails||The Maharashtra government has decided to release on temporary parole 17,000 of the total 35,000 inmates lodged across jails in the state to contain the spread of the COVID-19, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Tuesday. Of these, 5,000 undertrial inmates have already been released. The governments decision comes close on the heels of 185 inmates at the Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai contracting the viral disease, Deshmukh said. Earlier, a high-powered committee appointed by the Maharashtra government decided to temporarily release around 50 per cent of the total prisoners to decongest jails across the state in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a video message on Twitter, Deshmukh said, 185 inmates at the Arthur Road Jail contracted COVID-19. They are being treated at present.  The state government has now decided to release on temporary parole 17,000 of the 35,000 inmates in jails across Maharashtra to prevent spread of the disease in other jails. He said that 5,000 undertrial inmates have already been released. Deshmukh said 3,000 and 9,000 inmates -- imprisoned for up to seven years and above, respectively, will also be released. He, however, clarified that those convicted in serious cases like that of rape, big financial and bank scams and under Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act (TADA), among others, will not be released. The minister reiterated that the government has already "locked down" eight prisons where no entry or exit is being allowed till the coronavirus-induced curbs are in force. Meanwhile, the government-appointed committee took the decision to temporarily release prisoners to decongest jails across the state in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The panel, while taking the decision on Monday, said prisoners convicted or booked on serious charges under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and stringent law provisions like the MCOCA, UAPA and PMLA will not be released on temporary bail or parole. The committee, comprising Bombay High Court judge Justice A A Sayed, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Sanjay Chahande and Maharashtra Director General Prisons S N Pandey, was set up after the Supreme Court in March called for decongestion of prisons across the country due to the outbreak of coronavirus. The panel rejected a representation filed by advocate S B Talekar, claiming that the decision to not release prisoners charged or convicted under the special Acts was discriminatory and arbitrary. It noted that the Supreme Court had left it to the absolute discretion of the committee to determine which class/category of prisoners can be released on temporary bail or parole, depending not only upon the severity of the offence but also the nature of the offence. The committee said prisoners who are not entitled to temporary bail or parole will have to seek regular bail from the courts concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-panel-decides-to-temporarily-release-50-prisoners-from-jails-836703.html
12-05-2020||West||Ajit Pawar hails nurses as 'messengers of God' in COVID fight||Maharashtra deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday said services being rendered by nurses in the battle against coronavirus will be recorded in human history in golden words. Praising nurses on the occasion of International Nurses Day, Pawar said they have been working as the "messengers of God" and giving courage to COVID-19 patients besides treating them. "The services of nurses --who have been working shoulder to shoulder, rather going a step ahead risking their lives while treating patients -- will be recorded in the human history in golden words," Pawar said in a statement. Terming nurses as "main soldiers", Pawar said they played a very crucial role in the fight against the pandemic. "Since there is no vaccine available to tackle the disease, taking precaution is the only 'aarogya sanjivani' (elixir of health). Nurses have been doing this work with devotion," Pawar said, adding that it was the duty of everyone to appreciate and encourage the role of nurses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ajit-pawar-hails-nurses-as-messengers-of-god-in-covid-fight-836713.html
12-05-2020||West||Money laundering case: HC declines pre-arrest bail to Wadhawans||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday refused to grant pre-arrest bail to DHFL promoters Dheeraj Wadhawan and Kapil Wadhawan in a money laundering case of Yes Bank being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), noting their custodial interrogation was required to unearth the conspiracy and modus operandi in the multi-crore scam. The Wadhawans are presently in jail after being earlier arrested by the CBI in a separate case related to the Yes Bank scam. They had moved the HC last week seeking anticipatory bail in the money laundering case and another case pertaining to alleged irregularities in the investment of employees' provident fund of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL). Justice Bharati Dangre on Tuesday rejected the pleas of the Wadhawan brothers for pre-arrest bail in both the cases and noted that prima facie investigation clearly divulge involvement and implication of the accused. The court also noted that the applicants are not co-operating with the process of law and that the ED had issued several summonses to both Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan seeking their presence for questioning in the cases. The court, in its order, said although the Wadhawans responded to the summonses and notices issued to them by the ED, they evaded investigation by not appearing before the agency. The response to the summonses speaks of apathetic and an indifferent approach. The lackadaisical approach of the applicants can be well noted in their response to the prosecuting agency, the court said. "It appears that the close knitted family had taken a decision together and as per their version, for removal of the stress of the earlier arrest, had decided to relax at their home in Mahabaleshwar (a hill station) in spite of all the seriousness of the accusation hovering over them, Justice Dangre said. The court further said that only the Wadhawans can throw light on the nature of transaction and the alleged conspiracy can be cracked only by interrogating them regarding the rolling of funds in the sister companies. The applicants have to be confronted with various incriminating documents with respect to the loans sanctioned in its favour by Yes Bank and further loans sanction by DHFL in favour of Rana Kapoor (co-founder of Yes Bank) so as to unearth the multi-crore conspiracy, the order said. Wadhawans' counsels Prasad Dhakepalkar and Amit Desai last week argued that no case has been made out for money laundering and the transactions in question were made in normal course of business. Desai had further argued that there was no case for any arrest or an arrest warrant at this stage for his clients in the midst of COVID-19 lockdown in a matter of financial nature which is being investigated for the last six months. The Wadhawans have claimed they have been made "scapegoat of political quandary" in the state. The court, however, refused to accept the excuse of the COVID-19 pandemic and said this shall not deter the ED from investigating a serious offence of money laundering which has shaken the economy of this country. "The pandemic cannot be cited as an excuse to thwart an urgent investigation into a serious offence and to unearth the serious criminal conspiracy in which the ED apprehends the applicants have a major role to play. "The growing pandemic of COVID-19 cannot be made a smokescreen to evade custodial interrogation, the court said. ED counsels Anil Singh and Hiten Venegavkar opposed the pleas and argued that the duo is facing serious charges of money laundering which involves any process of or activity relating to the proceeds of crime, including concealment and possession of an untainted property. Accepting this argument, Justice Dangre said, A serious economic offence cannot wait the pandemic to recede and the projection of the applicants as not being healthy would not absolve them from being subjected to interrogation." With regard to the case pertaining to provident funds worth Rs 4,200 crore which were deposited with Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) as fixed deposits in alleged collusion with some officials of UPPCL, Singh argued that the Wadhawans' custodial interrogation was required. The court noted that DHFL had received a huge amount of illegal investment and proceeds generated from the illegal act of UPPCL. The role played by the applicants (Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan) as those in charge of the company (DHFL) cannot be under cloud and follow up of the money trail is to be established. This warrants investigations which can only be carried out by having custody of the applicants, the court said. Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan were arrested last month by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with the Yes Bank scam. According to the CBI FIR, the scam started taking shape between April and June 2018 when Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of the scam-hit DHFL. In return, the Wadhawans allegedly "paid kickbacks of Rs 600 crore" to former Yes Bank CEO Rana Kapoor and his family members in the form of loans to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd held by the wife and daughters of Kapoor, the CBI has claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/money-laundering-case-hc-declines-pre-arrest-bail-to-wadhawans-836812.html
12-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Couple attacked in Palghar village; wife dies||A 36-year-old woman was killed and her husband critically injured in an attacked by some unidentified assailants at their home in a village in Maharashtra's Palghar district on Tuesday, police said. The incident took place at around 5.30 am, when unidentified persons allegedly barged into the couple's home in Sonale village and attacked them with sharp weapons, public relations officer of the Palghar police Hemant Katkar said. While Vaishnavi Gawand died on the spot, her husband Vilas (40) was undergoing treatment at a hospital, he said. A case of murder was registered in this regard and further probe was underway, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-couple-attacked-in-palghar-village-wife-dies-836823.html
12-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Home delivery of liquor allowed in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday allowed home delivery of liquor to avoid crowding at shops. However, the order, issued by the Home Department, will come into effect only after guidelines are finalised, said a senior official. Only those who have permit for drinking can order home delivery. Liquor shops which have been allowed to reopen since May 5 will be able to take orders on phone.  The purpose was to avoid crowding at liquor stores and prevent the spread of coronavirus, the official said. "The order was issued today, but it will not come into effect until detailed guidelines are framed. The government will issue the guidelines in the next two days," he told PTI. "The mode of payment has to be decided by the buyer and the seller. A person can order up to 12 IMFL (Indian-Made Foreign Liquor) bottles," he added. Rules regarding possession of various types of liquor at home are displayed on the Excise department's website which buyers can check before ordering, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-home-delivery-of-liquor-allowed-in-maharashtra-836830.html
12-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Bombay HC asks BMC to furnish details about PPE kits||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to respond to a PIL seeking PPE kits for frontline health workers and limiting the use of hydroxychloroquine for COVID-19 treatment. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice A A Sayyed directed the BMC to file an affidavit by Wednesday, detailing the number of PPE kits it had already provided, apart from other health and security measures taken to protect doctors, health workers, civic employees etc. The court also directed the civic body to respond to all other contentions raised in the PIL, including the accessibility of screening tests for frontline workers and for the poor.  The PIL by Jan Swasthya Abhiyan also claimed that there weren't enough healthcare professionals and frontline workers in hospitals and facilities at some quarantine centres were inadequate. The petitioner's counsel Mihir Desai said doctors and medical staff who were not treating COVID-19 patients also needed PPE kits. Meanwhile, the BMC's counsel senior advocate Anil Sakhre argued that the state was providing as many PPEs as possible and each kit costs Rs 2,200 per day for each person per shift.  "We are trying to increase the production of PPEs, but until then, it is not feasible to provide PPEs to doctors or staff who were not treating coronavirus patients," Sakhre said. The petitioner has also urged the authorities not to use hydroxychloroquine indiscrimnately, as there was not enough clinical evidence to show it effectively treats the infection, he said. The court will take up the matter for further hearing on May 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-bombay-hc-asks-bmc-to-furnish-details-about-ppe-kits-836835.html
12-05-2020||West||Dharavi COVID-19 case count climbs by 46 to 962; Death toll 31||Dharavi slum sprawl in Mumbai on Tuesday reported 46 new COVID-19 cases and one death, taking the case count to 962 and the number of fatalities to 31, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. The cases were reported from Matunga Labour camp, 90-feet road, 60-feet road, Kumbharwada, Transit Camp, Cross Road, Naik Nagar and some other localities in Dharavi, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavi-covid-19-case-count-climbs-by-46-to-962-death-toll-31-836843.html
12-05-2020||West||HC dismisses plea for door to door COVID-19 testing in Mumbai||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday dismissed a public interest litigation seeking door to door testing to screen all residents in the city for COVID-19. A bench of Chief justice Dipankar Datta and Justice AA Sayed dismissed the plea holding that there weren't any existing WHO guidelines or advisories from the Indian Council for Medical Research that mandated such door to door screening tests. The plea filed by activist Anil Galgali had sought that owing to the rising number of COVID cases in Mumbai, the authorities follow the model of doorstep screenings which was implemented in Bhilwara in Rajasthan to successfully check the spread of the pandemic.  The HC said the plea did not specify if there existed any similarities between Mumbai and Bhilwara and why or how the same technique could work for both cities. "The plea does not even refer to any feature in Bhilwara that is identical or has close resemblance with Mumbai. Having regard to the testing times arising out of the pandemic, resources may be scarce for such door to door testing," the bench said. "Even otherwise, no guidelines and/or advisory of the World Health Organisation or the Indian Council of Medical Research have been brought to our notice, which requires the official respondents to carry out door to door testing of the residents," it said while dismissing the plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-dismisses-plea-for-door-to-door-covid-19-testing-in-mumbai-836846.html
12-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Man kills self citing loneliness amid lockdown||A 25-year-old man allegedly committed suicide citing loneliness due to the COVID-19 lockdown at Kopar Khairane in neighbouring Navi Mumbai on Tuesday, police said. Suraj Surve was found hanging from a ceiling fan at his home in sector 4 of Kopar Khairane, an official said.  The deceased was an engineer and was working from home in light of the lockdown, while his family was stuck in their hometown, he said. The police found a suicide note from the scene, in which the deceased said he was lonely, as he could not meet his family because of the lockdown, the official said. A case of accidental death was registered in this regard, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-kills-self-citing-loneliness-amid-lockdown-836863.html
12-05-2020||West||Bombay High Court refuses to pass order on petition against Arnab Goswami||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday refused to pass an order on a plea seeking to restrain Republic TV channel head Arnab Goswami from anchoring debates and to direct police to file a case against him and the channel's management for allegedly spreading communal hatred. The petition filed by Congress leaders Bhai Jagtap and Suraj Thakur demanded that an FIR be registered against Goswami and the channel for allegedly attempting to disrupt communal harmony and defaming party president Sonia Gandhi during a debate on the last month's Palghar lynching incident. The plea also sought, as interim relief, a direction to restrain Goswami from conducting news shows which could incite violence. Justice P C Chavan dismissed the petition, noting that an FIR has already been registered against Goswami and probe is underway. The court was also told that Maharashtra police had questioned some senior members from the channel's management. It would not be correct to direct the police to arraign any particular person as accused at this stage, the judge said, adding that the police were free to make any person an accused if his or her involvement was seen. The court also refused to restrain Goswami from conducting news shows. As he had already filed a petition in the Supreme Court against the FIRs against him in different states, it would not be right to pass any order at this stage, the high court said. Petitioners' lawyer Rahul Kamerkar alleged that Goswami's show tried to attribute political and religious motives to the lynching in which three persons were killed. Several cases were filed against Goswami in Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Punjab, Telangana, Maharashtra and Jammu and Kashmir following the program of April 21. He moved the Supreme Court last month seeking interim protection from arrest and quashing of all the FIRs. The SC granted Goswami three weeks' protection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-refuses-to-pass-order-on-petition-against-arnab-goswami-836887.html
12-05-2020||West||Surprising turn of events in Maharashtra polls||The infighting within the Maharashtra BJP unit came to light when the saffron party had to change its candidate for elections to the Upper House.  On the day of scrutiny and couple of days before the withdrawal,  the state BJP leadership asked Dr Ajit Gopchhade to withdraw his papers in favour of Ramesh Karad,  who too had filled the papers.  Karad hails from Latur in Marathwada region.  He is nephew of Vishwanath Karad,  and is considered a close associate of Pankaja Munde.  Last week, the BJP had fielded four candidates Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil, Praveen Datke, Gopichand Padalkar and Dr Ajit Gopchhede.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/surprising-turn-of-events-in-maharashtra-polls-836890.html
12-05-2020||West||Essential shops to reopen from May 15 in Ahmedabad after week||Shops selling essential items will reopen from May 15 on certain conditions in Ahmedabad which has been under a complete lockdown since May 7, the state government said on Tuesday. Civic authorities had on May 6 ordered the complete closure of all shops in the city, except those selling milk and medicines, for a week from May 7 in a bid to check the spread of coronavirus. In a release, Additional Chief Secretary Rajiv Gupta, who is overseeing works related to COVID-19 in Ahmedabad, said shops selling essential items such as grocery, vegetables and fruits, will be allowed to remain open between 8 am and 3 pm from May 15 provided they follow certain conditions. He said all "superspreaders" like vegetable and fruit vendors and owners of grocery and milk shops will have to procure "health cards" after undergoing screening for coronavirus. Other conditions include that vendors can sell essential commodities only at a specific area within a municipal ward and that no business activity will be allowed beyond 3 pm. Shop owners and vendors will have to follow social distancing norms and that they should also try to make transactions digitally, though it is not mandatory. To accept cash, they should keep a separate tray to avoid direct contact with customers, said the release. Vendors and shop keepers will also have to compulsorily wear face mask, hand gloves, and use hand sanitizer, it said. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had on Monday decided to ban the cash-on-delivery option for grocery and food items to homes after May 15, saying the deadly coronavirus also spreads through currency notes, and made digital payment mandatory. The time for cashless home delivery will be between 10 am and 5 pm, the release said. Worst-hit by COVID pandemic, Ahmedabad reported 6,086 cases and 400 deaths by May 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/essential-shops-to-reopen-from-may-15-in-ahmedabad-after-week-836896.html
12-05-2020||West||Mumbai finetunes COVID-19 control strategy||With the spike in COVID-19 cases in  Mumbai - increasing by 1,000-plus cases daily - the BrihanMumbai Municipal Commission (BMC) on Tuesday undertook a major organisational revamp and finetune its pandemic-control strategy. Days after Iqbal Singh Chahal took over as municipal commissioner, he has set out tasks for nine IAS officers. These highly-experienced officers,  all of rank of additional municipal commissioners, are Manisha Patankar-Mhaiskar, Ashwini Bhide, Sanjeev Jaiswal,  Prajakta Lawangare-Varma,  P Velrasu,  Suresh Kakani,  Dr N Ramaswami and Ashutosh Salil. Patankar-Mhaiskar will look after augmentation of COVID-19 beds in BMC hospitals - and all deans will report to her.  Bhide will look after overall virus control strategy,  war room monitoring and dashboard updation. She will look after contract tracing,  institutional quarantining and containment strategies. Jaiswal will look after foodgrian procurement, cooked food packet distribution, supply chains in containment zones. He would be liasioning with Maharashtra government. Lawangare-Varma will coordinate with COVID Yoddha volunteers to appoint doctors and nurses. Velrasu will oversee pre-monsoon work,  coordinate international arrivals,  screening and quarantining.  Kakani will look after major hospitals, peripheral hospitals and primary health facility management.  Dr Ramaswami will oversee operations of the Seven Hills hospital,  training.  Salil will look over creation of jumbo facilities CCC2 and CCC3, coordinate with various government agencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-finetunes-covid-19-control-strategy-836897.html
12-05-2020||West||COVID-19 PIL: Mass quarantining permissible, says Bombay HC||Individual interest must yield to larger public interest and if a situation like the outbreak of a contagious epidemic demands, then mass quarantining is permissible, the Bombay High Court said on Tuesday. Justice A S Kilor of the Nagpur bench of the HC was hearing a petition filed by local resident Mohammad Nishat claiming that Nagpur civic authorities had illegally detained 1,408 people from Satranjipura and Mominpura areas on the ground that they were high-risk contacts of COVID-19 patients.  According to the petitioner's advocate, Tushar Mandlekar, the authorities randomly picked 1,408 people and, thus, violated prescribed protocols and guidelines issued by the Union government and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Mandlekar argued only persons found to be coronavirus positive or their high-risk contacts can be detained and quarantined for 14 days. He said these 1,408 people do not fall under these categories and, hence, detaining them amounts to infringement of their fundamental rights, he said. The civic authorities, however, refuted the claims and said only high-risk contact persons were sent to quarantine facilities. The court in its order noted that it was of the prima facie opinion that the contention raised in the petition is without any substance. "Inconvenience of some should be bypassed for a larger interest or cause of the society," the court said.  "Time is of the essence in a quarantine situation, perhaps the best way in the present unprecedented situation to balance conflicting interests between individual's rights and public health is to allow for immediate quarantine for preventing spread of contagious and infectious COVID-19," it said. "I am of the prime facie view that if the situation so demands and the extreme outbreak of a contagious disease is established by the authorities, then mass quarantining is permissible in the interest of larger society," the court said. The court noted that from May 5, when the petition was heard, and till date, the number of COVID-19 patients in Nagpur had reached 298 from 156. "Those persons who have tested positive are mostly those who have been quarantined. Of these, 99 COVID-19 positive patients are from the Satranjipura area, whereas 139 are from Mominpura area. It is pertinent to note that the population of these two hotspots is more than three lakh," the court said. "In such contingency, when an extreme outbreak of especially a contagious disease like coronavirus is being posed as a threat to public, safety and security of the general public is of paramount importance," Justice Kilor said. The bench noted that if the behaviour or movement of any individual poses a significant risk or harm to themselves or their community, then, to control the threat, if the authorities act in larger interest, then people cannot claim to enjoy the right to movement free from any interference. "In such a situation, rights of citizens would always be subject to reasonable restrictions," the court said. The court further held that if the authorities had not taken the measures of institutional quarantine of high-risk contacts from Satranjipura and Mominpura areas of Nagpur, then the number of COVID-19 cases would have climbed further as these two areas are highly congested and densely populated. "Even though quarantine is a curtailment of civil liberties, measures taken to quarantine persons from these two areas cannot be termed as to negate right to life, but in fact it will only protect right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution for achieving a larger public interest," the court said. The bench has, however, ordered for an expert committee to be set up to give an opinion on the petitioner's contention that quarantine facilities at MLA Hostel and the Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) hostel were not as per guidelines issued by the Union government. The court said authorities shall ensure the persons quarantined shall have enough supply of basic needs and proper hygiene and be updated about their health regularly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-pil-mass-quarantining-permissible-says-bombay-hc-836917.html
12-05-2020||West||Migrants with any ration card can get essentials in Maharashtra, says state govt||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday informed the Bombay High Court that migrants can use ration cards from their home states to procure essentials from ration shops here and those without cards can get meals at food camps and Shiv Bhojan Thali centres. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Amjad Sayed was hearing a petition filed by Pune resident Vanita Chavan, raising concerns oversupply of food grains to poor during the COVID-19 lockdown. Chavan, in her plea, claimed that food grains were not properly distributed through ration shops in the state and she sought a direction to the government to provide essentials to people without ration cards, including migrant workers and wandering tribes. The court had last week asked the state government to take a decision on whether it would procure additional food grains from the Food Corporation of India for migrant workers and the needy, who do not possess ration cards, amid the COVID-19 lockdown. In its affidavit on Tuesday, the government said it has already procured food grains from the Food Corporation of India to meet the requirements of stranded persons and migrants in Pune district. The government, however, said people who don't have ration cards of any state will not be given food grains at ration shops. "As far as stranded migrant labourers and other needy persons are concerned, the state government is already taking requisite measures by providing ready food or food grain packets to them," the affidavit said. Those without ration cards were given meals and food grain packets at shelter camps and they can also get meals at Shiv Bhojan Thali centres across the state amid the pandemic. The court took the affidavit on record and posted the matter for further hearing on May 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/migrants-with-any-ration-card-can-get-essentials-in-maharashtra-says-state-govt-836947.html
