13-05-2020||Comment||Aurangabad Tragedy: The death of an instinct||The celebrated American anthropologist Margaret Mead (1901-1978) once identified the human thigh bone with a healed fracture found in a 15,000-year-old archeological site as the earliest sign of civilisation. She observed that the healing of the bone suggested that the person must have been taken care of for an extended period of time by his own species. In the animal kingdom perhaps, such a thing would not have been possible because of the lack of this civilisational trait or instinct of care for each other. An animal with a broken bone would have possibly died for lack of healing. That primeval instinct -- of care and empathy -- among humans is now on the wane, it appears. In the wake of the recent tragedy in Aurangabad where 16 migrants were run over by a train in the early hours of the morning while they were asleep, the kind of questions that the incident generated, especially among the urban middle class and the affluent strata of society, were shocking, even macabre. The people, in general, had this to ask: Why did they sleep on the rail track? Worse, they implied that they were idiots and crazy, that these rustics invited their fate. Prima facie, the reaction appears rational-logical. I grew up in a village close to a railway township that had one of the prominent locomotive workshops of Eastern Railways. There were rail tracks that passed through my village almost dissecting its length and breadth. While some tracks were pretty busy round the clock, there was one called a ‘shunting yard’ track, which was occasionally used to either ferry or dump abandoned rail bogeys or just to station a fresh one. It was common to see cattle herders stray that side and let the buffaloes enjoy the lush green patches around. Many of these folks would just lie down, with their heads on the side-track of the shunting yard as if it were a pillow. The Aurangabad incident brought those childhood images and visuals rushing to my mind. Both networks, the road and the rail, happen to be powerful signposts of colonial design that were aimed to, at one level, streamline and organise the wild and haphazard sense of direction among the natives; to bring about some order in their otherwise messy eternal sense of time and space. These networks were created, ironically, to connect the emerging metropolitan urban centres and industrial towns with the countryside. The hapless migrant workers in the Aurangabad tragedy, who after being told that the rail services were all closed in the lockdown, only followed that colonial prescription that had a certain unilinearity and certainty about direction. The rail track was a better option to walk along, given that roads were being manned by the police who were discouraging these men and women from moving ahead to their villages. With the metropolitan centres conveniently choosing to show their backs to them, and left with barely some rotis and enormous raw will-power of their feet and inexhaustible urge to reach their homes, the migrants did everything as per the charter of rational protocol. They stuck to the tracks of modernity so that they did not lose the direction to their destination. The elevated tracks must have given them a sense of cushion in that deadly dark night when they collapsed in a heap after continuous long walk. The marshy land, with wild grass around, as the visuals from the accident site indicate, would have looked relatively unsafe. In any case, they decided to walk along and sleep by the tracks under the impression that no trains would be running. The phrases that the metropolitan middle class frequently use -- “slept like a zombie” or “slept like a log” -- would simply recoil in embarrassment at the extent of exhaustion that the deadly mix of hunger and continuous physical hardship and labour can bring forth. To empathise with that moment, one would need some exposure to the disprivileged world of the margins. Sadly, the millennial and middle-class urban India have hardly ever been trained in experiential learning. It is precisely because of this training to think in a particular way that logic trumps all other senses of enquiry and the instrumental rationality obfuscates all other modes of thinking and observing. What is left to say about a world so dumb and numb as to ask such a question -- “Why did you sleep on the track”, indeed, to the heap of dead bodies amidst scattered rotis all around the rail track? The fact that a large number of twitterati, chatterati, whatsappers and even some genuinely well-meaning and quite educated people asked this question on social media is nothing but another reminder of the pathologies of crass modernity and the hollowness of an education system that simply ignored the humanness in the humanities and celebrated complete surrender to the dictates of technology and its associated mercantilism. With every passing day, as hundreds and thousands of migrant men, women and children inch closer to their homes, fighting all odds and even death, the heavily masked urban India and its privileged gentry are, ironically, getting exposed by their complete lack of any connect with the world at large. The root of the malady is the loss of that primeval civilisational instinct of care that Margaret Mead identified as quintessentially human. To revive that instinct, we will have to perhaps teach our children in schools the instructions from the old vernacular moral code -- that of not belittling the dead, howsoever imperfect they were when alive. In any case, this one question, my friend, has decisively cleared the smokescreen around all our tall claims of modernity and civilizational achievements. (The writer is a Sociologist with the Global Studies Programme, School of Global Affairs, Ambedkar University, Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/aurangabad-tragedy-the-death-of-an-instinct-836994.html
13-05-2020||First Edit||Post-May 17, leave it to the states||As the nation approaches the end of the third phase of the extended lockdown on May 17, decisions about its continuance, relaxation or lifting are becoming more and more challenging. It was fairly easy to decide that the lockdown had to be continued after the first phase, later the decisions became more difficult as a host of interlinked factors had to be taken into consideration. The impact of the lockdown on the economy as a whole and the livelihood and income of people and the increasing realisation that the virus is not going to go away soon are factors that are gaining greater importance and consideration. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with the chief ministers on Monday was again an occasion for the states to present their views on whether or how the lockdown should continue. There were different views depending on the situation in different states, and that was only to be expected as the incidence of Covid-19 and its impact has been different in different states. It is certain that the lockdown will continue in some form, but it will vary from state to state and district to district. The Prime Minister himself indicated this when he said that “the measures needed in the first phase of lockdown were not needed during the second phase and similarly the measures needed in the third phase are not needed in the fourth’’. Restrictions like a night curfew and curbs on public transport may continue in areas designated as red zones but there are bound to be more relaxations in other areas. The Prime Minister has asked states to send in their suggestions for changes in the existing rules by May 15, and that means that a final decision will be taken only by the next day. This should rightly be so because the situation is changing from day to day in most places. While there should be more relaxations because the need for opening up the economy is becoming more urgent, even this is not simple. While production may be based in a green or orange zone, raw materials or labour may have to come from a red zone. Lives in cities may be organised in ways different from the way infections have spread. Implementation may be complicated by the unpredictability of human behaviour. Rural areas have to be protected from infection. Most importantly, states should be given more powers to take decisions in their areas, and the Centre’s guidelines should be flexible enough to accommodate the states’ different needs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/post-may-17-leave-it-to-the-states-836992.html
13-05-2020||In Perspective||Online Edu: Don’t overlook social inequality||In the age of lockdown, there doesn’t seem to be any alternative to classroom education other than online education. The impossibility of resuming real classes anytime soon is forcing universities and schools across the country to migrate to digital platforms. Some have already started preparations. Online education is not entirely novel in several universities, with courses already attached to digital learning modules. However, against the current backdrop, those digital platforms may soon become a permanent virtual reality, albeit in divergent formats. Apex bodies like the University Grants Commission, and managements and private bodies across the country, have been seeking for a long time to introduce online learning platforms and stabilise their operation; the Covid-19 lockdown is definitely an opportunity for them. In India, where policymaking is a monopoly of management and economics experts, the social costs involved in introducing new technologies are often overlooked. Innovative technology is a necessity to realise our developmental ambitions. However, a blind endorsement of technology may further aggravate existing social inequalities. One recent example, out of many, is the instance of starvation deaths in states like Jharkhand when ration cards were linked to the new biometric identity system called Aadhaar. Similarly, in the case of online education, if serious attention is not paid to the cultural fabric of our society, it may result in further deepening the social divisions. As we treasure the latest technologies for higher productivity, efficiency, time-saving, etc., we also need to contemplate their suitability to our cultural-institutional frameworks. Digital divide One of the main disadvantages of our policy-making process is that it often fails to look beyond the requirements of the middle class, the main beneficiaries of technological transitions. Rarely do we address the difficulties of lower-class segments to adapt to such transitions. One sobering question in education through online platforms is, how do we address the digital divide, which is so deep and stark in our society. The access to digital technologies, and the ability to use them, is not uniformly distributed across our cultural-spatial locations. People in rural and tribal areas with less or no data coverage or the lower-class sections living in the urban-semi urban centres are examples of such categories of populations. With online education, the chances of students from these sections falling outside the ambit of the very system of education are very high. The sheer demographic size of these sections explains the seriousness of the digital divide. According to a recent report, India has close to 451 million people using the internet. Second only to China, India still has more than 60% of its population outside the reach of the internet. Which means that digital platforms in India are currently unable to address the educational needs of students from sections consisting of more than 650 million people. Thus, shifting to online platforms can be extremely harmful as the already existing socio-economic and other cultural divisions between these sections of population may increase beyond proportions. One needs to keep in mind that educational benefits have a direct influence on the employment prospects of students and leave a lasting impact on their social status. Language, gender Even those for whom the internet is within reach may not be able to participate in online education classes in an equal manner. The medium of online education is primarily English and the technologies demand some level of proficiency in that language. Digital education platforms are also designed primarily in English and, except for some main vernaculars like Hindi, Malayalam, Marathi, online educational materials hardly exist in India in non-English formats. The chances of students with poor English being left out of digital platforms are very high. Added to this is the question of technical competence that can intervene at all levels of education, starting from admission. In a recent discussion, an online education provider confessed that it leaves out those who have poor technical skills, including the basic skill of using a computer keyboard. For example, the online assessments are not only tests of the students’ knowledge but also of their English proficiency and typing speed. A related issue is that of gender and internet usage. Statistics reveal massive gender differences in internet use. The India Internet Report 2019, published by IAMAI, shows that the national male-female ratio in internet usage is 67:33. That is, the number of females using internet is a little less than half of the total number of males using it. Language, gender, technical competence all operate at the basic level of one’s use of the internet. In the absence of serious interventions from the government to minimise the digital divide in its multiple dimensions, online education as a sole platform can do irreparable damage to the principle of equality. The effectiveness of digital platforms vis-a-vis face-to-face learning is still a debatable topic, but even if that were to be settled in favour of the digital platforms – as the Covid-19 pandemic is causing us to per force, if only for reasons of practicality, we will still need to ask deeper and critical questions about the medium in light of the structural realities persistent in our society. (The writer teaches Sociology at CHRIST (Deemed to be University), Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/online-edu-don-t-overlook-social-inequality-836993.html
13-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Coronavirus: Death toll due to COVID-19 rises to 7 in Kalaburagi; 11 fresh cases in Bidar||According to a media bulletin, the man was brought dead to the hospital on May 11. His test results came back positive on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Bidar reported 11 fresh COVID-19 positive cases. A total of 11 people including nine women tested positive for COVID-19 in the Bidar district on Wednesday.  All the positive patients aged between 14 and 36 years caught the infections after roaming in the containment zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/coronavirus-death-toll-due-to-covid-19-rises-to-7-in-kalaburagi-11-fresh-cases-in-bidar-837084.html
13-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: KSRTC, private buses start services in Karnataka's Udupi||As Udupi district is in the green zone, the district administration has allowed the buses to operate with 50 percent of its capacity.   Accordingly, buses have started operation between Udupi- Kundapura, Udupi- Hebri, Udupi- Karkala, Udupi - Kaup Mallaru, Kumdapura - Byndoor, Udupi - Manipal, Udupi- Barkur- Siddapura, Udupi- Alevoor, Udupi- Malpe, Udupi- Hoode and Udupi- Brahmavar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-30-ksrtc-private-buses-start-services-in-karnatakas-udupi-837063.html
13-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||First repatriation flight from Dubai with 177 passengers lands in Mangaluru||The first repatriation flight to Mangaluru from Dubai with 177 passengers landed at the international airport here. T The total passengers, including 88 men, 84 women, five children and two infants arrived by the Air India Express flight IX 384 late Tuesday night, airport sources said. There were 12 medical emergency cases and 38 pregnant women among them, they said. The district administration had made arrangements for receiving the passengers, who were provided with sanitizers and masks. They were advised to maintain social distancing as per the health protocol. All the foreign returnees were screened as per the standard operating procedure to ensure that they were asymptomatic. The passengers were taken to their chosen place of accommodation in KSRTC buses. They will be undergoing a 14-day quarantine in the places, which will be monitored by doctors assigned by the health department. More than 17 hotels and 12 hostels have been arranged for the accommodation of the returnees. Passengers were also asked to download the mandatory 'Aroygya Sethu' app for contact tracing. Rahul Shinde IAS who is in charge of arranging quarantine facilities, airport director V V Rao and district health officer Ramachandra Bairy were present at the airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/first-repatriation-flight-from-dubai-with-177-passengers-lands-in-mangaluru-837064.html
13-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Four more COVID-19 positive cases reported in Karnataka's Hassan||Patient 948 is a 38-year-old woman. P949 is a 17-yr-old boy and P950 is a 14-year-old girl. P951 is a 43-year-old man. All are being treated at the designated COVID-19 hospital in Hassan.  It may be mentioned that Hassan district, which was in a green zone, reported five cases on Tuesday. All the five persons who tested positive on Tuesday also have a travel history to Mumbai, Maharashtra. The district administration has tightened the lockdown and all those coming from other states are being mandatorily quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-more-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-in-karnatakas-hassan-837087.html
13-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: 38-year-old woman tests positive for COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada||The woman who is undergoing treatment at a designated COVID-19 hospital in Mangaluru is the resident of Darandabagilu in Someshwara on the outskirts of Mangaluru.   The district administration has initiated measures to seal down Darandabagilu area.  The Dakshina Kannada district has so far registered 34 positive cases of which 14 have been discharged and there are 17 active cases in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-38-year-old-woman-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-dakshina-kannada-837104.html
13-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru: Active Covid-19 cases reduce to 2||Active Covid cases reduced to two in Mysuru on Wednesday, as two more patients — Patient (P) 385TJ and P-204 — recovered and were discharged. It has to be noted that Mysuru district registered 90 Covid-19 positive cases and the last case was reported on April 29. According to a bulletin released by Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, the total number of persons observed till Wednesday is 5,285, while 4,762 of them have completed 14 days of isolation. The remaining two patients, both related to Nanjangud-based Jubilant Generics, are under treatment at the district hospital, the designated Covid Hospital. The total samples tested are 5,538 and 5,448 of them were found negative. As on Wednesday, 88 out of the total 90 positive cases, have recovered and are discharged. However, the number of persons under institutional isolation is on the rise since May 4, as inter-district and inter-state travel has been opened up on availing permission. Thus, 521 persons, who have come from other states are under 14 days quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-active-covid-19-cases-reduce-to-2-837313.html
13-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Shift proposed garbage plant to city’s outskirts'||MLA and former minister S A Ramadass has urged the authorities concerned to set up the proposed solid waste processing unit, on the lines of Nagpur model by a private agency, on the outskirts of the city, instead of the Sewage Farm in Vidyaranyapuram, under his Krishnaraja Assembly constituency, to avoid health hazards to the people in the vicinity. He said that in 1996 a 200 tonne capacity manure unit was established with financial aid from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), when Siddaramaiah was district in-charge minister. “It was opposed by people and I supported them. For this, myself and many people had to face criminal cases for several years, in the court. In 1997, Gopalakas and Citizens Forum filed a case before the High Court, seeking a stay to the manure unit. As the government had availed a loan from ADB for the purpose, it sought time of 10 years to close the unit,” Ramadass said. Complaint “In 2010, when I was district in-charge minister, people complained that the manure unit emanated stench. Thus, high-rise curtains were installed around the unit at a cost of Rs 87 lakh. Besides, over 7.5 lakh tonne garbage was used as landfill to plant 5,000 saplings. Now, they have grown into trees,” Ramdass said. Under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM), a solid waste management unit was planned for each of the 65 wards under Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and nine ‘Zero Waste Management’ units were established, to reduce the flow of garbage to Sewage Farm,” he pointed out. “For a permanent solution to the problems faced by the people in Vidyaranyapuram and surrounding areas, 110 acres of land was acquired at Rayanakere to establish a Zero Waste Management unit. However, as JNNURM funds were stopped in 2015, most of the units were either partially or completely closed. Again 500 to 600 tonnes of garbage started to reach the Sewage Farm every day, aggravating the problems of the people around Vidyaranyapuram. Since then, after processing of 200 tonne of garbage as manure, remaining 400 tonne of waste is piling up with each passing day. The accumulated garbage is now measured in lakhs of tonnes,” said Ramadass. Case pending Recalling his fast unto death protest in 2017, the ex-minister said that the district administration failed to keep its promise of shifting the unit to Rayanakere, as per High Court’s directions. “Thus, a complaint was filed before National Human Rights Commission, citing that the rights of the people around the Sewage Farm, were violated. A case was filed with Central Pollution Control Board and other case is pending before National Green tribunal. We have sought the closure of the unit on Sewage Farm by 2022,” he said. “As per the proposal now, five units of 200 tonne capacity each, with three processes, would be set up at Sewage Farm. Non-biodegradable items like stones, bricks and plastic have to be transported out of Sewage Farm. Besides, an additional 400 tonne manure plant will be established. Already, the stink of the existing 200 tonne manure plant is unbearable and is a health hazard. The huge capacity plants on the same premises will cause huge sufferings to the people,” Ramadass pointed out. The ex-minister has suggested that it is better to implement the plan on the already acquired 110 acres of land at Rayanakere, eight km away from the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shift-proposed-garbage-plant-to-city-s-outskirts-837314.html
13-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Thousands return to Hassan, dist admin worried||The number of people entering Hassan district is on the rise, after the government permitted the movement of people between the districts and states, leaving the district administration worried. It may be mentioned that Hassan has recorded nine covid positive cases as on May 13, and the district administration wants to keep its spread under control. Around 4,218 people have entered the district up to May 10, which includes 288 from other states and 3,930 from other districts.  They have gained entry through border villages Kirisave, Kothanapatta, Siddapura and Keralapura checkpost coming under Shravanabelagola hobli.  The returnees include those who had gone out on business, studies and to meet the relatives. Every person is subject to medical screening and quarantined. Thousands of people have registered their names to return to Hassan from Mumbai, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Gujarat and other places. More than 4,000 people have registered from Maharashtra alone. The authorities have identified government schools, hostels and residential schools for quarantine purpose. With more people returning from Bengaluru, the staff are collecting their address, mobile number. The Health department personnel are visiting every house to identify the number of people suffering from cold and fever, pregnant women and senior citizens. Despite lockdown in place, 3,514 people have visited the district in March and April and 65,000 people from other states. All were kept under quarantine and 57,000 people have completed their 14 days quarantine. With people returning in hordes to their native places in Hassan, the border has been strengthened and all details of those entering the district is being collected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/thousands-return-to-hassan-dist-admin-worried-837316.html
13-05-2020||National||Mamata Banerjee trying to shift blame on Centre to hide her own failures: BJP||The BJP on Tuesday hit out at West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for her comments that the lockdown was "poorly planned" and said she is trying to shift the blame on the Central government in order to "hide her own failures". West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said in order to "escape from the COVID mess that the chief minister herself has created, the health secretary was made the scapegoat. She has a habit of blaming the Centre for everything. This time too there is no difference." Ghosh claimed that the situation in Bengal would have been much better today had she followed and imposed the lockdown in a better way. His comments come in the backdrop of Banerjee on Monday terming the lockdown as "poorly planned" during a video conferencing the Prime Minister had with the chief ministers of all states. Ghosh claimed the removal of the health secretary proves that there was "something seriously wrong with the state's handling of the pandemic". "Earlier when questions were raised over the PDS system, the state had removed its food secretary, now when questions are being raised over the handling of the COVID-19 crisis, the health secretary has been shunted. This proves that the allegations were correct and the state government is now trying to clean the mess by using scapegoats," he said.  "All the decisions are taken after a nod by the chief minister, then how can she deny her responsibility?" Ghosh asked. Amid raging controversy over alleged mishandling of the COVID-19 crisis, Banerjee on Tuesday cracked the whip on Health Secretary Vivek Kumar by transferring him from the post, prompting the opposition to claim the removal only proves "something was seriously wrong". The state BJP president demanded that the state government should preserve the ashes of Hindu patients who died of COVID, so that their family members can conduct the last rites with the ashes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-trying-to-shift-blame-on-centre-to-hide-her-own-failures-bjp-836987.html
13-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 13, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-13-2020-edition-836998.html
13-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 13||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 77,892 as of May 13.     States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 2,516 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 23,386 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-13-836999.html
13-05-2020||National||DH Toon | To do or not to do: As govt watches with folded hands, migrant workers fend for themselves||Country disappointed by PM Modi's failure to address migrants' woes: Congress The Congress on Tuesday termed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address as one that gave the country a headline and said the nation is disappointed by his "failure" to address the woes of millions of migrants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-to-do-or-not-to-do-as-govt-watches-with-folded-hands-migrant-workers-fend-for-themselves-837001.html
13-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to address media at 4 pm today, give Rs 20 lakh crore economic package details||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will be addressing a press conference today (May 13, 2020) at 4 pm at National Media Centre. The finance minister will unveil the details of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package that was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 12.   The press conference will be telecast live by DD and ANI. It will be also live-streamed on Social Media platforms such as Twitter, YouTube, Facebook handles of Finance Ministry and PIB.Links shall be shared with all of you. In his address, PM spoke about being self-reliant in the 21st century and the COVID-19 crisis must be turned into an opportunity.   "When the crisis started then not even a single PPE kit was manufactured in India, only a few N95 masks were available. Today 2 Lakh PPE kits and 2 lakh N95 masks are manufactured in India," PM Modi said. He further said that India's self-reliance will be based on five pillars -- economy, infrastructure, technology-driven system, vibrant demography and supply-demand chain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-to-address-media-at-4-pm-today-give-rs-20-lakh-crore-economic-package-details-837049.html
13-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi gave headline, blank page: P Chidambaram on Rs 20 lakh crore financial package||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday mocked the prime minister's announcement of a Rs 20 lakh crore financial package as a "headline and blank page", and said he was looking forward to the finance minister filling the blank page. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced massive new financial incentives on top of the previously announced packages for a combined stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore. Chidambaram said he would count every additional rupee the government infuses into the economy and examine what the poor, hungry and devastated migrant workers get after walking hundreds of kilometres to their home states. "Yesterday, PM gave us a headline and a blank page. Naturally, my reaction was a blank! "Today, we look forward to the FM filling the blank page. We will carefully count every ADDITIONAL rupee that the government will actually infuse into the economy," he said on Twitter. Yesterday, PM gave us a headline and a blank page. Naturally, my reaction was a blank! Today, we look forward to the FM filling the blank page. We will carefully count every ADDITIONAL rupee that the government will actually infuse into the economy. The former finance minister said "We will also carefully examine who gets what?". "And the first thing we will look for is what the poor, hungry and devastated migrant workers can expect after they have walked hundreds of kilometres to their home states. "We will also examine what the bottom half of the population (13 crore families) will get in terms of REAL MONEY," he said in a series of tweets. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also slammed the prime minister's announcement. "Last night the Prime Minister did what comes to him best. Maximum packaging, Minimum meaning.It was a case of classic NAMO. No Action Message Only," he said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-gave-headline-blank-page-p-chidambaram-on-rs-20-lakh-crore-financial-package-837050.html
13-05-2020||National||Naidu welcomes special package announced by PM Modi||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday welcomed the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to revive the COVID-hit economy, saying it will go a long way in overcoming challenges posed by the pandemic. Prime Minister Modi on Tuesday announced massive new financial incentives on top of the previously announced packages for a combined stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore. "Bold reforms are the need of the hour to realise the dream of Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India)," Naidu wrote on Twitter. The vice president said he is sure that the "timely economic package will go long way in overcoming challenges posed by the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naidu-welcomes-special-package-announced-by-pm-modi-837051.html
13-05-2020||National||Rajya Sabha dominated by Opposition but wrong to call Upper House 'obstructionist': Naidu||Opposition has dominated Rajya Sabha in the 39 of its 68 years of existence but no case can be made against the Upper House of being "obstructionist" in lawmaking, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said on Wednesday as he cited controversial laws clearing the hurdle despite the Narendra Modi government being a minority in the Upper House. His remarks came in a Facebook post on the occasion of the 68th anniversary of the first sitting of the Rajya Sabha on May 13, 1952, even as several government functionaries accuse the Opposition of using its numbers in the Upper House to stall legislation. He said the mode of election and tenures of Rajya Sabha could lead to a situation where the government of the day having majority in the Lok Sabha as required and not having the numbers in Rajya Sabha. "During the last 68 years, the Governments of the day had majority in the Rajya Sabha only for 29 years and were in minority for 39 years including at a stretch for the last 31 years since 1989. The first time that the Government of the day fell into minority was during 1968-70. Did this shortage of numbers in the second chamber for the Governments affect the legislation?" he asked. He said several major bills, including Goods and Service Tax, Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, Triple Talaq, Reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir, amending Citizenship Act, were passed during the Modi government's tenure though it does not have majority in the Rajya Sabha. "This suggests that no case can be made against the Rajya Sabha as being obstructionist in lawmaking. But other concerns have emerged over time," he said while giving details of other instances too when the government managed to pass legislation despite not having numbers in the Upper House. Since its first sitting, Naidu said, Rajya Sabha held 5,472 sittings and passed as many as 3,857 Bills till the Budget session this year and the time spent by the Rajya Sabha on legislation remained at 29% of the total functional time of the House irrespective of it’s composition. "Three joint sittings of both the Houses had to be held in 1961, 1978 and 2002 when Rajya Sabha rejected the Dowry Prohibition Bill, 1959, the Banking Services Commission Bill, 1977 and the Prevention of Terrorism Bill, 2002. The then government had majority in the Rajya Sabha in 1959. Rajya Sabha also differed with the Lok Sabha in respect of other Bills including abolition of privy purses to former rulers in 1970, empowering Panchayats and Municipalities in 1989 etc but they were enacted later," he said. While noting that the Upper House also delayed passing of several Bills after they were cleared by the Lok Sabha and if these amounted to checking ‘hasty legislation’, he said the Rajya Sabha also passed five Constitution Amendment Bills in a single day on 25 August, 1994 when the then Government did not have the numbers. Naidu said disruptions and sliding productivity of the Rajya Sabha has emerged as a "major concern over the last 23 years". The functional productivity of the Rajya Sabha has been broadly about 100% till 1997 but this fell to 87% during 1998-2004, to 76% during 2005-14 and to 61% during 2015-19. "Of the 43 years since 1978, annual productivity of the Rajya Sabha has been 100% or more only during 12 years. This includes such good performance over a stretch of 11 years during 1980-90. During the 29 years since 1991, annual productivity of 100% has been recorded only in 1992. The lowest annual productivity of 38.63% was recorded in 2018," he added. If the perception is that political consideration form the basis of rising disruption, he said, it needs to be addressed by all the stakeholders including all sections of the Rajya Sabha. "The line between obstruction and disruption is very thin and need to be put aside," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-dominated-by-opposition-but-wrong-to-call-upper-house-obstructionist-naidu-837079.html
13-05-2020||National||AICTE directs pvt engineering colleges, tech institutes to pay salaries to faculty on time||The All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) has directed private engineering colleges and other technical institutions to pay salaries to their faculty and staff on time during the COVID-19 lockdown. The directive by the technical education regulator comes after it received complaints about certain institutions not paying salaries for even the months of February and March. "We have been receiving complaints that some of the institutions have not paid the salary to teaching and non-teaching staff for the month of March and in some cases even February. Kindly note that this is a national emergency as whole country is under lockdown due to COVID-19 and non-payment of salaries to staff will lead to great stress and even starvation of families," AICTE Chairman Anil Sahasrabudhe said in a letter to all approved colleges. "You are requested to ensure that faculty members and staff are paid salaries on time," he added. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the central government announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. Later, a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which was extended till May 17. The AICTE had last month warned engineering colleges and other technical institutions against forcing students to pay fees and non payment of salaries to staff during the lockdown and directed withdrawal of any terminations made during the period.  The warning came following complaints to the HRD Ministry's technical education regulator about colleges insisting on fees, not paying salaries and terminating staff during lockdown. "It has come to knowledge of AICTE that certain stand alone institutions are insisting that students should pay the fees, including admission fees, during the lockdown. "It is clarified that colleges and institutions should not insist on payment of fees till the ongoing lockdown is lifted and normalcy is restored," AICTE, Member secretary, Rajiv Kumar had said in an advisory to colleges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aicte-directs-pvt-engineering-colleges-tech-institutes-to-pay-salaries-to-faculty-on-time-837099.html
13-05-2020||National||Vande Bharat: India to operate seven special flights to Australia to bring back stranded Indians||India will operate seven special flights starting May 21 to bring back Indians stranded in Australia due to the coronavirus travel restrictions, the Indian High Commission in Canberra announced on Wednesday. In an official notification, the High Commission confirmed that special Air India flights will repatriate Indians under the government's 'Vande Bharat Mission'. ''In the first phase of this Mission, Air India will operate the following special flights from Australia to various cities in India from May 21st to 28th 2020,'' the notification said. It said that as the seats were limited, passengers with the most compelling cases were being given priority. If the shortlisted passenger failed to purchase the tickets within 24 hours of intimation by the mission, it would then be allotted to the next passenger on the waiting list. The travel cost would be borne by the passengers and the High Commission would intimate by email the shortlisted passengers for the flights. All passengers would be required to undergo medical screening at the time of boarding the flight and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to travel, the notification said. All passengers on arrival in India will be medically screened and will need to undergo a 14-day mandatory quarantine in isolation facilities as per the protocols framed by the Indian government. In addition, if needed, COVID test may be required to be done after 14 days and further action would be taken according to applicable health protocols.  Apart from this, travellers have also been mandated to sign and submit an “undertaking cum identity bond” before boarding, confirming their readiness to follow instructions of the relevant authorities and their consent to be repatriated. IT professional Varun Malik from Brisbane, who has registered himself with the mission, said he was desperately waiting to secure a seat so that he can reunite with his family and take care of his parents who were not in good health. He said that hundreds of Indians were currently lined up to go back home following the COVID-19 crisis. The Indian community in Australia is comprised of nearly seven lakh people. India is one of the top sources of skilled immigrants to Australia. Approximately 90,000 students are studying in Australian universities. Australia's coronavirus cases stand at 6,972 with 98 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vande-bharat-india-to-operate-seven-special-flights-to-australia-to-bring-back-stranded-indians-837111.html
13-05-2020||National||Patient admitted for a month tests COVID-19 positive in Srinagar hospital||A female patient admitted at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar for treatment of a gastroenterological ailment for almost a month has tested positive for COVID-19, forcing hospital administration to send at least 40 healthcare staff into quarantine. The 40-year old woman from south Kashmir’s Anantnag district was admitted to the gastroenterology ward of the SKIMS for one month for pancreatitis.  Dr. Farooq Jan, medical superintendent of the SKIMS said the sample of the patient had been taken as routine as she had to undergo a surgical procedure. “The patient was critical and sick all this while,” he said. As soon as the patient tested positive for novel coronavirus, hospital authorities quarantined 40 healthcare staff, including 12 doctors. “Exposure to infection forced us to initiate containment measures. About 40 people who had worked in the ward were put under quarantine. Half of these are under home quarantine while the rest are in administrative quarantine,” he said.  This is the third tertiary care hospital that has landed in a crisis due to “normal patients” testing positive for COVID-19. Last week, the staff at Super Specialty Hospital was put under quarantine after at least five staff members tested positive. Six patients have tested positive at Bone and Joint Hospital as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/patient-admitted-for-a-month-tests-covid-19-positive-in-srinagar-hospital-837113.html
13-05-2020||National||30,000 Indians will return from 31 countries on 149 flights under phase 2 of Vande Bharat Mission: Puri||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday that 30,000 Indians will return from 31 countries on 149 flights between May 16 and 22, the duration for the second phase of the Vande Bharat Mission. During the first phase of the Vande Bharat mission, Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express are scheduled to operate a total 64 flights between May 7 and May 14 to bring 14,800 Indians from 12 countries on a payment basis. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected more than 74,200 people and killed around 2,400 people in the country till now. All scheduled commercial passenger flights have been suspended for the lockdown period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/30000-indians-will-return-from-31-countries-on-149-flights-under-phase-2-of-vande-bharat-mission-puri-837119.html
13-05-2020||National||Lockdown hit: 84% of Indian households record dip in their income||In an alarming number, the lockdown to battle coronavirus has reduced the income of 84% Indian households, with 34% of them starring at poverty like situation in a week's time. According to the new data set to put out by the Rustandy Centre for Social Sector Innovation, in collaboration with the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, the worst-hit categories are the household with per capita income ranging between Rs 3,801 per month and Rs 8,142 per month.  As many as 92.7% of the households with per capita monthly incomes between Rs 5,914 and Rs 8,142 have seen a loss in the income.  For the households who have per capita monthly income between Rs 3,801 and Rs 5,914, 91.6% of the households have seen their incomes dip. The least affected category has been the households with monthly per capita income ranging between Rs 12,374 and Rs 1.02 lakh -- with only 66.3% of the households reporting dip in the income. Rural households have been disproportionately negatively impacted due to the lockdown. About 88% of rural households report a fall in income under the lockdown, compared to 75% of urban households. This pattern is driven both by exceptionally high losses among the middle three quintiles of rural households as well as relatively higher losses among the highest income quintile among rural households, the paper said. Shockingly in the per capita income group of Rs 12,374 and Rs 1.02 lakh, rural households have seen a high dip of 81.3% in the incomes, compared with just 54.7% in the urban areas.  Poverty to rise The situation which may be akin to poverty will arise soon, as 34% of all households report being able to survive for no more than one week without additional assistance. Given the low baseline wealth of many households, a very large share of Indian households state that they will be unable to continue — even over relatively short periods — without additional assistance, the report said.   "We find a sharp and broad negative impact on household income — with nearly 84% of Indian households reporting decreases in income since the lockdown. Further, households have limited ability to cope with the current economic climate — only 66 percent of households report currently having the resources to go on for more than another week," Kaushik Krishnan, Chief Economist at CMIE and one of the authors of the paper told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-hit-84-of-indian-households-record-dip-in-their-income-837128.html
13-05-2020||National||Recognise media as integral part of governance structure: Editors Guild to govt, police||Condemning the police action against an editor of a Gujarati portal and a reporter of an English newspaper, the Editors Guild of India on Wednesday (May 13) asked the government and police to recognise that media is an "integral part" of the governance structure in any democracy. It said it was concerned about the growing pattern of misuse of criminal laws to "intimidate" journalists in different parts of the country. Referring to the slapping of sedition charges on Gujarati news portal 'Face of Nation' editor Dhaval Patel for publishing a report that Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani could be changed over COVID-19 handling, it said this was a "misuse" of special laws like Disaster Management Act, sedition and Indian Penal Code. Rupani has been facing criticism over his handling of the coronavirus situation and the report suggested that the central BJP leadership was unhappy the way the situation evolving in Gujarat. The second instance of "egregious and high-handed action" has come from Delhi Police, the Editors Guild said referring to the notice sent to Indian Express reporter Mahender Singh Manral and City Editor for reporting about the probe possibly finding out that the audio clip of Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad has been doctored. Manral and the City Editor were asked to join the probe on May 10. "While Manral was not charged under any law, he was threatened that failure to join the probe could result in legal action under Section 174 of the IPC with punishment of a prison term and fine. This appears to be a little more than a fishing expedition to try and extract the journalist's source and, thus, warn other reporters," the statement said.  Recently, government think-tank Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) has withdrawn a manual on identifying and investigating fake news from its website after it had depicted the audio clip of Tablighi Jamaat chief as fake news.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/recognise-media-as-integral-part-of-governance-structure-editors-guild-to-govt-police-837165.html
13-05-2020||National||Passengers now prefer hygiene, sanitisation to on time travel: Survey||In times of COVID-19, factors such as hygiene, sanitisation and social distancing have toppled ‘on time’ travel as the top priority among frequent travellers. According to a survey conducted by ‘IntrCity RailYatri’, an inter-city mobility network, a whopping 71% of the 20,000 respondents indicated that they would drop plans for leisure travel, including those to mark festive occasions. ‘On time’ travel, which used to be the top priority among travellers, has been pushed to the fifth position after hygiene and sanitisation, social distancing, comfort and ticket cost. The survey also found that over 31% respondents were stuck in wrong cities due to the lockdown and the top priority for them was to get home immediately. A surprisingly large (38%) travellers displayed a high level of optimism regarding the return to normalcy. Around 35% were unsure and 25% of the participants believe that it will be a while before life goes back to the way it was. The survey is a compilation of responses and sentiments of users across the Metros, Tier-1, and Tier-2 cities of India. It was conducted between April 15 and May 7 among travellers in the age group of 18 years to 52 years. The findings highlight that bus and train travellers were optimistic of travel in next three months as opposed to domestic air travellers. As many as 59% respondents said they would switch to online ticket bookings for bus travel to adhere to social distancing norms, dealing a huge blow to last-minute sales by agents and touts at popular boarding points. “The survey has brought forward some very interesting insights in the decision-making pattern of customers in a post-COVID-19 market. Our intention behind this activity was to gain deeper insights into the evolving mindset of the inter-city traveller,” Kapil Raizada, Co-Founder, IntrCity said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/passengers-now-prefer-hygiene-sanitisation-to-on-time-travel-survey-837173.html
13-05-2020||National||Seven-year-old raped inside quarantine centre in UP||In a shocking incident, a seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a youth inside a quarantine centre in Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur district, about 300 kilometres from Lucknow. According to the police sources, the alleged culprit, who was a migrant worker and had arrived in Gorakhpur from Delhi a few days back, had been quarantined at a primary school in Belghat in the district. The youth lured the victim, who was a shepherdess and was grazing goats nearby, into the school on the pretext of giving her toffee and allegedly raped her after taking her at a secluded spot inside the school premises. Some passers-by, who rushed to the spot on hearing the cries of the victim, managed to nab the youth. Sources said that the local villagers thrashed the youth badly and he was later rescued by the police and was admitted to the hospital. The victim was sent for medical examination, sources added. A case was registered in this regard, police said.  It was not clear if the youth had been tested for coronavirus infection. There were many migrant workers at the quarantine centre, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-year-old-raped-inside-quarantine-centre-in-up-837190.html
13-05-2020||National||Indian Army considering proposal to allow civilians in force for 3 years||The Indian Army is examining a proposal for allowing civilians to join the force for a three-year tenure, officials said. At present, the Army recruits young people under short service commission for an initial tenure of 10 years. "The Army is considering a proposal to allow civilians to join the force for a period of three years," an Army spokesperson said in reply to a query. The Army has been making various efforts to attract talented young people to join it. Sources said the proposal is part of broad efforts to bring in reform in the 1.3- million-strong Army. They said the broad contours of the proposal are yet to be finalised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-considering-proposal-to-allow-civilians-in-force-for-3-years-837199.html
13-05-2020||National||Air India to run domestic flights from May 19 to June 2 for stranded passengers: Report||The flights are expected to connect major cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Kochi, Jaipur etc. the report said. According to the report, senior Air India officials are considering this as part of Air India’s ongoing evacuation operations. This will be the second phase of the operations where domestic passengers can also be included. In the first phase of the 'Operation Vande Bharat- A homecoming', India started evacuating stranded Indians from abroad by including countries like Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Russia, Germany, Spain and Thailand. Seven Air India routes were organised by the Indian government from London's Heathrow Airport to six Indian cities – Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Chennai and New Delhi. Around 250 Indian students and tourists stranded in the UK due to the coronavirus lockdown for nearly two months are preparing boarded the first repatriation flight from London to Mumbai on May 8. The resumption of Air India’s domestic flight services is on the lines of the train services being started by the Indian railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-to-run-domestic-flights-from-may-19-to-june-2-for-stranded-passengers-report-837202.html
13-05-2020||National||Kerala hikes liquor tax by 35%; virtual queue to avoid crowd at outlets||While toddy sales resumed in Kerala from Wednesday, the state government has decided to hike the tax on liquor prices by 35 percent and beer and wine by 10 percent. In order to avoid crowding at liquor outlets, the state government is also planning to introduce a virtual queue system at the 300 odd retail liquor outlets as well as to allow bars to sell liquor in bottles. The state government is yet to decide the date for resuming liquor sales. Only toddy sales were allowed through around 3,500 toddy shops across the state from Wednesday. Customers were not allowed to consume liquor at the shops but could only take in the parcel. Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac said that there would be an additional revenue of up to Rs. 2,000 crore from the tax hike if there was no dip in liquor sale compared to the previous years. At present the annual revenue from excise is around Rs. 2,500 crore  The present tax on IMFL is from 200 to 210 percent and for beer and wine it is 70 percent and 100 percent respectively.  Kerala State Beverages Corporation managing director Sparjan Kumar said that the Kerala Startup Mission would be identifying a startup firm for setting up the virtual queue system. Customers would be able to take tokens for purchasing liquor using an online application as per the proposed plan, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-hikes-liquor-tax-by-35-virtual-queue-to-avoid-crowd-at-outlets-837213.html
13-05-2020||National||First woman among seven COVID-19 deaths in Bihar||Bihar on Wednesday (May 13) recorded the seventh death of a COVID-19 patient, - the first woman who reportedly passed away due to coronavirus while undergoing treatment at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in the state capital, Patna. The coronavirus positive cases in Bihar has, meanwhile, increased to 908. The sharp increase in positive cases has been attributed to 130 new patients on Tuesday. “Of these 130 new cases, 124 are migrants who have come to Bihar from different states and used different modes of transport,” said a senior official of the Health Department. Meanwhile, the latest victim belonged to the Alamganj area of the State capital. She is the second person in Patna who died of coronavirus since March. The first death took place on March 22  when a Munger-based patient died in Patna while undergoing treatment here.  In the meantime, the Bihar government issued orders for closure of the Home Department office in Patna for three days after an assistant came in contact with a COVID-19 patient. The office will reopen after 72 hours. In the meantime, it will be sanitised properly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-woman-among-seven-covid-19-deaths-in-bihar-837214.html
13-05-2020||National||Real estate projects gets six months more time to complete||The Centre on Wednesday said it will advise the states and union territories to gave six months more time to real estate projects registered under RERA for completion, which had a deadline to complete the project on March 25 or later. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced this considering possible delay in the return of migrant workers who have headed or are heading home. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs will advise states/UTs and their regulatory authorities to treat Covid-19 as an event of 'Force Majeure' (Act of God) under RERA, (Real Estate Regulatory Authority). An extension has been given to the registration and completion date suo-moto by 6 months for all registered projects expiring on or after March 25, 2020, withoutindividual applications. Regulatory Authorities may extend this for another period of upto 3 months if needed, she said.  The Minister said the authorities are free to issue fresh 'Project Registration Certificates' automatically with revised timelines. They can also extend timelines for various statuary compliances under RERA concurrently, she said. "These measures will de-stress real estate developers and ensure completion of projects so that homebuyers are able to get delivery of their booked houses with new timelines," the government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/real-estate-projects-gets-six-months-more-time-to-complete-837227.html
13-05-2020||National||Use gold lying with trusts, says Prithviraj Chavan||As India reel under Covid-19 pandemic and stares at a big economic crisis, veteran Congressman Prithviraj Chavan on Wednesday suggested using the huge quantity of gold lying with religious trusts. Chavan, a former Maharashtra Chief Minister and ex-Minister of State in PMO,  said that the gold should be put to use to tide over the crisis. I am extremely happy that Dr. Manmohan Singh is back home and is safe. I wish him best of health. In the current economic crisis, the country needs his sound advice eversomore. PC "#Stimulus.@PMOIndia... government must immediately appropriate all the gold lying with all the religious trusts in the country, worth at least $1 trillion, according to the #WorldGoldCouncil. The gold can be borrowed through gold bonds at a low interest rate. This is an emergency," he tweeted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The technocrat-political also pointed out that when he says religious trust,  it is cutting across religion. He said the figure that he quotes is from the World Gold Council. "It is about Rs 75,000 lakh crore," he said,  adding that when the country needs,  it should be used. Chavan said that a gold bond scheme could be issued. "During the wars that India has seen,  people have come out at given gold to the government.... we can have a scheme and some small interest could be given," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/use-gold-lying-with-trusts-says-prithviraj-chavan-837228.html
13-05-2020||National||149 flights to evacuate 30,000 stranded Indians, 17 flights Karnataka-bound||Centre on Wednesday unveiled plans to evacuate 30,000 stranded Indians from 31 countries from May 16-22 on 149 flights, 16 of which will land in Bengaluru and one in Mangaluru. The second phase of the ‘Vande Bharat’ mission will also include 30 connecting flights on domestic routes to ferry passengers from cities such as Vishakapatnam, Jaipur, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad to onward destinations. “In 1st phase of Vande Bharat we were to bring back 14,800 Indians on 64 flights. 8,500 Indians have already returned till this (Wednesday) morning. More flights are underway. In the 2nd phase, the numbers are being doubled. 30,000 more Indians will return from 31 countries on 149 flights,” Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said. As per the plans drawn up, Indians stranded in Melbourne, Vancouver, Toronto, Paris, Frankfurt, Dublin, Jakarta, Washington, San Francisco, New York, Dammam, Manila, Kuala Lumpur, Dubai, Muscat and Doha would be able to fly directly into Bengaluru. One flight will operate between Dubai and Mangaluru. In the Phase-II, 31 flights will come to Kerala, 22 to Delhi, 17 to Karnataka, 16 to Telangana, 14 to Gujarat, 13 to Rajasthan, nine to Andhra Pradesh, seven to Punjab, six each to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, three to Odisha, two to Chandigarh, and one each to Jammu and Kashmir, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Out of the 149 flights under Vande Bharat-II, 13 flights will come from the US, 11 from the UAE, 10 from Canada, nine each from Saudi Arabia and the UK, eight each from Malaysia and Oman, seven each from Kazakhstan and Australia. “Phase-2 of Vande Bharat from 16-22 May will also include flights from Armenia, Australia, Belarus, Canada, France, Georgia, Germany, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Nepal, Nigeria, Russia, Tajikistan, Thailand & Ukraine,” Puri said.  Six flights each will come from Ukraine, Qatar, Indonesia and Russia, five from the Philippines, four each from France, Singapore, Ireland and Kyrgyzstan, three each from Kuwait and Japan, two each from Georgia, Germany, Tajikistan, Bahrain and Armenia, and one each from Thailand, Italy, Nepal, Belarus, Nigeria, and Bangladesh. During the first phase of the Vande Bharat mission, Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express are scheduled to operate a total 64 flights between May 7 and May 14 to bring 14,800 Indians from 12 countries on a payment basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/149-flights-to-evacuate-30000-stranded-indians-17-flights-karnataka-bound-837229.html
13-05-2020||National||Centre’s special package is a big zero: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday dubbed the Centre’s special economic package as a “big zero.” She said that there is nothing in it for states. Addressing media persons at the state secretariat she alleged that it was an attempt to hoodwink the people during such a crisis. “It is a big zero. The people of the country hoped from yesterday’s speech that the states will get some aid with regard to MSMEs, curbing COVID-19 infection, health infrastructure. Ultimately it turned out to be a big zero. They have given nothing to the states,” said Banerjee. The Chief Minister accused the Centre of trying to bulldoze the federal structure in the name of cooperating federalism adding that her government has not received a penny. “How will the function of the state. The centre is bulldozing the federal structure and in the name of cooperating federalism is snatching the rights of state governments.  We condemn it. This is unbecoming of a democracy,” said Banerjee.  She said that the Centre has started deducting the dearness allowance and some state governments are unable to pay full salaries to their employees. “ We have not been given a penny. There is no earning and only burning,” said Banerjee. She further alleged that the Centre usually allots Rs. 14 lakh crore for MSMEs but now they have reduced it to Rs. 3 lakh crore under the guise of special economic package. “We give Rs. 90,000 crore to MSME’s in Bengal and in the country MSME usually gets Rs. 15 lakh crore. They have reduced it to Rs. 3 lakh crore,” said Banerjee. She said that her earlier appeal to the Centre for a special package amounting to six per cent of the country’s GDP be announced has fallen to deaf ears and instead a “big zero” was given.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-s-special-package-is-a-big-zero-mamata-banerjee-837232.html
13-05-2020||National||Rail Bhavan closed for two days after CRPF staffer tests Covid-19 positive||Rail Bhavan, the headquarters of the Indian Railways will be closed for two days after a Railway Protection Force ( RPF ) staffer tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. According to an order issued on Wednesday, the building, which houses the Railway Board, will be shut on May 14 and 15 and intensive sanitisation of all the rooms and common areas will be done. The employee, working as a clerk in RPF Director-General Arun Kumar's office on the fourth floor of Rail Bhavan, was in quarantine since May 6. Earlier Sharma Shakthi Bhavan housed Ministry of Labour and Water Resources and two Floor in Shastri Bhavan were sealed after few employees tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rail-bhavan-closed-for-two-days-after-crpf-staffer-tests-covid-19-positive-837236.html
13-05-2020||National||SC allows Karti Chidambaram to withdraw Rs 10 cr deposited for travelling abroad||The Supreme Court Wednesday allowed Congress MP Karti Chidambaram to withdraw Rs 10 crore which was deposited with the apex court registry as a condition for allowing him to travel abroad. The top court had on February 14 allowed Karti, who is facing criminal cases being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the CBI, to travel to the UK and France for attending a tennis tournament subject to the Rs 10 crore deposit. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justice L Nageswara Rao took up his application through video conferencing and allowed him to withdraw the amount. “We have heard learned counsel appearing for both sides. The instant application for withdrawal of the amount in question is allowed,” the bench said. On February 14, the top court while taking note of the previous orders allowing Karti to travel abroad, had allowed him to travel to the United Kingdom and France between February 14 and March 1, 2020. It had said that Karti will have to appear before the investigating authorities in connection with the investigation in INX Media Case and Aircel-Maxis case on such dates as may be fixed by the ED excluding the travelling period, and will cooperate with the investigating agencies in every manner. It had warned that any absence of full cooperation on the dates of the investigation will be viewed very seriously by the Court and appropriate orders will be passed, if required. The top court had imposed several conditions on Karti like he was to give an undertaking, flight details and date of arrivals and upon furnishing the undertaking he was to be handed over his passport, which is in custody of ED. Karti was also asked by the top court, to not open or close any bank accounts overseas and shall not enter into any kind of property transactions. On January 17, the top court had allowed the similar application of Karti allowing him to withdraw the Rs 20 crore which was deposited with the apex court registry as a condition for allowing him to travel abroad. The apex court had in January and May 2019 granted Karti permission to travel to foreign countries after depositing Rs 10 crore each respectively with the registry. The probe agency had earlier opposed Karti's plea seeking permission to travel abroad and alleged that he has been evasive, non-cooperative and caused delay in completing the investigations. The ED had earlier claimed that Karti has been "blatantly misusing" the liberty granted by the court in allowing him to travel abroad and has been using the same to protract the investigation in the case. Karti is facing several criminal cases being investigated by the ED and the CBI including one which relates to the Foreign Investment Promotion Board clearance to INX Media for receiving foreign funds of Rs 305 crore when his father P Chidambaram was the finance minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-karti-chidambaram-to-withdraw-rs-10-cr-deposited-for-travelling-abroad-837237.html
13-05-2020||National||NIA declares Rs 3L reward on accused in Al-Hind ISIS Bengaluru Module case||The NIA on Wednesday declared a cash reward of Rs 3 lakh for providing information leading to the arrest of absconding accused Abdul Matheen in the Al-Hind ISIS Bengaluru module case, an official said. Matheen, 26, a resident of Karnataka’s Shimoga, is wanted in the case registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), the premier investigation agency said. The case relates to the formation of an ISIS-inspired terror group by Mehboob Pasha along with Khaja Moideen and his associates who were involved in the killing of a Hindu leader in Tamil Nadu, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said. Pasha conducted several meetings in 2019 at his residence in Guruppanapalya, Bengaluru to hatch the conspiracy by radicalising and recruiting others to carry out terror activities and join ISIS in Afghanistan/Syria, it said. Twelve accused — Pasha, Imran, Mohammed Haneef Khan, Mohammed Mansoor Ali Khan, Saleem Khan, Hussain Sharieff, Ejaz Pasha, Zabiulla, Syed Azmathulla, Syed Fasiur Rehman, Mohammed Zaid and Sadiq Basha — have been arrested in the case so far. Matheen is a friend of Saleem and Zaid, through whom he contacted Pasha of Al-Hind Trust, Bangaluru and was also associated with his online foreign handler, the NIA said. A cash reward of Rs 3,00,000 has been declared by the NIA for providing information leading to the arrest of Matheen, the agency added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-declares-rs-3l-reward-on-accused-in-al-hind-isis-bengaluru-module-case-837246.html
13-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Four Indian companies sign pacts to manufacture Remdivisir||Four Indian and one Pakistani drug-making companies have signed agreements with pharmaceutical major Gilead for manufacturing its experimental medicine Remdesivir that has shown promise against COVID-19 in a few trials. The multinational company has signed non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreements with Cipla, Hetero Labs, Jubilant Life Sciences, Mylan and Ferozsons Laboratories to manufacture Remdesivir for distribution in 127 countries. The destination countries consisted of nearly all low-income and lower-middle-income countries, as well as several upper-middle and high-income countries that faced significant obstacles to healthcare access, the company said in a statement. The anti-viral drug – originally developed for Ebola patients - is one of the several experimental medicines that are being tried against the pandemic virus. Some of the trials have yielded success.  For instance in one of the early trials when people hospitalised with severe COVID-19 infection were treated with this medicine, clinical improvement was observed in 68% of patients (36 of 53 individuals). But another randomised trial suggests the antiviral drug is not associated with significant clinical benefits and more research is needed. Trial with Remdisivir is one of the arms of the World Health Organisation’s Solidarity trial in which India is participating. Under the licensing agreements, Gilead will transfer the technology to the companies to enable them to scale up production more quickly. The licensees can set their own prices for the generic product they produce. The licenses are royalty-free until the World Health Organization declares the end of the COVID-19 pandemic or until a pharmaceutical product other than Remdesivir or a vaccine is approved to treat or prevent the COVID-19, the company said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-four-indian-companies-sign-pacts-to-manufacture-remdivisir-837249.html
13-05-2020||National||Economic package will help businesses, especially MSMEs: PM Modi||The series of measures announced on Wednesday by the government to boost the economy hit by the coronavirus lockdown will enhance liquidity, empower entrepreneurs and strengthen their competitive spirit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. He also said the announcements made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will go a long way in addressing issues faced by businesses, especially Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). "The steps announced will boost liquidity, empower the entrepreneurs and strengthen their competitive spirit," the prime minister wrote on Twitter.  Seeking to boost the COVID-hit economy, Sitharaman announced Rs 3-lakh crore collateral-free automatic loan for businesses, including MSMEs. This will benefit 45 lakh small businesses, she said, detailing parts of the Rs 20-lakh crore economic stimulus.  "Today's announcements by FM @nsitharaman will go a long way in addressing issues faced by businesses, especially MSMEs," Modi said. The announcements by the finance minister came a day after Prime Minister Modi introduced massive new financial incentives on top of the previously announced packages for a combined stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/economic-package-will-help-businesses-especially-msmes-pm-modi-837256.html
13-05-2020||National||14 health establishments designated to review proposals for COVID-19 testing labs||With the aim of scaling up coronavirus testing facilities, the Union Health ministry has designated 14 health establishments such as AIIMS, New Delhi, PGIMER in Chandigarh and JIPMER, Puducherry to review proposals for approving any new laboratory for COVID-19 testing in different states.  Amid a spurt in cases of coronavirus infections in India, the ICMR has taken into account the need to expand COVID-19 testing facilities in all parts of the country and has initiated a proactive search of potential laboratories which could be enabled for COVID-19 testing, a senior official said.   "These institutions are expected to serve as mentors and facilitate the establishment of COVID-19 testing facilities in respective states.  "They will review the proposals from private and government medical colleges as well as other central government institutions belonging to Department of Biotechnology, Department of Science and Technology, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)and Defence Research and Development Organisation among others," a senior scientist at the ICMR said, According to the officials, the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Delhi will do a comprehensive review of requests for approving any new laboratory for COVID testing from Delhi and Bihar, while Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh will do so for Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh and Uttarkhand. The North-Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health & Medical Science (NEIGRIHMS), Shillong will assess all proposals from Assam, Megahlaya, Sikkim, Tripura, Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland.   The AIIMS, Nagpur has been allocated Maharashtra (except Mumbai and Pune) and Goa, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu. The AIIMS in Jodhpur has been assigned Rajasthsan and Gujarat, King George Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow has been assigned Uttar Pradesh and  AIIMS Bhopal has been allocated Madhya Pradesh among others.    The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,415 and the number of cases climbed to 74,281 on Wednesday, registering an increase of 122 deaths and 3,525 cases in the last 24 hours since Tuesday 8 am, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-health-establishments-designated-to-review-proposals-for-covid-19-testing-labs-837261.html
13-05-2020||National||Vande Bharat Phase 2: 16 flights to land at KIA||The second phase of the Vande Bharat Mission evacuation flights will see at least 16 flights land at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) here from May 16 to 22. The Ministry of Civil Aviation has announced that the second phase will operate simultaneously with the ongoing first phase flights.  Indians stranded in the United States could hop onto the scheduled repatriation flights from Washington DC, JFK New York and San Francisco to arrive at KIA. The flight from Washington will continue till Ahmedabad while the one from San Francisco will take flyers up to Hyderabad.  For those stuck in Canada, the Air India flights will take off from Vancouver and Toronto. Both flights will terminate in Hyderabad after dropping off passengers at KIA. Also on the second phase agenda are flights to KIA from Melbourne, Paris, Jakarta, Dhamam, Manila, Muscat, Kuala Lumpur, Doha, Frankfurt and Dublin.  All arriving passengers are required to undergo institutional quarantine for 14 days at their cost. Five and three-star hotels and resorts and budget hotels have been arranged by the government. Over 360 passengers who landed by the first phase flights from London and Singapore are already in quarantine.   Hygiene boost at KIA  To boost safety of both arriving and departing passengers, the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) has meanwhile upgraded its social distancing, thermal screening, sanitisation and disinfection tunnels at KIA. The Terminal is fumigated and contactless F&B experience introduced.  Social distancing has been enforced across the parking areas besides at security checkpoints. “Efforts are underway to minimise wait time and avoid crowding at the kerb. Employees will undergo regular screening both at the beginning and end of shifts,” a BIAL spokesperson said.  Passengers are encouraged to use online check-in and bring an electronic or printed boarding pass to avoid contact with high-touch surfaces and queues at check-in counters. They could also print boarding passes at the Departure Gates or inside the Terminal. “The Aarogya Setu app is now mandatory for passengers to download before they enter the Terminal.” Hand sanitisers are placed at nearly 500 locations across the Terminal. “The 155,000 sqm Terminal, Airside and Landside infrastructure have undergone multiple rounds of deep cleaning and sanitisation. Disinfectant is sprayed every four hours at Immigration counters, elevators, lounges, ancillary buildings, office spaces of various departments at the Terminal, apart from manual cleaning. The CISF Barracks, located at the Airport premises, are disinfected every 12 hours, BIAL informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vande-bharat-phase-2-16-flights-to-land-at-kia-837262.html
13-05-2020||National||India ramps up coronavirus testing to one lakh samples per day||India has ramped up its Covid-19 testing capacity and is in a position to test one lakh samples every day through its network of state-run and private laboratories. Health Minister Harshvardhan, during a video conference with Punjab Health Minister B S Sidhu, said India had tested 18.54 lakh samples for Covid-19 as on Wednesday morning and had achieved the capacity to test one lakh samples every day. On Tuesday, India had tested 94,708 samples in a single day through its network of 352 state-run and 140 private laboratories. Harshvardhan’s remarks came on a day confirmed Covid-19 cases shot up by 3,525 to 74,281 on Wednesday morning and death toll touched 2,415, an increase of 122 in a single day. A DH Covid-19 Tracker put the confirmed cases at 75,684 and the death toll at 2,445 at 7:30 p.m. on Wednesday.  In Punjab, of the 1,914 confirmed Covid-19 cases, 1,225 are persons who returned from Nanded Huzoor Sahib gurdwara in Maharashtra. A total of 4,216 persons had returned from the town in Maharashtra. Harshvardhan asked the state government to keep up the vigil on 20,521 migrant workers returning to the state. Across the country, in the past 14 days, the number of cases have doubled every 11 days, and improved to 12.6 in the past three days. The fatality rate is 3.2%, and recovery rate 32.8%, which is better than the many other Covid-19-hit countries. The global fatality rate is around 7-7.5%.  As of Tuesday, 2.75% of active Covid-19 patients were undergoing treatment in intensive care units (ICUs), 0.37% patients were critical and on ventilators, and 1.89% were on oxygen support. The minister said nine states/UTs – Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Goa, Chhattisgarh, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram – have not reported any cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. Also, Daman and Diu, Sikkim, Nagaland and Lakshadweep have not reported any cases till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ramps-up-coronavirus-testing-to-one-lakh-samples-per-day-837269.html
13-05-2020||National||COVID-19 pandemic to impact study abroad plans of over 48% Indian students: QS Report||The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted decision of over 48 per cent Indian students who wanted to study abroad, according to a report by Quacquarelli Symonds (QS), which comes out with coveted global ranking for educational institutions. The significantly lower return of investment in an already expensive international higher education domain coupled with further reduced chances of employability in the post COVID-19 world have a key role to play in this shift, experts at QS have pointed out. The report titled "Indian Student's Mobility report 2020: Impact of COVID-19 on Higher Education Choices" has been compiled by QS IGAUGE, which rates colleges and universities in India with complete operational control held by London-based QS. "Our findings suggest that COVID-19 has impacted the decision of 48.46 pc students who aspired to study abroad in the recent past. However, there is a larger proportion of non-STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) students who have reconsidered their decision to pursue higher education outside India," it said. "The significantly lower return of investment in an already expensive international higher education domain coupled with further reduced chances of employability in the post COVID-19 world have a key role to play in this shift. "While there is likely to be a demand for STEM based professionals, it might not be the same for non-STEM courses which resonates with the higher percentage of students in the latter category to reconsider their higher education plans," it added. According to the report, while higher education institutions might adapt sooner or later to the e-learning practices, it might take a relatively longer time to come to terms with the drastic changes in the student mobility for higher education. "It is no longer a mystery that global travel is a key factor in the spread of communicable disease. The repercussions of the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to produce pronounced changes in teaching and learning practices for all levels of education. "This had led to debates and deliberations on student mobility in times to come. Various findings have come out highlighting the challenges the higher education community is likely to face in the international context. Our study contextualises the issue of student mobility for Indian students both within the country and abroad through data driven research," it said. The report has also highlighted that while the magnitude of change will be exponential for international student mobility, there is likely to be some impact on Indian students' inter-state mobility as well. More than 4.2 million cases of COVID-19 have been recorded worldwide, including at least 289,000 deaths. The deadly virus has brought several countries to a standstill with many of them imposing international travel restrictions. In India, the death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,415 and the number of cases climbed to 74,281 on Wednesday, registering an increase of 122 deaths and 3,525 cases in the last 24 hours. The country has been under a lockdown since March 25, which has been extended till May 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-to-impact-study-abroad-plans-of-over-48-indian-students-qs-report-837270.html
13-05-2020||National||SC dispenses with lawyers' coats and gowns due to COVID-19||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dispensed with the practice of wearing coats and gowns for lawyers during hearings of cases conducted through video conferencing due to the medical emergency out of COVID-19 situation. The court considered the situation, arising out of current COVID-19 pandemic and allowed advocates to appear in white shirts, salwar kameez and sarees. A circular was issued in this regard by Secretary-General Sanjeev S Kalgaonkar. It stated: Considering the medical advice, as a precautionary measure to contain spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19) infection under the prevailing conditions, the Competent Authority has been pleased to direct that the advocates may wear “plain white-shirt, white-salwar-kameez or white saree, with a plain-white neckband” during the hearings before the Supreme Court till medical exigencies exist or until further orders." After the imposition of countrywide lockdown, courts across the country are conducting hearings of extremely urgent matters through video conferencing. It was earlier seen that the courts in some cases took objections to lawyers appearing in such cases without having been properly dressed up.  On May 5, a lawyer was found wearing 'baniyan' (vest) during a hearing through video conferencing before the Rajasthan High Court. The HC then adjourned the matter and reminded him of decorum of the court and provision of the Advocates Act of wearing proper uniform in pleading a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dispenses-with-lawyers-coats-and-gowns-due-to-covid-19-837274.html
13-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Delhi Police reserves extra hospital beds for its personnel at private hospitals||With more than 100 of its personnel testing positive for COVID-19 so far, the Delhi Police on Wednesday said some hospitals have reserved beds for it for any emergency admissions as many in the force are deployed at "sensitive" locations. Among those infected, 35 police personnel have recovered from the infection and resumed their duties, officials said. According to the police, with a rise in coronavirus cases in Delhi, difficulties are being faced in getting 'COVID-19 warriors' in the dedicated government hospitals in the city. Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava spoke to a few private hospitals and, on his request, they have placed some beds at the disposal of the Delhi Police for emergency admissions since many police personnel are performing duties at sensitive locations including containment zones, COVID hospitals and quarantine facilities, the officials said. A team led by Special Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Taj Hassan and Special Commissioner of Police (Women Safety) Nuzhat Hassan is overseeing the admission of police personnel in such new facilities and ensuring that police personnel get adequate relief in critical cases. The police said that six of their modified police vehicles which serve as ambulances will be used for shifting COVID positive police personnel and their families. The policemen who tested positive for COVID-19  are currently undergoing  treatment at government hospitals such as Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narain Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi  Super Speciality Hospital in Dilshad Garden,  Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, AIIMS (New Delhi), AIIMS (Jhajjar) and Safdarjung Hospital. The policemen are also admitted at private hospitals like Max Hospital, Saket, Apollo Hospital,  Maa Durga Charitable Trust Hospital, Model Town, Ayurvedic Tibbia College Karol Bagh, Chaudhary Braham Prakash Ayurvedic Hospital in Najafgarh),  PGI in Sonipat and ESIC in Sahibabad, the police said. The total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi has climbed to 7,998 while 106 people have lost their lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-delhi-police-reserves-extra-hospital-beds-for-its-personnel-at-private-hospitals-837277.html
13-05-2020||National||Coronavirus stalls India-China talks on measures to avert face-offs along disputed boundary||The Covid-19 pandemic has stalled India-China engagements to put in place additional measures along the disputed boundary between the two nations to avert transgressions by each other’s border guards, face-offs and skirmishes, like the ones witnessed recently in eastern Ladakh and northern Sikkim.  A proposed visit by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to Beijing for a meeting with his counterpart in the Chinese Government, Wei Fenghe, could not be scheduled so far due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The meeting between Singh and Wei were expected to give final shape to a set of new Confidence Building Measures (or CBMs), which India and China had been discussing over the past few months in order to maintain peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations. Sources told the DH on Wednesday that the two sides would either explore the possibility of a video-conference between Singh and Wei or schedule a meeting when the Covid-19 crisis would subside. Eleven Indian Army soldiers and at least four Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) personnel were injured when a scuffle broke out during a face-off between the troops of the two neighbouring nations near the LAC ahead of Muguthang at Naku La in northern Sikkim last Saturday. The soldiers of the two nations also had a face-off near Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh earlier last week.    When Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping held their second “informal summit” near Chennai in October 2019, they had agreed to put in place more measures to enhance mutual trust among the armed forces of the two nations as well as to maintain peace along the LAC. They had also agreed to “consolidate strategic communication” between the armed forces of the two nations, ostensibly to avert occasional flashpoints, like transgressions by Indian and Chinese soldiers into the other side of the LAC while patrolling along the line and consequent escalation of tension.  The discussion between the two nations on additional CBMs proposed to be put in place along the LAC had gained momentum when Modi’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi had held the 22nd round of boundary talks in New Delhi. Wang and Doval are at present leading the negotiators of China and India respectively in the boundary negotiations between the two nations as Special Representatives. India and China signed a Border Defence Cooperation Agreement (BDCA) in 2013 by combining all the CBMs agreed upon in similar pacts inked in 1993, 1996, 2005 and 2012 and putting in place a few new ones, including the ban on tailing of each other’s soldiers on patrol along the LAC. China, however, conveyed to India just a few months later a new proposal for inking a Code of Conduct, which the two nations would have to adhere to. The negotiations on the proposed Code of Conduct, however, could not make much headway. The first “informal summit” between Modi and Xi at Wuhan in central China in April 2018 had brought about a thaw in India-China bilateral relations, which had hit a new low over the June-August 2017 face-off between Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army at Doklam Plateau in western Bhutan. The two leaders had held the second informal summit at a seaside resort near Chennai in October 2019, but not many of the follow-up engagements they had agreed upon had actually been taken place due to disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-stalls-india-china-talks-on-measures-to-avert-face-offs-along-disputed-boundary-837278.html
13-05-2020||National||Judges, lawyers shouldn’t wear coat, gown as they make it easier to catch coronavirus: CJI S A Bobde||Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde on Wednesday said the judges and the lawyers should not wear coat and gown for the time being as they make it “easier to catch virus". The statement to this effect by the CJI came, while he was holding the hearing through video conferencing, in a case in which arguments were being made by senior advocate Kapil Sibal. The CJI, who was sharing dais with Justices Indu Malhotra and Hrishikesh Roy, said the apex court may soon come out with instructions on the dress code for lawyers and the judges. The Judges were not wearing coat and the gown during the hearing conductded through video conferencing. The observation of the CJI assumes significance in view of the fact that the apex court has been holding courts through video conferencing from March 25 due to the nation-wide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) and had even suspended the entry of advocates and other staff into the high security zone on the basis of their proximity cards, till further orders. The impact of the the CJI's statement was instant as the lawyers were seen appearing without coat and gown in cases heard after that through video conferencing. Earlier, the apex court on Tuesday said that as part of a pilot project, the judges may come to the courtrooms in the apex court premises from next week to hold proceedings through video conferencing. During the lockdown, the benches usually assemble at the residences of the judges and the lawyers are allowed to join the video conferencing from their homes or offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/judges-lawyers-shouldn-t-wear-coat-gown-as-they-make-it-easier-to-catch-coronavirus-cji-s-a-bobde-837281.html
13-05-2020||National||Koyambedu vendors did not listen to Govt advice: TN CM||With the Koyambedu market cluster contributing to over 2,500 of 9,227 COVID-19 cases, the Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday squarely blamed the vendors at the sprawling market for the emergence of the cluster, saying they “ignored” repeated advice from the top brass of the state administration. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the vendors refused to shift to an alternate place arranged by the state government as they were “worried about revenue loss” and continued to disregard repeated pleas from Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and Chennai City Police (CCP).  The Chief Minister also said it was “wrong” to say that the government did not take enough measures at the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) to prevent the spread of COVID-19 as he suggested more than once that every word of advice by the administration fell into the deaf ears of the vendors. “Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam held talks with the traders thrice asking them to shift to a place earmarked by the government as social distancing was not followed and too many people were coming into the market. But the vendors did not heed to any of the advice as they were worried about their revenue loss,” Palaniswami said, after a COVID-19 review meeting. The Chief Minister pinned the blame on vendors more than once during his televised address saying they ignored the advice given to them during three review meetings that Panneerselvam conducted on the market complex and on other occasions.  The Koyambedu Market cluster is growing every passing day and has even spread to neighbouring states like Andhra Pradesh and Kerala where people who visited the market during the lockdown period have tested positive. The state government came under all-round attack for preventing the Koyambedu cluster, which has pushed the state’s tally beyond 9,000. The Koyambedu cluster emerged when the state government was hoping to flatten the curve as the number of positive cases was reducing. KWMC has nearly 4,000 shops that sell vegetables, fruits, and flowers and witnesses a footfall of over 50,000 every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/koyambedu-vendors-did-not-listen-to-govt-advice-tn-cm-837282.html
13-05-2020||National||PM-CARES allocates Rs 3,100 crore for coronavirus fight||Under attack from the opposition over the exodus of migrant workers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday allocated Rs 1,000 crore from the PM-CARES Fund for providing medical treatment and making travel arrangements for them. The PM-CARES Fund, which was the target of opposition criticism, also allocated Rs 2,000 crore for purchase of 50,000 ventilators and Rs 100 crore for vaccine development. The allocation of Rs 1,000 crore for migrant workers would be made to state governments and union territories on the basis of the 2011 Census. “This amount would be provided to the state governments/UTs to place it at the disposal of the District Collectors/Municipal Commissioners for strengthening their efforts in providing accommodation facilities, making food arrangements, providing medical treatment and making transportation arrangements of the migrants,” an official statement said.  The 50,000 ventilators to be purchased at a cost of Rs 2,000 crore would be provided to government-run Covid-hospitals in all states and union territories for better treatment of critical patients. The Fund would also support efforts at developing a vaccine for Covid-19 through an allocation of Rs 100 crore, which will be utilised under the supervision of the Principal Scientific Advisor to the government.  The Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) Fund Trust was set up on March 27 with the Prime Minister at the helm and Ministers of Defence, Home and Finance as members. Opposition parties including the Congress, CPI(M), Trinamool have hit out at the Modi government accusing it of not maintaining transparency over the PM-CARES Fund. They have also questioned the need for a separate fund when there was a PM National Relief Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-cares-allocates-rs-3100-crore-for-coronavirus-fight-837293.html
13-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Lakhs of Indian kids to die as regular health services hit by pandemic||India may witness the death of additional 1.2-6 lakh children over the next one year from preventable causes as a consequence to the disruption in regular health services due to the COVID-19 pandemic, UNICEF has warned. The warning comes from a new study that brackets India with nine other nations from Asia and Africa that could potentially have the largest number of additional child deaths as a consequence to the pandemic. These potential child deaths will be in addition to the 2.5 million children who already die before their fifth birthday every six months in the 118 countries included in the study. The estimate is based on an analysis by researchers from the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health published in the Lancet.   This means the global mortality rate of children dying before their fifth birthday, one of the key progress indicators in all of the global development, could potentially increase for the first time since 1960 when the data was first collected.     There were 1.04 million under-5 deaths in India in 2017, of which nearly 50% (0.57 million) were neonatal deaths. The highest number of under-5 deaths was in Uttar Pradesh (312,800 which included 165,800 neonatal deaths) and Bihar (141,500 which included 75,300 neonatal deaths). The researchers looked at three scenarios, factoring in parameters like reduction in workforce, supplies and access to healthcare for services like family planning, antenatal care, childbirth care, postnatal care, vaccination and preventive care for early childhood. The effects are modelled for a period of three months, six months and 12 months.   In scenario-1 marked by 10-18% reduction of coverage of all the services, the number of additional children deaths could be in the range of 30,000 plus over three months, more than 60,000 over six months and above 120,000 over the next 12 months. The numbers sharply rose to nearly 55,000; 109,000 and 219,000 respectively for scenario-2, which was associated with an 18-28% drop in all the regular services. But in the worst-case scenario in which 40-50% of the services are not available, the number of additional deaths ballooned to 1.5 lakhs in the three months in the short-range to nearly six lakhs over a year. The ten countries that could potentially have the largest number of additional child deaths are Bangladesh, Brazil, Congo, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Uganda and Tanzania.  In countries with already weak health systems, COVID-19 is causing disruptions in medical supply chains and straining financial and human resources. Visits to health care centres are declining due to lockdowns, curfews and transport disruptions, and due to the fear of infection among the communities. Such disruptions could result in potentially devastating increases in maternal and child deaths, the UN agency warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lakhs-of-indian-kids-to-die-as-regular-health-services-hit-by-pandemic-837295.html
13-05-2020||National||India, Pakistan take digs at each other at SCO meet||India and Pakistan tacitly took a dig at each other during a meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) on Wednesday. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi joined the Foreign Ministers of the six other SCO nations in a video-conference to lay the ground for the next summit of the SCO. Jaishankar pointed out that while the world was fighting against the COVID-19 pandemic, “some” were still busy spreading other deadly viruses like terrorism and using fake news and doctored videos to divide communities and countries. His comment appeared to be targeted at Pakistan which continued exporting terrorism to India and flouting truce along the Line of Control even during the global fight against the pandemic. He underlined that the security challenges the world was facing now were not linked by physical or political boundaries. “Terrorism continues to be the overwhelming threat to security and stability in the SCO region and would require collective action,” said the External Affairs Minister, without directly blaming Pakistan for exporting the menace to India. Qureshi said that tackling terrorism and extremism must continue to be a priority, but terrorism-related allegations must not be used as a political tool to malign and victimize any country or religion. He also called upon the SCO to reject xenophobic ideologies, including Islamophobia. The comment by Pakistan Foreign Minister too was apparently targeted at India. He too did not directly name India.  The summit is proposed to take place at Saint Petersburg in Russia in July, although the Covid-19 pandemic cast a shadow of uncertainty over it.  The video-conference was convened and chaired by Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.  The SCO Foreign Ministers discussed the Covid-19 pandemic and coordination of the efforts to deal with its trade, economic and social consequences. They also discussed the situation in Afghanistan and the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of World War II.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pakistan-take-digs-at-each-other-at-sco-meet-837298.html
13-05-2020||National||Indian govt submits more proof against Nirav Modi in money laundering case||The Indian government on Wednesday submitted further documents as "corroboratory evidence" in its case of fraud and money laundering against fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, who is contesting his extradition to India at an ongoing hearing in Westminster Magistrates' Court in London. District Judge Samuel Goozee expressed his concern at the late submission of the documents, said to include largely bank statements relating to the diamond merchant’s companies, but has agreed to consider the application for their submission. "I am going to need a very good explanation as to why these were not identified as evidence before," he said. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing in court on behalf of the Indian authorities, said while it was not necessary for the judge to see the new evidence, the documents "help clarify matters" and "back up what is already said" on the charge against Modi of defrauding Punjab National Bank (PNB) by deceitfully obtaining letters of undertaking (LoUs), or bank guarantees, and then laundering the proceeds through a complex set of worldwide transactions using dummy companies. But Modi's defence team has raised objections to the late submission as a "very troubling" and "highly contentious" move. "Our case seems to have become a stress test for the government of India and for them to provide random pieces of evidence," said Modi’s barrister Clare Montgomery. The third day of the five-day extradition trial, being held in a partly remote setting was disrupted a few times as the link to the court’s common viewing platform (CVP) faced some technical issues. It was finally stabilised for two defence witnesses to give their evidence via video link – Thierry Fritsch, a high-end French jewellery expert, and Justice Abhay Thipsay from India. Fritsch, who had served on the Advisory Board of Nirav Modi’s company for three years since 2015, vouched for Modi's "integrity" and skills as a great entrepreneur and a creative person, who was passionate about establishing the first international brand of luxury jewellery out of India. "I was totally impressed with the craftsmanship at the workshop (in India). It was the best quality I could see anywhere in the world," he said. While his evidence was countered by the CPS as Fritsch being involved with only one aspect of the Nirav Modi brand, Justice Thipsay's witness statement on the legal nuances under Indian law around the inadmissibility of the some of the police statements, as well as the definition of deception under Indian law, was also challenged. The 49-year-old jeweller has been following the court proceedings via videolink from a room at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London, where he has been lodged since his arrest in March last year. Dressed in formals, he can be seen listening carefully and occasionally making notes as he refers to papers on a desk. Modi has made repeated attempts at bail over the past year, each of which were turned down as he is deemed a flight risk. The jeweller was arrested on March 19, 2019, on an extradition warrant executed by Scotland Yard and will be the subject of a second hearing in September when the two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death” are to be heard. The judge has said that both the cases are "inextricably linked" and therefore the judgment will be handed down only at the end of both hearings||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-govt-submits-more-proof-against-nirav-modi-in-money-laundering-case-837317.html
13-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Special trains to have waiting list, more such trains in pipeline||Indian Railways on Wednesday announced that the special AC trains will have waiting lists from May 22 onwards even as it said more special trains may operate in due course of time. The changes will come into effect for tickets booked from 15 May for journeys beginning from 22 May. However, there will not be any Reservation Against Cancellation ( RAC) in these special trains. The railways said the waiting list for special trains will be capped at 100 for AC 3 tier, 50 for AC 2 tier, 200 for sleeper class, 100 for chair cars, while the list will be capped at 20 each for First AC and Executive Class. The railways also said more special trains with second class sleeper and AC chair cars may be operated in due course of time.  Indian Railways had announced partial resumption of passenger trains from  May 12 with 15 pairs of trains( with 30 journeys). The railways also said that if required more special trains will be operated. Earlier railways said there will be no waiting list in these trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-special-trains-to-have-waiting-list-more-such-trains-in-pipeline-837328.html
13-05-2020||National||Narendra Modi govt committed to reviving economy, help MSMEs: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government is committed to reviving the economy, help small businesses and boost employment in the challenging time of coronavirus pandemic. In a series of tweets, Shah said the central government is doing everything possible to help those in the business sector as they may face financial stress while resuming their work following the lockdown to combat the coronavirus pandemic. "I thank PM @narendramodi and FM @nsitharaman for these unprecedented steps, targeted at assisting MSMEs, cope with challenges of COVID-19. "It reflects PM Modi's commitment to revive our economy, help small businesses and boost employment," he tweeted with the hashtag '#AatmaNirbharBharatAbhiyan'. Shah's comments came soon after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced Rs 3 lakh crore of collateral-free loans for small businesses, a cut in the tax rate for non-salary payments and measures to provide liquidity to non-banking companies to help them tide over the disruptions caused by the lockdown. Unveiling the first set of components of the Rs 20 lakh crore COVID-19 economic stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, she said Rs 90,000 crore liquidity infusion will be made in electricity distribution companies to help them fight the current financial stress. Also, dates for filing income tax returns and other assessments have been extended, she said. Shah said the Modi government's decision to provide Rs 3 lakh crore collateral-free automatic loans to businesses, including MSMEs, will surely help them meet their operational liabilities, built up due to COVID-19, and resume their business. About 45 lakh units and employees will benefit from this step, he said. "Modi government understands the issues and problems faced by the MSMEs, amidst COVID-19 pandemic. To help them in these stressed times, GoI (government of India) will facilitate provision of Rs 20,000 crore as subordinate debt, which will benefit more than 2 lakh MSMEs," he said. Shah said the Modi government will facilitate equity infusion worth Rs 50,000 crore for the MSMEs through 'Fund of Funds'. This will help them expand their size as well as capacity and encourage them to get listed, raise public money through stock exchanges, he said. The home minister said the government will also launch a Rs 30,000 crore Special Liquidity Scheme to help NBFCs / HFCs / MFIs / NBFCs / HFCs /MFIs as they are finding it difficult to raise money in debt markets. This decision will not only provide them liquidity support but also create confidence in the market, he said. "Modi govt is doing everything possible to help business sector as they may face financial stress while resuming their businesses. GoI to provide Rs 2,500 crore EPF support for business and workers for 3 more months. This will help about 3.67 lakh units and 72.22 lakh employees," he said. Shah said in these challenging times, to boost 'Make In India', help the MSMEs and other companies from the, often unfair, competition by foreign giants, the Modi government has disallowed global tenders upto Rs 200 crore which is a welcome step towards '#AatmaNirbharBharatAbhiyan'. "I thank PM @narendramodi's government for infusing liquidity of Rs 90,000 crore in DISCOMs, providing Rs 45,000 crore Partial Credit Guarantee Scheme 2.0 for NBFCs and Rs 50,000 crore liquidity through TDS/TCS rate reduction," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-govt-committed-to-reviving-economy-help-msmes-amit-shah-837334.html
13-05-2020||National||Compassionate Modi govt committed for job creation, stimulating economy: BJP on economic package||BJP chief J P Nadda on Wednesday said the announcements made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman show that the central government is compassionate and committed towards creating jobs and stimulating the economy. Thanking the prime minister and Sitharaman, Nadda in a series of tweets said in this testing time, India has a compassionate and responsive government under the leadership of Narendra Modi. "In the wake of COVID-19, today's announcements for MSMEs like provision of collateral free loans, debts and equity, liquidity for NBFCs and support to real estate, Discoms, contractors and other tax measures show the commitment to create jobs and stimulate economy," he said.  Many BJP leaders and Union ministers hailed the announcements made by the Finance Ministry on Wednesday and termed these as "game changer". Union Home Minister Amit Shah said in these challenging times, to boost Make In India, help MSMEs and other companies from the often unfair competition by foreign giants, the Modi government has disallowed global tenders up to Rs 200 crore. This is a welcome step towards a self-reliant India, he said.  These announcements are game changer. Rs 3.70 lakh crore package for MSME is big booster and shows the government is very well considering the stakeholders' concern, BJP spokesperson Gopal Krishan Agarwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/compassionate-modi-govt-committed-for-job-creation-stimulating-economy-bjp-on-economic-package-837340.html
13-05-2020||National||MSMEs key to self-reliant India; measures to boost size, scale of such units: Niti vice chairman||Niti Aayog Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar on Wednesday lauded Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's "outstanding follow-up" to the Prime Minister's stimulus announcement, saying the measures taken for MSMEs will boost their size as well as resolve many other problems. "#MSMEs are crucial for the creation of an #AatmanirbharBharat and the measures announced today will surely lead to a boost in the size & scale of #MSMEs as well as resolve problems of bankruptcy and insolvency faced by many enterprises," Kumar tweeted. Within less than 24 hours of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Rs 20 lakh crore special economic package announcement, the finance minister came out with the first installment of the mega stimulus. "The slew of measures announced by #FM @nsitharaman are an outstanding follow-up to #PMModi's announcement yesterday," Kumar said in another tweet. Among the economic measures, Sitharaman announced about Rs 6 lakh crore package comprising Rs 3 lakh crore of collateral-free loans for small businesses and a Rs 30,000 crore lifeline to non-bank and housing finance companies to help the economy tide over disruptions caused by the coronavirus lockdown. Also, the government has cut the tax rate on non-salary payments by 25 per cent, extended support to companies to meet statutory liability on employees' retirement fund, provided a Rs 90,000 crore bailout to cash-starved electricity distribution companies and gave construction firms up to six more months to complete the government projects. The finance minister said the measures will help "spur growth and build a very self-reliant India". "It addresses ease of doing business, compliance, and due diligence and the intention is also to build local brands," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/msmes-key-to-self-reliant-india-measures-to-boost-size-scale-of-such-units-niti-vice-chairman-837343.html
13-05-2020||National Politics||FACT CHECK | 'Red is green, green is red?' - BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra shares clipped video to mock Rahul Gandhi||Sambit Patra, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), tweeted a video mocking Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. In the mere 6 second clip, Gandhi can be heard saying, “The red zone is actually the green zone and the green zone is actually the red zone.” Patra suggested that Rahul Gandhi had earlier said “potato from the front and gold from the back” and now he is making another absurd statement. The video drew over 5 lakh views and 10,000 shares.  पीछे से आलू आगे से सोनाऔर अबजो RED है वो GREEN हैजो GREEN है वो RED है From the Facebook page ‘भईया जी कहिन’, the video garnered nearly 5,000 views but has been shared with a slightly different message. “What is red is green, what’s green is red. Sometimes I am the party president, sometimes my mother. If mom resigns, I will become [the president] and if I resign, she will become [the president],” reads the caption. [Translated from: जो RED है वो GREEN है जो GREEN है वो RED है. कभी मैं पार्टी अध्यक्ष हूँ तो कभी मां मां इस्तीफा देंगी मैं बन जाऊंगा .. मैं इस्तीफा दूंगा माँ बन जाएगी] The above case is an ‘inception’ of misinformation. A misleading claim has been piggy-backed on another piece of false news. The “potato-gold” claim is false and has been debunked by Alt News twice in the past. We will elaborate on it later, let us start the fact-check with the video currently viral. 1. “Red is green, green is red” The video shared by Sambit Patra and a plethora of other users is 6 seconds clipped from an hour-long press briefing by Rahul Gandhi on coronavirus outbreak in India. A video of his interaction with journalists was uploaded by Congress on YouTube on May 7. “These zones – red, orange and green – have been created on a national level. They should be created on a state level. Chief Ministers [of Congress-ruled states] are telling us that the zone which is red in the national level is actually green and the zone which is green is actually red.” This can be heard at 20:00 minutes onward. He further says that since the information is available with state leaders, zones should be formed taking advise from the District Magistrate and the Chief Minister.  The words “national level” were clipped from the speech to take out the context of decentralisation and portray that Gandhi was making a silly statement. 2. “Potato-gold machine” In 2017, a video of Rahul Gandhi saying, “Will install such a machine that if a potato is inserted from one end, gold will come out from the other end. (ऐसी मशीन लगाऊंगा इस साइड से आलू घुसेगा उस साइड से सोना निकलेगा),” was shared by BJP IT cell head Amit Malviya. The same ‘remark’ was referred by an ANI reporter while questioning BJP MP Hema Malini last year. The statement was a part of a clipped video of a much longer speech where Gandhi was actually taking a dig at PM Modi during an address in Gujarat’s Patan on November 12, 2017. The complete video was uploaded on the Congrees leader’s YouTube channel where at 17:50 minutes he can be heard saying, “A few months ago there was a flood here and he [PM Modi] said he will give Rs 500 crore but not even a rupee was given. He told potato farmers, will install such a machine that if a potato is inserted from one end, gold will come out from the other end…these are not my words but Narendra Modiji’s words.” [Translated from: कुछ महीने पहले यहाँ बाढ़ आयी ५०० करोड़ रुपये दूंगा, (पीएम मोदी ने) एक भी रूपया नहीं दिया. आलू के किसानो को कहा ऐसी मशीन लगाऊंगा इस साइड से आलू घुसेगा उस साइड से सोना निकलेगा…मेरे शब्द नहीं है नरेंद्र मोदीजी के शब्द है.]  It may be noted that Gandhi’s claim amounted to political rhetoric since there is no record of PM Narendra Modi ever making any such statement. Therefore, a clipped video of Rahul Gandhi was shared by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra to mock the Congress leader. Moreover, the misinformation was promoted on the back of the infamous “potato-gold” remark which was also clipped from a longer speech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fact-check-red-is-green-green-is-red-bjp-spokesperson-sambit-patra-shares-clipped-video-to-mock-rahul-gandhi-837002.html
13-05-2020||National Politics||Adhir Ranjan Choudhary praises PM for 'sincere attempts' to ferry stranded migrants||Even as his party has been up in arms against Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the migrant labourers issue, Leader of the Congress party in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury has appreciated Modi's "sincere attempts" to bring back those stranded to their home. Chowdhury, the five-time MP from West Bengal's Berhampore Lok Sabha seat, in a letter to the PM last night, urged him to reduce the rate of tickets, if not making it free, keeping in view the fact that these out-of-job labourers are facing a severe financial crunch. "I do like to appreciate your sincere attempt of sending back stranded persons, which include migrant workers, patients and their family, students, pilgrims and tourists, to their native places by announcing 300 special trains," Chowdhury wrote in the letter. The migrant workers and those grounded away from their home are now facing a severe financial crunch. They cannot afford the fare, which is quite high and beyond their reach, he said. "Please consider the reduced rates of tickets if not free travel," the former minister of state for railways wrote. Chowdhury also made a request to add non-AC coaches along with the air-conditioned ones of the special passenger trains as common passengers are unable to purchase the high-priced tickets. The Congress, which has repeatedly slammed the Modi government for poor handling of the problems faced by the stranded labourers, has already announced that all its state units will bear the cost of rail travel of the needy migrant workers and labourers stranded at their workplaces due to coronavirus-induced lockdown and seeking to return home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/adhir-ranjan-choudhary-praises-pm-for-sincere-attempts-to-ferry-stranded-migrants-837203.html
13-05-2020||National Politics||Adhir Chowdhury appreciates PM Narendra Modi’s attempt of bringing back stranded persons||Leader of Congress party in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury has expressed his appreciation for the Prime Minister’s efforts of bringing people including migrant workers who are stranded in other states. The development comes at a time when Congress is regularly targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the issue of migrant workers. “ I do like to appreciate your sincere attempt of sending back stranded persons which include migrant workers, (parents and family), students, pilgrims, tourists to their native places by announcing 300 special trains,” stated Chowdhury.  He urged the Prime Minister to reduce steep fares which are beyond the reach of migrant workers and stranded persons currently facing a severe financial crisis. “Please consider the reduced rates of tickets if not free travel,” wrote Chowdhury.  He said that ordinary coaches should be added with air-conditioned coaches of special trans as most are unable to afford the expensive tickets. “ The unscrupulous elements are active to fleece the distressed passengers by charging exorbitant prices for the rail tickets much to the injustice to them,” stated Chowdhury.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/adhir-chowdhury-appreciates-pm-narendra-modi-s-attempt-of-bringing-back-stranded-persons-837260.html
13-05-2020||National Politics||No clear indication in PM's special package announcement of where funds will come from: Puducherry CM||Senior Congress leader and Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Wednesday said the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package announced by the Prime Minister had no clear indication of where the funds will be available from, what the schemes were and who would be the beneficiaries. The Prime Minister's announcement has evoked both appreciation and confusion among the people, he said. "There is no clear indication on where the finance will be available, what the schemes are that will be covered under the package and who the beneficiaries will be," he told reporters at his daily news briefing. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a televised address to the nation on Tuesday, had announced Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package to revive the economy, which combined the government's recent announcements on supporting key sectors as also measures rolled out by the Reserve Bank of India. Narayanasamy said the government had found that MGNREGA was an effective panacea to prevent starvation in rural areas. Not less than 18,000 farm labourers were getting jobs under the MGNREA for development of infrastructure, desilting of water bodies and other activities, enabling them to keep the home fires burning and prevent starvation. "The number of rural workers will increase in course of time", he claimed. He said the Centre should make it clear what schemes were evolved to end unemployment caused during the lockdown. Narayanaswamy said the tourism sector had borne the impact of the lockdown across the country with several people engaged in the sector facing a crisis. As far as Puducherry was concerned, the government was concentrating on economic development and also preventing spread of COVID-19 through several measures, particularly by sealing the border points. He said the government would forward a report to the Centre on May 15 with its views on extension of lockdown and relaxation of curbs when current one ends on May 17.  "Our concern is that Puducherry should not offer scope for the pandemic to spread, particularly with the neighbouring districts of Villupuram and Cuddalore registering increase in occurrence of the infection`, he said and sought the cooperation of the people in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-clear-indication-in-pms-special-package-announcement-of-where-funds-will-come-from-puducherry-cm-837279.html
13-05-2020||National Politics||RSS watchword Swadeshi could be the BJP's next big thing||Look carefully, and you will see the signals of a resurgence in Swadeshi in the saffron parivar's rhetoric over the past weeks. In the months and years ahead, it's clear that it will act as a strong complement to Article 370  and the building of the Ram Mandir running into the national slugfest in 2024. Swadeshi has always been close to the heart of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), the BJP's ideological patron. It gained prominence during the government of the only other BJP prime minister, Atal Behari Vajpayee, but had faded into the background in the first five years of the Modi regime.  In his address to the nation on Tuesday Modi observed that the crisis has taught us the importance of local manufacturing, the local market and local supply chains.  “The state of the world today teaches us that an (AtmaNirbhar Bharat) "Self-reliant India" is the only path," he said, though he also sought to assure that it is not a self-centred approach and India's gains will benefit the world. RSS ideologue and economic thinker S Gurumurthy said, “Modi’s announcement is the official launch of the self-reliance agenda even as the WTO is in ICU.” Modi's performance on the economic front through his first term was decidedly mixed, a surprising outcome for a chief minister-turned-PM who was seen in his state, Gujarat, as a dynamic and pro-business reformer. Unemployment burgeoned, growth was tepid and the twin disasters of demonetisation and a poorly implemented Goods and Services Tax (GST) hobbled the economy even before COVID-19 struck. Now, with global supply chains in tatters, it is a golden opportunity to drive the self-reliance agenda. It will find a lot of resonance within Modi's party and the wider parivar, and a possible fillip to employment could be a major vote-winner.     Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy -- one of the BJP's key economic thinkers -- had earlier this month called for the Swadeshi goal to be brought back as a "Make in India" slogan. "Swadeshi today means self-sufficiency in three areas: Food, Medicines, and Military Technology. This hurts US & China exports,” he tweeted.  The RSS's joint general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale earlier noted that the limitations of both global capitalism and global communism had 'exposed themselves in dealing with the pandemic', and called for a new model based on self-reliance. And RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat only last month said: “We will have to create a swa-adharit tantra (a self-dependent mechanism). The society will have to turn to Swadeshi,” he said. With the economy likely to enter a major funk, the party will hope that this card works wonders while attempting to get foreign companies to make in India rather than in China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rss-watchword-swadeshi-could-be-the-bjps-next-big-thing-837315.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Lockdown: German living at Delhi airport for over 50 days due to coronavirus-induced flight restrictions||A German national, who has a criminal record in his home country, has been living in the transit area of the Delhi airport since March 18 due to the flight restrictions induced by the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. "A German man was heading from Hanoi to Istanbul via Delhi on March 18. Since India suspended flight operations to and from Turkey on March 18, he got stranded at the Delhi airport's Terminal 3," they said. Since he has got a criminal record in his home country, he does not want to go there, the officials said. "Food and other amenities are being provided by the airport officials to him since March 18. He is living in the transit area. The Ministry of Civil Aviation as well as the German Embassy has been informed about it," they noted. On this issue, the spokesperson for the Delhi airport operator DIAL, said, "We confirm that a foreign national is currently in the transit area of the international terminal of the Delhi airport due to non-availability of regular flight to transit onwards." The Delhi Airport International Limited (DIAL) spokesperson added, "Appropriate authorities were informed about this in good time. They are in dialogue with the foreign national." India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected more than 67,100 people and killed around 2,200 people till now in the country till now.  All commercial passenger flight operations have been suspended for the lockdown period. Flight operations to some virus-affected countries like Turkey and China were suspended even before March 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-german-living-at-delhi-airport-for-over-50-days-due-to-coronavirus-induced-flight-restrictions-837021.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Punjab chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh relieved of Financial Commissioner Taxation charge||Three days after his showdown with state ministers, Punjab Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh on Tuesday night was relieved of the additional charge of Financial Commissioner Taxation. Principal Secretary (Water Resources) A Venu Prasad will now hold the additional charge of FC Taxation, according to an order issued here. As Prasad is on leave till May 20, Principal Secretary Anirudh Tewari will look after the work of the post of Financial Commissioner Taxation in addition to his present assignments, it added. Relieving Karan Avtar Singh of the additional charge of FC Taxation unceremoniously came after a face-off between him and Punjab ministers at Saturday's pre-cabinet meeting over the revision of the excise policy. At the meeting, Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was learnt to have opposed any relief for liquor vend owners in the excise policy under discussion. The chief secretary had allegedly made some "curt remarks" after Channi spoke. Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Channi had then walked out. It was reportedly followed by other ministers after some time. The development led to the postponement of the cabinet meeting scheduled for that day. However, after the cabinet meeting on Monday, Badal had said the "behaviour, body language and style of conversation" of Karan Avtar Singh before the cabinet did not behove the chief secretary's office. Both Badal and Channi on Monday had said they would not participate in any meeting attended by the state's chief secretary, deepening the crisis triggered by the showdown between the ministers and the state's top bureaucrat. Badal had announced his intention at a cabinet meeting before Chief Minister Amarinder Singh against the alleged "unacceptable behaviour" of the chief secretary. He had even urged the CM "to decide whether to call the CS or us to a meeting". After the crisis escalated, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar too backed the ministers, asking the top bureaucrat to "step back". Congress MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring had also attacked the chief secretary and alleged that his son had an undeclared business interest in a Punjab distillery The showdown between CS and ministers gave enough fodder to the Opposition to attack the Amarinder Singh-led government. The opposition parties' leaders had said a "constitutional crisis" had erupted in the state with cabinet ministers "losing faith" in their government. They had also said the state ministers seemed to be "helpless" in the hands of the bureaucracy and asked them to "part ways" with the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-chief-secretary-karan-avtar-singh-relieved-of-financial-commissioner-taxation-charge-837053.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Idol of Lord Hanuman desecrated in Uttar Pradesh temple, tension in area||Unidentified people desecrated an idol of Lord Hanuman at a temple in neighbouring Shamli district in western Uttar Pradesh, following which tension prevailed in the area, police said on Wednesday. Residents of Tana village under Pukhta Garhi police station staged a protest after the matter came to light on Tuesday, prompting authorities to enhance security in the area. According to police officer Sandeep Balyan, a case has been registered against unidentified people and investigation taken up. As a precautionary measure, police personnel have been deployed in the area, the police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/idol-of-lord-hanuman-desecrated-in-uttar-pradesh-temple-tension-in-area-837059.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Civilian killed as CRPF opens fire when vehicle jumps checkpoint in Jammu and Kashmir's Budgam||A civilian was shot dead by paramilitary CRPF men in Central Kashmir’s Budgam district on Wednesday after he allegedly jumped at two checkpoints. Police said that a civilian travelling in a vehicle jumped two checkpoints after which CRPF personnel fired at him near Kawoosa, Narbal in Budgam. “He was shifted to SMHS hospital in a critical condition, where he was declared brought dead,” police said in a statement. CRPF spokesman Pankaj Singh while confirming the incident said, they were ascertaining further details. The slain civilian was identified as Peer Mehrajudin, a resident of Beerwah, Budgam. Reports said immediately after the news spread, people in the area took to streets to protest against the incident. Mohammad Ashraf, a resident of Beerwah told DH over the phone that the deceased was running a ‘Khidmat’ Center of J&K Bank and was on the way to Srinagar for some work. “Even if the claims of the police are true that he jumped a checkpoint, they could have easily fired at the tyres of the car. It is ruthlessness to kill a civilian,” he said. Former Chief Minister and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah while demanding an impartial investigation into the incident termed the killing as unfortunate. “Very unfortunate. The circumstances surrounding this shooting need to be impartially investigated and findings made known. My condolences to the family of the deceased,” he tweeted. Meanwhile, authorities suspended mobile internet services in Budgam shortly after the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/civilian-killed-as-crpf-opens-fire-when-vehicle-jumps-checkpoint-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-budgam-837088.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court refuses interim bail to Sajjan Kumar in 1984 anti-Sikh riots case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to consider interim bail on the medical ground to ex-Congress MP Sajjan Kumar, who has been serving a life term in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case. The CBI led by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta opposed the plea saying he was involved in the genocide and leading the mob. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said the March 11 medical report of the petitioner does not suggest he required hospitalisation. Kumar, represented by senior advocate Vikas Singh, claimed that his life term would be converted to the death penalty if he died. He was suffering from several ailments and he could not be examined by the AIIMS board due to Covid-19 pandemic. Senior advocates Dushyant Dave and H S Phoolka appeared for the victims during the hearing conducted through video conferencing from the CJI's courtroom. The court said it will keep Kumar's bail plea pending for consideration in August. The court also dismissed the plea for parole made by co convicts ex MLA Mahinder Yadav and Balwan Khokhar. Kumar has been in jail here after the Delhi High Court had on December 17, 2018, awarded him life imprisonment for the "remainder of his natural life". The riots case related to the killing of five Sikhs in Delhi Cantonment's Raj Nagar Part-I area of southwest Delhi on November 1 and 2, 1984, and burning down of a Gurudwara in Raj Nagar Part-II. Anti-Sikh riots had broken out after the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984, by her two Sikh bodyguards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-refuses-interim-bail-to-sajjan-kumar-in-1984-anti-sikh-riots-case-837095.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||UP govt busy in headline management, no efforts on ground to tackle COVID-19: Jitin Prasada||Hitting out at the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, Congress leader Jitin Prasada on Wednesday alleged that there was a lack of efforts on ground to tackle COVID-19 in the state with just "headlines being created", and urged party workers to provide all assistance to the needy as the lockdown is eased. Prasada, who has started 'kaise hain aap (how are you)' initiative to connect with party workers via video conferencing and assess the ground situation, said he has been telling the workers to come to the aid of people and make the Congress a mass movement in support of the poor. He also hailed the efforts of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in taking up the cause of those in distress, especially migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh, and ensuring speedy assistance to them at a time the government aid was allegedly "not forthcoming". "The UP government has utterly failed in helping the people. All power has been concentrated in the hands of the government, there is no voice through which you can reach the officials and people are helpless as to where to go," the former Union minister said.  "It is my initiative to restore and repair the connect with workers that got broken down due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown," Prasada said. He said he has been telling Congress workers that the priority is that the lockdown has been on for two months now and as it is being eased it is important to strongly raise law and order issues and concerns of farmers like procurement of wheat. Congress President Sonia Gandhi has taken a "historic" decision on behalf of the party to pay for the rail ticket of migrant labourers and now it is the responsibility of all Congress workers to ensure that no one in need is left out, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-busy-in-headline-management-no-efforts-on-ground-to-tackle-covid-19-jitin-prasada-837105.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi govt adds 20 more deaths to official COVID-19 data; toll crosses 100-mark ||With this, the medical bulletin said, the total number of cases have now touched 7,998. The number of recoveries has now risen to 2,858 with 386 more patients tested negative for COVID-19, leaving 5,034 under treatment, including 1,113 in home isolation.  In the bulletin, the 20 deaths were explained as "deaths reported in April and May as per case sheets received from hospitals, after audited by (Death Audit) committee". However, it did not make it clear whether any deaths took place in the last 24 hours. The toll is likely to go up as the Delhi government is now reconciling the figures with those of hospitals. In the past two days, Delhi has added 33 deaths to its official toll after reports questioned the mismatch in the official toll and the deaths reported by hospitals. The Delhi government has blamed the hospitals for the mismatch, saying they were not reporting the deaths in a "timely and regular manner" to the Death Audit Committee.  A count of deaths reported by hospitals stood at around 200 while reports claimed that over 300 cremations were held in the capital, which followed COVID-19 protocol. In one of the cremation grounds near ITO, it was claimed that at least 90 cremations were held since the lockdown from March 25. The number of testing have touch touched 1.13 lakh, with the addition of 7,236 samples tested in the past 24 hours. On the number of cases, 4,483 or 56.05% of the cases were reported in May alone. The capital recorded its first case on March 2 while it had crossed the 6,000-mark on May 8. On May 1, Delhi had reported 223 cases which saw an increase to 386 on May 2. The capital reported 427 cases on May 3, 349 cases on May 4, 206 on May 5, 428 on May 6, 448 on May 7, 338 on May 8, 224 or May 9, 381 on May 10, 310 on May 11 and 406 on May 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-govt-adds-20-more-deaths-to-official-covid-19-data-toll-crosses-100-mark-837106.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Passengers crowded pantry to buy food and water disregarding social distancing norms, says traveller on Ahmedabad-New Delhi train||There was complete disregard for physical distancing rules on the first train that reached New Delhi from Ahmedabad on Wednesday since the resumption of railway services as passengers crowded the pantry to buy dry food and water bottles during dinner time, according to a traveller. Packaged dry food items such as biscuits, bhujia and chocolates were made available in the pantry besides water bottles by the railways. But passengers seated in coaches far away from the pantry faced problems in buying food and water bottles, which resulted in crowding at the pantry van located near B-1 coach of the train number 02957 which had departed Sabarmati Railway Station at 6.30 pm on May 12 and reached Delhi at 8 am on Wednesday. "As a crowd built up at the pantry at night, an announcement was made requesting passengers to come to the pantry one by one. Thereafter, people made a long queue, causing inconvenience to co-passengers," Nihar Kakkad, a student seated in B-6 coach, told PTI. Since many had queued up for buying water bottles, a railway attendant later began to sell water in the coach itself to avoid any further crowd, he said. Many passengers had not carried food and were forced to buy whatever was available in the pantry. Many had carried their own linen, while some made a temporary window curtain from their towel to avoid sunlight, he added. All seats were not fully occupied to ensure physical distancing. In AC-3 coach, six passengers were given seats against the capacity of eight seats. As many passengers were not Delhi residents, they were all worried about their onward journey to their hometown. Many of the travellers were heading to neighbouring states, especially Uttar Pradesh. "We have to travel further to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. We have covered half the distance by train from Ahmedabad, we have to cover another half to reach home. We don't know whether we will get transport from Delhi but we made this journey with a hope that our Uttar Pradesh CM must have made some arrangements," Kakkad's co-passenger told him.  There was another passenger in the same coach who was travelling to Gorakhpur. They had left Ahmedabad due to lack of facility in their PG accommodation and fear of rising number of COVID-19 cases in Gujarat. "My friend could not board the train as he could not clear the screening. He is now scared that he might have been infected. We had booked the ticket together to go to Gorakhpur," said the passenger. Passengers of all age groups were travelling in the train, Kakkad said. However, many were distressed labourers planning to make further trips to neighbouring states of Delhi, especially Uttar Pradesh. Passengers said they underwent screening during departure and arrival. After exiting from the New Delhi Railway Station, many passengers scrambled for transport for onward journey and were seen walking on road to nearby border cities like Mathura, as the police did not allow any passenger to stay for long at the railway station. The Indian Railways resumed passenger train operations from May 12, initially with 15 pairs of trains, weeks after these were suspended due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/passengers-crowded-pantry-to-buy-food-and-water-disregarding-social-distancing-norms-says-traveller-on-ahmedabad-new-delhi-train-837108.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases in Indore rise to 2,107; death toll reaches 95||At least 91 more people tested positive for coronavirus in Indore in last 24 hours, taking the total number of such cases in the worst hit district of Madhya Pradesh to 2,107, an official said on Wednesday. Besides, three more persons died of COVID-19 in the district, raising the toll to 95, Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia said. The three victims, a 66-year-old man and two women, aged 52 and 45, succumbed to the disease at a private hospital here on Monday. They were also suffering from diabetes, high blood pressure and other ailments, he said. In the last 24 hours, 91 more people tested positive for the disease, taking the district's tally from 2,016 to 2,107, he said. So far, 988 patients have been discharged here after recovery, the official said. The outbreak of the deadly viral infection was first reported in Indore on March 24, when four persons tested positive for it, he added.  As per data analysis, the COVID-19 death rate in the district, which falls under the red zone, was 4.51 per cent on Wednesday morning. For the last 18 days, the fatality rate in the district has been below five per cent. Indore, the state's industrial hub, is one of the COVID-19 hotstpots in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-in-indore-rise-to-2107-death-toll-reaches-95-837109.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||With no transport available for onward journeys, scores left stranded on roads outside New Delhi station||Scores of people, who arrived here on the first batch of trains since the partial resumption of railway services amid a lockdown, were on Wednesday left stranded on the roads outside the railway station with no transport available for onward journeys. Special trains from Ahmedabad, Patna and Mumbai reached the New Delhi Railway Station before 9 am on Wednesday. The Indian Railways resumed passenger train operations from May 12, initially with 15 pairs of trains, weeks after these were suspended due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. Railway authorities said all passengers were compulsorily screened and given hand sanitiser at entry and exit points and in trains. Thought the train journey remained smooth for most of the passengers, their excitement to reach home disappeared as they stepped out of the station premises. There was no bus, cab or any other transport option available for onward journeys. Many passengers carrying heavy luggage stood clueless outside the railway station, while some tried to convince local cab drivers to take them home in various states. "We can give you Rs 6,000 maximum if you take us to Roorkee (a distance of about 200 km)," a man said to a driver who reached the station to pick up a family which had already booked his taxi. Another man was seen asking a rickshaw-puller to take to take him to Anand Vihar. Vishnu, 24, who boarded a train from Sabarmati along with his wife and three-year-old boy, said he gave Rs 1,800 to a tempo driver to reach the Ahmedabad station. "My brother-in-law booked the ticket for us for Rs 1,750. We have to go to Ravi Nagar in West Delhi, but the family doesn't have a vehicle at home,” he said. Ratnakar, a resident of Uttam Nagar, who had gone to his village in Bihar's Begusarai district, said he had no clue about the non-availability of public transport in Delhi. His father, who is in his 60s, said if they start walking, they would reach home by evening. “Why have they started running trains when there is no bus or metro available? We had no clue that there will be no public transport whatsoever in Delhi,” he said. Aviral Mathur, who reached here on the first train from Ahmedabad, said the Delhi government should have at least run a few buses for passengers travelling on special trains. "A private taxi seems highly unlikely and even if you get one, they have been charging exorbitantly,” he added. Md. Taufiq Alam, 26, who arrived from Mumbai, asked it is disappointing that the Centre or the Delhi government did not think about those who have to travel to their hometown from Delhi. "An advisory could have been issued informing people that no transport will be available from Delhi,” Alam said, as he put his heavy bag down on the road. A few women were seen asking policemen to help them get water for their children. “There is no arrangement of water, food or toilet for people who are still to cover hundreds of kilometers before they reach their home,” Siraj Ali, a carpenter who returned from Mumbai, said.  Ali and his two friends are already discussing their options if they fail to get an auto-rickshaw or some 'jugaad' to reach home in Uttar Pradesh's Bareilly. "We have been without work for two months. Our employer did not pay us. We asked our friends and families to transfer some money into our bank accounts so that we could book train tickets,” he said. “We did not know that there will be no bus from Delhi. Now, the footpath will be our home till bus or train service for Bareilly resumes,” Ali said. A group of 14 men who worked at a hotel in Jaipur were among those scrambling for a transport. Ashok Tamta, 22, from Khatima in Uttarakhand said they have no clue as to how they will reach their home. Tamta, who was to get married on April 8, said the Jaipur hotel where he worked closed leaving them jobless. "We had no option but to return to our places. We did not think once when the train services resumed, booked a ticked and set out on our journeys," he said. His friend and co-worker Deepak Kumar from Pithoragarh said they will sleep on the roads and walk to their home state if they don't get any transport. A group of three men from Chennai, who worked in Jaipur, were also among those who were waiting outside the station till their train to hometown reach the station at 4 pm. Furkaan, 26, said there was no option but to wait outside on the road. The only relief is that the weather is cloudy. His friend Gilani, 26, said they had dinner last night and that there was no food left with them. "It's going to be hard...but what's assuring is that we will reach our home," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-no-transport-available-for-onward-journeys-scores-left-stranded-on-roads-outside-new-delhi-station-837112.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Paramilitary canteens to sell only 'swadeshi' goods from June 1||Taking a cue from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'be vocal about local' appeal, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday decided that all paramilitary canteens, which is conducting business of around Rs 2,800 crore annually, will sell only 'swadeshi' products from June 1. This was announced by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who also appealed to people to use only products made in the country and said if everyone buys such products, it would make India self-reliant in the next five years. "Thee Ministry of Home Affairs has decided that all the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) canteens will now sell only indigenous products. This will be applicable to all CAPF canteens across the country from 01 June 2020. With this, 50 lakh families of about 10 lakh CAPF personnel will use indigenously," Shah tweeted. He said Modi's appeal during his address to the nation on Tuesday night to "be vocal about local" is aimed at making the country self-reliant and it will "surely" pave the way for India to lead the world in the times to come. Modi had announced a Rs 20 lakh crore package to re-ignite the economy by focussing on micro, small and medium industries. "I also appeal to the people of the country to make maximum use of the products made in the country and encourage others to do the same. If every Indian pledges to use products made in India (Swadeshi), the country can become self-sufficient in five years," he said. मैं देश की जनता से भी अपील करता हूं कि आप देश में बने उत्पादों को अधिक से अधिक उपयोग में लायें व अन्य लोगों को भी इसके प्रति प्रोत्साहित करें। हर भारतीय अगर भारत में बने उत्पादों (स्वदेशी) का उपयोग करने का संकल्प ले तो पांच वर्षों में देश का लोकतंत्र आत्मनिर्भर बन सकता है। Asked what constitutes 'swadeshi' and whether it will include foreign brands that have manufacturing units in India, an MHA spokesperson said, "Please read the press release. Made in India is the focus. I do not think there is any confusion."  The official statement said the Prime Minister "made an appeal yesterday (Tuesday) to make the country self-reliant and use products made in India. Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah has described this appeal as a guiding light to make India the Global Leader in future."  "The Home Minister also appealed to the people of the country and said, you should use the products made in the country as much as possible and encourage others to do the same. This is not the time to be lagging behind, but to turn the crisis into an opportunity," it said.  On the lines of military canteens, paramilitary forces also run canteens to serving and retired personnel and their families. The MHA had set up the Central Police Canteen System on September 26, 2006. As of now, there are 119 Master Canteens, which act as distribution centres and 1,778 subsidiary canteens which sells products to troops and families. Later, Central Police Canteen facilities have also been extended to various departments under MHA personnel and other central security agencies personnel. These canteens sell cosmetics, electronic goods, food articles, footwear, grocery, food items, and utensils at a rate which is cheaper than the market rate. The Central Police Canteen has also tied up with automobile firms to sell two-wheelers and four-wheeler firms to provide vehicles at cheaper rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/paramilitary-canteens-to-sell-only-swadeshi-goods-from-june-1-837115.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi writes to UP CM, seeks waiver of power bills of farmers||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday wrote to UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, seeking zero interest on home loans availed by the poor and middle class and also a waiver of power bills of farmers for four months. In a letter to the UP chief minister, she also sought a slew of relief measures including waivers on bank loans and power bills of small and medium industries in the state, which are considered the backbone of the economy. In her letter, she called for relief to weavers and workers in various small and cottage industries in the state including carpet, textiles and 'chikan' work. Vadra also condoled the demise of Adityanath's father. This was the first time she was writing to him after his father's death. Adityanath's father passed away on April 20.  Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday shot off a letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath suggesting a slew of relief measures for the middle class, small traders, farmers and craftsmen to help them deal with the crisis created by the nationwide lockdown. At the outset, Priyanka extended her condolences to the chief minister over the death of his father, who passed away on April 20. In the letter, she demanded that the government give a 100% guarantee of procurement of the farm produce and loan waiver. She also raised the issue of procurement of the Rabi crops, which she claimed has been delayed. “Shikshamitra, Asha workers, rozgar sevaks should be provided bonuses, and weavers, craftsmen should be given Rs 12,000 each apart from waiver on electricity bills,” she wrote. She said that due to the pandemic everyone is affected financially, people are without jobs and work. So they should be helped in this hour of need. Priyanka also expressed concern for the farmers over the raised electricity bills and suggested that the tube well and domestic bills should be waived off and moratorium be put on pending dues. She also demanded financial assistance to the craftsmen and handloom workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-writes-to-up-cm-seeks-waiver-of-power-bills-of-farmers-837132.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt suspends transfers of its employees during 2020-21 due to COVID-19 outbreak||The Uttar Pradesh government has suspended transfers of its officers and employees for the financial year 2020-2021 in view of the coronavirus pandemic, an official order said. However, in case of unavoidable circumstances, transfers can be carried out with the chief minister's approval, it stated. According to the order issued by Chief Secretary R K Tiwari late on Tuesday night, transfers of government employees for the financial year 2020-2021 would remain suspended till further orders in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. Posts falling vacant due to death, medical emergency, promotion, resignation, suspension can be filled through transfers after approval from relevant authorities, it said. One of the worst-hit states in the country, Uttar Pradesh had reported 3,664 COVID-19 cases and 82 fatalities due to the respiratory disease till Tuesday, according to official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-suspends-transfers-of-its-employees-during-2020-21-due-to-covid-19-outbreak-837145.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police opposes plea in Delhi High Court to transfer Tablighi leader Maulana Saad's case to NIA||Delhi Police Wednesday opposed a plea in the Delhi High Court seeking direction that the NIA be handed over the investigation of a case against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad for holding a congregation in alleged violation of the orders aimed at containing the spread of coronavirus. A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani, conducting the hearing through video conferencing, asked the petitioner to place the judgements in support of his plea to transfer the investigation from Delhi Police Crime Branch to National Investigation Agency (NIA). The petition, filed by Mumbai-based lawyer Ghanshyam Upadhyay, has also sought direction to the NIA to investigate the matter in a time bound manner and the probe be monitored by the high court. It alleged that Delhi Police has failed to arrest the leader despite the lapse of considerable time. Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain opposed the plea saying Delhi Police was conducting the investigation in a fair manner and argued that the petitioner has no locus standi to file the plea. The court listed the matter for further hearing on May 28. Advocates Subhash Jha and Yash Chaturvedi, representing Upadhyay, claimed that the crime branch of Delhi Police has miserably failed in tracing out/ apprehending/ arresting Saad despite lapse of considerable time and his photograph being published in electronic media. “It is virtually impossible for Maulana Saad to hide himself for such a long time and that too in the capital of the country. Performance of Delhi Police has been pathetic from the very inception and outset. Failure of Delhi Police is explicit from the fact that despite there being lockdown and curfew like situation, Maulana Saad was able to arrange gathering of thousands of people belonging to Tablighi Jamaat in the capital of India,” the plea claimed. It further alleged that “from media reports and evidence so far collected by Delhi Police Crime Branch, it is now axiomatic that Maulana Saad and his henchmen conspired to spread and transmit coronavirus in different parts of the country, with oblique and ulterior motive of causing massive deaths all over the country and thereby to derail the Government of India in preventing the deadly disease”. The Delhi Police's crime branch had on March 31 lodged an FIR against seven persons, including the cleric, on a complaint by Station House Officer of Nizamuddin police station here for holding a congregation of Tablighi Jamaat followers in alleged violation of the orders against large gatherings to contain the spread of coronavirus. The Enforcement Directorate has also filed a money laundering case against Saad, trusts links to the Jamaat and others. The plea alleged that the acts of omission and commission of Saad and his associates / Tablighi Jamaat constitute “terrorist acts/activities” as defined under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and claimed that the Delhi Police has failed to arrest the leader despite lapse of considerable time. It said people of Tablighi Jamaat have been spreading the deadly virus all over the country not only by defying the national lockdown, also by assaulting corona warriors who have been treating the patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-opposes-plea-in-delhi-high-court-to-transfer-tablighi-leader-maulana-saads-case-to-nia-837147.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||With no transport available for onward journeys, scores left stranded on roads outside New Delhi station||Scores of people, who arrived here on the first batch of trains since the partial resumption of railway services amid a lockdown, were on Wednesday left stranded on the roads outside the railway station with no transport available for onward journeys. Special trains from Ahmedabad, Patna and Mumbai reached the New Delhi Railway Station before 9 am on Wednesday. The Indian Railways resumed passenger train operations from May 12, initially with 15 pairs of trains, weeks after these were suspended due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. Railway authorities said all passengers were compulsorily screened and given hand sanitiser at entry and exit points and in trains. Though the train journey remained smooth for most of the passengers, their excitement to reach home disappeared as they stepped out of the station premises. There was no bus, cab or any other transport option available for onward journeys. Many passengers carrying heavy luggage stood clueless outside the railway station, while some tried to convince local cab drivers to take them home in various states. "We can give you Rs 6,000 maximum if you take us to Roorkee (a distance of about 200 km)," a man said to a driver who reached the station to pick up a family which had already booked his taxi. Another man was seen asking a rickshaw-puller to take to take him to Anand Vihar. Vishnu, 24, who boarded a train from Sabarmati along with his wife and three-year-old boy, said he gave Rs 1,800 to a tempo driver to reach the Ahmedabad station. "My brother-in-law booked the ticket for us for Rs 1,750. We have to go to Ravi Nagar in West Delhi, but the family doesn't have a vehicle at home,” he said. Ratnakar, a resident of Uttam Nagar, who had gone to his village in Bihar's Begusarai district, said he had no clue about the non-availability of public transport in Delhi. His father, who is in his 60s, said if they start walking, they would reach home by evening. “Why have they started running trains when there is no bus or metro available? We had no clue that there will be no public transport whatsoever in Delhi,” he said. Aviral Mathur, who reached here on the first train from Ahmedabad, said the Delhi government should have at least run a few buses for passengers travelling on special trains.  "A private taxi seems highly unlikely and even if you get one, they have been charging exorbitantly,” he added. Md. Taufiq Alam, 26, who arrived from Mumbai, asked it is disappointing that the Centre or the Delhi government did not think about those who have to travel to their hometown from Delhi. "An advisory could have been issued informing people that no transport will be available from Delhi,” Alam said, as he put his heavy bag down on the road. A few women were seen asking policemen to help them get water for their children. “There is no arrangement of water, food or toilet for people who are still to cover hundreds of kilometers before they reach their home,” Siraj Ali, a carpenter who returned from Mumbai, said. Ali and his two friends are already discussing their options if they fail to get an auto-rickshaw or some 'jugaad' to reach home in Uttar Pradesh's Bareilly. "We have been without work for two months. Our employer did not pay us. We asked our friends and families to transfer some money into our bank accounts so that we could book train tickets,” he said. “We did not know that there will be no bus from Delhi. Now, the footpath will be our home till bus or train service for Bareilly resumes,” Ali said. A group of 14 men who worked at a hotel in Jaipur were among those scrambling for a transport.  Ashok Tamta, 22, from Khatima in Uttarakhand said they have no clue as to how they will reach their home. Tamta, who was to get married on April 8, said the Jaipur hotel where he worked closed leaving them jobless. "We had no option but to return to our places. We did not think once when the train services resumed, booked a ticked and set out on our journeys," he said. His friend and co-worker Deepak Kumar from Pithoragarh said they will sleep on the roads and walk to their home state if they don't get any transport. A group of three men from Chennai, who worked in Jaipur, were also among those who were waiting outside the station till their train to hometown reach the station at 4 pm. Furkaan, 26, said there was no option but to wait outside on the road. The only relief is that the weather is cloudy. His friend Gilani, 26, said they had dinner last night and that there was no food left with them. "It's going to be hard...but what's assuring is that we will reach our home," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-no-transport-available-for-onward-journeys-scores-left-stranded-on-roads-outside-new-delhi-station-837150.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||33 people booked for lockdown norms violation after clash over tractor's right of passage in fields in Muzaffarnagar, UP||Several people sustained minor injuries when two groups of villagers clashed at Gyana Majra village under Charthawal police station on Tuesday over the right of passage of tractor in the fields, the police said. According to police officer Sube Singh, neither side filed a complaint with the police over the clash prompting them to register a case against 33 people for violation of lockdown norms.  Six of the accused have been arrested, the police officer added. India is under a nationwide lockdown to combat the novel coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/33-people-booked-for-lockdown-norms-violation-after-clash-over-tractors-right-of-passage-in-fields-in-muzaffarnagar-up-837153.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||U'khand CM launches portal to help unemployed youth get jobs||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday launched a portal aimed at creating employment avenues for the trained youth as well as offering them skill development opportunities to increase their employability. The portal, 'HOPE' - Helping Out People Everywhere, has already begun collecting data on the youths staying in the state as well as migrant youths who have returned recently from outside, Secretary Skill Development Ranjit Sinha said. The portal will not only provide a platform to the youths for job hunting and skill development through its database but will also help potential employers find human resources as per their requirements, Sinha said. Information like where they worked, what they did, their specialisation, area of interest and the kind of employment they are looking for can be shared by the youths on the portal, the official said. Once the database is ready, the portal will be linked with the Mukhya Mantri Swarojgar Yojana which was launched recently, he said. Information on youths applying from a particular village will be readily available on the portal and will help in village-based analysis of the database, he said, adding that it will make it easier for the government to work out village-specific programmes. In view of the decline in employment opportunities caused by the COVID-19 outbreak, the chief minister wants to train the youths or refine the skills of the trained to help them get jobs, Sinha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ukhand-cm-launches-portal-to-help-unemployed-youth-get-jobs-837154.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||People unimpressed by PM Narendra Modi's promise of financial package, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday took a jibe at the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, terming it as rhetoric. The prime minister on Tuesday announced massive new financial incentives on top of the previously announced packages for a combined stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, "First it was the false promise of (Rs) 15 lakh, and now it is the claim of (Rs) 20 lakh crore...Now, the 133 crore people will be hit by a 133-time bigger 'jumla' (rhetoric)...How can anyone believe this..." Sharpening his attack further, the former UP chief minister said, "Now, people are not asking how many zeroes are there in 20 lakh crore, but how many 'gol-gol goli' are there in it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-unimpressed-by-pm-narendra-modis-promise-of-financial-package-says-akhilesh-yadav-837159.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Migrant workers from Bihar take out protest march in Ludhiana||Migrant labourers from Bihar stuck here due to the ongoing nationwide lockdown, took out a protest march on Wednesday. They said they had run out of money and wanted to return to their home state. One of the protesters, Ram Yadav, said they wanted to go back to their native places in Bihar. He said they did not have any money, claiming that they were not paid their last month's wages by the owners of the factories where they had worked. Yadav also accused the Punjab government of not providing them with ration. Police personnel were present near Chowk Mata Rani, where the protest march was taken out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-workers-from-bihar-take-out-protest-march-in-ludhiana-837179.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||No response from Bihar, will bear fare for 3 trains ferrying migrants home: Delhi govt||The Delhi government will bear the cost of sending home stranded migrant workers from Bihar in three Shramik Special trains on Wednesday as the Nitish Kumar-led government hasn't yet responded to its request to pay for their tickets, an official said. Each special train will carry around 1,200 migrant workers, according to the official. This comes days after a war of words broke out between Delhi and Bihar governments over expenses incurred by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led dispensation to send around 1,200 migrant workers to Muzaffarpur on a Shramik Special train. "The Delhi government will bear the cost of ferrying migrant workers as the Bihar government is yet to respond on the payment (for train tickets)," the official said. The three special trains will leave for Bhagalpur, Barauni and Darbhanga in Bihar. Last week, the AAP had said it bore the cost of ferrying migrant workers from Delhi to Bihar. However, Bihar's ruling Janata Dal (United) rejected the claim. It alleged the AAP was speaking "half-truth" on the issue as the Delhi government had sought from the Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led Bihar dispensation a reimbursement of the train fare. The JD(U) had also accused the AAP of resorting to "cheap politics to gain popularity".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-response-from-bihar-will-bear-fare-for-3-trains-ferrying-migrants-home-delhi-govt-837185.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: 3 migrant labourers, infant returning home during lockdown killed in road accidents in UP||Three migrant labourers and an infant girl were killed, while 46 others suffered injuries in two road accidents when they were returning home in Uttar Pradesh from other states during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, officials said on Wednesday. A truck carrying a group of 54 migrant labourers and their families from Ahmedabad in Gujarat to Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh rammed into a stationary truck near Lalpur police post on Kanpur-Jhansi highway, killing three people and injuring 43 others. Superintendent of Police (Kanpur Dehat) Anurag Vats said, "The deceased persons have been identified as Rohit (25), Hiraman (50) and Sumaiyya (2), all residents of Balrampur." The injured have been admitted to the district hospital, he said, adding that eight of them are critical and have been referred to Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) Hospital, Kanpur. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the loss of lives in the accident. In a statement issued in Lucknow, he instructed officials to ensure that those injured get proper treatment. In Chitrakoot, a migrant labourer returning home in Uttar Pradesh from Chhattisgarh on a bicycle was killed after being hit by a truck, the police said. Mohan (44), a resident of Saharanpur, was returning home along with three others on Tuesday evening when the accident took place, they said. The labourers had stopped on the roadside near Kalchiha village in Chitrakoot to take rest when they were hit by the speeding truck, the police said.  All four were injured in the accident and taken to a community health centre in Mau village, where Mohan died. Mau community health centre superintendent Shekhar Vaishya said condition of the three other workers was stable. The truck has been impounded and its driver arrested, the police said. The workers, who hail from Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar districts, were working at a jaggery factory in Chhattisgarh's Raipur. The factory was closed due to the lockdown enforced to check the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-3-migrant-labourers-infant-returning-home-during-lockdown-killed-in-road-accidents-in-up-837189.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 death toll rises to 106 in Delhi; total cases close to 8K||The death toll due to COVID-19 in the national capital has gone up to 106, after 20 deaths which took place in April and May were reported on Wednesday, authorities said. The total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi climbed to 7,998 after 359 fresh cases were reported. In a bulletin issued on Wednesday, the Delhi health department said the 20 deaths reported, took place in April and May as per case sheets received from hospitals, and audited by the COVID-19 death committee. However, it also carried a footnote, saying certain figures mentioned in the bulletin were subject to change on receipt of additional information. In the first week of May, the city also recorded its largest single-day spike of 448 new COVID-19 cases. On Tuesday, the total number of cases stood at 7,639 with 86 deaths. With 20 more fatalities, the death toll from COVID-19 in Delhi has risen to 106. Of the total deaths till date, 86 took place at various COVID-19 dedicated hospitals, with RML Hospital accounting for 41 of these fatalities, the maximum among the dedicated hospitals, according to the bulletin, which added that the others took place at other hospitals. The deaths recorded till date at other COVID-19 dedicated facilities are -- LNJP Hospital (19), Apollo Hospital (8), Sir Ganga Ram Kolmet Hospital (5), Max Hospital, Saket (5), Safdarjung Hospital (4), AIIMS (Delhi & Jhajjhar) (2) and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (2), the bulletin said. Of the total number of deceased patients, 58 were aged 60 and above, accounting for over 54 per cent of the fatalities here. Twenty-eight of them were aged between 50-59 years and 20 were less than 50 years, the bulletin said. Facing criticism for "under-reporting" COVID-19 deaths, the Delhi government on Sunday had issued standard operating procedure (SOP) for hospitals and other health facilities in the city on reporting fatalities due to coronavirus. Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev had issued an order along with the SOP under which all COVID-19 hospitals and other facilities will e-mail a 'death report' to the government by 5 PM every day. As many as 2,858 patients have recovered so far, while there are 5,034 active cases, the Delhi health department said. A total of 1,13,345 tests for COVID-19 have been conducted till date, it said. The total number of COVID-19 positive patients under home isolation stands at 1,113, it said. According to the Delhi Health Department bulletin, out of the total 7,998 cases recorded so far, at least 1,634 are admitted at various hospitals like LNJP Hospital, RML Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) and AIIMS Jhajjhar, adding that 114 of them are in ICU and 14 on ventilators.  The number of containment zones in Delhi has been reduced to 81.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-106-in-delhi-total-cases-close-to-8k-837222.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Lockdown: Migrant labourer returning home in Uttar Pradesh on bicycle killed in road accident||A migrant labourer returning home in Uttar Pradesh from Chhattisgarh on bicycle due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown was killed after being hit by a truck, police said on Wednesday. Forty-year-old Mohan, a resident of Saharanpur, was returning home along with three others on Tuesday evening when the accident took place, they said. The labourers had stopped on the roadside near Kalchiha village here to take rest when they were hit by a speeding truck, the police said. All the four suffered injuries in the accident and taken to a community health centre in Mau village, where Mohan died. Mau community health centre superintendent Shekhar Vaishya said condition of the three other workers was stable. The truck has been seized and its driver arrested, the police said. The workers, hailing from Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar districts, were working at a jaggery factory in Raipur in Chhattisgarh. The factory was closed due to the ongoing lockdown enforced to check the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-migrant-labourer-returning-home-in-uttar-pradesh-on-bicycle-killed-in-road-accident-837234.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi court judge comes in contact with COVID-19 patient, 2 judges self quarantine||Two Delhi court judges have gone into self-quarantine at home for 14 days after one of them came in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient, a circular issued by Saket District Court has said. According to the circular issued by District Judge Neena Bansal Krishna, the Metropolitan Magistrate posted at Tis Hazari District Court came in contact with a coronavirus or Covid-19 positive patient on May 6, who was produced before him for recording his statement. It said that his wife, who is the Metropolitan Magistrate at Saket District Court, informed that in view of the government guidelines on preventing the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, she has isolated herself for 14 days at her home. The circular was forwarded to the Registrar General of the Delhi High Court for necessary action. A day after this letter was issued, District Judge Girish Kathpalia issued directions to the judicial officers, administrative officers and staff officials posted at Tis Hazari Courts complex, in view of the novel coronavirus pandemic. "Unless deputed on emergency duty during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown, no judicial officer, administrative officer and staff official shall personally visit the courts complex. Even those who are deputed on emergency duty during the ongoing lockdown period shall work online from home, unless absolutely impossible to do so, in which case they can come personally and work from the courts complex," the circular said. It further directed that those who are suffering with any co-morbidity complications like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac ailments and cancer, shall immediately inform the District Judge or the respective Branch In-charges in writing, so that they be not deputed on emergency duty that requires their personal presence in the courts complex. "Those judicial officers, administrative officers and staff officials whose personal presence is indispensable shall ensure strict adherence to the norms of social distancing, wear mask, gloves and head gear constantly in the court complex and ensure hand hygiene by repeated soap wash or use of sanitisers. "Those judicial officers, administrative officers and staff officials who are suffering with any symptom of COOVID-19, like ever, cough or breathing difficulty etc or any other medical complication shall immediately inform the District Judge or the respective Branch Incharges in writing, so that they be not deputed on emergency duty that requires their personal presence in the courts complex," the circular said. Another court staff posted at Saket District Courts complex has tested positive for COVID-19 on May 9, a circular issued by the court had said on Sunday. The junior judicial assistant had last visited the office on May 4 due to some official work and came in contact with a stenographer of the court, the circular said. Therefore the stenographer has been directed to remain in self quarantine for 14 days, from May 4 to May 17 and take necessary precautions, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-judge-comes-in-contact-with-covid-19-patient-2-judges-self-quarantine-837251.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Stimulus package to revive economic activities, boost Make in India, says steelmakers||Indian steelmakers on Wednesday said the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi would give a quantum jump to economic activities in the country and boost the ambitious Make in India programme. The Prime Minister on Tuesday announced a massive new financial incentive on top of the previously announced packages for a combined stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore. Welcoming the announcement, Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd chairman and managing director P K Rath said the impetus would give a quantum jump to economic activities in the country. The growth of downstream sectors of Indian steel Industry, MSMEs, construction, infrastructure, auto etc will help India become self-reliant, he said. "The package is predicated to make the Indian economy self-reliant by leveraging our inherent strengths of demographics, technological skills and domestic demand by building infrastructure and robust supply chains that would give a boost the Make in India programme," JSW Group Chairman Sajjan Jindal said. Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) Chairman Naveen Jindal said the relief announced under the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan' will strengthen infrastructure, tech-driven system, demography and demand as highlighted by the Prime Minister. The much-needed stimulus by the government will reassure businesses and the common man, he said. SAIL Chairman Anil Kumar Chaudhary said the package which equals 10 per cent of India's GDP is in line with the industry expectations. This will help restart various industrial activities and bring back the momentum of all economic activities, he said. "Infrastructure being one of five pillars emphasized by PM in his strategy of self-reliant India will augur well for domestic steel demand. Once the economy is kick-started, there will be a marked pick-up in infrastructure and construction activities bringing the steel demand back in the domestic market," he said. Pankaj Malhan, CEO, Vedanta ElectroSteel Steels Limited, said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Aatmanirbhar Bharat movement, based on economy, infrastructure, technology-driven system, vibrant demography and demand is a welcome initiative that will propel India's growth and shape up 'India of Future' while ensuring that both lives and livelihood are well-balanced." The announcements made by the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will go a long way in driving the much-needed demand and liquidity in the system, he said, adding it will protect earnings at both individual and corporate level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stimulus-package-to-revive-economic-activities-boost-make-in-india-says-steelmakers-837294.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Court grants bail to student arrested in rioting case||A Delhi court Wednesday granted bail to Gulfisha Fatima, an MBA student and anti-CAA activist associated with women's collective Pinjra Tod, in a case related to communal violence during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in northeast Delhi in February. Additional Sessions Judge Naveen Gupta granted the relief to Fatima on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 20,000 and a surety of like amount. Fatima, an MBA student, was arrested for allegedly instigating a crowd of protestors that led to riots in the area. According to the FIR, she, along with others, allegedly instigated a crowd to block the road near Jaffrabad metro station on February 22 to protest against the CAA and National Register for Citizens (NRC). The court granted the relief to the woman activist, arrested on April 9, on the ground of parity as three co-accused in the case, including Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC) member Shafoora Zargar, have been granted bail in the case. It directed Fatima to participate in the investigation and to regularly appear before the court as and when required to do so. It said that as and when the court starts its regular functioning, the accused shall produce surety of the like amount within seven days. Fatima was also arrested in a separate case related to northeast Delhi violence in which JCC member Meeran Haider, Zargar and suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain have been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. During the hearing held through video conferencing, Additional Public Prosecutor, appearing for the police, opposed the bail application saying the allegations were serious in nature and the investigation was at a crucial stage. Advocate Mehhmood Pracha, appearing for Fatima, told the court that she has been falsely implicated in the rioting case and other co-accused have been granted bail earlier. The FIR has booked the activist for the offences under sections 147 (rioting), 186 (obstructing a public servant from doing his duty), 188 (disobedience to order), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant), 283 ( danger or obstruction in public way), 109 (Abetment) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-court-grants-bail-to-student-arrested-in-rioting-case-837320.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||IMA asks all members to provide water, energy bars to migrants walking home||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has appealed to all its members to provide ORS solution, water and locally-made energy bars with jaggery and puffed rice to migrants travelling on foot to reach their native places. In a communique to all state presidents and state secretaries, presidents and secretaries of the local branches and all national office bearers, IMA national president Ranjan Sharma drew their attention to the migrants travelling on foot to reach their destination. In another statement, the IMA also batted for cash transfer to the poor, investment of five per cent of the GDP in health by governments, and stimulus to clinics, small and medium hospitals being run as professional medical practice. "India will slide down in health parameters, including lifespan, infant mortality and maternal mortality, if issues of unemployment and poverty are not addressed on war footing," it said. Sharma said that it was disturbing to see not a single food outlet open or anybody offering the migrants food or work and added that due to economic stress and lockdown they have started moving from their place of work. "I would not like to enumerate the economic difficulties they must be facing. As we are engaged in the fight against COVID-19, it is also pertinent to mention here that we cannot, rather should not, shy away from our social responsibilities. "It is my humble request to all my fellow colleagues of the country to find out a solution for COVID-19 labour on foot. The suggestions from my end are that if we can provide them ORS solution, water and locally-made energy bars with jaggery and puffed rice," he said in the communique. Responsibility is more on the IMA branches, near or on the highways and they need to take care of the people's nutritional needs, Sharma said. He also suggested setting up IMA counters on the highways where medical personnel can be deputed to thermal scan them and cater to the small medical issues of these people. "The undersigned requests you to either kindly set up a counter on the highways or tie up with the local police and other relevant departments for the same. Many of us have already contributed to such activities including running of food services/community kitchens etc. Now let's launch IMA Community Nutrition Kiosks," Sharma said. In the other statement, the organisation said the lockdown has partitioned India horizontally between haves and have nots. "The scale of migration and the tales of human misery are heart-rendering. The uncertainty hanging over their lives remains the same. Poverty is the worst form of violence. It remains 'the' factor in determining nutrition and immunity game changer," it said The IMA said that tuberculosis which kills 2,235 Indians everyday even today is expected to increase by at least 15 per cent and the road to health begins by taking poverty head on, the doctors' body said. "Universal Basic Income and Universal Health Coverage are no longer a luxury that we can't afford. In fact they are the tools of survival," he said. "Cash in the hands of poor is spent on food and health... Public health infrastructure and human resources are our insurance against any exigencies. If India can afford an All India Revenue Service we can surely afford an All India Medical Service. Law and order is a State subject, health as well," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ima-asks-all-members-to-provide-water-energy-bars-to-migrants-walking-home-837332.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Centre failed to address humanitarian crisis caused by lockdown, says Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday expressed disappointment at the Centre's alleged failure to address the humanitarian crisis resulting from the lockdown, saying immediate intervention in the unorganised labour sector should have been a top priority in the fiscal relief package. The comments came soon after Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced Rs 3 lakh crore of collateral-free loans for small businesses, a cut in the tax rate for non-salary payments and measures to provide liquidity to non-banking companies to help them tide over the disruptions caused by the lockdown. Unveiling the first set of components of the Rs 20 lakh crore COVID-19 economic stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sitharaman said Rs 90,000 crore liquidity infusion will be made in electricity distribution companies to help them fight the current financial stress. Singh said it was unfortunate that the finance minister had not deem it fit to balance the needs of the MSMEs, NBFCs and the housing sector with the urgent requirements of the lakhs of migrant labourers facing unprecedented problems due to the current crisis. Citing the prime minister's emphasis on securing 'jaan' with 'jahan', the chief minister said the first set of announcements by the finance minister showed no intent at protecting lives. “The MSMEs, the housing sector, etc., have to first survive, and then take the leap to the revival stage. And how will they survive without their workers, who have left them in hordes and seem in no mood to return any time soon,” the chief minister asked, urging the Centre to take note of the woes of the labourers, especially in the unorganised sector, to address the immediate challenges for the national economy. While the implications and the impact of the reliefs announced by the Union finance minister would need more analysis, the chief minister, in a statement here, said on the face of it, the MSMEs had not received the much-needed bailout package. Instead, they were being offered loans, which will only end up plunging them into a deeper debt crisis, he added. Even the MSMEs working in the critical health sector have not received any special incentives to give them the impetus that they need right now to support the COVID battle, Singh said, lamenting the absence of any serious thought in prioritising the nation's needs at this critical juncture. Pointing out that Punjab had 2.52 lakh industries, of which only about 1,000 were large, the chief minister said given the magnitude of the problem, the Centre would need to come out with a massive package for the MSMEs to resume operations. And only when the MSMEs start opening up will the migrant labour return to the state, he added. Even the relief for the power sector was inadequate, said the chief minister, adding that while PFCs and RECs have been directed to extend loans to the state-run power utilities against their receivables, there has been no directive to keep the interest rate at par with the market. As for the salaried middle-class, the deferment in IT deadline and reduction in TDS could hardly be termed a relief measure, he noted. “And how can refunding the tax payers' own money of the previous fiscal be deemed a relief measure is beyond understanding,” Singh further quipped. The announcements made on Wednesday, the chief minister said, appeared to be aimed at reviving the economy in the long term and not focused on giving the urgent financial support needed by the critical sectors of the economy. He said he hoped that the next set of announcements would see some concrete measures for the unorganised labour sector in particular and also address the grave unemployment crisis staring at the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-failed-to-address-humanitarian-crisis-caused-by-lockdown-says-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-837336.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||New Delhi district magistrate's office sealed after 8 personnel test positive for COVID-19||The office of New Delhi district magistrate was sealed on Wednesday after eight civil defence volunteers working there tested positive for COVID-19, officials said. All those who came in contact with the eight personnel will be tested for coronavirus, a senior official said, adding that contact tracing has also been undertaken to ascertain who came in their contact. The eight personnel who tested positive were deployed at the district disaster management authority control room for COVID-19 inside the DM's office complex, officials said. The office was sanitised and sealed after their test report came and all the senior officers, including the district magistrate and staff members, worked from home, officials said. The eight personnel were involved in field work like distribution of masks and other relief works. They have been admitted at the YMCA care centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-delhi-district-magistrates-office-sealed-after-8-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-837350.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt starts running DTC buses only for railway passengers||The Delhi government has started running DTC buses to ferry migrant workers and other passengers to and from the New Delhi railway station, even as it is yet to take a final call on resuming public transport in the city. The transport department of Delhi government is holding discussions to develop a protocol for safe public transport amid the COVID-19 pandemic. A decision over resumption of public transport will depend on the Centre's guidelines, said a senior government functionary. The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has started running buses for passengers arriving at New Delhi railway station from different destinations across the country after resumption of train services for the general public, he said. DTC buses have also been deployed to transport migrant workers from various government shelters in the city to the railway station.  The railways started operating special trains for the general public from Tuesday while Shramik Special trains had already been running for stranded migrant workers. Three special trains for Bilaspur, Dibrugarh and Bengaluru left New Delhi railway station on Tuesday. Four trains arrived from Patna, Ahmedabad, Mumbai and Howrah at the New Delhi railway station on Wednesday. For passengers reaching the railway station from different places in the country, DTC has started 20 shuttle busses to take them up to Shivaji Stadium and Ambedkar terminal, officials said. From these two terminals, the passengers will be sent to different areas in the city and dropped at respective district magistrate offices. The number of buses run from these two points will depend on the number of passengers, they said. "The number of passengers will be kept low to maintain social distancing. Other precautions like wearing of masks and sanitisers will be strictly followed," said a senior DTC officer.  Delhi government has also started deliberations on resuming public transport. Discussions were held over developing a standard protocol for it, in a meeting of senior officers of the department on Wednesday. "A standard operating procedure has been discussed but any decision about resuming public transport will be taken after the Centre issues its guidelines on it," said the Delhi government functionary. Meanwhile, the government has deployed DTC buses to drop migrant workers at New Delhi railway station from where they will catch trains to their home states. "We are providing buses under special hire for migrant workers to take them from shelters to the railway station. The buses run from district magistrate offices in the city," officials said. All precautions related to coronavirus are being strictly followed in these buses including social distancing, they added .||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-starts-running-dtc-buses-only-for-railway-passengers-837352.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||CAPFs canteens asked to sell indigenous products from June 1||Taking a cue from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to promote local products, Union Home Ministry on Wednesday decided that canteens of paramilitary forces will sell only indigenous products from June 1 in a bid to give a fillip to small scale industries and Khadi. The countrywide network of over 1,700 Central Police Canteens (CPCs) sell products ranging from groceries, clothes to gift items worth Rs 2,800 crore annually to 50 lakh family members of about 10 lakh personnel. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Union Home Minister Shah said the decision to sell only indigenous products through the CPCs has been taken by his ministry after the prime minister's appeal on Tuesday for opting for local products and being self-reliant. Shah also urged the people to make maximum use of the products made in the country and encourage others to do the same. The word indigenous, according to officials, means that products made by Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and those produced by firms under the Khadi Village Industries Commission umbrella will be promoted in the CPCs. All Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) and other consumers durable, which are made in India by various firms and available till now in the CPCs, will continue, the officials said, adding no imported items were available in the CAPF canteens. They, however, added that as the new guidelines for having "only Swadeshi" come into effect from June detailed instructions from the Home Ministry in this context are awaited. "The Ministry of Home Affairs has decided that all Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) canteens will now sell only indigenous products. This will be applicable to all CAPF canteens across the country from 1 June 2020. With this, 50 lakh family members of about 10 lakh CAPF personnel will use indigenous products," the home minister said, adding if every Indian pledges to use products made in India (Swadeshi), the country can become self-sufficient in next five years. "You should use the products made in the country as much as possible and encourage others to do the same. This is not the time to be lagging behind, but to turn the crisis into an opportunity," an official statement quoted him as saying. The CAPFs canteens comprise the CRPF, BSF, CISF, ITBP and SSB, apart from the commando force NSG. Referring to Modi's appeal on Tuesday, during his address to the nation, to make the country self-reliant and use products made in India, Shah said this will surely pave the way for India to lead the world in future. Urging to the people of the country, the home minister said, "Let us all strengthen the hands of Prime Minister Modi in this journey of making India self-reliant by using indigenous products." The Home Ministry had in October last year directed all CAPFs or paramilitary forces to shun foreign brands and introduce 'swadeshi' goods, including food items, household goods and clothing, in their canteens and offices. The official order issued by the ministry last year had said 'swadeshi' should be made available in these canteens include food items, clothes and accoutrements for khaki and combat uniform, bed sheets, towels, curtains, stationery and all other miscellaneous items. While new procurement of these items should be 'swadeshi' or country-made, the order had said, existing items should be replaced with the same when they are due for replacement. "The order is aimed to boost the income and status of local producers of these goods. This is to promote indigenous products and industry. These forces are about 10 lakh personnel strong at present and they procure canteen items and goods worth crores of rupees annually," a senior official had said. The CPCs were established in 2006. There are over 119 master canteens and 1,625 subsidiary canteens at various locations where these forces are deployed, be it along borders or the interiors of Naxal violence-hit or insurgency affected states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/capfs-canteens-asked-to-sell-indigenous-products-from-june-1-837355.html
13-05-2020||North and Central||Detention of Shah Faesal extended by 3 months under Public Safety Act||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has extended detention of former IAS officer-turned-politician Shah Faesal under the controversial Public Safety Act (PSA) by three months, official said on Wednesday. Faesal, who has been under detention after scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, was booked under the PSA in February this year. His detention was extended barely hours before it was to come to an end on Wednesday. The PSA has two sections, 'public order' and 'threat to the security of the state'. The former allows detention for three months which can be extended to a year and the latter for two years. Faesal was stopped from taking a flight to Istanbul at the Delhi airport during the intervening night of August 13 and 14 last year and flown back to Srinagar, where he was detained. The former bureaucrat from Jammu and Kashmir had floated the Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Movement party after resigning from the Indian Administrative Service (IAS).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/detention-of-shah-faesal-extended-by-3-months-under-public-safety-act-837359.html
13-05-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus: We must involve medical students||The Coronavirus pandemic has upended the healthcare sector and is forcing us to reevaluate medical education as well. Owing to the uncertainty and disagreement regarding the roles of medical students during a pandemic, the participation of students in clinical care has varied across states. Some argue that students should not be allowed to interact with patients whereas others maintain that students must be recruited for hospital-based roles or allow them to graduate early so that they can join the frontline and serve with other physicians.  According to the central government, there are just over one million doctors registered with the state medical councils. Approximately 80% of them are in active service. This means that we have just one doctor for every 1500 people. While this is significantly short of the WHO recommended doctor-patient ratio of 1:1000, it is even more worrisome considering the fact that we are in the middle of a pandemic.  We have to acknowledge the role of medical students as physicians-in-training. While their primary role is to learn medicine, they also interview patients, call for consultations, respond to emergency messages, communicate with the patients’ families, assist with complicated procedures, write notes, and help coordinate care and plan discharge.  If medical students act solely as learners during the pandemic, it can create unnecessary risks for the patients and other clinicians. They can act as vectors for transmission, consume PPE kits, and place additional burdens on teaching physicians. However, if they are allowed to serve in a clinical capacity, it may benefit the patients overall. Such involvement will not be without precedent. We should not wait for the healthcare system to reach a breaking point before we invite students to serve. They are adept at many clinical roles and we should make full use of it as long as they are ready. For instance, medical students can surely assist with regular outpatient care. They can help boost the efficiency of understaffed clinics by taking medical histories and calling the patients with their lab results. Even during a pandemic, patients who suffer from chronic conditions need ongoing care. Pregnant women need regular check-ins, and discharged patients require routine follow-ups. A number of these tasks can be performed with the help of telemedicine so that there is no risk of infection.  Students can also administer care to patients who don’t have Covid-19. Under the supervision of attending physicians or senior residents, a lot of upper-level medical students carry a patient load. In addition, the risks associated with student involvement are considerably lower than the risks to retired physicians, who are more vulnerable to the infection owing to their age. However, considering the fact that we cannot overlook personal risks, any student participation must be strictly voluntary.  Medical students can also remotely assist with the care of Covid-19 patients. They can monitor patients with mild symptoms who are not yet admitted, review the charts of admitted patients and expedite medical care, draft notes, ensure that tests are performed in a timely manner, and follow up with patients who have recovered and discharged successfully. Although most of the aforementioned roles require physician supervision, mobilizing students will definitely reduce the burden on clinical teams. We should also start training medical and nursing students on how to deal with Covid-positive patients as it will help strengthen the health workforce and keep them from crumbling in the event of a rapid transmission.  As the state and central governments decide on the appropriate course of action, we should get more used to the idea of students volunteering for service. After all, medical students are physicians who have responsibilities and they should be allowed to perform their duties. Not only will it benefit patients and the overburdened healthcare system, allowing students to lend a hand will instill positive values, such as altruism, service to others, and solidarity. (The writer is the CEO & Founder, Omnicuris)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-we-must-involve-medical-students-836997.html
13-05-2020||Opinion||PM Narendra Modi’s need for control impairs India’s coronavirus recovery||By Andy Mukherjee With infections surging by nearly 50% to cross 70,000 since the shutdown was eased about a week ago, it’s clear that one-size-fits-all rules have been less than a stellar success. They have forced states to sacrifice the little revenue they generate by, among other things, taxing fuel and alcohol. That’s left them fighting for a fair and timely share of dwindling federal resources, and scrambling to raise funds in the bond market. It’s impossible to conclude that a more localized approach would have contained the pandemic. Still, states left to act on their own might have fared better in lowering both the human cost of the tragedy and its grave economic consequences. This situation is still salvageable. The government, and the central bank, must work with states to make available the resources they need to restart safely. Beg, borrow, or monetize, but find the cash. The bulk of the $265 billion, or 10% of GDP, Modi promised to spend in a Tuesday evening televised address needs to be new expenditure and not a reshuffling of the existing budget. At least some of it has to reach the states. Otherwise, the crunch will spawn harmful ad hocism. Some agrarian states in northern India are so worried about the excess returnee workers from elsewhere that they’re suspending labour laws, hoping to attract the large factories they never got. India’s archaic rules are notorious for encouraging bribery without protecting anyone. But the answer to a bad law isn’t lawlessness. Allowing 12-hour workdays without social security is hardly a blueprint for industrialization in the 21st century.  Even before the COVID-19 crisis, too little income went to labour and too much to providers of capital, outside of India’s bloated public sector. This was coming in the way of ordinary people being able to afford even 7-cent cookies. In the post-virus world, if the price of labour becomes a race to the bottom among states, then upward mobility will suffer and extreme inequality will only worsen. What will be the point of investing in India to tap a diverse yet common market where only a sliver of the population has any spending power?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/pm-narendra-modi-s-need-for-control-impairs-india-s-coronavirus-recovery-837017.html
13-05-2020||Opinion||How India’s experience in managing disasters can inform our COVID-19 response||While measures such as this lockdown and physical distancing have proved to slow down transmission, these measures have vastly different impacts on different social groups. For informal workers and poor families, the onslaught of the virus worsens existing vulnerabilities and creates new ones that could have severe and irreparable impacts on their well-being. Much like disasters such as cyclones and floods, these are not just one-off events in people’s lives. Their impacts run deeper.   How India deals with disasters On March 24, the government invoked the Disaster Management Act of 2005 (DM Act), the core institutional framework that guides disaster management in India, in an effort to battle the virus. The Act rightly emphasises the need to move from merely responding to disasters to effectively preparing for them. In terms of extreme weather events, the stress on preparedness has translated into early warning systems, relief shelters and massive evacuation exercises that have contributed significantly in reducing casualties. However, it has done very little in reducing entrenched vulnerabilities of affected areas and communities.  This arises from the patchy understanding of what constitutes vulnerability and risk, which are shaped by aspects of existing socio-economic structures such as caste, occupation and gender, policy interventions, individual capacity and access to resources. Vulnerability encompasses not only the likelihood of physical exposure to a hazard but also people’s susceptibility to its effects and their ability to cope and respond. Thus, for the poor, and marginalised, especially those that live in the cracks that run between welfare schemes, vulnerability is a continuous aspect of life punctuated by hazards.  However, the state often fails to treat disasters as processes with long-term antecedents and potentially long-term consequences. Instead, they are treated as temporary or one-off events, and recovery from them is limited to rebuilding what has been destroyed.  Way forward to recovery How then do we respond to extreme events – whether hydrometeorological or public health hazards – in ways that limit their impacts and does not further marginalise or harm already vulnerable people? The first step is to move beyond the idea that immediate response and post-disaster relief measures are sufficient to ensure that affected people and communities can recover. For disaster-affected people, in order to have ‘recovered’, not only should livelihoods and physical assets be re-established, but they should also be able to withstand the next extreme event.  The current crisis has amply demonstrated the crucial role played by civil society organisations in providing relief and recovery, especially to the vast majority of domestic workers and several others in the informal sector. Events in the past like the Bhuj earthquake, Indian Ocean tsunami and the floods in Chennai and Kerala have shown the indispensable role played by civil society organisations in assessing the needs of a community and ensuring accurate ground surveys to inform state support. Their sustained involvement leads to long term recovery of the region and communities they work with.  The DM Act has been criticised for excluding the participation of civil society in its prescribed disaster management activities. Given the limited reach of the state, not only is there a need to consider amending this Act, but any legislations or plans drawn up to deal with public health hazards must also facilitate civil society participation to enable better recovery outcomes.  (Nihal Ranjit and Vineetha Nalla are researchers working on Urban Risk and Resilience at the Indian Institute for Human Settlements) The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-india-s-experience-in-managing-disasters-can-inform-our-covid-19-response-837121.html
13-05-2020||Panorama||The era of offshoring US jobs is over||Some say crises don’t so much alter the course of history as accelerate changes already underway. That’s certainly the case when it comes to the coronavirus pandemic and the offshoring of American jobs. In recent years, businesses have been rethinking the way that overextended, overseas supply lines expose them to unacceptable risks, a reassessment that got a boost from President Trump’s reorientation of US trade policy. A lemming-like desire for “efficiency” had caused many of them to move manufacturing over the past two decades to China, Vietnam and Indonesia, among other places.   They did so to save on labour costs or to avoid environmental standards, but that wasn’t the whole story. Offshoring was a trend that morphed into a craze. Egged on by Wall Street analysts and management consultants, or simply swept up by the herd mentality of their peers, businesses came to see offshoring as something they were expected to do to serve the interests of shareholders. Many failed to weigh independently the long-term costs or meaningfully consider alternatives.  For business, this strategy paid off in the short term. Cheap labour meant higher profits. But for America, the effects were traumatic. The United States lost five million manufacturing jobs. That, in turn, devastated towns and contributed to the breakdown of families, an opioid epidemic and despair.  Trade policy actions in the 1990s and 2000s magnified this disaster by making offshoring easier. The decision in 2001 to establish permanent normal trading relations with China is the most regrettable example. Until then, the president had to make a determination every year whether to renew so-called most-favoured-nation (MFN) status, which allowed China to export to the US at mostly single-digit tariffs, and Congress could challenge that determination.  China’s MFN status was always renewed, but the uncertainty effectively raised the risk-adjusted costs of investing there. After 2001, that uncertainty went away — along with at least two million American jobs.  Trade accords during this time, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, zeroed out tariffs on imports from low-wage countries, worsening manufacturing job losses. These agreements made gestures toward “levelling the playing field” for workers by requiring our trading partners to take on token labour and environmental obligations. But these measures proved toothless and unenforceable.  A result was pure regulatory arbitrage: Companies could avoid US labour and environment standards by manufacturing abroad while still enjoying unfettered, duty-free access to our market.  These trade agreements also undermined a key remaining competitive advantage for the US — commitment to the rule of law and a functioning, independent legal system. The agreements allowed companies to litigate disputes with foreign governments over expropriations and other issues not through local courts, but through so-called investor-state dispute-settlement provisions. In doing so, the federal government effectively purchased political risk insurance for any American company that wanted to send jobs abroad.  Recently, however, we have seen a change both in business attitudes and government policy.  Many companies have realized that offshoring creates risks that often outweigh the incremental efficiencies. Long supply lines flow at the whim of local politics, labour unrest and corruption. In some countries, like China, there have been government-wide efforts to steal intellectual property for the benefit of domestic companies that become the main competitors for the victims of the theft. At the same time, the trend in trade policy was also shifting rapidly. Businesses have seen that President Trump did not support their blind pursuit of efficiency in the global economy. Instead, his focus was on jobs, particularly in manufacturing, because he recognized the importance of productive work not only to our GDP, but also to the health and happiness of our citizens. Business success and economic efficiency, of course, remained important considerations. But they were no longer the be-all and end-all of trade policy.  The new policy consisted of aggressive enforcement of prior trade commitments, renegotiating job-destroying trade deals like NAFTA and the US-Korea FTA, and taking on China’s predatory trade and economic policies.  Many businesses protested that this policy shift created uncertainty. President Trump’s response was simple: If you want certainty, bring your plants back to America. If you want the benefits ofbeing a US company, and the protection of the US legal system, then bring back the jobs.  As a result of these developments, the offshoring frenzy started to abate. Since the administration first imposed duties on Chinese imports in July 2018, American companies including Apple, Whirlpool and Stanley Black & Decker have either scrapped offshoring plans or announced decisions to move production to the US. Automotive companies have announced $34 billion in new US investment as a result of the new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement.  The Kearney Reshoring Index, which measures companies’ global production strategies, shifted significantly in 2019: Reversing a five-year trend, imports of manufactured goods from low-wage Asian countries fell while US domestic manufacturing output remained strong.  Our experience of the past two months will only accelerate this reversal. As companies prepare to reopen their US operations, many have found themselves held hostage to decisions made by foreign governments about whether their suppliers are “essential” or not. Every day I talk to business leaders who now acknowledge they underestimated the risk in decisions to move jobs overseas or to rely on the production of small but crucial parts in some far-off and often unstable country.  The pandemic has vindicated the Trump trade policy in another way: It has revealed our overreliance on other countries as sources of critical medicines, medical devices and personal protective equipment. The public will demand that policymakers remedy this strategic vulnerability in the years to come by shifting production back to the US.  The era of reflexive offshoring is over, and with it the old overzealous emphasis on efficiency and the concomitant lack of concern for the jobs that were lost. After we have defeated this disease and reopened our economy, we cannot forget the hard lessons learned from this misguided experiment. Over the long run, the path to certainty and prosperity is the same for our companies as it is for our workers: Bring the jobs back to America.  (The writer is the US Trade Representative)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-era-of-offshoring-us-jobs-is-over-836996.html
13-05-2020||Right in the Middle||Shun plastic, embrace life||A few years back, on my visit to a small Central African country, Rwanda, I was pleasantly surprised to observe that at a supermarket our groceries were packed in paper bags and handed to us. I was told that to possess a polythene or plastic bag in Rwanda is a crime and you can be jailed for the same. With such stringent rules, the country had tackled its plastic scourge. Back home we are struggling with this menace because of our over-indulgence in plastic and our propensity to not let it go. A close relative was recently diagnosed with leukaemia. The family was taken aback by this diagnosis because there was no family history, the said person had a healthy and robust disposition and with regular exercise and disciplined eating habits his probability to get such a dreadful disease came as a shock. The oncologist let us know that toxic chemicals (carcinogens) present in plastic are one amongst the main causes of cancer these days. He asked us to shun plastic products. Any initiative taken by the government, NGOs, organisations working towards public welfare to create more awareness about the ill effects of the plastic on our lives will go a long way to save future generations. Just last year, news about a unique initiative by Hisar municipal corporation caught my attention. The municipality tied up with two dhaba owners to provide free meals to people who deposit twenty empty plastic bottles. These empty bottles are used to grow plants and to make compost. It serves the dual purpose of a noble cause of providing free meals to the needy and getting away with the burgeoning plastic heaps in and around the city. I have started my initiative to get away with the plastic. I always carry a jute bag, to put the groceries and my buys, with me when I go shopping. Once or twice the indulgent shopkeepers have tried to put my things in a polythene bag when I was not carrying my jute bag, but I had to firmly decline. I have replaced plastic water bottles and tiffins with those of steel. There is still a mammoth’s load of plastic in my home but I have made a beginning. To shun plastic is not a choice, it’s the necessity of the hour for healthy living and to protect our future generations. Do not dilly dally! Rise up and make an effort. We all have to before it’s too late to correct our follies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/shun-plastic-embrace-life-836995.html
13-05-2020||Second Edit||Nepal needs to be handled with care||New Delhi’s inauguration of an 80 km-long road linking Dharchula in Uttarkhand with Lipulekh Pass at its tri-junction with Nepal and China has ruffled feathers in Nepal. It has triggered a diplomatic row between New Delhi and Kathmandu. The Nepali government contends that India’s road-building is a “unilateral act” that violates an agreement under which the two countries agreed to find a solution to the territorial dispute through negotiations. In a sign of escalating bilateral tensions over this issue, the Nepali government summoned India’s envoy in Kathmandu. India must handle this sensitive issue with care. Nepal has always resented India’s ‘big brother’ behaviour and should New Delhi adopt an approach that is seen to be arrogant, it will not go down well among the Nepali people. Relations between the two countries have been fraying since 2015 when an economic blockade of Nepal, which Nepal believed had the quiet backing of the Indian government, paralysed its economy. It prompted Nepal to reach out to China. Since then, Sino-Nepal relations have grown by leaps and bounds. Ongoing Sino-Nepali economic and strategic cooperation has serious implications for India’s security. Any escalation in the diplomatic spat will only deepen co-operation between Beijing and Kathmandu. The recently inaugurated road to the Lipulekh Pass has enormous strategic significance for India. It will provide Indian forces with a shorter overland access to the border with China. China’s aggressive infrastructure building right up to its border with India has been a matter of grave concern to India’s security establishment. Although India has built some roads in the strategic border areas, these are still less than that needed to secure its borders. The Dharchula-Lipulekh road is a step towards improving India’s connectivity to the border. In recent months, China has flexed its muscles vis-à-vis its maritime neighbours. This has prompted apprehensions globally that at a time when the world is preoccupied with dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, China is strengthening its position in territorial disputes. A couple of days ago, Indian and Chinese forces clashed briefly at the disputed border in Sikkim. The possibility that China is putting pressure on Nepal to up the ante with India over its road-building to Lipulekh Pass cannot be ruled out. It is in India’s interest to address Nepal’s apprehensions and to explain its own concerns to the Nepali government. New Delhi must use diplomatic channels and dialogue to smoothen ruffled feathers in Kathmandu. Allowing this row to escalate will only provide China with space to fish in troubled waters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/nepal-needs-to-be-handled-with-care-836991.html
13-05-2020||South||21-year-old migrant worker on his way to Odisha dies of sunstroke in Telangana after treading 300 km||A 21-year-old migrant worker collapsed and died, apparently due to sunstroke at Bhadrachalam after walking 300 km from here with three friends, to try and reach Odisha in view of the COVID-19 lockdown. The group had set out on foot from Hyderabad on Sunday and were on their way to Malkangiri district in Odisha, officials said. When they reached Bhadrachalam on Tuesday, the man complained of chest pain, vomited and collapsed on the road. His friends informed police, who rushed him to the area hospital at Bhadrachalam, where he was declared brought dead. The doctors at the hospital said they suspected he might have died of sunstroke as his skin and mouth was dry. They quoted his frends as saying that none of them had eaten anything since Monday afternoon. Officials later informed the man's family members and arranged for a vehicle to take the body to Malkangiri. The distance from Hyderabad to Bhadrachalam by road is nearly 310 km.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/21-year-old-migrant-worker-on-his-way-to-odisha-dies-of-sunstroke-in-telangana-after-treading-300-km-837047.html
13-05-2020||South||One more tests positive for COVID-19 in Puducherry, tally touches four||Already the hospital was treating two active cases in addition to the one in Karaikal region. The official said the rise in cases has come to cause concern to the health authorities and also for the whole of Puducherry. A necessity has thus arisen for the people to maintain social distancing "very seriously." Panda said he had noticed during the last few days that people did not adhere to the norms of social distancing, wearing of masks among other things. JIPMER was already having five patients hailing from nearby Cuddalore district.   "This is a serious case of concern for us," he said. The Secretary reiterated that the people should download the 'Aarogya Setu' mobile app so that it would help the individuals keep themselves and their families safe. "Presently the number of people who have patronised the mobile app was not considerable and needs to increase," the Secretary said adding that it would help the health authorities trace the contact. Already, as many as 4,621 samples have been tested of which 4,513 were found to be negative and results of the other samples were awaited. He said medical teams comprising doctors, nurses and workers of the ASHA were on door-to-door visits to collect details of the residents in respect of their health status. Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S Mohan Kumar said the department was collecting details of all the persons who had come in contact with the patient hailing from Arumbathapuram. "We do not know how this patient had got the infection and all details were being collected." The Director said when the ongoing lockdown was lifted with sufficient relaxation of curbs all should be careful to keep infection at bay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-puducherry-tally-touches-four-837107.html
13-05-2020||South||Vizag gas tragedy: LG Chem dispatches technical team for investigation and rehabilitation works||South Korean chemicals giant LG Chem has sent an eight-member team from Seoul to investigate and rehabilitate the victims of Visakhapatnam gas tragedy that killed at least 11 people and forced the evacuation of thousands from the area around the accident site. The team would "promptly support responsible rehabilitation" that is the main objective of the task force. "An eight-member technical team from Seoul headquarters, led by the president of our petrochemicals company, has been dispatched to LG Polymers India. This team will work closely on-ground along with the concerned authorities to resolve the situation and assist with real-time remedial and rehabilitation measures,” said LG Polymers India, a unit of LG Chem, in a statement. The technical team is comprising experts from production, environment, and safety areas and it will investigate the cause of the incident, it said. "The president, along with the dispatched team, will meet with the victims and affected families to explain support measures in detail and also hold meetings with the local state government officials,” it added. The gas leakage from the plant was reported on Thursday morning last week after the company tried to restart operations following the partial easing of the coronavirus lockdown. Earlier, on Saturday, LG Chem had said it is committed to working closely with the concerned authorities to investigate the cause of the incident, prevent recurrence in future and secure the foundation for care and treatment. The firm said a special task force has been set up to help victims and families to resolve any issues and provide every assistance to the bereaved families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-gas-tragedy-lg-chem-dispatches-technical-team-for-investigation-and-rehabilitation-works-837149.html
13-05-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Shramik special train to Bengaluru to start from Thursday||Around 1200 people from Karantaka standed in Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh will leave from Delhi to  Bengaluru in a Shramik special train on Thursday. The Indian Railways informed Karnataka Government that the special train will start at 8 pm on  May 14 from Old Delhi Railway Station. The train will have stoppages at Hubballi and Kalburgi before reaching Bengaluru.  The Karnataka Government already announced that it will bear the ticket expenditure of the passengers. Officials in Karnataka Bhavan in co-ordination with Delhi government making logistics for ferrying these stranded people. Upon reaching Bengaluru, officials in Karnataka will make arrangements for their institutional quarantine or home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-shramik-special-train-to-bengaluru-to-start-from-thursday-837224.html
13-05-2020||South||Madras High Court moved for reopening wholesale food grain shops in Koyambedu market||The Madras High Court on Wednesday issued notice to authorities concerned on a petition seeking to reopen wholesale foodgrain shops located in the Koyambedu market complex here, which was shut after it emerged as a COVID-19 hotspot. Justice M Duraisamy issued the notice to Chief Administrative Officer of the market management panel, Koyambedu wholesale market complex on the plea by Founder President of Koyambedu Food Grains Traders' Association, S Chandresan. When the matter came up for hearing through video conference, the judge directed the Member Secretary of Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, the Special Nodal Officer of Disaster Management and Mitigation, Commissioner of Police, Chennai to file their counter and posted the matter for further hearing to May 26. Alleging that COVID-19 cases were detected among the workers and traders at the vegetable market within the sprawling complex, the petitioner claimed that officials had closed the shops in the whole sale food grain market also. Recently, Koyambedu emerged as coronavirus superspreader, with number of people from far away districts contracting the virus after visiting the bustling market. Koyambedu wholesale market, the largest in Asia, attracts people from across Tamil Nadu who come here to sell their products or seeking work. The petitioner submitted that there were 200 members in their association engaged in whole sale trade of rice, food grains and provisional items to retailers in Chennai. While an alternative site was provided to set up the vegetable market in Thirumazhisai near here, no arrangement has been made for the food grain market, which is essential for public, the petitioner pointed out. Observing that the food grains market was functioning separately and was accessed only by the retail vendors, he said it can be operated through proper regulation and monitoring by the market committee by adhering to safety measures. Already representations were made to the authorities but to no avail. Hence, the petitioner moved the court and prayed for a direction to the authorities to grant permisison to open their shops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-moved-for-reopening-wholesale-food-grain-shops-in-koyambedu-market-837226.html
13-05-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Mamallapuram grappling with gloom after basking in Modi, Xi euphoria||The transition from euphoria to gloom, in a matter of a few months is just hard to believe for a host of people here like master artisans and hoteliers. The empty beachfronts and deserted world heritage monument site sans tourists offers a peek into the harrowing times being endured by them. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping's summit here last October, more and more tourists especially foreigners descended here, an ancient sea port town. "Occupancy rate spiked and we saw about 25 per cent increase in business immediately after the high level summit and further growth prospects were really promising," says Mamallapuram Hotels Association President N Janardanam. "The summit no doubt gave a much needed facelift with spic and span public spaces, and when lighting was put up at monument sites, it lured more evening crowds," he says. When hoteliers like him were hoping to further build on the feel good factor and increase business, the lockdown kicked in. "Even if the government allows us to reopen now, it is difficult for us to do it as a chunk of employees have gone back to their native places and others want to go," he says. Guest workers from states like Jharkhand are a key link in the chain of the workforce at Mamallapuram which is dotted with a string of hotels both star rated and others besides restaurants. H Janakiraman, an accredited tourist guide says only when public transportation including train and air services were restored could those like him and other businesses have "some hope." "We depend on tourist arrivals both domestic and foreigners." There are about 100 tourist guides including dozens with accreditation here. Not only hoteliers and tourist guides, but an array of stunning statues of Gods and Godesses are waiting to be sent to customers both domestic and foreign. Seated amid a lineup of wooden crates of neatly packed statues in the premises of his workshop, M Devaraj Sirpi, a veteran sculptor effortlessly specifies the cravings inside the boxes and destination point of each of the packages. "This (crate) one is for Reunion Islands (in the Indian Ocean, a French territory), this is a Ganesha statue, that is Amman and the other is for Malaysia," he goes on. A key customer segment for them is temples, both existing and upcoming ones. "In view of coronavirus, temples are closed down and all festivals including Kumbabishekam (consecration ceremonies) are put on hold in Tamil Nadu, neighbouring States and in other countries like Singapore and Malaysia too," the sexagenarian says. Initiatives to build new temples in several places are on hold and art lovers who form another buyer segment cannot travel now. "Only when events are rescheduled on return of normalcy, we could hope for customers to pay the remaining money and take delivery of the statues," he says. "When normalcy will return is the big question...our assessment is that it may take several months from now." Looking pensive, Devaraj, a recipient of national and state awards for his craftsmanship estimates that "easily over 400 hundred statues are waiting to be sent to customers." While the cost of each statue varies according to its shape, size and artistic value, it ranges from several thousand rupees to a lakh and even more. T Baskaran, a master sculptor who has worked in several big ticket art projects like a sculpture park in Ireland also has an assortment of statues and art works to be shipped abroad including a temple door frame to Malaysia. Asked on customers not having taken delivery despite nod for cargo movement (both import and export), he sports a wry grin. "Do you think they have enough money now? events are also on hold and for over a month now, I have not heard from a single customer," he says. According to rough estimates, there are about 5,000 people including master sculptors, stone masons, helpers, crane operators and so on who are in this field here and in nearby villages. Apart from overseas buyers, there are orders from within Tamil Nadu and other neighbouring States like Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Devaraj and Baskaran say that they start working on orders based on receipt of a token advance and invest their money to procure raw materials like granite to make statues. Now, a chunk of investment has been stuck in the form of finished products which are lying to be picked up customers. Be it Baskaran or hoteliers, they expect the government to lend them a helping hand including further extension of moratorium on loans to help them make ends meet. Though the Tamil Nadu government has allowed resumption of work from May 11, the sound of chisel could be barely heard in this town popularly known as 'stone city as hordes of workers have gone home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-mamallapuram-grappling-with-gloom-after-basking-in-modi-xi-euphoria-837230.html
13-05-2020||South||Ten more coronavirus cases reported in Kerala||Ten more persons in Kerala were tested COVID-19 positive on Wednesday, including four NRIs evacuated and two who came from other states. The number of COVID-19 active cases now in Kerala reached 41 from 16 in last week. So far 11 NRIs evacuated over the last few days and 12 persons who came from other states were tested COVID-19 positive. With four more persons contracting the infection through a local contact, the number of persons who contracted the infection through a truck driver who came from Koyambedu market in Tamilnadu reached ten. A police official was also among those contracted the infection cases on Wednesday. Only one person recovered on Wednesday. Total persons infected in Kerala so far is 534 of which 490 already recovered and three died.  In view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in persons coming from other states and NRIs, Kerala stepped up vigil. All those who enter without proper advance registration and availing online passes were sent to institutional quarantine, while all coming with passes were being allowed to remain in room quarantine in their houses. Those with symptoms are being admitted to COVID-19 care centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ten-more-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-kerala-837285.html
13-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: A sprawling market in Chennai that is now in news for wrong reasons||Over 6,000 vendors who procure vegetables, fruits, and flowers from across the country and sell them. Nearly 3,200 shops. 15,000 labourers. A footfall of more than 50,000 and movement of 1,000 lorries every day. This in nutshell is the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex built in an area of nearly 65 acres in the heart of Chennai – the unbuilt area is much larger with the entire area earmarked for the purpose spreading across 295 acres. This market complex comprising of 1,889 vegetable shops, 828 fruit shops, and 470 flower shops is now a Coronavirus hotspot not just in Tamil Nadu but has contributed to the Covid-19 tally in neighbouring states of Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. Supplies for the wholesale market come from across Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, and Telangana and even from far-away Maharashtra and West Bengal. This is the reason for several people outside of Tamil Nadu contracting the virus as part of the cluster.  The market complex, huge in size with 18 entry and exit points, was inaugurated in 1996 after which all wholesale vendors shifted here from the over-crowded market in the narrow lanes of Kothavalasavadi in the city. Since then, Koyambedu is the go-to place for any vegetable wholesale vendor in Tamil Nadu. It will not be an exaggeration to say that the market never sleeps as it is abuzz with some activity or the other round-the-clock. Koyambedu is one of the largest perishable markets in Asia, generating crores of rupees in revenue every day, like vegetables, fruits, and flowers are sold in tons. Lorries from various states arrive at the market a little after midnight to unload vegetables and other supplies after which the wholesale market comes to life at about 4 am.  The supplies from here are not sent just to various parts of Tamil Nadu, but to Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, while specific items are transported to cities like Bengaluru. After wholesale business ends, vendors also get into retail business from 7 am as thousands of people come to the market to buy “fresh vegetables and fruits.” Besides, people also come in good numbers to purchase vegetables for marriages, family functions, temple festivals and other mass gatherings as it will be cost-effective to buy from the wholesale market rather than retail outlets in their own towns and cities. Though there are only 3,200 shops, the vendors could be easily more than 6,000 as many outlets are shared by at least two people who make business separately. The market complex is maintained by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) and managed by the Market Management Committee constituted as per the Tamil Nadu Specified Commodities (Regulation of location) Act 1996.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-a-sprawling-market-in-chennai-that-is-now-in-news-for-wrong-reasons-837290.html
13-05-2020||South||DMK slams Centre over Rs 20 lakh crore package, says poor and middle class seem to have been let down||Opposition DMK in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday slammed the Centre over its Rs 20 lakh crore economic package for various sectors,saying it had nothing for the poor and the middle class, who it said seem "to have been let down" by the Centre. Party President M K Stalin questioned why there was no allocation to states, many of which were suffering from an "unprecedented financial crisis." There was no link between what Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Tuesday and the specifics explained by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman today, Stalin said in a statement. Even during this "Covid-19 crisis," the BJP government at the Centre had not adopted a humane approach to provide assistance to the poor, middle class and farmers, the state Leader of Opposition said. There were expectations of provision of Rs 5,000 to those having returned home even as the existing challenges to such people were concerning, he said, apparently referring to the guest workers. "Overall, there is nothing for the poor (and the) middle class. The Finance Minister's press conference (implies) they have been let down," Stalin said. Stalin insisted that the government should provide relief to the people immediately by giving Rs 5,000 to each family as many were suffering due to unemployment and poverty. Nirmala Sitharaman had in Delhi on Wednesday, detailed the various measures in the Rs 20 lakh crore package offered by the PM on Tuesday, including special liquidity and partial credit guarantee schemes amid the coronavirus crisis in the country. Stalin further pointed out that many states had sought financial aid but there was no allocation in this connection. He alleged the Centre had no blueprint to revive the economy in a post-covid scenario.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-slams-centre-over-rs-20-lakh-crore-package-says-poor-and-middle-class-seem-to-have-been-let-down-837360.html
13-05-2020||State||Karnataka CET exams to be held on July 30, 31: Deputy CM C N Ashwath Narayan||The Karnataka Common Entrance Test (K-CET) 2020 will be held on July 30 and 31. Now, considering the dates for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) dates announced by the Union government, the state government has announced the revised dates on Wednesday. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan announced this in a press conference. The test will be held online, the minister said.  For CET 2020, over 1.90 lakh students registered for admission to undergraduate engineering, B Tech, Architecture, Agriculture and veterinary science courses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cet-exams-to-be-held-on-july-30-31-deputy-cm-c-n-ashwath-narayan-837102.html
13-05-2020||State||Coronavirus lockdown: Gyms, hotels, golf clubs can open in Karnataka after May 17, says CT Ravi||Gym, hotels and golf clubs will be allowed to resume operations after May 17, Tourism Minister CT Ravi announced Wednesday.  Ravi said this after holding talks with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa.  “The CM said permission will be given,” Ravi told reporters. “Fitness centres and golf clubs had sought permission to restart activities. Hotels had also asked for clearance to start serving saying they’ll maintain social distancing norms,” he said.  “Allowing hotels will help revive local tourism,” the minister said. “Opening fitness centres is also important because sportspersons and celebrities had expressed concern that they’d lose their fitness,” said Ravi, who is also the minister for youth empowerment and sports.  “The CM has said that gyms can start after May 17 as long as social distancing norms are followed. Representatives of golf clubs have pointed out that they maintain distance and there’s no personal contact anyway,” Ravi said.  On April 29, Ravi submitted a detailed proposal to the CM on how the tourism sector can be revived. Tourism, which contributes 18% to Karnataka’s gross state domestic product, provides livelihood to about 35 lakh people. Thanks to the coronavirus-driven lockdown, all tourism activities have come to standstill with all bookings cancelled.  “Survival and revival - that’s how we want to kickstart the tourism sector,” Ravi said. “Right now, there’s no mindset for tourism. So, first, we need to change the mindset of people. To start with, we want to promote the ‘Love Your Native’ concept for local tourism. Then we will move to inter-district, inter-state and finally international. We have to assure people that they will get safety and hygiene,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-gyms-hotels-golf-clubs-can-open-in-karnataka-after-may-17-says-ct-ravi-837195.html
13-05-2020||State||Yettinahole project will be expedited, finished in time: Jarkiholi||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi assured that the mega aqueduct work undertaken as part of the Yettinahole comprehensive drinking water project would be expedited and completed within the deadline. He spoke after reviewing the works at Tholachanahalli near Chelur on Wednesday.   He directed department officials and contractors to complete the works on the gravity canal from the 199.620 km mark to the 210.090 km mark. "The COVID-19 lockdown should not be used as a pretext to slow down the works," he added.   He said that Rs 100 crore had been set aside to pay compensations to landowners who lose their land during the implementation of the project. He pointed out that the project had hit a stumbling block near Sakleshpur and would be completed by March 2021. "There is no dearth of funds for water resources management in the state. The chief minister is prepared to allocate more funds if necessary," he remarked.  He mentioned that the Yettinahole project was conceived with the intention of providing drinking water to arid zones in Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagara, Tumakuru, Hassan, and Chikkamagaluru districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/yettinahole-project-will-be-expedited-finished-in-time-jarkiholi-837250.html
13-05-2020||State||'363 centres identified for 14-day quaratine in Gubbi'||Gubbi Tahsildar Pradeep Kumar Hiremath said that 363 centres had been reserved and equipped across the taluk, to keep people who come from other states, cities and rural areas in 14-day quarantine in view of the COVID-19 lockdown relaxation measures that have been announced in the state. He spoke after distributing food kits to workers in Doddaguni village. He mentioned that government school and hostels had been reserved for quarantining people who come to Gubbi from outside and iterated that there was no need for local people to panic as all precautions had been taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/363-centres-identified-for-14-day-quaratine-in-gubbi-837252.html
13-05-2020||State||Bird sanctuary sees longest closure of 50 days||The Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary in the taluk has remained closed for visitors for 50 days now. Such a long closure has happened for the first time since its inception 78 years ago in 1942. The sanctuary was closed for visitors on March 23, due to the fear of the COVID-19 spread. Except employees of the sanctuary, nobody is allowed entry. Heavy security is in place at the entrance. Measures have been taken to ensure that people do not enter via other routes like Bangaradoddi Canal and the islands. As the normal hustle-bustle - camera flashes, movement of boats and visitors’ excitement - is absent, birds are moving freely all around the sanctuary and are building nests for breeding. Divisional forest officer (Wildlife Division) Alexander said the bird sanctuary was closed for the public for around 15 days, whenever there were floods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bird-sanctuary-sees-longest-closure-of-50-days-837257.html
13-05-2020||State||Net benefit: Education dept to scale up online classes||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education is gearing up to face the post-COVID-19 challenge in schools by extending and enhancing online teaching. One of the options the department is looking at is going for online mode of teaching for Classes 1 to 9. It has invited experts to prepare content for this purpose. The department has even started a survey of smartphone users (among parents). According to sources in the department, officials have so far contacted over 35 lakh parents/students, of whom at least 23 lakh had smartphones with good internet connectivity. "As per our report, most parents have smartphones with internet connectivity and this has encouraged us to pitch for online classes," said a senior official of the department. There are over 65 lakh students in these classes. "All our teachers are trained under the Technology Assisted Learning Programme (TALP) and are capable of preparing content for online. We have invited resource persons for the first phase," said the official. The idea is to create class-wise content for online and send it to students. There are even suggestions to create an app for this purpose and discussions are on with software professionals," the official added. Own channel After the success of revision classes for SSLC students through Doordarshan’s Chandana channel, the department is planning to have its own channel to teach at least for the 2020-21 academic year.     "Revision classes for SSLC on Chandana were a big hit. Doordarshan officials told us that the revision classes had the highest viewership on the YouTube channel and even the TRP is high. The primary and secondary education minister has discussed with Doordarshan officials about setting up a dedicated channel for the department," said a senior official. Also, the minister has asked the commissioner of public instruction, for setting up an expert committee for a dedicated channel of the department. The committee is to submit its report within 10 days of its constitution. On the other hand, The state BJP has constituted a committee of academicians to look into the post-COVIDfunctioning of schools. Arun Shahapur, the member of the committee and MLC, said that they have had three rounds of webinars with experts. "It will be difficult to open schools and colleges soon. So, we are looking at other ways to keep students and teachers engaged. We will soon submit the report to the state government and the Union Minister for Human Resources Development."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/net-benefit-education-dept-to-scale-up-online-classes-837259.html
13-05-2020||State||Karnataka cabinet to decide on APMC ordinance today||The Cabinet is expected to approve Thursday a controversial ordinance to relax restrictions the sale of agricultural produce after Governor Vajubhai R Vala sent it back citing procedural lapses.  "The Governor insisted that the ordinance be passed in the Cabinet first as it is a policy decision. The state government intended to take a post-facto approval of the Cabinet, but the Governor took objection to it," a source said.  The Cabinet is also expected to discuss some tweaks in labour laws as well as relaxation that can be provided under Lockdown 4.0.  The Opposition Congress and the JD(S), farmers groups and activists are up in arms over the government’s move to clip the powers of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC). As per the proposed amendment, the government seeks to relax restrictions on sale of agricultural produce, which would essentially mean that the APMCs will relinquish control to regulate agricultural produce. The amendment seeks to allow private players to directly purchase from farmers, deeming it to be in the larger interest of farmers. However, the Opposition has taken objection to this move, alleging that it would benefit the "ulterior motives" of private players. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah spoke to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa over telephone on Wednesday and asked him to drop the ordinance. The former CM enumerated various problems that would arise were the government to go ahead with diluting the APMC Act. This would make it difficult for the government to regulate prices, he said. By allowing multiple players, the farmers would be in a vulnerable state to market forces, he told Yediyurappa. Meanwhile, the state federation of farmers' association has decided to launch a symbolic protest opposing the government's move. Federation president Kuruburu Shantha Kumar said they would submit a memorandum against the ordinance to the Mysuru deputy commissioner on Thursday. "Similarly, in different districts, our farmer leaders will protest and submit a memorandum to the respective DCs," he said. The entire ordinance seems to be moved only to support corporate entities. The government did not even discuss it with farmers, he said.  "In the times of this pandemic, the government should have stood in support of the farmers. Instead, it wants to move an ordinance that works against the farmers' interests," Shantha Kumar alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cabinet-to-decide-on-apmc-ordinance-today-837291.html
13-05-2020||State||PG students, interns on COVID-19 duty threaten strike from May 18||The PG students and medical interns, deputed on COVID-19 duty at Chigateri Hospital in the city, have threatened to go on an indefinite strike from May 18, demanding the release of pending stipend for the past 15 months. As many as 230 students of JJM Medical College - 133 PG students and 97 medical interns- are risking their lives every single day to treat COVID-19 patients at Chigateri Hospital, which is witnessing a flurry of cases in the past one week or so. These front-line workers, hailed as corona warriors, are denied of their dues. Both the state government and JJM Medical College management have turned a blind eye to their demand. A final year PG student in Radiology, JJM Medical College, Davangere, on the condition of anonymity told DH, "The postgraduate students and medical interns have not received their stipend for the past 15 months. We are doctors only for namesake. But we are treated worse than the daily-wage workers." The government used to pay a stipend to interns for the past several years. But it became an issue in 2016 when an auditor appointed by the government of Karnataka objected to payment of stipend to students of two private medical colleges - JJM, Davangere and KMC, Mangaluru, which are attached with Chigateri and Wenlock district hospitals respectively, she said. Following the request by medical interns, the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government resumed paying stipends to the PG students and interns of the aforementioned colleges. Directorate of Medical Education (DME) continued to release money towards payment of stipend to interns till February 2019. However, the then Principal Secretary of DME, Manjula, issued an order stating that students of JJM Medical College, selected under government quota, for 2017-18 and 2018-19 batches shall be given a stipend from Aarogya Raksha Samiti (ARS) account of the district general hospital, she added.  But the hospital could not pay as it did not have adequate money to pay a stipend to students. Since March 2019, there is no stipend for medical interns and PG students. This despite, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa instructing the DME to clear the pending dues of interns and PG students at the earliest, the PG student said. "We have been working round the clock for the past 15 months without stipend. We have taken loans from banks to pay college and hostel fees. We depend on stipend which is rightfully ours. All our pleas for stipend have gone unheard," she lamented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pg-students-interns-on-covid-19-duty-threaten-strike-from-may-18-837292.html
13-05-2020||State||TN migrant workers to return home from Kodagu in 92 buses||The migrant labourers from Tamil Nadu stranded in Kodagu district will be ferried to their hometowns by 92 KSRTC buses. KSRTC Madikeri depot Manager Geetha stated that 21 migrant workers will travel from Kedakal to Salem, 25 from Palibetta to Villupuram, 23 from Palibetta to Namakkal and 26 from Siddapura to Salem. Senior Labour Inspector M M Yatnatti said that the workers were provided with sanitisers, biscuit and juice packets and water bottles. Already nine buses have ferried labourers to Salem and Tiruvanamalai districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tn-migrant-workers-to-return-home-from-kodagu-in-92-buses-837302.html
13-05-2020||State||Over 600 quintals of pilfered PDS rice seized in Gadag, Koppal ||The police have seized 600 bags of rice weighing 200 quintals, meant for distribution through PDS, under Anna Bhagya scheme, belonging to Koppal district, at Kalasapur Ring Road in Gadag on Wednesday. Following a tip-off, the police intercepted a lorry illegally transporting Anna Bhagya rice to Hubballi. The police have seized lorry and a case has been registered at Gadag police station under Essential Commodities Act. Several rackets, involved in pilfering Anna Bhagya rice are thriving in Koppal and Gadag districts. On May 12, the food inspectors of Gadag, based on the information, had raided Sri Kiran Trading Company, owned by Rajahuli Peersab, and seized a Bolero car and 9.6 quintals of PDS rice stored at its godown. On the night of May 12, the Koppal police, joined tahsildar and the Food and Civil Supplies officials, raided several houses at Hosagondabal in Koppal taluk and seized 448 quintals of pilfered Anna Bhagya rice worth Rs 11.66 lakh. The police booked the owners of the houses for illegally storing PDS rice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-600-quintals-of-pilfered-pds-rice-seized-in-gadag-koppal-837312.html
13-05-2020||State||Private hospitals to resume services in Karnataka today||Private hospitals, clinics and medical establishments in the state have agreed to resume services on Thursday after the government assured them that they will not be shut if COVID-19 patients visit them. Health Minister B Sriramulu clarified that such hospitals, henceforth, will only be sanitised as according to the protocol and allowed to function normally. In a video conference with managements of 43 prominent private hospitals and clinics, Sriramulu said private hospitals and clinics have agreed to resume clinical services — treatment of non-COVID-19 patients — on Thursday. The minister clarified that no hospital shall deny consultation or treatment to non-COVID-19 patients under any circumstances. He told reporters, "Private hospitals were worried that if any COVID-19 symptomatic or positive patient visits the hospital, the government would seal them. We have assured them that they will only be sanitised and allowed to function."  However, the minister clarified that doctors and staff who may have attended to such patients will be quarantined at home and not put under institutional quarantine. Private hospitals have been directed to treat COVID-19 patients, if any, in an isolation ward. They shall be shifted to the designated government isolation facility subsequently. All private hospitals must reserve one ward for treating COVID-19 patients, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/private-hospitals-to-resume-services-in-karnataka-today-837354.html
13-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC donates nearly Rs 10 crore to CM COVID-19 Relief Fund||Employees of four state road transport corporations, whose salaries were delayed till last week due to the financial crisis caused by the lockdown, have contributed nearly Rs 10 crore from their pay to Chief Minister's COVID-19 Relief Fund. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman S Savadi, who holds the transport department portfolio, handed over a cheque of Rs 9.85 crore to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.The amount was generated from the one-day salary of officers and Employees of the KSRTC, BMTC, NEKRTC, NWKRTC. Due to the lockdown to contain coronavirus, bus operations were stalled for the last two months and cut off the revenue generation. "For the first time in the history of state road transport undertakings in Karnataka, the salaries of the employees are paid by the government," the KSRTC said. Savadi thanked the chief minister for supporting the corporations and boosting the morale of employees. Chairman of BMTC Nandeesh Reddy, Transport Department Principal Secretary Gaurav Gupta and other officials were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-donates-nearly-rs-10-crore-to-cm-covid-19-relief-fund-837123.html
13-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Toll increases to 32 in Karnataka, 26 new cases reported||The deceased man from a containment zone was brought dead on May 11 to a designated hospital in Kalaburagi, and he has tested positive for COVID-19, it said. "26 new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon.... Till date 951 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 32 deaths and 442 discharges," the department said in its mid day situation update. The fresh cases include- eleven from Bidar, four from Hassan, two each from Kalaburagi, Uttara Kannada, Davangere, and Vijayapura, and one each from Bengaluru urban, Ballari and Dakshina Kannada. Among the new cases, while eleven are from containment zone in Bidar, seven are with travel history to Maharashtra, five are contacts of patients already tested positive, one each are from containment zone in Kalaburagi and with history of SARI, and the other person's contact is under tracing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-toll-increases-to-32-in-karnataka-26-new-cases-reported-837138.html
13-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Governor returns controversial APMC ordinance||Karnataka Governor Vajubhai R Vala has returned an ordinance seeking to relax restrictions on sale of agricultural produce. This development came even as the Opposition Congress and the JD(S), farmers groups and activists are up in arms over the government’s move to clip the powers of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC). Highly-placed sources in the government confirmed that the Governor had returned the file. “The Governor insisted that the ordinance be passed in the Cabinet first as it is a policy decision. The state government intended to take a post-facto approval of the Cabinet, but the Governor took objection to it," the source said. The ordinance is now likely to come up before the Cabinet meeting scheduled Thursday for approval. As per the proposed amendment, the government seeks to relax restrictions on sale of agricultural produce, which would essentially mean that the APMCs will relinquish control to regulate agricultural produce. The amendment seeks to allow private players to directly purchase from farmers, deeming it to be in the larger interest of farmers.  However, the Opposition has taken objection to this move, alleging that it would benefit the ‘ulterior motives’ of private players, taking away the APMC's power to regulate the market, while at the same time making farmers vulnerable to prices dictated by private entities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-governor-returns-controversial-apmc-ordinance-837168.html
13-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Restriction on distribution of offerings likely once temples are opened post-lockdown: Officials||Restriction on the distribution of theertha (holy water) and prasad (holy offerings) besides offerings by devotees are likely to be a new ritual at temples in Karnataka once they are opened to the public in a post lockdown scenario, official sources said. The Muzrai department (in charge of the administration of temples) is planning to have a standard operating procedure (SOP) in place, that needs to be followed at temples once they are opened for the public. "No decision has been taken yet....things like restricting activities such as the distribution of theertha and prasad, also offering like fruits and flowers by devotees are under consideration, keeping COVID-19 in mind. ...let's see, there is no instructions or decision in this regard yet," official sources told PTI on conditions of anonymity. Strict social distancing rules, usage of masks and sanitizers at temples are said to be part of this proposed SOP that may come into effect. "Things will only be clear once the lockdown is relaxed or new set of guidelines comes into effect," sources said. Though the temples are holding daily poojas and rituals, they are not open to public, with COVID-19 induced lockdown in place. After recent relaxations in the lockdown, there has been considerable pressure on the administration to open temples for the public, with a few even questioning on social media about opening of liquor shops, while keeping temples shut. However, stating that opening of temples will depend on MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs) guidelines, Principal Secretary T K Anil Kumar said, "...as of now we have not drawn up anything (SOP), we are still thinking about it. Hopefully, by tomorrow or day after tomorrow, we will get MHA guidelines, based on that we will take a call what is to be done." There are over 34,000 temples in the state that come under the Muzrai department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/restriction-on-distribution-of-offerings-likely-once-temples-are-opened-post-lockdown-officials-837255.html
13-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Devil is in the details: Siddaramaiah mocks Centre’s package||Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah on Wednesday termed the Centre’s lockdown relief measures as “disastrous and non-existent” and expressed doubts on their effectiveness.  “The first set of measures announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is disastrous and non-existent in terms of benefits to poor migrants, labourers, contract employees, farmers etc,” Siddaramaiah, the Leader of the Opposition, said in a series of tweets.  The devil lies in the details, he said. “The contribution by the government for the schemes announced are mostly notional and less of actuals,” he said, adding “most of the intended benefits may not reach the end recipient.”  He questioned the credit infusion to the MSME sector, saying it may help industries to clear dues to vendors “but it is doubtful if they shall utilise the credit available to pay their labourers & to prevent job cuts.”  The Centre is “totally ignorant” of the actual spending needed to boost consumption, Siddaramaiah argued. “How can credit be considered as government spending?” He said he was looking forward to the next set of measures. “The Covid-19 fight should not be another perception battle but a real one.”  Meanwhile, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa hailed the Centre’s moves. “This Rs 3 lakh crore aid would be a boon to the economic revival of industries and the labourers. This is a very timely and scientific move with expertise and collateral-free loans for MSMEs will boost them to resume operations. This will benefit 45 lakh MSMEs in the country,” he said in a statement.  “None of the Covid-affected countries have announced such a huge economic revival package for the industrial sector in the world. This is a bold step towards motivating people to exit the lockdown system to work and earn their bread,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/devil-is-in-the-details-siddaramaiah-mocks-centre-s-package-837310.html
13-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Exemption from institutional quarantine||The state government on Wednesday announced to exempt four categories of international passengers from institutional quarantine: pregnant women, children under-10, elderly persons of 80 years and above and terminally ill will be sent for home quarantine. They will be stamped accordingly. However, the exemption does not apply to inter-state travellers.  Meanwhile, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, said, “ICMR will conduct serosurvey using ELISA-based rapid test kits in Bengaluru, Chitradurga and Kalaburagi districts to check community transmission.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/exemption-from-institutional-quarantine-837333.html
13-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Two central schemes caught in tug-of-war||A turf war is on between two government departments on the ownership of flagship central schemes for poverty alleviation and youth employment, even as Karnataka faces its fair share of the humanitarian crisis brought about by the lockdown.  The departments of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) and Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Livelihood (SDEL) are engaged in a tug-of-war to control the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) and the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY).  The matter came up for discussion on Wednesday when RDPR Minister K S Eshwarappa took stock of his department’s programmes. The NRLM and DDU-GKY are rural development programmes funded by the Union Ministry of Rural Development. But they were put under the Skill Development when this department was newly created in 2016.  “These programmes were hived off to the newly-created Skill Development department with the lofty aim of integrating all skill development programmes. But these programmes are not doing well under the new department and Karnataka is one of the worst performers in the country,” a senior RDPR official said.  According to sources, the Centre repeatedly asked the state government to put NRLM and DDU-GKY under the RDPR department. “We have moved a Cabinet note, but it's stuck as nobody is giving up turf," the official said.  While NRLM is seen as a poverty alleviation scheme that promotes self-employment, DDU-GKY aims to provide skill training to rural youth aged 15-35 years.  The Skill Development department has refuted the claim that these schemes were not doing well.  According to data, the NRLM has reached 2.08 lakh and DDU-GKY 1.13 lakh beneficiaries. During the Covid-19 pandemic, SHGs have been funded under NRLM to make 23 lakh masks so far, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-two-central-schemes-caught-in-tug-of-war-837344.html
13-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kalaburagi sees its 3rd doctor test positive for COVID-19||Bidar and Kalaburagi districts continued to grapple with a surge in COVID-19 cases. On Wednesday, Bidar saw 12 infections while Kalaburagi recorded eight cases, including one death. An ENT specialist from Kalaburagi (P-926), aged 45, tested positive for novel coronavirus on Wednesday. Patient 926 is believed to have contracted a virus from a medical representative (P-848). The medical rep had visited the doctor a few days back. The ENT specialist is the third doctor from Kalaburagi to have tested positive for COVID-19. A 66-year-old physician and a junior doctor from GIMS had earlier contracted virus while treating the infected patients. K’buragi death toll rises to 7 A 60-year-old man from Mominpur containment zone was brought dead to the GIMS Hospital on Monday. The swab sample of an elderly man has returned positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. With this, the COVID-19 fatalities in the district has gone up to seven. The neighbouring Bidar witnessed a rapid surge in COVID-19 cases. The city reported as many as 12 cases in a single day on Wednesday. Among the infected are two girls and seven women, all from the old city.  Deputy Commissioner H R Mahadev told reporters, “In the wake of a surge in cases, the district administration has obtained a special permission from the government to test throat swab samples of 1,000 people a day in the containment zone. In next 15 days, all residents in the zone will be tested for COVID-19.” The containment zone will be sealed for 28 days, he added. Meanwhile, there was no let-up in Davangere, where two including an 11-year-old boy, tested positive for virus on Wednesday.  Both, woman, aged 33 (P-933), and the boy (P-934) are the contacts of a previously diagnosed patient. The district’s COVID-19 cases count has gone up to 85. Of which, 79 are active cases. Two patients have been discharged post recovery while four patients lost their battle against virus. Two more Tablighi Jamaat members from Vijayapura, with a travel history to Mumbai, have contracted virus. Kumta in Uttara Kannada recorded its first case with a 26-year-old man (P-946) testing positive for coronavirus. The Kumta man had recently returned home from Ratnagiri in Maharashtra. The district also saw a two-year-old girl test positive. The baby is said to be a contact of Patient 786. As on May 13, the district has 30 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kalaburagi-sees-its-3rd-doctor-test-positive-for-covid-19-837345.html
13-05-2020||West||Lockdown: Muslims help perform last rites of Hindu neighbour in Mumbai||Members of the Muslim community helped in performing the last rites of their 72-year-old Hindu neighbour in Sewri area here after the deceased's relatives could not reach for his funeral due to the lockdown. Pandurang Ubale, who was paralysed since the last few months, died at his residence in Zakaria Bunder area of Sewri on Monday. He had been staying in the Muslim-dominated locality along with his wife and son since some decades. After his death on Monday, his relatives staying in suburban Mulund, Belapur in adjoining Navi Mumbai and Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district could not come over to his place in the wake of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. As Ubale's wife and son were unable to make all arrangements for the funeral, they informed their neighbours, who came forward to help and even prepared the bier. A neighbour, Asif Sheikh, who attended the funeral, said, We knew Ubale uncle since a long time. He always participated in our festivals and we used to be a part of their festivities. We all came forward to bid him a farewell and helped in performing his last rites." Last month also,some Muslim men carried the body of a Hindu neighbour in suburban Bandra on their shoulders to the cremation ground after the deceased's relatives were unable to attend the last rites due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-muslims-help-perform-last-rites-of-hindu-neighbour-in-mumbai-837044.html
13-05-2020||West||Turtles emerge from nest at Goa beach, CM posts video||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday posted a video clip of Olive Ridley turtle hatchlings running on the state's Morjim beach after emerging from their nest. The state forest department has reserved certain areas at Morjim and Mandrem in North Goa district and Agonda and Galjibag in South Goa district as turtle nesting sites, in a bid to protect the sea animal from any human intervention.   Sawant posted a video on Twitter of the Olive Ridley turtle hatchlings seen on the beach after sunset. "Amazing wonders of nature! Olive Ridley turtle hatchings emerging out form the last nest at Morjim. Along with Morjim, Mandrem, Agonda and Galgibag are important beaches in Goa which attracts turtle for nesting, he tweeted. Last week, Sawant tweeted about a black panther spotted at Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary in South Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/turtles-emerge-from-nest-at-goa-beach-cm-posts-video-837096.html
13-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: 'No work-no wages' can't be applied in present situation, says Bombay High Court||Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court has said the principle of no work-no wages cannot be applied in the present extraordinary situation prevailing in the country due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown. Justice R V Ghuge on Tuesday directed Aurangabad's Tuljabhavani Mandir Sansthan trust to ensure that all its contract labourers, who have been unable to work due to closure of temples and places of worship in the wake of the pandemic, are paid full wages till the month of May 2020. The court was hearing a petition filed by Rashtriya Shramik Aghadi, a contract labourers' union, which claimed that despite the lockdown, members of the workers' union expressed their willingness to be deployed as security guards and on other duties with the Tuljabhavani Mandir Sansthan. According to the petition, the temple trust was, however, not permitting them to perform their duties on account of the COVID-19 lockdown. It also pointed out that payments made to the union members by contractors for the months of March and April this year were less than what was paid in January and February. The petitioner informed the court that the Osmanabad district collector was the president of the Tuljabhavani Mandir Sansthan trust and the tehsildar was its manager- administration. After hearing brief arguments in the case, Justice Ghuge said the court cannot turn a blind eye to the situation at hand. "Able-bodied persons, who are willing and desirous to offer their services in deference to their deployment as contract labourers in the security and house-keeping sector of the trust, are unable to work since temples and places of worships in the entire nation have been closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the court noted. "Prima facie, I feel the principle of no work-no wages cannot be made applicable in such extraordinary circumstances. The court cannot be insensitive to such workers' plight which has unfortunately befallen them on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, Justice Ghuge said. The court directed the Osmanabad district collector, in his capacity as president of the trust, to ensure full wages are disbursed by contractors to the labourers for the months of March, April and May this year.  The court also said the principle of no work-no wages shall not be invoked until further orders in the petition, and posted the matter for further hearing on June 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-no-work-no-wages-cant-be-applied-in-present-situation-says-bombay-high-court-837120.html
13-05-2020||West||Mumbai HC asks NMMC for list of protective gear distributed to staff||The Bombay High Court has directed the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation to file an affidavit listing details of all the protective gear procured and distributed to its staff in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Justice S J Kathawalla passed the order on Tuesday on a petition filed by sanitation and health workers of the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), pointing out how thousands of them have been working each day in the lockdown without any protective gear. The court directed the civic body to file an affidavit listing the number of masks, gloves, hand sanitisers it had in its possession before the lockdown, and the number of such equipment it procured after the lockdown. Justice Kathawalla also directed NMMC to inform the court about details of such protective gear distributed among the civic staff since the lockdown. The petitioner, Samaj Samata Kamgar Sangh, a trade union representing nearly 4,000 contract workers, who are employed for the work of sanitation, solid waste management and in the health department, filed the plea in the high court earlier this month. It said since the workers are all essential service providers, they have been working during the lockdown, putting their own health at risk. The plea said the workers are cleaning roads and public areas, going door-to-door collecting garbage, and cleaning garbage, medical waste and sewage without adequate protective equipment. As per the plea, while the corporation gives a daily allowance of Rs 300 to its permanent sanitation employees for transport, food, hand wash and other facilities, the contract employees do not get any such allowance. It said that cleaning stations, where each employee is supposed to wash up before beginning work, has just a few drops of sanitisers for each contractual employee. Most employees, even those working at hospitals and health centres, are working without masks, and the sanitation workers collect garbage and medical waste without gloves. The petitioners also told HC that they wrote several times to the civic authorities highlighting their plight, but are yet to receive any response.  After hearing the plea, Justice Kathawalla said, It is submitted that the deputy commissioner, solid waste management visited some of the hazeri shades (hand wash centres) and noted that the problems of workers were real and grave and need to be addressed at the earliest. However, thereafter no action was taken by respondent No. 1 (corporation)."   "In the circumstances, the respondent No. 1 is directed to file its affidavit setting out the number of face masks, hand gloves, hand sanitisers which were in their possession prior to the announcement of the lockdown, the subsequent additions thereto, along with detailed break up of the distribution carried out from time to time till date, he said. The court also directed the civic body to disclose the names and addresses of firms from which it got all the protective equipment, and to disclose how often were the masks, gloves provided to its workers were replaced or replenished. The corporation has been asked to file its reply by May 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-hc-asks-nmmc-for-list-of-protective-gear-distributed-to-staff-837125.html
13-05-2020||West||Have requested Centre to deploy CAPF in Maharashtra: Deshmukh||The Maharashtra government has requested the Centre to deploy 20 companies of CAPF in the state so that its police personnel, who are overworked during the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, can be given some rest, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday. Personnel of the Maharashtra Police have been working "day in and day out" to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the state, Deshmukh said. Many state police personnel have tested positive for coronavirus and need time to rest and recuperate, he noted. "The festival of Eid is also around the corner and proper law and order has to be ensured. The police should get some rest for that. Hence, we have requested the Centre to deploy 20 companies of the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF), that is 2,000 personnel," the minister said in a video message on Twitter. Thirty two companies of the Central Reserve Police Force's (CRPF) have already been deployed in Maharashtra and are working in tandem with the state police, according to an official statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/have-requested-centre-to-deploy-capf-in-maharashtra-deshmukh-837126.html
13-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Maharashtra requests 20 companies of CAPF to assist state police||To ensure the maintenance of peace, law and order in the state, Maharashtra has asked for 20 companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) from the Centre, informed the Home Minister Anil Deshmukh.  “The Corona pandemic and resultant lockdown have seen the police force stretched as they work in extremely challenging conditions for long hours both day and night. Ramzan Eid is also around the corner. We do not want the police to be any more overburdened than they are,” he said.  The 32 companies of the State Reserve Police Force already deployed in the state are working in tandem with the Maharashtra police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-30-maharashtra-requests-20-companies-of-capf-to-assist-state-police-837129.html
13-05-2020||West||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut demands special package for Mumbai||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday demanded a special package for Mumbai which has become a coronavirus hotspot. Welcoming the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Raut demanded that Mumbai get "maximum benefit" from it. "Workers are leaving as they have no work here. Mumbai's importance as the country's financial capital should be sustained. The Centre should announce a special package for Mumbai and other cities which create jobs," Raut said. The Sena welcomed the package announced by Modi, he said. "This is no time to be critical. The entire country is with the prime minister at this juncture," the Rajya Sabha member said. However, he added, "out of the total package announced, Mumbai should get maximum benefit."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-leader-sanjay-raut-demands-special-package-for-mumbai-837180.html
13-05-2020||West||Gujarat Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama moves SC against HC order nullifying his election||Gujarat Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court challenging the High Court’s decision nullifying his 2017 election on the ground of malpractiees and manipulation. Chudasama has sought setting aside of the Tuesday order of the Gujarat High Court by terming it as erroneous and contended that it has failed to appreciate that his rival Congress candidate Ashwin Rathod has not led positive, reliable and cogent evidence to prove any of the issues. Therefore, he was not entitled to be declared as duly elected candidate from ’58- Dholakia Constituency’ for the Gujarat State Assembly Elections on December 14, 2017, the minister submitted. The High Court in its decison held that the returning officer was "hand in gloves" with the BJP leader and postal ballots were rejected illegally. Rathod had challenged his BJP rival's victory from Dholka constituency by a margin of mere 327 votes in the 2017 Gujarat Assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-minister-bhupendrasinh-chudasama-moves-sc-against-hc-order-nullifying-his-election-837186.html
13-05-2020||West||You can be consultant for BJP: Chandrakant Patil to Eknath Khadse||Internal squabbling in the Maharashtra BJP burst out in open on Wednesday with state unit chief Chandrakant Patil virtually asking disgruntled senior leader Eknath Khadse to play the role of a consultant, and the latter questionning Patil's "contribution" in expanding the party. While speaking to a Marathi new channel, Patil launched a no-holds-barred attack on Khadse, a day after the latter accused his colleagues in BJP of scuttling his nomination to the May 21 Legislative Council elections for nine seats. "Eknath Khadse is a senior leader of Maharashtra BJP. He can serve as a consultant to the party's current leadership," Patil said in a stinging open attack. Patil debunked Khadse's claims that the party cold-shouldered him and failed to recognise his services for its growth. "When Khadse had denied tickets to some BJP leaders previously to get nominations for his daughter-in-law and son for Lok Sabha as well as MLC seats, what did he tell those people who were denied the opportunity?" Patil asked. Patil said why Khadse was singling out a decent person like Devendra Fadnavis, a former chief minister and current the Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Assembly. Khadse has been in sulk since he was made to resign as a minister in 2016, when Fadnavis was the CM, in the wake of allegations of corruption. "Why is Khadse making allegations against Fadnavis? He should understand that leadership does not only mean becoming MLC or MLA or a minister," Patil said. Khadse had claimed on Tuesday that he knew, by virtue of being a member of the state BJP parliamentary committee, that he would be nominated for MLC polls. "However, going by the dates of the documents filed by four candidates of the party, it is clear that they knew about their nomination to the Legislative Council in advance," he had claimed. Khadse also claimed that most of the BJP nominees had written to local authorities seeking no-dues certificates in March itself. "Against this background, there was no need for our party colleagues to lie to us that I and other leaders would be recommended to the Central committee as prospective nominees for MLC polls," he had said. Meanwhile, responding to Patil's claims, Khadse questionned the former's contribution in expanding the party's base in Maharashtra. "I started contesting the Assembly elections when nobody was ready to represent the BJP in the state. Everyone used to ridicule the BJP. The party was then called as the representative of Shetjis (the merchant community) and Bhatjis (Brahmins). However, leaders like me took it to the masses. We increased the party's base among OBCs across the state," Khadse said. He also fired barbs at Patil for accusing him of playing dynastic politics. "I gave tickets to my family members only when there was assurance of winning the concerned seat for the party. And because we were winning, the party continued to give us tickets. We have earned the right to demand ticket because of our hard work and contribution to the party," Khadse said. Devendra Fadnavis' father was a politician and his aunt was also member of legislative council for more than two decades. Should we now call his leadership as an outcome of dynastic politics? asked Khadse. "Union minister Raosaheb Danve in an MP and his son is an MLA; I wonder what Patil has to say about this," added Khadse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/you-can-be-consultant-for-bjp-chandrakant-patil-to-eknath-khadse-837188.html
13-05-2020||West||Gujarat minister moves SC against HC's order declaring his election as void||A day after his 2017 election as an MLA was declared as void, Gujarat minister Bhupendrasinh Manubha Chudasama, on Wednesday, approached the Supreme Court, challenging the validity of the Gujarat High Court's order. In a special leave petition, he contended that that High Court's order was "patently bad, illegal, contrary to law and in gross violation of the fundamental rights". He claimed his rival Congress candidate Ashwin Kamsubhai Rathod did not have positive, reliable and cogent evidence to prove any of the issues and therefore, he was not entitled to be declared as the duly elected candidate from Dholka Constituency for the Gujarat State Assembly Elections, held on December 14, 2017. The petitioner here, as a BJP candidate, got elected with a margin of 327 votes. The High Court had found that corrupt practice was committed under Section 123 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 during the election, as 429 postal ballot papers were illegally rejected at the time of counting of votes. He sought immediate stay and setting aside of the High Court's judgment of May 12. Seventy-year-old Chudasama, at present, is a member of the Council of Ministers of the Gujarat Government, holding the portfolios in the Departments of Education and Law and Justice. According to him, the total votes received by the Returning Officer through postal ballot papers were 1356. Out of 1356, the Returning Officer had rejected 429 postal ballots. In his plea, he claimed the Congress candidate had not discharged his onus of wrongful rejection of votes. He also contended that the High Court failed to appreciate that there was no objection by the Congress candidate or his agents on rejection of postal ballots till the very end of the counting process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-minister-moves-sc-against-hcs-order-declaring-his-election-as-void-837196.html
13-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Rs 54.75 cr sanctioned to pay for migrant workers' travel||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said his government has provided Rs 54.75 crore to pay for the travel of migrant workers to their respective states by special trains. The amount was sanctioned from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund and transfered to district collectors for booking tickets for migrant workers on special trains, he said in a statement.  Thackeray had said earlier that the government will pay for travel expenses of migrant workers who wanted to leave as well as for bringing back workers from Maharashtra who are stuck elsewhere. Of the Rs 54,75,47,070 sanctioned from the CM's Relief Fund, Rs 12.96 crore are earmarked for Mumbai city and Rs 10 crore for Mumbai suburbs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rs-5475-cr-sanctioned-to-pay-for-migrant-workers-travel-837200.html
13-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Maharashtra government highlights plight of migrants||In what could possibly lead to a confrontation between the Uddhav Thackeray-led alliance in Maharashtra vs BJP,  a video of a migrant worker who heading towards his village in Uttar Pradesh complaining about lack of adequate facilities. In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is under constant criticism from state BJP leaders. In the video,  shot above a lorry,  two persons narrate their plight and complain about the problems being faced. "There is huge queue....50 kms this side,  50 kms on other side, no one is asking about water....in Maharashtra, we got food and water," said one person.  Another added that there are kids too with them. "There is no one at sight,  the villages are empty," he said. Senior Shiv Sena leader and state industries minister Subhash Desai tweeted the video. "The work of MVA is being hailed...from Uttar Pradesh...like Maharashtra, the government there must take care of people," Desai tweeted tagging Shiv Sena, Congress, NCP,  Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aditya,  who is the state protocol, environment and tourism minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-government-highlights-plight-of-migrants-837209.html
13-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Hotel Corona in Gujarat becomes popular selfie point||A nondescript hotel-cum- restaurant on a highway in Gujarat's Banaskantha district has become a popular selfie point among travellers all thanks to its name Hotel Corona. When he named his establishment in 2015, little did hotelier Baakar Ali know that it would garner so much attention at a time when the whole country was reeling under the deadly coronavirus pandemic. The hotel is located on a highway connecting Gujarat with Abu Road in neighbouring Rajasthan and passes through Amirgadh town of Banaskantha. Although it remains temporarily shut because of the COVID-19 lockdown, the name of the establishment has stopped many passersby on their tracks, causing them to wonder why anybody would name their hotel after a dreaded pandemic, which has brought the world to its knees. Several awestruck travellers make a stop at the hotel, just to take selfies with its signboard in the background. "People can't believe that a hotel is named after a global pandemic, which has killed so many people. Travellers stop here just to take selfies," said Ali, a resident of Siddhpur town in Patan district. Ali said he had chosen the name Corona for his hotel, as it meant crown or a bright circular ring. "In Gujarati, it denotes Tej-chakra or Prabha-Mandal. But now, everyone links the word corona with coronavirus," he rues, adding that he may consider changing the name if he sees a drastic drop in customers after the pandemic. The picture will be clear only after the restrictions are lifted and hotel opens for business, Ali said. Till then, the hotelier will have to be happy with the fact that any publicity was good publicity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-hotel-corona-in-gujarat-becomes-popular-selfie-point-837223.html
13-05-2020||West||Home delivery of liquor in Maharashtra to start from May 15 amid coronavirus lockdown||The home delivery of liquor in Maharashtra will start from May 15, an order issued by the state excise department on Wednesday said. The state government had on Tuesday allowed home delivery of liquor to avoid crowding at shops amid the coronavirus-enforced lockdown. However, as the shop owners had sought some more time for preparation, the service will start from Friday, the government resolution (GR) issued by the state excise department said. "The home delivery of liquor will commence from Friday across the state, where the shops are already opened in the non-containment zones. One shop owner cannot appoint more than 10 delivery persons and one delivery person cannot carry more than 24 bottles of permitted liquor in one time," the order said. Providing relief to the consumers, the government also ordered that the shop owners not to charge over and above the MRP printed on the bottle. The GR also made it clear that the online sale of liquor is an unwritten contract between the buyer and the seller, hence the state will not be a party to any possible dispute between them. "Despite the online sale, the liquor shops will have to adhere to the laid-down norms of physical distancing and sanitisation of its staff," the order said. The government allowed home delivery of liquor in the wake of crowding outside liquor outlets when they opened early last week following relaxations in lockdown norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/home-delivery-of-liquor-in-maharashtra-to-start-from-may-15-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-837248.html
13-05-2020||West||COVID-19: With 1,495 new cases, Maharashtra records highest single-day tally||Days before the lockdown norms were relaxed, India's financial capital Mumbai and Maharashtra recorded its highest-ever COVID-19 death toll in 24 hours on Wednesday.  While Mumbai registered a whooping 40 deaths, Maharashtra 54. The progressive total of casualties in Mumbai and  Maharashtra are 596 and 975, respectively.  Going by the reports of critical cases, the western Indian state's death toll may cross 1,000 in a day or two.  As far as the total positive cases are in Mumbai are 15,747 and Maharashtra 25,922.  The increase in statewide total cases is 1,495, which is also the biggest 24-hour tally.  Of the 54 COVID-related deaths 40 were recorded in Mumbai, 6 in Pune, 2 in Jalgaon, 2 in Solapur city, 2 in Aurangabad city and 1 was recorded in  Vasai-Virar and 1 in Ratnagiri.  Out of 2,30,857 laboratory samples, 2,03,439 were negative and 25,922 have been tested positive for Coronavirus until Wednesday. A total of 5,547 people have been treated and discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-with-1495-new-cases-maharashtra-records-highest-single-day-tally-837288.html
13-05-2020||West||Electricity demand falls 24% in April due to lockdown: Crisil||With almost no economic activity taking place in first 20 days of April due to lockdown, and very little operations after that, power demand declined sharply by 24 per cent in the month, Crisil Research said. The 21-day lockdown to fight the spread of coronavirus, which was supposed to end on April 14, was extended till May 3 and later till May 17. The government relaxed the lockdown in certain non-hotspot zones from April 20, but that did not help in boosting the demand. According to the rating agency, states with highest industrial activities, especially in the manufacturing sector, including Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Haryana, and Tamil Nadu, witnessed a 30-50 per cent decline in demand in April. "Electricity demand shrank nearly a quarter in April 2020 as commercial and industrial activity switched off majorly following the nationwide lockdown. The decline in demand by 30-50 per cent in these four states is like experiencing a total blackout every alternate or third day," Crisil said. Maharashtra, which has reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the country, witnessed a 20 per cent decline in demand. "The impact is lesser in Maharashtra largely because the state enjoys a substantial domestic and agro base, which is helping compensate the fall a bit," Crisil Research Director Hetal Gandhi said. The agency noted that there was some offset in the demand because about 1.4 billion people stayed at home, of which millions also worked from home, leading to a surge in domestic electricity consumption through more recharging of devices, streaming videos, online content consumption, and usage of electrical appliances. "That cushioned the slack-demand blow for Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and Haryana in particular, which have a substantial domestic-consumer base," the agency said. Crisil further noted that lower demand from industrial users, who pay the highest tariffs and cross-subsidise domestic and agricultural users, would hit the revenues of discoms. "Industrial users comprise a 41 per cent share in overall power demand, with a pan-India average of around Rs 7.5 per unit in terms of revenue for the utilities. "With a sharp fall in demand from this consumer base, revenue generation for state distribution utilities is expected to be significantly lower this fiscal, as manufacturing activity comes back online only gradually," Gandhi said. The domestic category has 25 per cent share in pan-India energy consumption, but on an average generates only Rs 4.3 per unit for utilities. "Hence, the uptick from domestic consumers may cushion the fall slightly, but both demand and revenue are expected to be hit significantly this fiscal for the distribution segment due to lower industrial power demand. Sector recovery will be a function of how quickly economic activity replugs, reboots and resurges," Gandhi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/electricity-demand-falls-24-in-april-due-to-lockdown-crisil-837296.html
13-05-2020||West||Shops in Ahmedabad's containment zones to open on May 15 in Gujarat||The civic body in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city on Wednesday announced that shops selling essentials in 10 containment zones will be allowed to operate between 8 am and 1 pm starting Friday. In a release issued on Wednesday, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation said home delivery and wholesale vegetable and fruit markets will not be allowed in the containment zones. However, shops selling essentials can operate in these areas between 8 am and 1 pm, only if shop owners and staff carry "health screening cards" issued by the civic body with seven-day validity, the AMC statement read. Shopkeepers will have to wear masks, gloves, use sanitizer, follow social distancing norms and keep a separate tray for money to avoid direct contact with customers, it said. Residents of these containment zones will be allowed to come out of their homes between 8 am and 1 pm only to buy essentials and no one will be permitted to exit these areas, it said. The areas under containment zones include Khadia, Jamalpur, Shahpur, Dariapur, Danilimda, Baherampura, Asarwa, Gomtipur, Saraspur and Maninagar. The AMC has been issuing health cards to grocery shop owners, vegetable and milk vendors in the city after screening them for coronavirus. Ahmedabad, which is the worst-affected districts in the state, has recorded 6,353 COVID-19 cases and 421 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shops-in-ahmedabads-containment-zones-to-open-on-may-15-in-gujarat-837322.html
13-05-2020||West||Gujarat journalist booked for sedition remanded in police custody||A local court on Wednesday remanded the journalist booked for sedition by the Gujarat government for writing a speculative story on change of guard to one-day police remand for further investigation. Police said that the journalist Dhaval Patel will be questioned on what basis he wrote the news story. Meanwhile, ex Gujarat chief minister Shankarsinh Vaghela condemned the state government for targeting the journalist.  The journalist had written a story on his online news portal "Face of Nation" claiming that Chief Minister Vijay Rupani might be replaced by Union Minister of State for Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya in view of rising cases of coronavirus and Rupani's "failure" in containing the pandemic. The story was published on May 7. As a matter of fact, similar stories were published by several other news organisations. Some of these reports carried versions of Mandaviya in which he denied such speculations.  The FIR was registered by a sub-inspector of Detection of Crime Branch S J Desai taking a "suo moto" cognisance of the news report. The FIR alleges "At a time of pandemic (coronavirus), a baseless story has been published and circulated by "Face of Nation to send a fake message to people and create fear among them. Writing such an article is an attempt to bring instability in the state government established as per the Indian legislation." And therefore, the FIR states, "he has been booked for sedition (section 124A of Indian Penal Code) and section 45 of Epidemic Act, 2005." In the list of accused the FIR states "Dhaval Patel, the writer of the news and those who will be found in the investigation."    Meanwhile, senior Lawyer Anand Yagnki said that a petition will be filed in the high court on Thursday on behalf of the journalist for quashing the FIR.  Vaghela told DH that "The government should have warned the journalist and sought explanation but booking him for sedition is highly condemnable." He also said that the world was aware of the virus in January but instead of taking precaution, Gujarat hosted American president Donald Trump in a function (Namaste Trump on February 24) which was attended by about a lakh people.  "I guess there must have been 60,000 to 70,000 people from Ahmedabad city alone and there is a possibility that the event could be a reason behind so many cases of the infection being detected in the city," he said while adding, "what do you expect from this government which is run by bureaucrats, many of them working on extensions and don't have any accountability, whose aim is only to please their bosses in Delhi. Where are the elected representatives of the BJP at a time of this big crisis."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-journalist-booked-for-sedition-remanded-in-police-custody-837327.html
13-05-2020||West||Palghar lynching: 61 get judicial custody, 51 police custody||A local court on Wednesday remanded 61 of the over 130 accused, held in connection with the Palghar lynching case, in judicial custody and 51 others in police custody. Total 113 accused, including a juvenile, were produced in the court of Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) M V Jawale at Dahanu in Palghar district. The incident had taken place at Gadchinchle village on April 16 when two seers were heading towards Surat from Mumbai in a car with a driver to attend a funeral. A mob of villagers stopped their vehicle and beat them to death on suspicion that they were child-lifters, even as a few police personnel had reached the spot. Palghar district rural police have registered three FIRs in connection with the lynching incident. As many 134 persons have been arrested by the local police and the state CID. The first case relates to the murder of the three victims. In connection with this case, the court remanded six of the seven accused in police custody until May 19, while another accused, a juvenile, was referred to the Juvenile Justice Board. In the other FIR relating to the attack on the police and attempt to murder, 106 accused were produced before the court, of them five were remanded in police custody till May 16. When the police took the custody of the 101 in the third FIR, 40 of them were remanded into police custody till May 18. The remaining 61 were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-lynching-61-get-judicial-custody-51-police-custody-837329.html
13-05-2020||West||ED gets production warrant against Wadhawan brothers||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday obtained a production warrant against DHFL promoters Dheeraj Wadhawan and Kapil Wadhawan to seek their custody in a money laundering case related to the Yes Bank scam. The Wadhawans are presently in jail after being arrested by the CBI, which is also probing the case. The ED applied for a warrant seeking that Wadhawan brothers be produced before a special court so that it can ask for their custody, the duo's lawyer said. The court allowed the application, he added. Dheeraj Wadhawan and Kapil Wadhawan were arrested last month by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Yes Bank scam. Founder of Yes Bank Rana Kapoor is also an accused in the case. He was arrested by the ED and is currently in judicial custody. The central probe agency has alleged that the scam started taking shape between April and June 2018 when Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of the scam- hit DHFL. In return, the Wadhawans allegedly "paid kickbacks of Rs 600 crore" to Rana Kapoor and his family members in the form of loans to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd, a firm controlled by his family, the ED said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-gets-production-warrant-against-wadhawan-brothers-837362.html
