14-05-2020||Comment||Surveillance as the way out||For the first time in history, over 1.3 billion people were asked to stay locked up in their homes. Many did stay home and were able to cope relatively well, thanks to the internet and technology that enabled them to work from home and shop from online grocery stores. For another significant section, however, it has been a rough ride. Their daily income has been disrupted and with no support to fulfill their basic needs of food and shelter, many labourers and migrants have been left hungry and stranded. With the economy dwindling, the government is loosening lockdown restrictions. The lockdown by itself was never a solution. It only bought us time to get prepared. The question now is, how to get out of the lockdown. Some say it is like getting into a chakravyuh: We might know how to get in, but the challenge is getting out. Here we describe a tool that can be an effective path out of the lockdown. It is called surveillance. Surveillance means a systematic collection of data for action. Strong surveillance is the need of the hour. It helps to monitor the extent of the circulation of the virus (SARS-CoV-2) in the general population. The World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends implementing testing for Covid-19 via the existing national sentinel surveillance sites for Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI).   In rural areas, ILI surveillance can be done by door-to-door visits by health workers. ANM and ASHA workers can visit households with a simple checklist of symptoms. Providing them clear-cut definitions for what constitutes a suspect case, a probable case, a confirmed case and contact is a must. By ensuring fast data reporting and analysis at the Public Health Centre and district level, we can detect new cases and identify clusters. The reality is that we have more cases than we know, and not detecting them is turning out to be dangerous. One can look at Vijayapura and Davangere to understand the importance of this. A strong surveillance system can detect cases early enough and prevent complications and deaths.  In the short term, the Karnataka government can engage medical institutes and public health institutes to strengthen surveillance in the state. The AYUSH workforce and volunteers can enable active tracing and screening of cases. Considering our huge population and the low human resource in the healthcare workforce, it is essential to have participatory surveillance where the public is also encouraged to self-report symptoms. The goal is to detect and contain outbreaks among vulnerable populations, especially the elderly, people with disabilities, children in orphanages, who will not be able to seek help themselves etc.  In urban areas, it is important to engage civil society members, NGOs and other volunteers to strengthen outbreak detection. The participation and coordination of multiple ministries and government bodies toward a common goal is important.  Preparing a district action plan similar to national immunisation plans must be the way forward with a robust review mechanism at multiple levels and with clear accountability for action. Adopting district strategies with a sharpened focus on high-priority districts can help address the needs of manpower, beds, high-flow oxygen, ventilators, isolation facilities and drugs.  Any death anywhere in Karnataka should be investigated whether it was due to Covid-19 or not. Monitoring the trends in disease and death at the taluk and district levels will help evaluate the impact of the pandemic on healthcare systems and society. This will also help to monitor long-term epidemiologic trends and evolution of the Covid-19 virus.  Public health authorities should review their local requirements and plan for an adequate workforce of contact tracers. They should also involve private sector providers and NGOs for screening services, with clear segregation of affected areas. Capacity-building of healthcare workers to conduct district self-assessments and for better communication have to be arranged through the online mode. The public should be guided in the implementation of control measures like cough etiquette, physical distancing and seeking help in case of any symptoms. The various apps developed by the government like Kilkari, Divyang Sarathi and the agri-market app can be made use of by the government to convey messages about Covid-19 awareness. Engagement with the community and their religious and/or other influential leaders will ease the process of spreading the message and contact tracing. Adapting to a new normal Public gatherings, museums, nightclubs and day-care centres will have to still remain closed; remote working must be encouraged and public transport should have a minimum number of passengers. People will have to be vigilant, wear masks, maintain social distancing and go out only for essentials. Making use of the apps to track and maintain safe distance is helpful and its widespread installation must be encouraged. Thermal cameras have to be implemented at public spaces and over the counter sales of antipyretics without prescription must be strictly prohibited. Wherever possible, the contact information of the person and the prescribing doctor must be tracked. Many countries have come up with innovative solutions, like face mask vending machines, staggered school days, wristbands that buzz if anyone advertently comes too close, apps, etc. Back to normal or the pre-Covid-19 era is not going to happen anytime soon. Physical distancing, maintaining cough etiquette and hand hygiene will have to become the new normal for Indian society. Every district has a laboratory under the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme; a strong robust surveillance system should be the way forward. Karnataka can have a Centre for Diseases Control similar to what China and the US have. Any temporary measure will only be reactive in nature. The long-term measure of public health emergency preparedness is the call for action now. (The writers work at the life-course epidemiology unit, Indian Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/surveillance-as-the-way-out-837559.html
14-05-2020||Comment||Fraternity in time of COVID-19||Besides this, COVID-19 has driven down productivity and forced a lockdown on education, the economy, and transportation and public services. The economic costs of this near-complete lockdown are considerable. In the iniquitous society, economy and polity that India presents, the consequences of this pandemic are impacting people in unequal ways. In the absence of a social protection net, the disadvantaged and vulnerable populations, particularly the poor, are experiencing its impact disproportionately. For the vast majority of them, it is truly a question of life versus livelihood, or if you believe in poetic injustice, to be or not to be. Unprecedented in recent times and therefore posing a public policy challenge, addressing the economic risks wrought by COVID-19-like epidemics will require policies that reduce their likelihood and that will position India to respond swiftly when they do occur. But, governments -- at the Centre and in the states -- are in an unenviable position, faced as they are in the immediate and short run, with the spectre of a precipitous decline in revenue and the inevitable ballooning of expenditure. Several factors complicate the exit strategy and the return to normalcy: managing the epidemic risk in the most productive but high-risk cities -- Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad -- all in the red zone. Urbanisation has simply meant more humans live in close quarters, amplifying the transmissibility of epidemics. In all of these cities, the growth in population from in-migration has meant the proliferation of slums, compelling people to live in conditions with sub-optimal sanitation and poor access to clean water. India, with a case fatality ratio (CFR) of 3.4, higher than the US and China at the same stage of the pandemic, suggests the prevalence of co-morbidity, a concern for the future. Over the medium term, we face an even more daunting threat -- the known unknown: climate change. Zoonotic epidemic threats are elevated by the insidious march of climate change which is expanding the habitats of various common disease vectors, such as the Aedes aegypti mosquito, which can spread dengue, chikungunya, zika, and yellow fever. Locally, extreme climate events like sudden and untimely floods and prolonged chronic droughts are rendering livelihood sustainability far more vulnerable. The greater challenge -- the unknown unknown -- is the pathogens that are currently unknown. In December 2015, the World Health Organisation listed epidemic-potential disease priorities requiring urgent R&D attention. That list was updated in February 2018. India will do well to increase the budget allocated for medical research significantly, while at the same time giving impetus to private sector medical research. Foremost is the need to create incentives for drug discovery, new and improved vaccines, and perhaps even more important, expanding effective and affordable treatment. We must recognise a significant market failure when it comes to vaccines against individual low-probability pathogens that collectively are likely to cause epidemics. The low probability that any single vaccine of this type will be needed, high R&D costs, and long gestation returns, has simply meant that private industry, driven as it is by profits, is loath to investing in their development. The profit-seeking interest does not sit well with the social good of minimising the risk posed by these diseases in the aggregate. Farsighted public policy can overcome this market failure by ensuring that the Indian Council for Medical Research and its network of institutions is provided with the human resources, infrastructure and the budget that it needs. The policy choices that government must exercise ought to be an eclectic mix to achieve different and often competing objectives, including: to minimise the likelihood of outbreaks or limit their spread; to mitigate the health impact of outbreaks that cannot be prevented; and with yet others, to moderate the economic consequences. If there is just one lesson that we must learn from COVID-19, it is that a simple minimalist menu of policy priorities pursued with essentialist rigour will help, and must include: improved sanitation, provision of clean water, and better urban infrastructure; strengthening the primary and the secondary public healthcare system in the rural and urban centres alike; and promoting nutrition in early childhood and for pregnant and lactating mothers to ensure good baseline levels of health, making people less susceptible to infections. In particular, policies to protect spending in these areas even when budgets are constrained must be made politically non-negotiable to safeguard all citizens from major health shocks that can adversely impact human capital and impede human development. But the heart of the matter, as a society, is the challenge of fostering a sense of fraternity. India has long been a country in search of an Indian. If nothing, COVID-19 has shown that the consciousness that we are Indians first, sublimating intersectionality, must permeate our core values. Babasaheb Ambedkar emphasised that “Fraternity means a sense of common brotherhood of all Indians.” This pandemic has demonstrated first-hand the virtue of his sage advice. This alone can protect our collective well-being in the future. After all, our real strength is in standing together as one people regardless of caste, creed, language, religion and region -- the true manifestation of India. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/fraternity-in-time-of-covid-19-837691.html
14-05-2020||First Edit||COVID-19: Welcome measures for the poor||The second tranche of relief announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is a mixture of government schemes that already exist, extension of some of them to more sections of people or by some more months, and a set of new proposals which have been specifically designed. The reliefs are directed at the sections which were most badly hit by the national lockdown which is still continuing. Migrant workers, farmers, traders and street vendors and the urban poor were the worst-hit as they lost their livelihood and are still uncertain when they would get back to their lives. The new package brings some succour to them in cash or kind, by way of subsidies or concessions or by new administrative arrangements and programmes. Migrant workers who do not have ration cards will get 5 kg of rice or wheat and one kg of pulses free for the next two months and can register to work under the MNREGA in the states where they are now. This may provide some immediate relief, and the plan to start a rental housing scheme for them on a PPP model should take care of accommodation problems which most of them face in the cities where they work, although not immediately. National portability of welfare benefits, which is expected to be completed in a few months, will provide food security to the migrants and families even when they are on the move. All these are basic needs which the migrants should have been provided much earlier. The promises and the plans should be pursued vigorously, and the workers who need food and work should get them immediately. It should be ensured that the state governments implement the relief plans efficiently. This may not be easy in states where the administrative machinery and the support systems are weak, but the Centre will have to prod them to take prompt action. Farmers, traders, street vendors, tribals and those who belong to low-income groups will get financial aid through kisan credit cards, sops, credit or housing loans and all these are on liberal terms. Sections like fishermen and animal husbandry farmers will be given the kisan credit card facilities. All of them belong to the weakest sections of society and the relief package has been tailored to their particular needs and circumstances. Digital facilities make transmission of relief easy but there are bound to be difficulties with the data on beneficiaries. All in all, some good intentions have been packaged, but delivery is the key to success.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/covid-19-welcome-measures-for-the-poor-837689.html
14-05-2020||In Perspective||Coronavirus, workers and social security||The coronavirus pandemic has brought to the fore the fact that more than 90% of workers in India have no social security.  They have to work every day unfailingly if they want to survive to see the next day. They have no savings as their earnings do not amount to a living wage and the State provides them with no unemployment allowance. Millions of them are migrants living in cramped shanties in cities, lacking identity/address proof at the destination of migration. This, as well as the absence of central databases and portability of benefits, deprives them of subsidised food, healthcare and social protection even in normal times, and more so during disasters. Hence, the migrants’ desperation during the lockdown is understandable.  But the government announced a lockdown with little thought and planning for its consequences on the working class. The Prime Minister said, “Jaan hai tho Jahan hai”. The workers might want to remind him, “Kaam hai tho Jaan hai.” The need to bring in long-term universal social security was never more urgent. Efforts to frame a Social Security Code (SS Code) to provide universal social security have been hanging fire for several years, with multiple versions being rolled out. The latest SS Code, presented to Parliament in December 2019, has been sent to the Standing Committee, and its three-month term has been extended to July 2020 due to the pandemic. Meanwhile, the government is planning to bring in an ordinance to give effect to the Code. It is necessary for civil society to ensure that the SS Code really ensures universal social security to prevent the kind of abject and heart-rending sufferings that the working class has been subjected to during this crisis, raising the question whether there is any humanity left in our polity at all. The 2018 version of the SS Code was much better than the 2019 version: It had the basic framework for universal social security to cover every worker if certain provisions were tweaked; the 2019 version does not. Especially galling is that the dysfunctional Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act is carried almost wholly into this version of the Code with all its faults. “It is unfortunate that the Code on Social Security does not offer any roadmap for universal social security for unorganised workers and has no definite framework for portability (of benefits),” says a recent Centre for Employment Studies’ Working Paper by Ravi Srivastava. It is also necessary that there is ‘binding legislation’ within the SS Code itself, which compels the government to provide to all workers, including the unorganised, all the nine benefits of ILO Convention No. 102, without leaving it to the whims of executive orders. These should necessarily comprise healthcare, sickness, maternity, disability/accident, unemployment and survivors’ benefits, and old-age pensions.  There is also a need for what are termed ‘Extended Social Security Benefits’, such as for childcare, education and housing. Karnataka, for instance, has a provision for paying a childcare allowance of Rs 500 per month to children of construction workers for three years. Such a childcare allowance needs to be ensured in any fresh SS Code. Alternatively, accessible day-care centres need to be provided or built with SS funds, to care for the children languishing at work sites, especially of migrant workers, who are deprived of other familial support. Otherwise, malnutrition and consequent susceptibility to infections will continue to kill 69% of the 8.8. lakh children under five years of age who die in the country every year – a figure that fails to move policymakers, as demands for day-care centres for 0-6-year-olds mostly fall on deaf ears. Financial aid even to the compulsory school-age children are meagre in our country by all counts. The SS Code needs to supplement these with conditional cash transfers linked to the completion of compulsory education by children, so that these incentivise parents, especially those who migrate temporarily, to retain their children in school, as it is mostly their children who drop out.  The lack of house rent allowance for temporary migrants in cities is the reason why as many as 10 of them are often forced to live in a one-room, window-less, tin shed measuring 10 x 10 sft, without drinking water and toilet facilities. Is it any wonder that calls for maintaining hygiene and ‘social distancing’ to avoid the coronavirus sound ironic to them? The new SS Code needs to ensure that an allowance for decent rental housing for temporary migrants is provided, or that such housing is constructed with the SS funds in every ward. A silver lining is that Karnataka has issued a Government Order requiring most of the above benefits to be given to construction workers, based on a memorandum by CIVIC. Both the rental housing allowance and house construction subsidies for workers need to be high enough in any SS Code to enable a worker’s family to have a house of minimum 600 sft, providing at least 100 sft of living space per person (a norm in other countries), apart from space for a kitchen and a toilet. The current norm of building 250 sft houses for a low-income family, because “they cannot afford a bigger house” must go if we really wish to avoid infections spreading and also put an end to the invisible and unspoken but endemic disease of TB, which kills 4,40,000 persons in the country every year.  Can we hope that the buzz-line for the SS Code will be: “Samajik Suraksha hai tho Jaan hai” (There is life, if there is Social Security). (The writer is Executive Trustee of CIVIC Bangalore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/coronavirus-workers-and-social-security-837558.html
14-05-2020||In Perspective||Chronicle of a death foretold||More than 300 infectious diseases have either newly emerged or re-emerged over the last half a century, in virgin territories. The US Institute of Medicine’s influential 1992 report—”Emerging Infections: Microbial Threats to Health in the United States” put the onus on human movement, crowding, climate, environmental damage, and inter-related factors for this. The majority of epidemiologists kept on warning that one of them might well snowball into a deadly pandemic anytime. Human foray into the complex dynamic ecosystems in which men and microbes co-exist is held to be the trigger. The unknown spectre of what would constitute as the ‘next’, the scientists kept telling us until the new outbreak took us by storm, could be Ebola, avian flu, a drug-resistant superbug, or something completely new. By unravelling how some deadly and disruptive pathogens have caused pandemics in the past and by exploring the origins of contagions, they have tried to predict a model of the new diseases that may stalk humankind today. If we know what the next global contagion might look like ― and what we can do to prevent it, we can save our precious resources, the foremost of which are human resources. A deadly virus emerged from the Congo forest and came as swiftly as it disappeared without a trace in 1976, only to emerge sporadically over the four decades since, almost always with sanguinary effect – killing up to 90% of its victims – until 2013–2014 when the Ebola epidemic presaged an apocalypse with a promise of more such epidemics to strike mankind at any time and place of their choosing. With roads and towns cut deep into the jungles of equatorial Africa or into the Brazilian Amazon, viruses both familiar and undiscovered are being unleashed into more densely populated areas than ever before. Thus, a little more than 30,000 miles of new roads through the rain forest in the Brazilian Amazon built in just three years not only contribute to deforestation and habitat loss in one of the planet’s most biologically diverse regions, but also become a route to a veritable virosphere, the deadly potential of which is unfolding in the form of pathogens like the novel coronavirus. That our lure for an interconnected world glosses over the possibility of many such viral outbreaks is thus just incidental to the plot. As a chronicle of human rapacity, instances of man’s invasion of new ecological niches in recent history are too many to be documented: the clearing of savannah in Africa and Asia unleashed deadly arenaviruses such as Lassa and Hanta; the increase in agricultural settlement in the Bolivian rain forest had set off Machupo; the ploughing of the pampas in South America in preparation for maize growing and cattle ranching unleashed the Junin virus; the building of the Aswan Dam in Egypt that elevated the water table allowed mosquitoes to breed and Rift Valley fever afflicted 300,000 people; and forest clear-cutting prised open the Kyasanur Forest Disease, a tick-borne viral haemorrhagic fever endemic to South India. The yellow fever, the unpleasant mosquito-borne viral illness, killed tens of thousands in the Americas and Europe from the 17th to early 20th centuries only when the craving of humans for sugar led to mass deforestation of Caribbean islands in order to plant cane. The mosquitoes that fed from birds and monkeys, who had lost their habitat, were forced to find new hosts in the shape of the slaves and settlers who were clearing the land. Exactly like the predatory humans seeking to colonise every pasture they come across, a microbe finds in a city a target-rich environment, for urban life facilitates the four major modes of disease transmission—waterborne, vector borne, airborne, or direct contact. And an urban life – with a vast repository of stored food and a huge store of human and animal waste lying around, with its puddles and cisterns harbouring mosquito larvae carrying malaria, yellow fever, encephalitis, and dengue, its cats spreading toxoplasmosis and rats carrying plague – with too many people living too close together with too many wild animals, is truly the happy hunting ground for bacteria and viruses. In recent decades SARS and Ebola, besides AIDS, remain examples that interchange of disease still occurs. But, unlike in the past, our capacity to conduct a thorough analysis of the historic spread of these diseases may be useful in preventing new epidemics. Thus, we see upon examining each stage of cholera’s dramatic journey, from its emergence in the South Asian hinterlands as a harmless microbe to its rapid dispersal across the 19th century world, all the way to its beachhead in Haiti in 2010 and Yemen in 2016 (reported as late as in January this year), pathogens coming close on its heels from the MRSA bacterium to the unforeseen killers coming out of China’s wet markets, the surgical wards of New Delhi, and the suburban backyards of the East Coast. Let’s face it. Our mastery of the microbial world is less comprehensive than we might imagine and more susceptible to chance interactions in the environment than we might care to own up. The ongoing outbreak does teach us that it is imperative to a put a brake on human greed to stave off the spread of deadly pathogens because naked commercial greed brought diseases with disastrous consequences both to and from the New World. Like an enduring old adage, human intervention in the environment has been an age-old source of exposure to new microbes. China’s vast societal shifts, from rural to urban, from agricultural to industrial, from cooperative economy to consumer society, caused severe dislocations powerful enough to tear at nature’s fabric that serves as a model for the rest of the world about what not to do on the plea of economic ‘development’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/chronicle-of-a-death-foretold-837690.html
14-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Suspected COVID-19 patient dies in Karnataka's Bagalkot||The deceased, a resident of Bilagi town, was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday morning following severe fever, cough and breathing problem. However, he breathed his last breath late last night as he failed to respond to the treatment.  DHO Dr Ananth Desai said, his throat swab sample has been sent to Bengaluru for testing. The report will arrive on Friday. Directions have been issued to perform the last rites of the deceased as per the COVID-19 protocol, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/suspected-covid-19-patient-dies-in-karnatakas-bagalkot-837409.html
14-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Udupi officers set up helpdesk for stranded migrants||A team of officers from Udupi has set up a helpdesk at Nippani in Belagavi district to facilitate stranded people returning to Udupi district from Maharashtra. Many people from Udupi, who are working in Maharashtra, wanted to return to Udupi district. On the direction of Udupi DC G Jagadeesh, the team of officials had gone to Nippani border. The team has been verifying the addresses of people who wish to return and is providing them with information on the institutional quarantine facilities and other facilities provided by the Udupi district administration. The initiative has been helping the authorities to get information about people who are returning from Maharashtra. On an average, about 600 people from Mumbai and other areas in Maharashtra were coming to Nippani daily with the intention to return to Udupi district. The team comprises Assistant Director of Youth Empowerment and Sports Department, Roshan Kumar Shetty; Project Director of Nirmiti Kendra Arun Kumar and Kashinath of Udupi Urban Development Cell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-30-udupi-officers-set-up-helpdesk-for-stranded-migrants-837428.html
14-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Four persons test positive for COVID-19 in Mandya||All the four have a travel history to Mumbai.  Patient 961 is a woman aged 48 years, P 962 and 964 are men aged 38 and 26 years, respectively. P 963 is a six-year-old boy. All are being treated at the designated COVID-19 treatment hospital in Mandya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mandya-837453.html
14-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||5 test COVID-19 positive in Mandya; tally goes up to 36||Four persons from KR Pet and one from Malavalli taluk tested positive for COVID-19, on Thursday. With this, the number of positive cases in the district has gone up to 36. As the number of migrants, returning from Mumbai is increasing after the lockdown relaxation, there is an increase in positive cases in the district. Hundreds of people are returning to villages in KR Pet and Nagamangala taluks, every day. They are directly sent for quarantine. Patient (P) 961 is a 48-year-old woman from KR Pet taluk and was residing with her husband in Andheri in Mumbai, for several years. She returned to the district via Mayasandra check-post in Tumakuru district on May 11, said Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh. She was tested on May 13. After testing positive, she has been shifted to COVID Hospital. Her husband and son, who are her primary contacts, are under quarantine. The woman was asymptomatic. Patient 962, a native of Nagamangala taluk, was working as a bouncer in a hotel in Mumbai Central. His family members are residents of KR Pet. His six-year-old son (P963) has also tested positive. Both were tested on May 11.  Patient 964 is a 26-yr-old man from Kikkeri had been to Vadagoan on March 29. As lockdown was announced, he had to stay there till May 8. He reached KR Pet via bus and was tested on May 10. Seven of his primary contacts and five secondary contacts have been quarantined. Patient 982, a 37-year-old man, is the brother of P-179. He was also a primary contact of P-137, P-138, P-139 and P-464. The person was tested twice earlier on April 11 and April 29 and had tested negative. He was subject to a random test on May 12, for the third time, when he tested positive. In all, 19 patients have recovered and are discharged, the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/5-test-covid-19-positive-in-mandya-tally-goes-up-to-36-837684.html
14-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19: Mysuru bounces back to life, people everywhere||After a lull of 53 days, since lockdown, which started from Janata Curfew on March 22, the city and its neighbourhood bounced back to life, almost fully, on Thursday. There were people everywhere. Business activities picked up as Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) allowed the opening of all shops on 91 commercial streets, across the city, since Thursday. Following the outbreak of Covid-19, the MCC had identified 91 streets and had allowed shops of essential commodities to function. As no new Covid-19 case is reported since April 29, active cases declined to two on Wednesday, the MCC relaxed the norms and allowed all shops on these streets to function from 7 am to 7 pm. Out of the 90 positive cases, 88 have recovered and have been discharged from the designated COVID Hospital. MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde issued an order to this effect, under nine zones of the civic body. However, restrictions on hair-dressing saloons, spas, religious places and mass prayer and services of taxis and autorickshaws will remain suspended till May 17. It has to be noted that non-essential shops were allowed to open in residential areas, barring containment zones, since Monday. However, since last Monday (May 4) itself, movement of people and vehicles started increasing and the Police personnel at check-post and barricades were liberal in allowing them. Traffic jams were reported on major commercial streets, such as Ashoka Road and Kalidasa Road. Vehicle users were struggling to get parking space on D Devaraj Urs Road.  However, those who were selling essential commodities so far, were a neglected lot on Thursday. Sunil, a mango vendor from Chamarajanagar, who stations a push-cart on Devaraja Urs Road, said, “Today, there are more people around. But, business in not on expected lines for us. Even vegetable vendors and grocery shops are not getting business like they did till Wednesday. Today, all are heading towards other shops,” he said. Besides, activists came out to stage protests. While a farmers group staged a protest against the proposed amendment to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act, near the Deputy Commissioner’s office, Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) members staged a protest on the same premises, seeking security and insurance to vulnerable people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-mysuru-bounces-back-to-life-people-everywhere-837686.html
14-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Person who recovered from coronavirus dies||A person, who was recovered from Covid-19, died in a private hospital, here on Thursday. However, it is not Covid-19 death, clarified Deputy Commission Abhiram G Sankar. According to DC, the patient 273 died at a private hospital died. However, the death is not due to Covid-19, he clarified. The victim was tested four times after discharge and all samples have been found negative, according to DC. The exact reason for the death is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/person-who-recovered-from-coronavirus-dies-837737.html
14-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Congress leaders ask Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa to allow Eid prayers||Drawing much flak on social media, Congress leaders CM Ibrahim and Abdul Jabbar have written to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, seeking the government to permit Eid-ul-Fitr prayers to be held in mosques and the Idgah Maidans. In his letter, Ibrahim, an MLC and former union minister, stated: "On behalf of the entire community, I would suggest that the government may take a decision by having due consultation with the medical experts to grant permission for Muslims on the day of the Idd to offer prayers in the Idgah Maidan on Masjids from morning till 1 pm, with all precautionary measures and safety norms..." The letter has also been signed by MLC Abdul Jabbar.   Eid is likely to be celebrated this year either on May 24 or 25, depending on the sighting of the moon. At present, owing to the lockdown, the state government has prohibited congregations in mosques requesting the community to pray at homes during the month of Ramzan.  The Congress leaders' letter drew flak on social media, with several people accusing the leaders of risking public health by seeking permission for public congregation amid pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-30-congress-leaders-ask-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-allow-eid-prayers-837469.html
14-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress leader urges B S Yediyurappa to permit Muslims to pray at mosques on Eid-ul-Fitr||Even as the state government is yet to decide the nitty-gritty of Lockdown 4.0, two Congress MLCs have written to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa seeking permission for Muslims to offer congregational prayers for Eid.  In his letter, C M Ibrahim, a MLC and former union minister, stated: "On behalf of the entire community, I would suggest that the government may take a decision by having due consultation with the medical experts to grant permission for Muslims on the day of the Idd to offer prayers in the Idgah Maidan of Masjids from morning till 1 pm, with all precautionary measures and safety norms..."  Ibrahim's letter to the CM also had MLC Abdul Jabbar's name.  Prior to the commencement of the month of Ramzan, the state government, after holding consultation with the community leaders, had requested the community to pray at home in the wake of the pandemic. A government order was issued prohibiting prayers at mosques.  This year, the festival is set to be celebrated either on May 24 or 25, depending on the sighting of the moon.  While the letter drew much flak on social media, with people accusing the leaders of risking public health with such a proposal, officials in the minority welfare department said the state government had not taken any decision on Eid celebrations. "All decisions will be taken only after May 17, once lockdown 3.0 ends. Nothing can be said at this point," an official in the department said.   Meanwhile, BJP leaders were quick to launch an attack against the Congress party. Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa tweeted: "We have already experienced the repercussions of Siddaramaiah, Ibrahim and Zameer Ahmed supporting Tablighis. I will request the chief minister to reject this request by Ibrahim. The law is the same for everyone in this country."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-leader-urges-b-s-yediyurappa-to-permit-muslims-to-pray-at-mosques-on-eid-ul-fitr-837548.html
14-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||‘Include tomato under weather-based crop insurance scheme’||The horticulture department has submitted a proposal to the government requesting for the inclusion of tomato crop under weather-based crop insurance scheme instead of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY). The report submitted to the government includes total land of cultivation, number of farmers engaged in the cultivation of tomato and annual transaction among others. At present, the farmers can insure the crop under PMFBY. However, insurance is granted based on the yield which has hit the farming community. Unlike in other district, the yield in the district normally don’t fall. In the last four years, none of the farmers in the district has received compensation for the losses as the yield is considered under PMFBY. Despite having insured the crop, the farmers are unable to enjoy the benefit. Due to the norm, droughts and depleting ground water, the farmers in the region have been demanding the government to include the crop under weather-based crop insurance scheme. The department responded to the demand of the farming community and submitted the proposal. “The department has submitted a proposal to the government to include tomato under weather-based crop insurance scheme instead of PMFBY,” M Gayatri, deputy director, horticulture department said. The district is the largest producer of tomatoes in the state. The crop is cultivated in over 9,000 hectare land in all three seasons. Despite droughts and depleting groundwater table, farmers in the region have managed to engage themselves in the tomato cultivation. The district has the largest tomato market in Asia. Tomatoes are exported to other states and countries. The Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC) in the district transact business worth Rs 401 crore annually. Taluk         Tomato cultivation ( in hectares) Bangarpet:                        505 KGF:                                  754 Kolar:                                2,287 Malur:                              1,215 Mulbagal:                        2,748 Srinivaspur:                     1,301||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/include-tomato-under-weather-based-crop-insurance-scheme-837634.html
14-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Meeting to move no confidence motion against ZP vice-president||A meeting has been fixed to move no confidence motion against Zilla Panchayat (ZP) vice-president Nirmala P Muniraju. The no confidence motion has been planned for the first time in the history of the ZP. The present term of the ZP will expire in 10 months. Of the 28 seats in the ZP, the Congress has 21 seats, the JD(S) five and the BJP and the CPM one each. Due to factionalism, three members had to step down as presidents in the ruling Congress party. After the Congress came to power in 2016, the state leaders distributed the power in two periods for the posts of president and vice-president, according to sources in the party. The post of ZP vice-president was reserved for BCM (Woman). P Nirmala, representing Jangamakote constituency in Shidlaghatta and Saraswatamma Ashwathnarayana Gowda from Tondebhavi constituency in Gauribidanur taluk were chosen for the post for two-year term each. Accordingly, Nirmala Muniraju became the vice-president. P N Keshav Reddy took over as the president in 2016. In 2018, about 14 members from the party threatened to resign forcing Reddy to step down. H V Manjunath from Hosur constituency took over on March 7, 2018. The party had to face consequences of differences of opinion between two Congress leaders in the district during the Coalition government in 2018 Dr K Sudhakar and H N Shivashankar Reddy. The Congress party directed H V Manjunath and Nirmala Muniraju to step as per the agreement before the Lok Sabha elections. The two leaders resigned on June 26, 2018. The last date for the acceptance of resignations was July 11, 2019. Since Dr K Sudhakar was planning to resign from the party and join the BJP, the party leaders directed Manjunath and Nirmala Muniraju to withdraw their resignations and continue in the same positions which they obliged. The party had planned to make Sudhakar’s supporter P N Prakash from Manchenahalli constituency as the ZP president. Accordingly, Manjunath resigned for the second time on September 23, 2019. Since there was focus on the byelection to Chikkaballapur Assembly constituency, the issue of the post of vice-president was ignored. Bagepalli Kasaba constituency member M B Chikkanarasimhaiah defeated Prakash in the election to the post of president on October 23, 2019 and became president. “Nirmala P Muniraju was asked to rule for two years. As per the agreement, she should have step down ceremoniously. However, she continued to hold the power for four years. It is an insult to face no confidence motion and get rejected in public life,” H V Manjunath said. Nirmala Muniraju rejected the claims of distribution of power. “The party leaders never distributed the power. If it was so why did the members remain silent for four years? Members and MLAs used me to meet their agenda due to factionalism,” she charged. She said that she had resigned in the past and withdrew her resignation due to the instructions from the state leaders. The leaders had assured that continue her in the same position. “These people are changing their colours now. I am on the path of justice,” she said. “Nirmala Muniraju has been requested to step down on humanitarian grounds to pave way for Saraswatamma. However, she is adamant,” Chikkanarasimhaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/meeting-to-move-no-confidence-motion-against-zp-vice-president-837637.html
14-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||COVID-19: Over 100 quarantined in Kolar district hospital||Over 100 people have been quarantined at the SNR district hospital here for being secondary contacts of people from Mulbagal believed to be suffering from Covid-19. The health department identified these 100 people from V Hosahalli, Bairasandra, Belaganahalli and Mulbagal. The number of secondary contacts is likely to shoot up. Five people had tested positive for novel coronavirus on May 12. A total of 24 people were quarantined for being the primary contacts of the five on the same night at the district hospital. Throat swabs and blood samples of 124 people have been sent to a laboratory in Bengaluru for reports so far. The infected people from Bairasandra and Belaganahalli in Mulbagal taluk are truck drivers. They visited APMCs in Kolar and Vaddarahalli. A large number of owners of outlets in the two APMCs, truck drivers and vegetable vendors came in contact with the infected people, according to sources in the health department. The infected person from V Hosahalli was a student of a college at Humnabad in Bidar district. The person had gone to Maharastra for academic purpose and contracted the virus there, added the sources.  An elderly woman from Boosalakunte in Mulbagal town was working at the residence in J P Nagar in Bengaluru. She contracted the virus at the residence. The health department is now collecting details of people who came in contact with the infected persons from Hosahalli and Boosalakunte. About 65 people from Kolar and Srinivaspur who came in contact with the virus infected persons from V Kota in Andhra Pradesh tested negative. They have been quarantined at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/covid-19-over-100-quarantined-in-kolar-district-hospital-837656.html
14-05-2020||National||Fake message attributed to ICMR lists 21 dos and don’ts post lockdown||A WhatsApp text that lists 21 dos and don’ts on how to resume life after the lockdown has been ascribed to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), New Delhi. It is being widely forwarded on WhatsApp.  The viral message reads, “ICMR New Delhi* Please read carefully Some very important points..1. Postpone travel abroad for 2 years..2. Do not eat outside food for 1 year..3. Do not go to unnecessary marriage or other similar ceremony..4. Do not take unnecessary travel trips..5. Do not go to a crowded place for at least 1 year..6. Completely follow social distancing norms..7. Stay away from a person who has cough..8. Keep the face mask on..9. Be very careful in the current one week..10. Do not let the any mess around you..11. Prefer vegetarian food..12. Do not go to the Cinema, Mall, Crowded Market for 6 Months now. If possible, Park, Party, etc. should also be avoided..13. Increase immunity..14. be very carefull while at Barber shop or at beauty Salon parlour..15. Avoid Unnecessary Meetings, Always keep in mind Social Distancing.._16. The threat of CORONA is not going to end soon.17. Dont wear belt, rings, wrist watch, when you go out. Watch is not required. Your mobile has got time.18. No hand kerchief. Take sanitiser & tissue if required.19. Don’t bring the shoes into your house. Leave them outside.20. Clean your hands & legs when you come home from outside.21.when you feel you have come nearer to a suspected patient take a thorough bath.Lockdown or no lockdown next 6 months to 12 months follow these precautions. Share this with all your family & friends.” Fact-check Readers are also requested to note inconsistencies in the WhatsApp text — spelling mistakes or grammatical errors (red) and formatting issues (green). Some of them have been highlighted in the screenshot below. Thus the viral WhatsApp text hasn’t been drafted by ICMR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fake-message-attributed-to-icmr-lists-21-dos-and-don-ts-post-lockdown-837364.html
14-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 14, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-14-2020-edition-837386.html
14-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 14||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 81,062 as of May 14. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 2,625   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 23,386 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-14-837387.html
14-05-2020||National||DH Toon: PM Modi and his addresses to the nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced an economic relief package of Rs 20 lakh crore — about 10% of India’s GDP — that will cover the land, labour, industry, entrepreneurs, farmers and migrant workers to fight the impact of COVID-19 in a better way and make the lockdown-battered economy self-reliant.  “It is for migrants and farmers who work for the nation day and night, no matter the circumstances,” the Prime Minister said emphasising on migrant workers, several of whom lost their lives while trying to reach their native places during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pm-modi-and-his-addresses-to-the-nation-837389.html
14-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Indian Railways cancels passenger trains till June 30; Shramik, special trains to continue||However, the Shramik Special trains and Special Rajdhani Express trains will continue to operate to ferry stranded people.  The Railways also announced to fully refund the ticket amount to ticket holders. Those who booked tickets through IRCTC website need not cancel their tickets as they will get a refund automatically. Those who booked a ticket through passenger reservation counters can get a refund within three months and they need not rush now as counters are closed.  When Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a video conference with chief ministers, several of them requested the PM Modi to not to resume operations of train services due to increasing of COVID-19  cases. The passenger-carrying train services have been suspended from March 22. The Railways has been only operating freight trains to transport essential commodities. From May 1, the Railways started operating Shramik special trains to ferry stranded people including migrant workers. From May 12, special Rajdhani trains started operating on select routes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-indian-railways-cancels-passenger-trains-till-june-30-shramik-special-trains-to-continue-837406.html
14-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lab-made, not natural, says Nitin Gadkari: Report||"We have to understand the art of living with corona. This is not a natural virus. It is an artificial virus and now many countries in the whole world - they are researching on it for a vaccine. The vaccine is not available, it is expected that vaccine will be available as soon as possible, then there will be no problem," Nitin Gadkari told the publication.  It is important to note that this is the first time that the Indian government has made a comment on the origin of the deadly virus. Many countries, including the United States, have repeatedly blamed a lab in China's Wuhan for the creation of the virus. "The second problem is the detection methodology. We need some good methodology for that so that we can immediately identify the virus. This is unexpected because this a virus from laboratory, this is not natural virus, so the world is now prepared, India is now prepared, scientists are prepared. After finding a solution for that, we can create confidence. After taking a vaccine there will be no problem," he said, adding that this would alleviate fear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lab-made-not-natural-says-nitin-gadkari-report-837414.html
14-05-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 2,549; number of cases cross 78,000-mark in country: Health Ministry||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,549 and the number of cases climbed to 78,003 on Thursday, registering an increase of 134 deaths and 3,722 cases in the last 24 hours since Wednesday 8 am, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 49,219 while 26,234 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said. "Thus, around 33.63 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. The total confirmed cases include foreign nationals too. A total 134 deaths deaths were reported since Wednesday morning, of which 54 were in Maharashtra, 29 in Gujarat, 20 in Delhi, 9 in West Bengal, seven in Madhya Pradesh,  four in Rajasthan, three in Tamil Nadu, two each in Telangana and Karnataka and one each in Andhra Pradesh,Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh. Of the 2,549 fatalities, Maharashtra tops tally with 975 fatalities, Gujarat comes second with 566 deaths, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 232, West Bengal at 207, Rajasthan at 121, Delhi at 106, Uttar Pradesh at 83,Tamil Nadu at 64 and  Andhra Pradesh at 47. The death toll reached 34 Telangana, 33 in Karnataka and 32 in Punjab. Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir have reported 11 fatalities each due to the respiratory disease while Bihar has registered seven and Kerala has reported four deaths. Jharkhand, Chandigarh and Odisha have recorded three COVID-19 fatalities each while Himachal Pradesh and Assam have reported two deaths each.     Meghalaya, Uttarakhand and Puducherry have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data. According to the ministry's website, more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities. According to the health ministry data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country is from Maharashtra at 25,922 followed by Gujarat at 9,267, Tamil Nadu at 9,227, Delhi at 7,998, Rajasthan at 4,328, Madhya Pradesh at 4,173 and Uttar Pradesh at 3,729. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 2,290 in West Bengal, 2,137 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,924 in Punjab.  It has risen to 1,367 in Telangana, 971 in Jammu and Kashmir, 959 in Karnataka, 940 in Bihar and 793 in Haryana. Kerala has reported 534 coronavirus cases so far, while Odisha has 538 cases. A total of 187 people have been infected with the virus in Chandigarh and 173 in Jharkhand. Tripura has reported 155 cases, Assam has 80 cases, Uttarakhand has 72, Himachal Pradesh has 66 cases, Chhattisgarh has 59 and Ladakh has registered 43 cases so far. Thirty-three COVID-19 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.     Meghalaya and Puducherry have registered 13 cases each while Goa has seven COVID-19 cases.   Manipur has two cases. Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Dadar and Nagar Haveli have reported a case each till how.   "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website.   State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-2549-number-of-cases-cross-78000-mark-in-country-health-ministry-837418.html
14-05-2020||National||Lack of medical investment, healthcare infra big challenges for India’s COVID-19 fight: Fitch||"The continued lack of medical funding and healthcare infrastructure inform our view for the potential epidemic to be worse in India if it is not adequately contained," Fitch Solutions Country Risk and Industry Research (a unit of Fitch Group) said in its outlook for India’s pharmaceutical market.  With 8.5 hospital beds per 10,000 citizens and eight physicians per 10,000, the country’s healthcare sector is not equipped for such a crisis. Moreover, the significant inefficiency, dysfunctioning and acute shortage of the healthcare delivery systems in the public sector do not match up with the growing needs of the population. In addition, more than 80 per cent of the population still does not have any significant health insurance coverage, and approximately 68 per cent of the Indians have limited or no access to essential medicines.  Furthermore, over the last two decades, the availability of free medicines in public healthcare facilities has declined from 31.2 per cent to 8.9 per cent for inpatient care, and from 17.8 per cent to 5.9 per cent for outpatient care, the rating agency said citing a Public Health Foundation of India study. It also said that the growth within India’s pharmaceuticals and healthcare market will be supported by the government's push towards achieving universal health coverage status. An improving business environment and planned healthcare reforms will be positive for innovative drugmakers and as such the market will continue to hold significant potential as the third-largest pharmaceutical market in the Asia-Pacific region, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lack-of-medical-investment-healthcare-infra-big-challenges-for-india-s-covid-19-fight-fitch-837439.html
14-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Longing for safety of their homes, migrants pay tax in tears and blisters||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, DH photojournalist Pushkar V brings you the stories of migrant labourers who left Bengaluru on foot headed to various states in North and Central India. DH journalist Akash Sriram brings news highlights and DH Fact Check.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-longing-for-safety-of-their-homes-migrants-pay-tax-in-tears-and-blisters-837444.html
14-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: IRCTC to record destination address of passengers||IRCTC has decided to take the destination address of all passengers who are booking tickets for AC special trains. While booking tickets for special trains, passengers will have to fill the destination address column. This new addition is being done in order to help the authorities in contact tracing. The Railways introduced the new column after several passengers, who travelled in Shramik Special trains, tested positive for COVID-19 thereby risking the health of several others who had also travelled in the same train.  The Railways are operating 15 AC special trains to selected destinations for ferrying people stranded since May 12. The destination address will help Railways if any passenger who is travelling I special trains falls sick due to COVID-19. The Railways can then inform other passengers who have travelled in the same train.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-irctc-to-record-destination-address-of-passengers-837448.html
14-05-2020||National||Spl train with over 1,000 passengers reaches Howrah from Delhi||A special train from New Delhi, carrying more than 1000 passengers, arrived at the Howrah station here on Thursday, as the railways resumed partial services amid the COVID-19-triggered lockdown. The air-conditioned train, the first between the national capital and the city since the imposition of the lockdown, reached Howrah at noon, an Eastern Railway (ER) official said here. All 1,060 passengers were subjected to health check-up arranged by the state before they left the station building, the official said. Official sources said at least 40 buses have been arranged by the state transport department to take the passengers home. A number of app-based cabs and yellow taxis were also parked outside the station for the ones willing to hire those to reach home. All returnees will have to undergo 14-day home quarantine. The railways started special train services between Delhi and several other cities from May 12. Services connecting Delhi and Howrah, which began on Wednesday, will be available daily, the ER official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spl-train-with-over-1000-passengers-reaches-howrah-from-delhi-837459.html
14-05-2020||National||Tata Trusts to upgrade govt hospitals with modern medical equipment||The Tata Trusts is upgrading four government hospital buildings, two in Uttar Pradesh and two in Maharashtra, into COVID-19 treatment centres. The facilities, including both in-patient and out-patient wings, are permanent and will enduringly enhance health care in their locations, even after the immediate purpose is met. The Trusts’ intervention follows the Chairman Ratan Tata’s statement that “urgent emergency resources need to be deployed to cope with the needs of fighting the COVID-19 crisis, which is one of the toughest challenges the human race will face.”  In Maharashtra, the hospitals are at Sangli (50 beds) and Buldhana (106 beds), and in Uttar Pradesh at Gautam Buddha Nagar (168 beds) and Gonda (106 beds). The treatment centres in Uttar Pradesh are in collaboration with a partner organisation. The decision to upgrade existing infrastructure was to bring speed and make use, wherever possible, of existing capabilities and services. The Trusts are attempting to hand over the facilities by June 15, 2020. Each hospital will be armed with critical care capabilities, minor operation theatres, basic pathology and radiology, facilities for dialysis and blood storage, and telemedicine units.  Tata Trusts is harnessing its experience in establishing cancer care facilities and connected service providers to modernise these hospitals. The construction is being done by Tata Projects Limited, the design is by Edifice Consultants Pvt Limited, and equipment is being sourced from leading manufacturers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tata-trusts-to-upgrade-govt-hospitals-with-modern-medical-equipment-837461.html
14-05-2020||National||IIT Kanpur-incubated company to launch automatic disinfectant chambers||An IIT Kanpur-incubated company is set to launch a series of automatic disinfectant chambers that would help reduce the risk of people catching COVID-19 when they visit public places, the institute director said on Thursday. "One of the first products that is going through the rigorous testing is the intelligent disinfectant chamber" IIT-Kanpur Director Abhay Karandikar said. Dr Nikhil Agarwal, CEO of IIT Kanpur incubator said, "CuproHealthtech is launching the disinfectant chambers. We are working with the team closely to ensure the best possible support”. Disinfectant chambers are closed cabins where disinfectant is sprayed on the individual to sanitize or disinfect him or her completely. The chamber will determine the temperature of the person before allowing him or her to enter and the AI-powered camera will record the face of the individual and moderate the entry of the individuals, Karandikar said in a release. He said the chamber will sanitise individuals from top to bottom within seconds, and asserted that the whole process is completely automatic and free of any human intervention. As people go out in pubic spaces after the coronavirus-triggered lockdown is lifted, the IIT-Kanpur director said, they will be prone to getting infected from belongings of others including clothes and shoes. He said hand sanitizers and face masks may not guarantee complete protection. CuproHealthTech is a health technology firm based out of Hyderabad. Cupro is incubated at Foundation for Innovation and Research in Science & Technology (FIRST) –- a technology incubator of IIT-Kanpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-kanpur-incubated-company-to-launch-automatic-disinfectant-chambers-837477.html
14-05-2020||National||Indian troops maintaining 'posture' along border with China: Army Chief||Indian troops were maintaining their "posture" along the border with China while infrastructure development in the frontier areas was on track, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane said on Thursday, days after personnel of the two countries were locked in two separate incidents of violent face-offs. Gen Naravane said the incidents in Eastern Ladakh and North Sikkim involved aggressive behaviour by Chinese and Indian troops resulting in minor injuries to personnel from both the sides. The Army Chief said both sides "disengaged" after dialogue and interaction at the local level. "It is reiterated that both these incidents are neither co-related nor do they have any connection with other global or local activities," he told journalists when asked about the face-offs. "All such incidents are managed by established mechanisms where-in local formations from both sides resolve issues mutually as per established protocols and strategic guidelines given by the prime minister after the Wuhan and Mamallapuram summits," Gen Naravane said. He said Indian Border troops have always been upholding peace and tranquillity along the border areas. "I can say with confidence that the development of infrastructure capabilities along our northern borders is on track. Our force posture will not suffer due to the COVID-19 pandemic," he said. It is learnt that the situation in the Eastern Ladakh region remained tense with troops of the two countries maintaining a close watch on each other demonstrating aggressive posturing, even nine days after the violent clash involving 250 soldiers from both sides. The confrontation began on the evening of May 5 and both sides decided to "disengage" the next day. In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector of the Sino-India border on Saturday. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-troops-maintaining-posture-along-border-with-china-army-chief-837483.html
14-05-2020||National||Pooled tests for migrant workers, Indians returning from abroad||The Centre on Thursday issued guidelines to conduct RT-PCR based pooled sampling for migrant workers, stranded Indians returning from abroad for the prevalence of COVID-19. The Centre also asked health authorities to conduct similar tests for surveillance purposes in green zones and districts that have not reported a Covid-19 case for the past 21 days. The Centre’s guidelines came as a large number of workers have started returning to their home states on board the ‘Shramik Special’ trains and evacuation of thousands of Indians stranded across the globe. “A decision has been taken to use one time RT-PCR based pooled sampling for surveillance purposes for migrant workers in institutional quarantine facilities, international passengers in institutional quarantine facilities/hotels ear-marked for quarantine and for surveillance purposes in green zones,” the Health Ministry said. The guidelines for the pooled test came against the backdrop of a large number of pilgrims stranded at Nanded Huzoor Sahib gurdwara tested positive for COVID-19 after they were evacuated through special buses to their villages in Punjab.  As many as 1,225 of the 4,216 returnees from Nanded Huzoor Sahib Gurdwara had tested positive for coronavirus earlier this month. At a video conferencing meeting on Sunday, the Bihar government had conveyed to Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba that a large number of migrant workers returning to the state had tested positive for COVID-19.  On Thursday, the confirmed cases of coronavirus infections touched 78,003, an increase of 3,722 in a single day, while the death toll spiked by 134 to reach 2,549. As many as 26,235 persons or 33.63% of the confirmed cases have been cured of the disease and discharged from hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pooled-tests-for-migrant-workers-indians-returning-from-abroad-837490.html
14-05-2020||National||Honest efforts needed to implement govt measures at ground-level: Mayawati||The former UP chief minister also said that the Rs. 1000 crore announced by the PM CARES Fund Trust for migrant labourers should be directly provided to the most affected states like Uttar Pradesh  The PM CARES Fund Trust on Wednesday decided to allocate Rs 3,100 crore for fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and the amount will be used, among other things, to purchase ventilators and care of migrant workers. Out of the Rs 3,100 crore, nearly Rs 2,000 crore will be earmarked for the purchase of "Made-in-India" ventilators and Rs 1,000 crore for care of migrant labourers. In a tweet, the BSP president said there should be immediate and honest efforts to implement steps taken by the Centre to mitigate the suffering of people. "Also the Rs. 1000 crore announced for helpless/marginalised migrant labourers should be directly provided to the most affected states like Uttar Pradesh so that it could become a real support for them... and the poor/labourers are not forced to migrate further."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/honest-efforts-needed-to-implement-govt-measures-at-ground-level-mayawati-837498.html
14-05-2020||National||Thousands, including BJP lawmakers attend saint's funeral||Social distancing went for a toss as thousands of people, including BJP lawmakers, paid their last respect to Swami Viraktananda alias Shobhan Sarkar in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur town, about 90 kilometres from Lucknow, on Wednesday (May 13) defying commands by the police and the administration. Shobhan Sarkar, who had hit the headlines, when on the instructions of the union government, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had undertaken an excavation at an old fort in UP's Unnao district in 2013 after the saint had dreamt that one thousand tonnes of gold lay buried under the ruins. The government was left red-faced after the ASI had to abandon the excavation after nothing was found there. Such was the influence of the saint that BJP MP Devendra Singh Bhole, saffron party MLAs Pratibha Shukla and Nilimia Sankhwar and other leaders paid their respect to him at the latter's ashram.  Thousands of his disciples, defying the ban on large gatherings, thronged the Ganga bank, where the saint was cremated. The police remained a mute spectator as the disciples jostled with each other to have a glimpse of the seer's mortal remains. Senior officials expressed their helplessness in controlling the surging crowds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thousands-including-bjp-lawmakers-attend-saints-funeral-837502.html
14-05-2020||National||COVID-19 effect: Rashtrapati Bhavan to go austere||Rashtrapati Bhavan will go austere this fiscal to aid the 'Atma Nirbhar Abhiyan' by saving 20% of its budget by deferring the purchase of Presidential Limousine used for ceremonial occasions, reduce spending on state banquets and At-Home functions besides cutting down domestic tours and programmes. President Ram Nath Kovind has already contributed one month's salary to PM-CARES in March and has decided to forego 30% of his salary for a year. The new austerity measures decided by the President are aimed at supporting the 'Self Reliant India Movement' through the greater flow of resources towards COVID-19 relief measures, a Rashtrapati Bhavan communique said. The President's House aims to save 20% of its budget in the current financial year. As part of the austerity drive, Kovind has given directions to defer the purchase of the Presidential Limousine, which is to be used for ceremonial occasions. The existing resources of the Rashtrapati Bhavan and the government will be shared and used for such occasions. The state banquets thrown in respect of visiting dignitaries and at-home ceremonies will show less pomp and splendour as the Rashtrapati Bhavan has now decided to keep the guest list smaller to maintain social distance and reduce food menu to an extent possible. Flowers and other items used for decoration during such functions will also be reduced. The President's domestic tours and programmes will also be curtailed to minimise the expenditure while he would largely rely on technology to reach out to people. No new capital works will be taken up in 2020-21 while only ongoing works will be completed. Repair and maintenance work will be minimised to only ensure the proper upkeep of assets. Using technology, the Rashtrapati Bhavan also aims a substantial reduction in the use of office consumables, including the use of paper to avoid wastage and make the office eco-friendly. Efforts will be made to save energy and fuel by rationalising their usage. "It will be ensured that such austerity measures would have no adverse impact on the support given to outsourced/contractual workers. Other activities taken up by the Rashtrapati Bhavan for the welfare of poor people will not be affected either," the statement said.  The President has given instructions to the Rashtrapati Bhavan to set an example by economising the expenditure, making optimal usage of resources, and dovetailing the saved money to combat COVID-19 and mitigate the people’s economic plight, the communique said. “In the President’s estimation, this will be a small but significant contribution to realise the government’s vision of making India self-reliant and energise the nation to take up the challenge to fight the pandemic and continue our journey for development and prosperity simultaneously," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-effect-rashtrapati-bhavan-to-go-austere-837514.html
14-05-2020||National||Govt announces free foodgrains for migrant workers, concessional credit for farmers||The government on Thursday announced a Rs 3.16 lakh crore package of free foodgrains for migrant workers, concessional credit for farmers and working capital loans for street vendors as part of the second tranche of fiscal stimulus to heal an economy hit hard by coronavirus lockdown. At a news conference, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said 8 crore migrant workers will get 5 kgs of grains and 1 kg of pulses free for two months, while 50 lakh street vendors rendered jobless by the lockdown would be given a working capital loan of Rs 10,000 each. As many as 2.5 crore farmers will be provided Rs 2 lakh crore of concessional credit through Kisan Credit Cards. Also for post-harvest (Rabi) and current Kharif crop requirements in May and June, NABARD will provide Rs 30,000 crore additional emergency working capital funding for farmers through rural cooperative banks and regional rural banks. She also announced a Rs 70,000 crore boost to the housing sector through one-year extension of subsidised loan for affordable houses for the middle-income group with an annual income of Rs 6 lakh to Rs 18 lakh. Sitharaman said the central government will bear Rs 3,500 crore cost of giving free foodgrain and pulses to migrant workers. State governments will be responsible for implementation, identification of migrants and full distribution. Also to benefit of migrant workers, the government plans to allow inter-state portability of ration cards under public distribution system (PDS) so as to allow them to use their cards anywhere to get benefit. For small businesses, the minister announced a 2 per cent interest subvention under MUDRA-Shishu loans of up to Rs 50,000. This would cost the government Rs 1,500 crore. For street vendors, the working capital loan would cost Rs 5,000 crore. She also announced Rs 6,000 crore employment push, using Compensatory Afforestation Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) funds. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Tuesday announced a cumulative package of Rs 20 lakh crore (nearly 10 per cent of GDP) to provide relief to various segments of the economy. This included Rs 1.7 lakh crore package comprising of free foodgrains and cash to poor for three months announced in March, and Rs 5.6 lakh crore stimulus provided through various monetary policy measures by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The remaining of the Rs 20 lakh crore package is being announced in tranches - Sitharman had in the first tranche on Wednesday unveiled a Rs 5.94 lakh crore plan that mostly comprises of off-budget items such as Rs 3 lakh crore of credit line to small businesses as support to shadow banks and electricity distributors. Off-budget items do not result in any outgo from the government exchequer but these will aid in easing liquidity constraints for businesses once the lockdown is lifted. India had - beginning March 25 - imposed a three-week-long nationwide lockdown, the most far-reaching measure undertaken by any government to curb the spread of the pandemic. The lockdown, which brought most of the economic activity to a standstill as factories and businesses shut while rendering thousands temporarily unemployed, has since been extended twice through May 17, with some relaxations to allow the resumption of economic activity. According to estimates, the lockdown may have led to 12.2 crore people losing jobs in April and consumer demand evaporating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-announces-free-foodgrains-for-migrant-workers-concessional-credit-for-farmers-837517.html
14-05-2020||National||Hizbul's new chief among army’s top 10 most wanted militants in Kashmir||After the killing of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen chief Riyaz Naikoo last week, security agencies in Kashmir have identified the top 10 terrorists operating in the Valley. The list includes the militants from the Hizbul, Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM). Sources told Deccan Herald that the Army has released a list of its top ten targets which includes 26-year-old Saifullah Mir aka Ghazi Haider, who was nominated as new chief by the Hizbul last week. Mir, who also goes by ‘Doctor Saif’ code name because he treated injured militants, was recruited by Naikoo in 2014 and came on the radar of security agencies in 2017. The second militant in the list is 29-year-old Junaid Sehrai, son of Ashraf Sehrai, chairman of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat and successor of hardline Hurriyat leader Syed Ali Geelani. Junaid, an MBA pass-out from Kashmir University, joined Hizbul in March 2018. The other militants in the list include Mohammad Ashraf Khan aka Ashraf Molvi who joined militancy in September 2016, Mohammad Abbas Sheikh aka Turabi Molvi, active since March 2015 both affiliated with the Hizbul, Zahid alias Omar Afghani, who joined the Jaish in late 2014. Besides these, Faisal Bhai, a Jaish militant active since 2015, Sheraz Lone aka Molvi, Saleem Paray, Owais Mullick and Shakoor, all affiliated with the LeT are the other militants in the top ten list. Terrorists are listed under different categories - from A++ (being the highest) to A+, A and B. An A++ category terrorist is first on the hit list of security forces. Security forces have already eliminated 64 militants this year in 27 anti-insurgency operations while 125 over-ground-workers (OGWs) of militants have been arrested. Last year 152 militants were killed in J&K against over 250 in 2018. But what is keeping the security establishment worried is a large number of battle-hardened Pakistani militants, who may have infiltrated into Kashmir since the beginning of April.  However, recruitment of locals into the militancy has dwindled since last year and according to police, the killing of Naikoo will further dent the morale of ultras in the Valley as he was the brain behind the recruitment of local boys into the militancy in the last three years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hizbuls-new-chief-among-army-s-top-10-most-wanted-militants-in-kashmir-837523.html
14-05-2020||National||FM Nirmala Sitharaman targets March 2021 for nationwide coverage of 'One Nation One Ration Card'||During her press conference detailing the economic package announced by PM Narendra Modi, FM Sitharaman detailed the 'One Nation One Ration Card' programme. Here are the key takeaways from the programme: Technology to be used to enable migrants to access PDS (ration) from any fair price shop across India by March 2021. This is done as a part of PM Narendra Modi's technology-driven system reforms, which is one of the 5 pillars of economic growth, that he had mentioned on his address to the nation  67 crore beneficiaries across 23 states and covering 83% of the Public Distribution System (PDS) population will be covered by national portability by August 2020. She assured that 100% national portability will be achieved by March 2021. All states and UTs will complete full FPS nomination by March 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-targets-march-2021-for-nationwide-coverage-of-one-nation-one-ration-card-837525.html
14-05-2020||National||4 lakh migrants ferried out of Gujarat in trains so far||More than 300 Shramik Special trains from Gujarat have ferried around 4 lakh migrant workers to their home states amid the lockdown so far, accounting for 40 per cent of transportation of such people in the country, said officials on Thursday. With this, out of the total 10 lakh migrants sent back to their respective native places through Shramik Special trains across the country so far, as many as four lakh were from Gujarat alone, they said. Till Wednesday night, 301 trains carrying around four lakh migrant workers and their family members had departed from different cities of Gujarat, said Secretary in the Chief Minister's Office, Ashwani Kumar. "Around 10 lakh migrants were sent back to their native places by trains across India till Wednesday. Among these, four lakh were from Gujarat alone. "We are also hopeful that migrant workers would come back to Gujarat soon to resume their work," said Kumar in a video message. Out of 301 trains which had departed from Gujarat till date, as many as 204 trains were for Uttar Pradesh, followed by 34 trains for Bihar, 30 for Odisha, 20 for Madhya Pradesh, eight for Jharkhand, among other states, he said. Shramik Special trains to transport migrant workers stranded due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown were started following a nod from the Centre early this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-lakh-migrants-ferried-out-of-gujarat-in-trains-so-far-837527.html
14-05-2020||National||Masks, PPE kits being sent abroad illegally seized by customs||Large quantities of sanitiser, PPE kits, masks and its raw materials being sent abroad illegally have been seized by customs officials at the cargo terminal here, officials said. The goods were mis-declared as garments, kids dresses, cosmetic items and packing materials for pouches to avoid suspicion and further scrutiny by the customs officials, officials said on Thursday. The export of such goods is prohibited by the government due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Many countries have either increased the production of such products or ordered their imports owing to demands as they stare at its possible shortage. Giving details of the seizures, a senior customs official said 2,480 kg of raw material for masks was intercepted by air cargo export. In addition to these, the air cargo officers intercepted multiple shipments containing 5.08 lakh masks, 57 litres of sanitiser in 950 bottles and 952 PPE kits at the courier terminal in New Delhi, he said. "These were attempted to be smuggled or exported out of the country to the United States, United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates and other European countries,” the official said. These goods are prohibited for export as per the latest guidelines issued by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). No arrests have been made so far in the case and further investigation is continuing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/masks-ppe-kits-being-sent-abroad-illegally-seized-by-customs-837530.html
14-05-2020||National||Ahmedabad: Shops selling essential items to reopen from Friday||Over a week after the shops selling essential commodities, like vegetables and grocery, were shut in Ahmedabad city of Gujarat to curb the spread of coronavirus, these outlets will reopen from Friday, officials said. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had ordered closure of all the shops, except those providing milk and medicines, from May 7 till May 15. Additional Chief Secretary Rajiv Gupta, who is overseeing the works related to COVID-19 in Ahmedabad, said after reviewing the situation that shops selling essential items, such as grocery, vegetables and fruits, will remain open between 8 am and 3 pm from May 15. "We have already screened 17,000 vendors and issued health cards to them. To maintain social distancing and avoid overcrowding, we want women to come out for shopping between 8 am and 11 am. Men should come out after 11 am. People must wear mask while stepping out," Gupta said. Barring six major cities, including Ahmedabad, and as many municipalities, shops, markets and other commercial and industrial establishments in Gujarat had opened on May 4 as per specific relaxations. Since coronavirus cases were on the rise in the city, the Ahmedabad civic body had decided not give such relaxations at that time. The AMC had even gone a step further and ordered the closure of shops selling vegetables and grocery till mid-May. Of the total 9,268 COVID-19 cases reported in Gujarat so far, as many as 6,523 cases were from Ahmedabad city alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahmedabad-shops-selling-essential-items-to-reopen-from-friday-837553.html
14-05-2020||National||167 passengers go missing from train bringing migrants to Haridwar||As many as 167 passengers of a special train bringing migrants to Haridwar from Gujarat's Surat have gone missing, causing concern among officials here. The number of passengers who deboarded the train here does not match with the list of passengers received from Surat, Haridwar District Magistrate C Ravishankar said on Thursday. "The discrepancy is being looked into. If these passengers have gone missing after boarding the train in Surat then it is a serious matter. Investigation is underway and action will be taken when it is complete," he said. As per the list received from the Surat administration, 1,340 people were travelling by a special train that left Surat on May 12 but when it reached Haridwar station, only 1,173 passengers got down from the train. The matter is being probed in consultation with authorities in Surat whether the missing 167 passengers did not board the train or got down after boarding it, the Haridwar DM said. Special trains have been running since May 11 from different parts of the country to bring back stranded migrants to Uttarakhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/167-passengers-go-missing-from-train-bringing-migrants-to-haridwar-837556.html
14-05-2020||National||BCI allows lawyers not to wear coats, gowns in courts||As a precautionary measure to contain infection of COVID-19, advocates' regulatory body, Bar Council of India on Thursday relaxed the rules for them to wear coats and gowns. It allowed the advocates to appear in white shirts, salwar kameez and sarees with bands before any court or tribunal of the country during the hearings being held through video conferencing.  "No coats, gowns or robes are required to be worn during the time period during which the threat of the spread of coronavirus looms large or till such time the Council further issues another administrative order modifying or overriding this order," it said. The BCI issued the administrative order, which came into effect with immediate effect, in order to deal with the present pandemic situation. On Wednesday, Chief Justice of India S A Bobde and other judges took up cases through video conferencing while wearing white shirts with bands. He said the lawyers and advocates should not wear coats and gowns for the time being as they made easier to catch the virus. Advocates at present appear before the court from their homes or offices. Subsequently, the top Court issued a circular, dispensing with the practice of wearing coats and gowns for lawyers. After the countrywide lockdown was imposed since March 25, courts across the country have been conducting hearings of extremely urgent matters through video conferencing. It was earlier seen that the courts took objections to lawyers appearing in some cases without having been properly dressed up.  On May 5, a lawyer was found wearing 'baniyan' (vest) during a hearing through video conferencing before the Rajasthan High Court. The HC then adjourned the matter and reminded him of decorum of the court and provision of the Advocates Act of wearing proper uniform in pleading a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bci-allows-lawyers-not-to-wear-coats-gowns-in-courts-837562.html
14-05-2020||National||COVID-19 patient family booked for violating lockdown guidelines||Cases have been filed against three family members of a COVID-19 positive patient for them violating laws and entering the district from Maharashtra without availing e-pass from the Seva Sindhu portal as per the guidelines of lockdown in effect for preventing the spread of the pandemic. Identified as patient P-974, woman aged 27 years tested positive for COVID-19 as per the report of the tests on Thursday. She is pregnant and has been admitted to the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital for treatment. Cases were filed against her husband, brother, and driver for bringing the woman from Mumbai to Belagavi and entering the district without availing e-pass and also concealing information before the officials concerned.  Her husband, brother, and driver were booked under IPC sections 269, 270, 188, 201, 202 r/w 34, and section 3 of Disaster Management Act based on the complaint filed by the officials of Belagavi City Corporation, Deputy Commissioner S B Bommanahalli informed. The P-974 has been admitted for treatment and her 10 primary contacts have been sent into institutional quarantine and there was no need for the people to panic, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-patient-family-booked-for-violating-lockdown-guidelines-837563.html
14-05-2020||National||Kerala sees spike in COVID-19 cases as 26 more test positive||In a steep rise in COVID-19 cases in Kerala in several days, as many as 26 people, including seven foreign returnees and a police personnel, tested positive on Thursday, taking the number of people under treatment to 64. The tally of COVID-19 cases in the state has risen to 560. While ten of the new cases were from Kasaragod district, Malappuram reported five, Palakkad and Wayanad three each, Kannur two and Pathnamthitta, Idukki and Kozhikode districts one case each,Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Three people -- two from Kollam and one from Kannur -- have recovered, he told reporters here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-sees-spike-in-covid-19-cases-as-26-more-test-positive-837564.html
14-05-2020||National||Class 9, 11 students to have re-exams if fail: CBSE||Students who have failed in class 9 and 11 will be given another opportunity to appear for school-based tests in view of the COVDI-19 crisis, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has announced. "The schools can conduct either online or offline exams for the failed class 9, 11 students. This one-time opportunity is being extended only in the current year in view of the unprecedented condition of COVID-19," CBSE Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/class-9-11-students-to-have-re-exams-if-fail-cbse-837565.html
14-05-2020||National||India supplied paracetamol, hydroxychloroquine to over 120 countries in last 2 months: Goyal||India has supplied paracetamol and hydroxychloroquine to over 120 countries in the last two months while ensuring the domestic supply, as these two medicines are in huge demand due to COVID-19, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday. Goyal said that India has put restrictions on exports of these medicines with an intention to ensure that not only the rich and mightier countries get these medicines, but the less developed nations too get equal and fair access to serve and cure their people. "Over the last two months, we were able to service the requirement of over 120 countries for these medicines. More than 40 of them (countries) received these medicines as grant/free of charge. Otherwise possibly the whole medicine would have been cornered by few rich and prosperous countries. "But while doing that, we ensured that national interest is paramount. We did a deep research and various modelling of what could be required in India even in the worst case scenario and added every possible buffer to that to ensure that we have adequate medicines and its ingredients in India before we serve the rest of the world," he said through a recorded message at a webinar organised by Bennett University. Citing an example, the minister said during a turbulence in flight, it was advised first to tie "your seat belt before helping others". India ensured that its requirements are taken care of and "we also tied the seat belts of over 3-4 billion people cross the globe with the supply of these medicines to over 120 countries," he added. While paracetamol is a pain reliever, Hydroxychloroquine is an anti-malarial drug. Further, he sought to clear the air around the Prime Minister's self-reliance call, saying it does not mean that India will look only inwards. Self-reliant India means engaging with the world and not overtly dependent on world, he said, adding it was about confidence that the country can produce quality products at competitive rates. He also said that now India is manufacturing PPE kits and masks in huge numbers and companies are looking at making India a hub of these products. Goyal added that this was not "well understood" by many people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-supplied-paracetamol-hydroxychloroquine-to-over-120-countries-in-last-2-months-goyal-837571.html
14-05-2020||National||73 more test positive for COVID-19 in Odisha; 15 recover||At least 73 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Odisha on Thursday, raising the total count in the state to 611, a health department official said. The number of recoveries in the state rose to 158, with 15 more patients, all from Jajpur district, having defeated the deadly disease, the official said. With this, the number of active cases in Odisha now stands at 450. Three persons have died of the infection so far. Of the 73 fresh cases, 71 had been living in quarantine centres following their return from Gujarat, West Bengal and Karnataka. Ganjam district accounted for 42 patients, followed by Jajpur at 17, Bhadrak at nine, Khurda at three and Sundergarh at two, the Information and Public Relations Department said. A total of 4,394 samples were examined on Wednesday, taking the total number of COVID-19 tests conducted in Odisha so far to 77,150, the health department official said. With the return of migrant workers in hordes, mostly from the industrial city of Surat in Gujarat, the number of cases in different districts of Odisha has soared over the past two weeks. Ganjam tops the list with 252 cases, followed by Balasore at 90, Jajpur at 88, Khurda at 53, Bhadrak at 40, Sundergarh at 25 and Angul at 15. Nine cases each have been reported from Mayurbhanj and Kendrapara districts, five in Jagatsinghpur, and four each in Keonjhar, Puri and Boudh districts. Three in Cuttack have tested positive for the disease, two each in Kalahandi, Jharsuguda and Bolangir districts and one each in Nayagarh, Koraput, Dhenkanal and Deogarh. The maximum number of recoveries has been witnessed in state capital Bhubaneswar, with 45 of the 50 COVID-19 patients having been discharged from the hospital. Bhubaneswar currently has three active cases. Two persons from the state capital had succumbed to the disease. Ganjam, which has reported a total of 252 cases, has the maximum number of active cases at 249. One person has died in the district. Of the 30 districts in the state, COVID-19 cases have been reported from 21. Nine have not registered any case so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/73-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-odisha-15-recover-837577.html
14-05-2020||National||PIL in Supreme Court against exempting industrial units from labour welfare laws during COVID-19||A PIL was filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday challenging the decisions of Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh to exempt industrial units from labour welfare statutes and allowing them to take steps such as increasing “daily and weekly working hours” and depriving workers of their right to move courts on the ground of COVID-19 pandemic. The PIL alleged that these states wrongly used Section 5 of the Factories Act, 1948, which allows states to exempt industrial units from observing labour welfare statutes during public emergency, and came out with notifications to allow such firms to effect “increase in daily and weekly working hours”, deprive workmen from approaching courts of law and exempt factories from undergoing routine inspection by the Factories Inspectors. The plea filed by Pankaj Kumar Yadav, through lawyer Nirmal Kumar Ambastha, has sought quashing of the notifications issued by the three states under the Factories Act on the ground that they were violative of right of equality and life under the Constitution. Referring to a notification of April 17 of Gujarat, the plea said it “granted certain exemption by exercising powers conferred under section 5 of the Factories Act, 1948 and extended the maximum working hours from 8 to 12 hours per day and from 48 to 72 hours per week. “This exemption enabled the industries to hire only those workers, who are willing to work for 12 hours per day instead of 8 hours and that too without liability to pay over-time wages for the extra four hours.” One of the notifications exempted industrial units, employing 50 workers, from routine inspection by Factory Inspector and rather allowed them to “submit third Party Certification regarding compliance of various provisions of Factories Act”, it said. “These exemptions from the provisions of the pre-Constitution statutes have been granted by way of executive orders by various state Governments to facilitate economic activities to the detriment of the workers and advantage of the employers in view of the global pandemic COVID-19,” the PIL said.. Lakhs of workers have lost jobs during the lockdown and under such circumstances, the withdrawal of welfare measures from them would further compound their miseries and exploitation at the hands of their employers, it said. The plea challenged the use of section 5 of the Factories Act by the states in exempting industrial units from statutory obligations on the ground of public emergency. It said that the power can be used in "public emergency which means a grave emergency whereby the security of India or of any part of the territory thereof is threatened, whether by war or external aggression or internal disturbance”. The plea also sought direction for the states to “refrain from abrogating the statutory provisions under various statutes enacted for the welfare of the workmen in view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-supreme-court-against-exempting-industrial-units-from-labour-welfare-laws-during-covid-19-837579.html
14-05-2020||National||Coronavirus stages comeback in Goa; 8 new cases found||After being free of COVID-19 for more than a month, Goa has recorded eight fresh cases, one of them a member of a ship's crew, over the last two days, said Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Thursday. Rane said a person who was working on a ship was found positive for the infection during a rapid test on Thursday and his sample has been sent to a lab for confirmatory test. This comes after samples of seven people, five of them members of one family, tested positive for the disease. One of the patient is a one-year-old girl. Rane said the crew member arrived in the state on Thursday after being quarantined in Mumbai for 14 days. He tweeted Goan seafarer who was quarantined in Mumbai for 14 days arrived in Goa this morning after testing negative in Mumbai. "Upon his arrival, he was tested via our TrueNat (rapid) testing and his initial sample has reported positive. However, his sample has been sent for a confirmatory test at the virology lab in GMC (Goa Medical College). "In additions, details of the driver who brought the seafarer to the state, have been forwarded to the Govt of Maharashtra for necessary action, he said in another tweet. Seven people had tested positive on Wednesday. The seven people, including three females, have been shifted to a hospital dedicated for the treatment of COVID-19 patients, Rane said. The seven patients include five members of a family of Goan origin and their driver who had travelled to the coastal state from Mumbai, a senior health department official said. A one-year-old girl is among the five family members who have tested positive for coronavirus, he said. The seventh person who tested positive is a truck driver who recently arrived from Gujarat for delivering goods, the official said. The last case of COVID-19 in Goa was reported on April 3. On May 1, Goa was declared a green zone after all the seven COVID-19 patients previously found in the state recovered from the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-stages-comeback-in-goa-8-new-cases-found-837581.html
14-05-2020||National||Army proposal to induct civilians for three years must be deliberated in detail: Experts warn of security implications||Military and strategic affairs experts on Thursday reacted cautiously to the army's plans to induct civilians for a three-year tenure, saying the proposal must be deliberated upon in great detail and adequate care must be taken before implementing the "fanciful" idea as it may have national security implications.       While several former army commanders welcomed the proposed move, a number of others talked about the "inherent risks" involved, noting that it was not a right idea to implement when India was faced with complex security challenges on the borders with China and Pakistan.           A number of former military officers wondered why the army has brought forth the proposal when they should have focused on making the short service commissioning attractive while aiming to induct talented young professionals into the 1.3 million force.           "We cannot ape the West. No other Army in the world has got 7,000 kms of land frontiers to guard. The proposal will have implications on internal as well as external security dimensions of the country," Lt Gen (retd) Rameshwar Roy told PTI. Lt Gen Roy, who served extensively in Jammu and Kashmir including as a Corps Commander, claimed that the new proposal has a political dimension, asserting that a "false sense" of nationalism and patriotism cannot be generated by recruiting people for three years in the armed forces. Lt Gen Roy also said Indian Army India cannot afford to have the luxury of training somebody for 10 months and take his services only for three years. "Our army is a grounded Army. You learn from experiences. By the time, anyone will be able to contribute to the army, he will be out under the new concept. The idea looks very fanciful," he added.          In an ambitious move, the Indian Army is considering a proposal to allow civilians including young working professionals to join the force for a three-year tenure as officers and in other ranks for a variety of roles in diverse areas like logistics and in front-line formations.         Former Deputy Chief of Army Lt Gen (retd) Gurmit Singh called the proposal "timely" and said it will help in bringing people closer to the military culture.       "It will be an excellent opening for those who want to contribute to national security. After the Pulwama strike, this sentiment has grown. The proposal will also help the army deal with the problem of shortage of offices," he said.       Lt Gen (retd) Ashok K Mehta too welcomed the move, saying the reform initiative will further strengthen the Army.         A number of former military generals, on condition of anonymity, spoke strongly against the proposal holding that such a move could be detrimental to India's national security interest. "People serving in the army for three years may go away with vital security details and leak them to the adversaries," one of them said.         Several former military officials also questioned linking the proposal with resurgence of nationalism and patriotism, saying it was not appropriate to draw parallels. A concept note on the proposal said there has been a "resurgence of nationalism and patriotism" in the country and there was a need to tap the feeling among the youths who do not want to join the army as a profession but wish to experience military life for a temporary duration.       "Does India lack nationalism or are we getting nationalistic and patriotic through a backdoor by serving in the armed forces. I am not fond of the idea of honing nationalism and patriotism by putting a man through a temporary three years in service and then throw him to check whether he has become patriotic," said another former general without agreeing to be quoted.       According to the proposal, the people to be recruited under the new scheme will be eligible to be deployed as combatants in key forward locations and there will be no restrictions in their roles.       Strategic Affairs expert Dr Laxman Kumar Behera said those inducted under the proposed scheme must not be allowed to operate in core areas like front-line bases and adequate care must be taken to ensure that they do not get access to vital security details.       When sought his reaction, former Chief of Army Staff Gen (retd) Deepak Kapoor told PTI, "It is just a proposal. One will have to study."       Several other generals also said there have been proposals including by the Ajay Vikram Singh committee to make the short service commission attractive.       "Under the new proposal, people will be trained for one year and then they will serve for three years. So effectively it will be a tenure of four years. If that is the case, then why not implement the original five year tenure under the short service commissioning," said another former army commander.       Terming the proposal a "game-changer", army sources said it is being examined by top commanders and its main aim is to bring people closer to the force by giving them an opportunity to experience military life.       "If approved it will be a voluntary engagement and there will be no dilution in selection criteria. Initially 100 officers and 1,000 men are being considered for recruitment as part of test bedding of the project," Spokesperson of the India Army Col Aman Anand said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-proposal-to-induct-civilians-for-three-years-must-be-deliberated-in-detail-experts-warn-of-security-implications-837585.html
14-05-2020||National||31-year-old woman held for supplying illicit liquor in south Delhi locality||Police have arrested a woman suspected to be a bootlegger and recovered several cartons containing 600 quarters of illicit liquor from her residence in south Delhi's Sangam Vihar, officials said on Thursday. The woman identified as Pinky Singh, 31, has previously been involved in two cases registered under provisions of the Delhi Excise Act, they said. Police said they received information on Tuesday from the staff of the Narcotics Squad of South Delhi district regarding the sales of illicit liquor in F2 Block of Sangam Vihar.  "Immediately, a team was formed to act upon the information and a trap was laid in F2 block. At about 4.15 pm, the team apprehended the woman who was found selling illicit liquor. Twelve cartons containing 50 quarters of illicit liquor in each carton were recovered from near her residence," said Atul Kumar Thakur, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South). A case was registered against her under sections of the Delhi Excise Act at the Sangam Vihar police station, he said. During interrogation, it was revealed that the arrested woman's whole family is involved in illegal trade of liquor. They used to bring liquor from Anangpur in Haryana's Faridabad through a jungle area and later sold the stock in south Delhi area, the DCP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/31-year-old-woman-held-for-supplying-illicit-liquor-in-south-delhi-locality-837587.html
14-05-2020||National||Air India to operate flights exclusively for stranded passengers||Air India on Thursday announced that it will operate domestic flights exclusively to ferry passengers evacuated under the Vande Bharat mission to their onward destinations. Passengers arriving and departing at hub airports will be ferried on these special flights that will connect destinations such as Delhi, Mumbai, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Vishakhapatnam, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Kochi. As of Wednesday. As many as 2,525 of NRIs stranded in India have taken off to their adopted homes onboard 55 outbound flights. “These flights are not meant for any domestic passengers,” Air India, which is operating evacuation flights under the Vande Bharat mission, said adding that the flight bookings for the second phase could be done on its website. Air India has already evacuated more than 11,000 Indians since May 7, when the Vande Bharat mission was launched. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday had announced 30 feeder flights under Vande Bharat Phase-II to take passengers to places such as Gaya, Varanasi, Vishakhapatnam  In Phase-I of the mission, Air India and its subsidiary Air India Express are operating 64 flights to evacuate 14,800 Indian nationals. In the Phase-II, the national air carrier plans to evacuate 30,000 Indians on 149 flights. Phase II of Vande Bharat from 16-22 May will also include flights from Armenia, Australia, Belarus, Canada, France, Georgia, Germany, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Nepal, Nigeria, Russia, Tajikistan, Thailand and Ukraine. Apart from aerial evacuation, the Indian Navy has deployed two of its ships to repatriate Indians from abroad. Since March 7, these two ships have repatriated approximately 1,000 Indians from Maldives as part of Vande Bharat mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-to-operate-flights-exclusively-for-stranded-passengers-837589.html
14-05-2020||National||'New Normal' in Corona-Era Diplomacy: India's envoy virtually presents Letter of Credence to Sri Lankan Prez||Senior Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer, Gopal Baglay, on Thursday took over as New Delhi’s envoy to Colombo, by virtually presenting the letter of credence to Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa in a ceremony held through video-conference – setting yet another standard of 'new normal' in the corona-era diplomatic protocol. With the island nation under lockdown since March 20 to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, the ceremony was held through video-conference, with Baglay presenting the formal letter of credence signed by President Ram Nath Kovind to the Sri Lankan President. Baglay, who joined the IFS in 1992, flew from New Delhi to Colombo last Friday, onboard an Indian Air Force (IAF) transport aircraft. When a diplomat takes over as an envoy of his country in a foreign capital, he formally presents a Letter of Credence signed by the Head of State of the country he represents to the Head of State of the country where he has been posted. A solemn ceremony is generally held at the office or official residence of the Head of the State of the receiving country to mark the presentation of the Letter of Credence. It also marks the formal beginning of the tenure of the envoy in his new office. But as the COVID-19 outbreak prompted Sri Lankan Government to enforce a lockdown on March 20, the office of the president of the island nation decided to scale down the ceremony and hold it through a video-conference. Baglay, dressed in formal bandhgala suit with a mask on his face, joined the video-conference from the High Commission of India on the Galle Road of Colombo and presented Letter of Credence to Gotabaya Rajapaksa, who was at the presidential palace at Janadhipati Mawatha in the capital of the island nation. The Sri Lankan President also had a mask covering his face.    Baglay was appointed as India’s new High Commissioner to Sri Lanka in February. Even before he could travel to the island nation to take up his new assignment, the travel and transport curbs, lockdowns, and ban on arrival of international passenger aircraft were enforced in both the nations to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. He, however, flew from New Delhi to Colombo last Friday on board the IAF transport aircraft, which also carried a 12.5-tonne consignment of essential medicines and protective gear for healthcare equipment – a gift from India to Sri Lanka to help the neighbouring country to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. Baglay thanked Gotabaya Rajapaksa for “arranging the traditional ceremony in an innovative manner and stated that the use of technology to overcome challenges, such as those posed by the global COVID-19 pandemic, had been stressed by the leadership of India as well as Sri Lanka. He pointed out that the novel initiative underscored the significance the two countries attach to their friendly and multi-faceted ties, and also highlights India’s continued commitment to closely work with Sri Lanka in facing common challenges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-normal-in-corona-era-diplomacy-indias-envoy-virtually-presents-letter-of-credence-to-sri-lankan-prez-837593.html
14-05-2020||National||COVID-19: 25 fresh cases in CAPFs; 17 recoveries||Coronavirus cases in the central paramilitary forces continued to grow, with 25 more personnel reported infected on Thursday, taking their number in these combat organisations to over 820, officials said. However, as many as 17 troops of these forces have been discharged since Wednesday after their coronavirus test results came negative. As per data compiled by PTI, the latest total active COVID-19 cases in these five forces -- CRPF, BSF, CISF, ITBP and SSB -- stand at 824.  Six personnel of these organisations, called the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) or paramilitary forces, have succumbed to the pandemic. Three men from the CISF, two in the BSF and one from the CRPF have died due to the COVID-19 disease. The maximum of 12 fresh cases were reported in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police force that also had an equal number of recoveries since Wednesday. The number of active cases in the nearly 90,000-strong force is 158. The Border Security Force, which has a strength of around 2.5 lakh personnel, saw 10 fresh COVID-19 cases and 21 recoveries. The number of active cases in the force that guards the borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh is 292 now, the highest among the CAPFs. The country's largest paramilitary, the Central Reserve Police Force, with 3.25 lakh personnel, had three fresh infections in its units based in Delhi. The number of active cases in the force now is 248. Two other forces, the Central Industrial Security Force and the Sashastra Seema Bal, reported no fresh case of the viral disease. The number of active cases are 106 and 20 in the CISF and the SSB respectively. These forces under the command of the Union home ministry have a combined strength of around 10 lakh personnel and are deployed for a variety of duties in the internal security domain and border guarding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-25-fresh-cases-in-capfs-17-recoveries-837594.html
14-05-2020||National||Fresh announcements on economy to help farmers, migrants: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the announcements made by his government on Thursday to boost the economy will strengthen food security and credit to farmers as well as street vendors. "Today's announcements by FM Nirmala Sitharaman will especially benefit our farmers and migrant workers," the prime minister wrote on Twitter. "The announcements include a series of progressive measures and will boost food security, credit to farmers as well as street vendors," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-announcements-on-economy-to-help-farmers-migrants-pm-narendra-modi-837595.html
14-05-2020||National||Doubling time of COVID-19 cases slows down to 13.9 days in last 3 days: Harsh Vardhan||The doubling time of coronavirus infection cases has slowed down to 13.9 days in the last three days, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday, as the COVID-19 death toll rose to 2,565 and the number of cases to 78,570. The minister, who visited the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) here and dedicated the COBAS 6800 testing machine to the nation, said 14 states and Union Territories have not reported any case of COVID-19 in last 24 hours. These states and UTs are Gujarat, Telangana, Jharkhand, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Goa, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Puducherry. Also, Daman and Diu, Sikkim, Nagaland and Lakshadweep have not reported any case so far. "It is heartening that the last three days' (COVID-19) doubling time has slowed down to 13.9 days, while the doubling time in the past 14 days was 11.1," Vardhan was quoted as saying in a health ministry statement. About ramping up testing capability, the minister said, "We have now developed a capacity to conduct 1,00,000 tests per day. Today marks an important milestone as we have carried out nearly 20 lakh COVID-19 tests at more than 500 laboratories -- 359 government and 145 private -- in the country." The COBAS 6800, he said, is the first fully automated, high-end machine for real-time COVID-19 PCR testing procured by the government, and is installed at the NCDC. "The COBAS 6800 will provide quality, high-volume testing with a high throughput of test around 1200 samples in 24 hours. It will largely increase the testing capacity with reduction in pendency," Vardhan said. Highlighting its other features, the Union Health Minister said COBAS 6800 is robotics-enabled minimising the chance of contamination as well as the risk of infection among healthcare workers since it can be operated remotely with limited human intervention. As the machine requires a minimum BSL2+ containment level for testing, it cannot be placed at just any facility. COBAS 6800 can also detect other pathogens such as viral Hepatitis B and C and HIV, according to an official statement. Vardhan also visited the control room and testing laboratories, and reviewed the current status of COVID-19 testing with NCDC Director Dr S K Sing and other senior officials, it said. "I salute the pathologists, lab technicians, scientists and other staff who are our 'Corona Warriors' and working under tremendous risky conditions day and night to save their fellow countrymen," he said and stressed the people need to shun stigmatising frontline healthcare providers and applaud their contribution. Vardhan also emphasised on the quality and sturdiness of community surveillance and contact tracing in fighting the coronavirus outbreak. "It is the need of the hour that all people who are either at home or facility quarantine, need to maintain a strict vigil, and practise the protocols of social distancing, and personal hygiene. Special care needs to be taken of the elderly, pregnant women and children," he said. As many as 134 COVID-19 deaths and 3,722 fresh instances the respiratory infection were reported in 24 hours till Thursday 8 am, according to the Union Health Ministry. With 26,235 people having cured of the disease so far, Vardhan said the recovery rate has further improved to 33.6 per cent from 32.83% on Wednesday on while the fatality rate was 3.2 per cent. He also added that as of Wednesday there were 3 per cent active COVID-19 patients in ICU, 0.39 per cent on ventilators and 2.7 per cent on oxygen support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doubling-time-of-covid-19-cases-slows-down-to-139-days-in-last-3-days-harsh-vardhan-837596.html
14-05-2020||National||Goa CM Pramod Sawant rules out community transmission from new virus cases||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that there was no possibility of community transmission through eight coronavirus patients who were detected in the state over the last two days. After a gap of more than a month, Goa has reported eight fresh cases. All eight patients arrived in the state from outside. Sawant told reporters here that there was no community transmission, as six of these patients, who are from one family, tested positive when they were quarantined upon arrival from Mumbai. "The truck driver (another patient) who tested positive had not interacted with many people, while the eighth patient is a person who was working on a ship and arrived from Mumbai after being quarantined for 14 days," he said. The seafarer tested negative on May 1, after which he underwent 14 days' quarantine. "When he was tested again upon arrival in Goa, he tested positive," Sawant said. There had bee no transmission within the state as "all these cases are imported" (have come from outside), the chief minister added. The economic activities which have resumed will be allowed to continue unless the Union Ministry of Home Affairs advises otherwise, he said. He also informed that the state government has suggested that a train from Delhi to Trivendrum which will run on May 15 should not halt at Margao. "720 people have booked tickets on the train to get down at Goa. We have realized that hardly anyone of them is Goan," the chief minister said. "We are concerned about what will happen once they get down. We will have to test them. We will advice them home quarantine, but we are not sure if they will do that. That is why we have suggested that the train skip Margao stop," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-cm-pramod-sawant-rules-out-community-transmission-from-new-virus-cases-837606.html
14-05-2020||National||Critical to boost developing nations' core capacities for COVID-19 preparedness in future: Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday that it is critical to build and strengthen core capacities of developing countries for future preparedness, response and resilience towards COVID-19. Participating in the 32nd Commonwealth Health Ministers' Meeting through a video link, Vardhan stressed on facilitating universal and affordable access to all relevant medical products and technologies, both existing and new. "These should be made available in a fair and equitable manner to tackle COVID-19," he was quoted as saying in a statement. The theme of the conference was 'Delivering a coordinated Commonwealth COVID-19 response'. Vardhan said Indian scientists are working on developing of vaccine, drugs, cost-effective diagnostic kits and various life-saving equipment with the active support of the government. "It is critical to build and strengthen core capacities of developing countries particularly the least developed countries for future preparedness, response and resilience," he said. The Union health minister said that in implementing the world's largest lockdown to prevent the spread of this the virus, India's aim was to protect lives by mitigating the explosive spread of the disease and by ensuring that the country's healthcare system was able to cope with the rise in cases of the respiratory ailment. "At the same time, we are mindful of saving lives as well as livelihoods and are therefore keeping all essential services out of the purview of the lockdown. We are gradually easing the restrictions especially in areas where we have managed to contain the disease," he told the conference. Vardhan also said that India took all necessary and timely steps including surveillance at points of entry, evacuation of nationals abroad, surveillance in community through disease monitoring network, health infrastructure strengthening, training and capacity building of health staff, risk communication and community involvement as part of its management efforts. India has provided essential medicines such as hydroxychloroquine to almost 100 "needy countries", extending solidarity and support during this time of crisis, he said, adding, "It is important to work on the causes of the pandemic and discover drugs and vaccine to control transmission and prevent its recurrence." "We need to mutually support and share our best practices and explore innovative ways to address new threats and challenges in the in the times after the pandemic," Vardhan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/critical-to-boost-developing-nations-core-capacities-for-covid-19-preparedness-in-future-vardhan-837608.html
14-05-2020||National||PIL filed in SC against changes in labour laws||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for quashing the changes made in labour laws by states of Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh and others in view of prevailing COVID-19 situation. Pankaj Kumar Yadav, a freelance journalist from Jharkhand, filed the PIL through advocate Nirmal Kumar Ambastha asking the court to quash various notifications issued to relax the provisions of Factories Act, 1948, and the Industrial Disputes Act, among others, much to the detriment of the poor workmen on the premise of facilitating economic activities in various parts of the country. The proposed changes amounted to an invasion on the rights of the poor labourers under the guise of exemption for economic development granted to their employers, which clearly "defeats the ostensible object of the benevolent legislation enacted for comfort, welfare and safety of the poor workmen". Therefore, these were arbitrary and unconstitutional and deserved to be quashed, he submitted. The petitioner said during the second phase of national lockdown, the Union government decided to permit certain industrial activities for the dual purpose of enabling the production of essential as well as non-essential goods and secondly to enable the workers to earn their livelihood in these difficult times.   However, on requests of industrialists, various state governments agreed to accord relaxations to these industries from the rigours of labour laws related to weekly hours, daily hours, intervals for rest, which are "neither lawful nor in the interest of workers". The object of economic growth cannot be placed on a pedestal above the welfare of the workers in a welfare state like ours, he said. All these state governments exercised powers under the Factories Act, which can be exercised only in case of a grave emergency, related to security or war or external aggression or internal disturbance. Various newspaper reports stated that other states like Punjab, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh have also granted similar exemptions to the industries under the Factories Act. "The poorest of poor labourers, who earn their livelihood by working for someone else, cannot be exclusively burdened to bear the detrimental effects of economic growth of the economically ruined country in view of the Coronavirus pandemic being faced by the entire world," he contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-against-changes-in-labour-laws-837610.html
14-05-2020||National||FACT CHECK | Fake Twitter account of Gilgit-Baltistan appears, Union Home Ministry calls it out||In order find when and how the fake Twitter account blow up, Alt News searched for tweets that mentioned @GB_Ladakh_India across various time intervals using epoch time.  Readers should note that @GB_Ladakh_India’s first tweet was posted on May 9. Since then there was neither any activity by the fake account nor was it detected by the public for three days until Namgail’s tweet which tagged influential twitter accounts such as Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, NDTV, Republic, ABP News and The Quint.  The account had also tagged the handle @SengeHSering which began retweeting its tweets and replying to @GB_Ladakh_India. @SengeHSering has nearly 12,000 followers. It is possible this is what led to people noticing the account.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-fake-twitter-account-of-gilgit-baltistan-appears-union-home-ministry-calls-it-out-837621.html
14-05-2020||National||Circus industry readies for final curtain call amid coronavirus lockdown||Trapeze performers flying high, jugglers throwing swords in the air, acrobats jumping through hoops of fire and clowns, dressed to the hilt, hamming it up... artistry under the big top is set for a permanent fadeout with circus owners writing epitaphs for their industry. With wild animals being banned in 1998, demonetisation in 2016 and the steady inroad of movies and TV shows through satellite television and online platforms, the death knells have been coming for a while. Now, the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19 could signal the final finis, say, owners. Struggling to pay their troupes with no audience and no hope of getting them in the ring anytime soon, this could really be the end of the traditional circus, the stuff of childhood memories made of candyfloss, sawdust and the feeling of going "wow" in wonder and laughing out loud, all at the same time, as the eyes scanned the heights above and the action in the ring below. "How long can we survive?" asked a despairing K M Sanjeev, co-owner of Great Bombay Circus, which celebrates 100 years this year. His troupe has been stuck in the Tamil Nadu town of Mannargudi for the last two months and the overheads are mounting. "The rental, electricity, salaries, food, medical supplies, it all costs about Rs 80,000-90,000 per day. Some local politicians and NGOs have helped us with food and ration, but how long can we survive like this without the government's support," Sanjeev told PTI over the phone. The camp at Mannargudi houses about 300 people, including 150 artistes, support staff and their families. From 300 circus companies a few decades ago, barely 10 or 11 survive, the insiders said. The Great Bombay Circus and other such companies will vanish if the government doesn't step in, Sanjeev added. "In countries such as the US and Russia, governments are very supportive of such forms of entertainment. But in India you have to go through a lot of channels to get a circus live, to get a lot of permissions. "Though we have been innovating, it is just a matter of time that the industry will vanish if no help comes,â€ he said. Ashok Shankar, son of M V Shankaran, founder of Gemini Circus and Jumbo Circus, agreed and said the turning point of the industry came with animals being banned. "I think India did it very prematurely. If you look at countries like the US and Russia, they still have animals. "It has been 30 years and I still don't understand it. Everything was going so well and overnight everything changed. That was the biggest thing. With that, money generation started going down," he said, adding that restrictions could have been imposed. In 1998, the Central government banned bears, monkeys, tigers, panthers, and lions to be used as performing animals. In 2013, elephants were also officially banned from circuses. Three years later, in November 2016, the government announced the demonetisation exercise. In 2017, business declined further and several companies shut down, including the 65-year-old Gemini Circus. Remembering the grand days of the past, Shankar said Gemini Circus had hosted the likes of Edwina Mountbatten, Dalai Lama, Jawaharlal Nehru and even Martin Luther King Jr. It was also the circus company in Raj Kapoor's 70s film "Mera Naam Joker". "Nehru recommended the circus to King and asked him to go watch the show. Nehru, who had been all over the world, was so fond of Gemini. It shows that Gemini was at par with circuses all over the world. "From there to here, what a deterioration!" the co-partner of Jumbo circus said. The immediate question, Shankar said, is how to sustain the circus business. "Either we wind up now, because after six months there will be no circus anymore. We have to look for contributions. On our own, we can't manage this. It is impossible," he said. While lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a Rs 20 lakh crore package to resurrect the economy, Shankar said the circus industry needs to be given immediate attention. "The prime minister has taken bold initiative in resurrecting the more important aspects of the economy. A crisis of this magnitude has never been seen earlier. "Circuses haven’t been considered at all. We pray that a struggling industry be given immediate attention to save this popular mass entertainment from extinction," he said. His father M V Shankaran founded Jumbo Circus in 1977, and there are two branches of it still operating with about 300 artistes and support staff employed. Both the units are based in Kerala, one in Kottakal and the other in Kayamkulam. Rambo Circus, another major circus company, came into existence in 1991 with the merger of Great Oriental Circus, The Victoria, and The Arena, is also struggling to stay in business. "We were somehow managing, then this unfortunate crisis came on," said Sujit Dilip, the Mumbai-based owner. The advent of entertainment at the switch of a button had anyway made things difficult, even in villages, he said. "Earlier, we got good business in villages but now nobody comes to see the circus as there are no animals. Whatever we get is in the cities, that is about 35 per cent of the business we used to get 10 years back," Dilip said. Dilip was hoping to pull in new audiences with "immersive technology" but now echoes the pessimism of Sanjeev and Shankar. "We had all the R&D completed and were going to experiment with it in the summer with air conditioning and a full fledged premium show. Unfortunately, this crisis came and we lost a lot of money in R&D also. Due to the coronavirus crisis, everything is lost now. "We have to survive for five, six months more. We are just asking for government help. Any kind of help they can give... they can take it back from us. Once everything is normal we can repay it," Dilip suggested. A ticket to watch live action under the big top costs less than going to the movies. Tickets for a show at the Rambo Circus, for instance, goes from Rs 100-500 in cities and Rs 80-300 in small places. The Great Bombay Circus and Jumbo Circus price their tickets between Rs 100-300. The future is uncertain and bleak. With no signs of an immediate turnaround in their fortunes and the COVID-19 pandemic still to abate, the owners, the artistes and their families are bracing themselves for what might be a final curtain call.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/circus-industry-readies-for-final-curtain-call-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-837622.html
14-05-2020||National||Rs 2 lakh crore concessional credit to be extended to 2.5 cr farmers through Kisan Credit Cards: Nirmala Sitharaman||The government on Thursday said 2.5 crore farmers, including fishermen and those involved in animal husbandry, would get Rs 2 lakh crore of concessional credit through Kisan Credit Cards under its economic stimulus package. Announcing relief measures for small and marginal farmers hit by the COVID-19 crisis, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said an additional Rs 30,000 crore emergency working capital funding would be provided by Nabard which will benefit around 3 crore farmers. The Rs 30,000 crore funding is over and above the Rs 90,000 crore to be provided by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) through the normal refinance route during this year "Nabard will extend additional refinance support of Rs 30,000 crore for crop loan requirement of rural co-op banks and RRBs (regional rural banks). This will help meet post harvest (Rabi) and current Kharif requirement in May/June," the minister said. With regard to Rs 2 lakh crore concessional credit to farmers, the minister said a special drive will be undertaken to provide credit to PM-KISAN beneficiaries through Kisan Credit Cards. "This will enable such farmers to gain access to institutional credit at concessional interest rate. Fishermen and animal husbandry farmers will also be included in this drive," Sitharaman said. Announcing the second set of measures under the Rs 20 lakh crore COVID-19 economic stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sitharaman said more steps would be announced for farmers in the coming days. "On farmers, for example, it is not that we are doing only two steps, nothing more. There will be more, but today I am bringing in two. "In each of the package we will keep in mind and prioritise the concerns related to migrant workers, poor, those who are in need and that will continue. If I have not spoken about a certain thing today, it is not as if Government of India has forgotten. Not at all," she said. Recalling the measures taken by the government for farmers post imposition of lockdown on March 25, she said 3 crore farmers with agricultural loans of Rs 4.22 lakh crore availed the benefit of three-months loan moratorium. Also, interest subvention and prompt repayment incentive on crop loans, due from March 1, has been extended up to May 31, 2020. Further, 25 lakh new Kisan Credit Cards have been sanctioned with a loan limit of Rs 25,000 crore. Also, 63 lakh loans of Rs 86,600 crore have been approved in agriculture between March 1, 2020 to April 30, 2020. Nabard has provided refinancing of Rs 29,500 crore to cooperative banks and RRBs in March 2020. Support of Rs 4,200 crore has been provided under Rural Infrastructure Development Fund to states during March for rural infrastructure. Besides, working capital limit of Rs 6,700 crore has been sanctioned for procurement of agriculture produce to state government entities since March 2020. PwC India, Leader - food and agriculture, Ajay Kakra said, "The initiative to boost credit of Rs 2 lakh crore to increase coverage of 2.5 lakh farmers under KCC will surely increase the credit umbrella and help increase their liquidity issue given the acute cash crunch during COVID situation."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-2-lakh-crore-concessional-credit-to-be-extended-to-25-cr-farmers-through-kisan-credit-cards-nirmala-sitharaman-837624.html
14-05-2020||National||LG Chem mishap: One week later, locals still suffer the after-effects of the styrene leak||A week after the styrene leak, villagers around the LG Chem unit near Visakhapatnam, are still suffering the after-effects of the toxic vapour. The mishap in the wee hours of May 7 had claimed 12 lives, while 585 locals were admitted to various hospitals in the city. About 15,000 population of five surrounding villages had to be evacuated as the white fumes from the faulty tank distressed the officials and locals alike. The chilling TV visuals of men, women and children collapsed to the ground reminded of the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy, though the poisonous effect on Vizag was far lesser in comparison. On Wednesday (May 13), two ladies – reportedly a village level official Sathya Tulasi and a homemaker Karanam Jyothi - in the worst affected RR Venkatapuram where the polymers factory is located, fainted, and were hospitalized after inhaling the residual gas. “It was because they entered rooms, toilets where the gas was still accumulated. They are stable now,” Dr. Tirupati Rao, Visakhapatnam district medical and health officer told DH. According to Rao, all the affected admitted to private hospitals were already discharged, while about 25 under treatment at the King George Hospital would also be sent home by Thursday night. After sanitization of the premises by the Vizag civic body, the evacuated locals started coming back on Monday to dried-up vegetation, a stench wafting in the air, and a list of precautions like avoiding local yields, dairy produce. To reassure the locals, four Andhra Pradesh ministers and senior officials slept in the villages for a night, while the state provided food, other necessities. Some in the hospital still complain of nausea, mouth abscesses, numbness in limbs, etc. “These are all temporary effects which will subside. A committee of health experts is constituted to prescribe the mid to long term medical attention needed for the vapor exposed people. Added to the monthly health check-up for a year, a thorough examination including blood, etc., tests would be carried on people here every three months,” Dr Rao said.   Meanwhile, a team of production, environment, and safety experts from Seoul arrived in Vizag on Wednesday to find the cause of the mishap and assure the locals of safety and rehabilitation. At the insistence of the Jaganmohan Reddy government, LG Chem is moving the 13,000 tonnes of stocked styrene to South Korea. “We confirm the status-quo of the plant remains completely controlled by all measures. We have begun the transportation of the Styrene Monomer inventory within the plant as well as in the styrene tanks at the port by vessels to South Korea to prevent and eliminate all risk factors,” an LG statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lg-chem-mishap-one-week-later-locals-still-suffer-the-after-effects-of-the-styrene-leak-837628.html
14-05-2020||National||NIA summons scribe for questioning on anti-CAA violence, Akhil Gogoi case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday summoned journalist Manash Jyoti Baruah for questioning in connection with the violence during the anti-CAA protests in December last year in parts of Assam and peasant leader Akhil Gogoi's alleged role in it. Baruah, a senior journalist with a Guwahati-based news website, received the NIA notice over the phone and was asked to appear before the agency on Friday at its Sonapur office on the outskirts of the city. "I received a call from an NIA official. He asked me to come tomorrow to answer some questions related to Akhil Gogoi and the anti-CAA movement. When I said I have not received any notice, he said the paperwork might take time and so he requested me over the phone," Baruah told PTI. The scribe, who has worked with several Assamese news channels in the past, informed that he has been regularly covering Gogoi and activities of his organisation, Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), for years. "I do not know why the NIA has called me. I have spoken to some lawyers, who have advised me to go for tomorrow's questioning. I will reach there on time," Baruah said. On May 9, social activist Bhaben Handique was quizzed for hours by the NIA in connection with the case. The case is related to probing alleged "terrorist activity" by Gogoi, who is the adviser of KMSS. He was granted bail on March 17 by a special NIA court here after the premier investigating agency failed to file a chargesheet against him within the specified period of 90 days. After getting bail, the KMSS leader was arrested again in other cases lodged in different police stations, including Sivasagar (case no. 1344/2019), Gaurisagar (case no. 154/2019), Teok (case no. 694/2019), Chabua (case no. 0289/2019) and Crime Branch (case no. 001/2020), under stringent sections of law. Along with Gogoi, three other KMSS leaders -- Dhairjya Konwar, Bittu Sonowal and Manash Konwar -- were arrested by the NIA and they are in jail at present. Gogoi was arrested on December 12 from Jorhat as a "preventive measure" in view of the deteriorating law-and-order situation in the state, amid protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), and his colleagues were taken into custody the next day. However, the Assam Police on December 13 registered a case at the Teok police station under sections 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy), 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), besides sections 18 and 39 of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The case was handed over to the NIA the very next day with the issuance of an order by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-summons-scribe-for-questioning-on-anti-caa-violence-akhil-gogoi-case-837635.html
14-05-2020||National||806 'Shramik Special' trains operated so far, over 10 lakh migrants ferried home: Indian Railways||The Railways has operated 806 Shramik Special trains since May 1, ferrying home 10 lakh migrant workers who were stranded in various parts of the country due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, officials said on Thursday. Of these, Uttar Pradesh received the maximum number of trains followed by Bihar, they said. "As on May 14, 2020, a total of 806 'Shramik Special' trains have been operationalised from various states across the country. More than 10 lakh passengers have reached their home state. "Trains are being run by the Railways only after concurrence is given both by the state which is sending the passengers and the state which is receiving them," the railways said. Out of the 806 trains which have been operated so far, 166 are in transit while 640 have terminated at various stations. Sixty-three more are in the pipeline, an official said. These 806 trains were terminated in various states like Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Mizoram, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal. So far, 386 trains have terminated in Uttar Pradesh (UP) followed by Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, where 204 and 67 trains have terminated respectively. The number stands at 44 for Jharkhand, 18 for Rajasthan, seven for Chhattisgarh and seven for West Bengal. Proper screening of the passengers is being carried out before they board the trains, the Railways said, adding that during the journey, the passengers are given free meals and water. From Monday, these Shramik Special trains started carrying around 1,700 passengers each, instead of the earlier 1,200, to ferry as many workers home as possible. While initially these trains had no stoppages, the railways announced on Monday that up to three stoppages in the destination states will be allowed. The decision was taken after several state governments made a request in this regard, officials said.  While the railways is yet to announce the cost incurred on these special services, officials indicated that the national transporter is spending around Rs 80 lakh per service. The Centre had earlier stated that the cost of the services was shared on a 85:15 ratio between Centre and states. Since the Shramik Special train service started, Gujarat has remained the top originating state, followed by Kerala. Earlier, the Railways drew flak from opposition parties for charging for these services. In its guidelines, the national transporter has said the trains will ply only if they have 90 per cent occupancy. On Monday, a statement issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said the railways will now run 100 Shramik Specials every day to facilitate faster movement of stranded workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/806-shramik-special-trains-operated-so-far-over-10-lakh-migrants-ferried-home-indian-railways-837644.html
14-05-2020||National||Hail, dust storm whip Delhi, bring mercury down||The skies turned dark grey and strong winds whipped up dust storms across the national capital and neighbouring areas on Thursday, affecting visibility. This is the second spell of dust storms to hit Delhi and nearby areas in less than a week. Heavy rains and hail were also reported at isolated places, especially in North Delhi, weather experts said. A few areas reported incidents of uprooting of trees that damaged power lines and vehicles. Delhi residents shared videos of rain water gushing into balconies and plumes of dust engulfing the streets on social media. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said it was a result of a fresh western disturbance. Winds gusting up to 60 kilometers per hour barrelled through the national capital whipping up dust storms. A few areas witnessed hailstorm, Srivastava said. Gusty winds and rains led to a significant drop in the mercury especially in North Delhi. The temperatures dropped by at least two notches elsewhere, he said. The IMD scientist said dust storms and hail storms are a common occurance in the period between April 15 and June 15 in entire northwest India. Cumulonimbus clouds due to western disturbance and induced cyclonic circulation over Punjab and Haryana led to dust storms and hail storms in parts of Delhi, Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather, a private forecasting service, said. Northwest India hasn't witnessed a heatwave so far -- the reason being frequent western disturbances this year, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hail-dust-storm-whip-delhi-bring-mercury-down-837652.html
14-05-2020||National||Amit Shah welcomes FM Nirmala Sitharaman's announcement of special package for migrant labourers, poor and farmers||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday welcomed the special package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for migrant labourers, the poor and farmers, saying the initiative is in consonance with the Modi government's policy of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas'. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah said the Narendra Modi government has made every effort to help the farmers who feed the country with their hard work. "I thank Prime Minister @narendramodi ji and Finance Minister @nsitharaman ji for the relief provided to the poor, farmers, labourers and middle class of the country, in keeping with the core motto of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas'," he said. Appreciating the prime minister for giving two months' free ration to the migrant labourers and the urban poor, he said the announcement will benefit eight crore people for which the government has earmarked Rs 3,500 crore. "Due to this global pandemic, many migrant labourers living on rent have got problem, for this the Modi government will start a scheme under PMAY to provide affordable rent accommodation to these migrant labourers and poor homeless people living in the city. I heartily welcome this initiative," he said. The home minister said the central government has already given Rs 11,002 crore to the State Disaster Relief Funds of the states for the accommodation and food of the migrant workers. Shah said by providing a loan of Rs 4,22,000 crore to three crore farmers and issuing 25 lakh new Kishan Credit Cards show the sensitivity of the Modi government and its commitment for the welfare of the farmers. The home minister also welcomed the announcement of working capital loan worth Rs 5,000 crore for 50 lakh street-vendors rendered jobless by the lockdown and the government's plans to allow inter-state portability of ration cards under the public distribution system (PDS) so as to allow migrant workers to use their cards anywhere in the country to get benefits. The finance minister on Thursday announced a Rs 3.16-lakh crore package of free foodgrains for migrant workers, concessional credit to farmers and working capital loan for street vendors as part of the second tranche of fiscal stimulus to heal an economy hit hard by coronavirus lockdown. At a news conference, Sitharaman said eight crore migrant workers will get 5 kgs of grains and 1 kg of pulses free for two months, while 50 lakh street vendors rendered jobless by the lockdown would be given a working capital loan of Rs 10,000 each. As many as 2.5 crore farmers will be provided Rs 2 lakh crore of concessional credit through Kisan Credit Cards. She also announced a Rs 70,000-crore boost to the housing sector through one-year extension of subsidised loan for affordable houses for the middle-income group with an annual income of Rs 6 lakh to Rs 18 lakh. Sitharaman said the central government will bear Rs 3,500 crore cost of giving free foodgrain and pulses to migrant workers. State governments will be responsible for implementation, identification of migrants and full distribution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-welcomes-fm-nirmala-sitharamans-announcement-of-special-package-for-migrant-labourers-poor-and-farmers-837679.html
14-05-2020||National||West Bengal needs 105 'Shramik' trains a day, but is accepting 105 over 30 days: Piyush Goyal||There is a need for 105 'Shramik Special' trains a day to take stranded migrants hailing from West Bengal back home but it is "sad" that the state is accepting 105 trains over 30 days, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday. His remarks were in response to a tweet by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee that she has arranged for 105 additional special trains to bring back migrants stranded across the country due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. "I feel sad that while there is a need for 105 trains/day to bring back migrants to West Bengal, the state is accepting only 105 trains over 30 days. I once again hope for the sake of Bengali brothers and sisters in different parts of the country, that West Bengal will accept them back with open arms," Goyal tweeted. Many migrants want to return to West Bengal and if the state "does not accept them, then we may find more cases of migrants and even children walking for hundreds of kilometres and resorting to other dangerous means", he said. West Bengal should speed up setting up of adequate arrangements to receive their migrants, Goyal tweeted. In an series of tweets earlier in the day, he had said the state had allowed only seven 'Shramik Special' trains and cited that Uttar Pradesh has "cleared" 400 such trains. The railways had started the migrant special service on May 1 after the central government gave its approval for transportation of stranded workers on trains during the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown. Banerjee, who is also the Trinamool Congress chief, in her tweet has said that "towards our commitment to helping all our people stuck in different parts of the country and who want to return back to Bengal, I am pleased to announce that we have arranged 105 additional special trains". Over the coming days, these special trains will embark from different states for various destinations across West Bengal, bringing people back home, she said. Railway Minister Goyal said despite his appeal to the West Bengal government to give permission to allow more 'Shramik Special' trains, there has been no response from it. "After my statement yesterday, the West Bengal government has woken up from its deep sleep. The government has yet allowed only seven trains for migrant workers... The workers of Bengal are far from their homes, so I had appealed to allow them to run more trains," Goyal said. "It is a cruel joke with the migrant workers of West Bengal that the government there is not giving them the facility to go to their houses," he said. Among the migrant heavy source states, West Bengal has approved the least number of 'Shramik Special' trains so far at seven, out of which one is still on its way. Uttar Pradesh has accepted 386 trains, while Bihar and Madhya Pradesh have accepted 204 and 67 trains, respectively. The number stands at 44 for Jharkhand, 18 for Rajasthan and seven each for Chhattisgarh and West Bengal, the central government said on Thursday. More such requests are being sent from states and the central government is working on them, it said. The railway minister said, "So far, the government of West Bengal has not allowed eight trains to run, as per its announcement last week". "This is a petty attempt to trick West Bengal's migrant workers, and the government is running away from its responsibility to take the poor labourers home," Goyal said. "Uttar Pradesh cleared 400 trains in less than 15 days and brought its migrant workers home. Instead of showing this kind of alacrity, the West Bengal government is preventing the labourers from getting assistance," he said. Goyal urged the West Bengal government to think about the interests of workers who have to deal with the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The state should to allow the railways to run more special trains as soon as possible to take stranded migrants home, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-needs-105-shramik-trains-a-day-but-is-accepting-105-over-30-days-piyush-goyal-837680.html
14-05-2020||National||India protests as China takes up hydel project in area illegally occupied by Pakistan||A new irritant has emerged in New Delhi’s relations with Beijing, as the Power Construction Corporation of China is now set to build a hydro-electric plant in Gilgit-Baltistan, which is part of the area India accuses Pakistan of illegally occupying in its Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The Power Construction Corporation of China, a.k.a. “Power China”, has tied up with the Frontier Works Organization (FWO), a construction farm of Pakistan Army, to float a consortium, which has now been awarded by Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Government in Islamabad a $ 2.75 billion contract to build the controversial Diamer Bhasha dam on Indus River in Gilgit-Baltistan. New Delhi has since long been opposing the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), which passes through the areas of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh under illegal occupation of Pakistan. The CPEC is one of the flagship projects of China’s ambitious cross-continental Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). New Delhi opposed the BRI, primarily because the CPEC undermined the sovereignty of India. The Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) of Pakistan signed the agreement with the consortium on Wednesday, awarding it the contract to build the main dam of the Diamer Bhasha hydroelectric project and an access bridge. The contract awarded to the consortium of the Power China and the FWO also covers the construction of the 21 MW Tangir Hydro-Electric plant, which has been envisaged to power the construction of the main 4500 MW Diamer-Bhasha project at a later stage. New Delhi on Thursday responded to the signing of the contract by reiterating that the “entire territory” of the UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including Gilgit-Baltistan, was and would continue to be “integral and inalienable part” of India. “We have consistently conveyed our protests and shared concerns with both Pakistan and China on all such projects in the Indian territories under Pakistan's illegal occupation,” Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, told journalists in New Delhi. The Diamer-Bhasha dam is proposed to be built on the Indus River in Gilgit-Baltistan. The project is envisaged to consist of a huge reservoir for storage of 6.3 million acre-feet of water and two power stations with a total installed generation capacity of 4,500 MW. Pakistan had conceived the project in 2006, but could not make much progress as international lending agencies declined to fund the project because of New Delhi’s objections. The move by the Khan Government in Islamabad to rope in a state-owned company of China for a controversial project in Gilgit-Baltistan came at a time when New Delhi raised its pitch reasserting that the entire area was an integral part of India. It also came when recent face-offs between Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army along the Line of Actual Control in northern Sikkim and eastern Ladakh renewed the focus on the protracted boundary dispute between India and China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-protests-as-china-takes-up-hydel-project-in-area-illegally-occupied-by-pakistan-837696.html
14-05-2020||National||PM's stimulus package address garnered viewership of 193 million: BARC||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Rs 20 lakh crore economic package address this week was viewed by 193 million people, garnering the highest viewing minutes among his five messages to the nation since the COVID-19 pandemic began, BARC said on Thursday. Overall TV viewership continued to decline in the week to May 8, and giving away gains made in the lockdown period, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) said.   The nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25, has increased TV watching in India as people are cooped up inside their homes. Among genres, news and movies grew the most, but the launch of Hindu mythology-based content like Ramayan pushed the viewership of the general entertainment channels which were struggling for fresh content because of no new productions. Modi's 33-minute address, which focused on developing a self-reliant India, was watched by 193 million, which is lower than the previous address that garnered 203 million viewers. However, going by viewing minutes, the number was at 4.3 billion minutes, the highest among all the five addresses by Modi, it said. A total of 197 channels carried the address, a shade lower than the last speech's 199 channels, the body said. Meanwhile, on the overall viewership front, the TV audiences consumed lesser content this week at 1.10 trillion viewing minutes, as against 1.14 trillion minutes in the week ago period. However, the 1.10 trillion viewing minutes figure is higher by 24 per cent compared to the pre-lockdown period, the body said. As an effect of no new programming, the prime time viewership declined by 7 per cent as compared to the pre-lockdown period, it said. Public broadcaster Doordarshan, which had catapulted to the top spot among the general entertainment channels courtesy its mythological content, ceded the position to Dangal this week as some of its serials came to an end. This had a direct impact on advertising, with the air time carrying commercials down 9 per cent from the week-ago period, the body said. In the past, experts have blamed a lack of consumption during the lockdowns as being hurtful for advertising, one of the major revenue streams for the industry. There was also a 7 per cent drop in the number of advertisers at 1,331 for the reporting week, as compared to the previous one, BARC said.  Data on smartphone usage collected by marketer AC Nielsen said there was 14 per cent increase in mobile usage and 18 per cent jump in data consumption during the week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pms-stimulus-package-address-garnered-viewership-of-193-million-barc-837706.html
14-05-2020||National||Enough foodgrain stock lying in state godowns for free distribution to 8 crore migrants for 2 months: Paswan||Enough foodgrain stock is lying in godowns of state governments which they can lift from Friday onwards for free distribution to 8 crore migrants who do not have ration cards to avail such supplies, Union Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Thursday said. Paswan hailed the government's decision to distribute free 5 kg rice or wheat per person and 1 kg chana per family to migrants for the next two months, as part of the second tranche of the economic stimulus package to help those affected due to the COVID-19 lockdown. "There is adequate stock of foodgrains lying with state godowns. Our ministry is fully prepared to supply ration to 8 crore migrants. These additional 10 per cent poor do not have ration cards, but will get the benefit of free dry ration," Paswan told PTI after the announcement. The state-run Food Corporation of India (FCI), which is the government's nodal agency for procurement and distribution of foodgrains, has been directed to make necessary arrangements for this purpose, he said. "Once the order is issued, states can immediately lift from tomorrow the grains from godowns and start distribution to migrants through the Public Distribution System (PDS)," Paswan said. For instance in Bihar, over 14 lakh poor who are not yet covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) or any state ration card scheme will benefit, he explained. Likewise across the country, there are around 40 lakh poor whom the states have not yet identified for coverage under the NFSA, the minister said. "They all will be benefited." Paswan also mentioned that it is the responsibility of the state governments now to identify the poor migrants and ensure free supplies reach them. States can send the details of migrant beneficiaries to the central government later, he added. About Rs 3,500 crore will be spent for this intervention by the centre. Currently, the FCI has a foodgrain stock of over 671 lakh tonnes, of which rice is 271 lakh tonnes and wheat 400 lakh tonnes, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enough-foodgrain-stock-lying-in-state-godowns-for-free-distribution-to-8-crore-migrants-for-2-months-paswan-837710.html
14-05-2020||National||2 deaths, 144 fresh coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh; tally rises to 3,902||With 144 more people being confirmed positive for coronavirus, the number of cases rose to 3,902 in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday while two persons died of the infection in the state, officials said. "A total of 3,092 cases have been reported so far in the state, of which 1,742 are active while 2,072 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovery," an official statement said. Two fresh deaths were reported from Meerut and Pratapgarh, raising the toll to 88 in the state, it said. Of the total fatalities, Agra has reported the maximum number of deaths in the state at 24. It is followed by 15 from Meerut, nine from Moradabad, six from Kanpur Nagar and four each from Firozabad and Mathura. Three deaths each have been reported from Aligarh and Gautam Buddh Nagar, two each from Ghaziabad and Jhansi and one each from Pratapgarh, Sant Kabir Nagar, Hapur, Lalitpur, Allahabad, Etah, Mainpuri, Bijnore, Kanpur Dehat, Amroha, Bareilly, Basti, Bulandshahr, Lucknow, Varanasi and Shravasti. Earlier, Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters that the testing capacity in Uttar Pradesh has been increased. As many as 5,833 COVID-19 tests were conducted across the state on Wednesday, which is a record, he said. "We are emphasising on surveillance and over three crore people have been surveyed by 73,131 teams in UP. Those having symptoms (of COVID-19) have been given required treatment," Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-deaths-144-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-tally-rises-to-3902-837716.html
14-05-2020||National||The decorated CBI officer who brought Vijay Mallya down||“Painstaking and meticulous” investigation and countless visits to London by CBI officer Suman Kumar finally bore fruit after three long years in the bank fraud case against flamboyant businessman Vijay Mallya. Mallya, the high-flying owner of now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines, on Thursday lost his application seeking leave to appeal his extradition to India in the UK Supreme Court, setting a 28-day clock on his removal from the UK. The extradition case pertains to the alleged bank fraud of Rs 900 crore in IDBI Bank. The embattled liquor baron also faces probe in another case related to alleged fraud amounting of more than Rs 9,000 crore in a consortium of banks led by State Bank of India. Kumar was assigned the case against Mallya, known for his ostentatious lifestyle and who had made his way to the Indian Parliament as a Rajya Sabha member, as the DSP of Banking Frauds and Security Cell, Mumbai in October, 2015. Kumar is now an additional superintendent of police in the country's premier investigation agency. Mallya was facing the media heat as his failing aviation company was finding it difficult to pay staff salaries and retain premium services it had promised to its customers with clamour for booking him increasing day by day, sources in the agency had said. It was a tricky situation for the CBI as the lending banks did not file any complaint against Mallya in spite of serious allegations of fraud against him, they said. The agency decided to go ahead and used its source-based information to register the first FIR against Mallya related to Rs 900 crore alleged loan fraud against him. And Kumar was entrusted with the probe. The officer, who joined the agency as a 23-year-old sub-inspector, by then had an impeccable record as an ace investigator of white-collar crimes winning the CBI gold medal for best investigating officer in 2002 handed over by then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in 2004. Fifty-five-year-old Kumar, honed in traditional CBI style of investigation, had also received the Police Medal for Meritorious Service in 2008, outstanding investigator in 2013 and the President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service in 2015 when he took over the case. In 2016, Mallya escaped the country causing an embarrassment to the agency and triggering an uphill legal battle in the courts of the United Kingdom to bring him back. The then Additional Director, Rakesh Asthana, took over reins of the case as the Chief of the Special Investigation Team. He and Kumar proved to be a potent team investigating the case, making rounds of London to ensure not a single hearing is missed and coordinating with the Crown Prosecution Service which was representing the case in courts in London. The job was difficult as India had an abysmal record in succeeding in extradition cases in Europe, especially the United Kingdom. The case was fought by the Crown Prosecution Service with active support from the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate. Kumar ensured a concrete case of fraud is established and a charge sheet is filed in India to make a strong case for Mallya’s extradition. It was imperative that India had a case against Mallya which was punishable in laws of the United Kingdom. Through his exhaustive probe, Kumar managed to establish alleged fraud and money laundering in his probe for which charge sheets were filed in India. "We were not contesting a trial there. We had to convince the courts that a prima facie case is made out to justify extradition to India," a senior officer said. The findings reached by Kumar in his probe managed to achieve a conclusive argument in support of extradition of Mallya to India which culminated in the UK High Court denying him the leave to approach the Supreme Court to challenge his extradition. Kumar was lauded by the CBI for his efforts in the case. “CBI appreciates the painstaking investigation, the hard work and the meticulous efforts of Investigating Officer Suman Kumar, Additional SP, CBI in successfully pursuing investigation and extradition proceedings against the fugitive," the agency spokesperson said. PTI ABS SMN SMN||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-decorated-cbi-officer-who-brought-vijay-mallya-down-837724.html
14-05-2020||National||Congress accuses BJP of diverting attention of people from 'unprecedented crisis' of migrants||The Congress on Thursday accused the BJP of using diversionary tactics to avoid giving answers on the "unprecedented humanitarian crisis" of thirsty and hungry migrants going on foot to their native states, after it accused the opposition party of trying "its best to save" fugitive Nirav Modi. Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari said former judge Abhay Thipsay had appeared as an expert witness for Nirav Modi in a London court in his personal and professional capacity. He said Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad is making a baseless and irresponsible charge. "As far as the Congress is concerned, the government has made this charge only to divert the attention of people from the unprecedented humanitarian crisis of migrants walking down on the roads thirsty and hungry in their bid to reach their homes amid the lockdown," he said at a press conference when asked about the BJP's charge. "The law minister is making a baseless and irresponsible statement and is playing mischief to divert attention as the government's response to the migrants' crisis is ineffective," he said. He also asked Prasad if he has ever sought permission from the BJP for his appearances in court for his clients. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi also attacked Prasad, saying law ministers should know the right of advocates to appear for clients. "Law ministers know that the right of advocates to appear for clients cannot be trifled with. Thipsay gave evidence in UK court which he has right to do without dictation by the BJP. One of the three accused in Indira Gandhi assassination case was acquitted because lawyers like Jethamalani were not browbeaten into not appearing (for the clients)," he said. Hitting back at Prasad, Singhvi also tweeted, "Hope the law minister has intentionally or unintentionally not reopened can of worms regarding senior distinguished BJP lawyers, now departed souls (RIP), whose children held briefs and retainers for high-profile accused in UK." "Such reasoning denies legal representation to accused before conviction and after," he said. The BJP accused the Congress of trying "its best to save" the fugitive businessman and cited the statement of a former high court judge, also a member of the opposition party, in the diamond merchant's defence in a UK court. Prasad said Thipsay, a former judge of Bombay and Allahabad high courts, deposed as a defence witness in the case to oppose extradition proceedings against Modi by stating that the charges of cheating and criminal conspiracy against him will not stand up under Indian law. Prasad noted that Thipsay had joined the Congress in 2018 and had met top party leaders like Rahul Gandhi, Ashok Gehlot and Ashok Chavan. The "judge sahab" is not acting in his individual capacity but is working at the behest of the Congress, he claimed, adding that Thipsay is hardly a big name otherwise in legal circles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-accuses-bjp-of-diverting-attention-of-people-from-unprecedented-crisis-of-migrants-837726.html
14-05-2020||National||Shops in malls, complexes should be allowed to open on odd-even basis: Delhi govt suggests Centre||The Delhi government on Thursday submitted a proposal to the Centre on lockdown relaxations post May 17 and suggested opening of markets, shopping complexes and operation of buses and metro services with strict social distancing norms. The government has suggested operation of construction activities in the national capital and that movement of labourers within Delhi be allowed, sources in the government told PTI. Taxis with two passengers will be allowed, they said, adding that in buses, 20 passengers are likely to be allowed to travel under strict social distancing norms. "The government has suggested that opening of markets, complexes and malls should be allowed in Delhi. However, shops engaged in non-essential items in shopping complexes and malls should be allowed to operate on odd-even basis," a source said. In next two-three days, the government will come out with a standard operating procedure to allow economic activities from Monday in the national capital. The nationwide lockdown was imposed from March 25 to April 14, then extended to May 3 and again to May 17 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that different economic activities will be allowed in the city from May 18 based on decisions taken by the Centre on lockdown relaxation. Addressing an online media briefing, he said most people suggested that schools, colleges, barber shops, spa, salons, cinema halls and swimming pools should not be opened post May 17, and there should be just limited operation of metro services. On Tuesday, Kejriwal had sought suggestions from Delhiites on lockdown relaxations post May 17 and asked them to send their views by 5 pm on Wednesday. During a video conference chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers of different states on Monday, Kejriwal had said barring containment zones, economic activities should be allowed to resume in the national capital. Buses, taxis and auto-rickshaws should be allowed to operate in the city but with social-distancing, he said during the online briefing on Thursday. "The country, including Delhi, has been closed for the last one and a half months due to coronavirus-induced lockdown. It was easy to close, but we have to work very hard to open up the economy. We usually do hard work. The coming times are very difficult," Kejriwal said. The chief minister said the government had received over 5 lakh suggestions from Delhiites on lockdown relaxations post May 17 and most of them suggested strict action against those not wearing mask and violating social-distancing norms. "Different activities will be allowed in Delhi from Monday based on Centre's decisions on lockdown relaxation. But, it is sure that we have to follow social-distancing strictly," Kejriwal said. "We also got suggestions from market associations and most of them advocated opening of markets on odd-even basis.Some people said malls can open by allowing opening of one-third shops," he said. Some suggestions were in favour of closure of hotels, but most of them advocated opening of restaurants through which home-delivery of food and take-away facility can be allowed, he said. Kejriwal said people have suggested lifting of restrictions on movement between 7 pm and 7 am, saying it doesn't fulfil any purpose. However, they advocated restrictions on movement of senior citizens, heart patients, pregnant women and those having co-morbidities. He said people also suggested opening of parks where they could perform yoga and do exercise. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had recently asked states to send their proposals on what they want post May 17, when the third phase of lockdown ends, Kejriwal said. The chief minister said he decided to seek suggestions from people on lockdown relaxations instead of preparing Delhi's proposal sitting in an air conditioned room. On Tuesday, Kejriwal had made it clear that the lockdown cannot be lifted completely given that the city was recording a high number of coronavirus cases daily. According to the government, 4,76,000 WhatsApp messages, 10,700 emails, 39,000 calls apart from 22,700 responses on Change.Org has been received.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shops-in-malls-complexes-should-be-allowed-to-open-on-odd-even-basis-delhi-govt-suggests-centre-837728.html
14-05-2020||National||Nine electrocuted as tractor hits electric pole in Andhra Pradesh||Nine people were electrocuted and two others injured on Thursday when a tractor-trolley carrying 23 people hit an electricity post and the live wire fell on them, near Machavaram village in Prakasam district, police said. Of the deceased nine, seven were women and two were intermediate students. The two injured were hospitalised, they said adding that the negligence of the tractor driver caused the accident. According to Sharat Babu, Additional Superintendent of Police (administration), Prakasam district, the deceased were workers in chilly plantations. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan expressed shock and offered condolences to the families of the dead. According to an official press release, the Governor was informed that the district administration was taking steps to provide medical care for the injured two. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy too expressed shock over the mishap. He ordered the district collector to ensure best treatment for the injured and asked his cabinet colleagues from the district to visit the families of the deceased and injured, an official press release said. He ordered Rs 5 lakh as ex-gratia to the kin of the deceased. Expressing grief over the death of the workers in the accident, Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan said the government should come forward to help the kin of the victims. In a statement, he said he was sorry to hear there were two intermediate students among the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-electrocuted-as-tractor-hits-electric-pole-in-andhra-pradesh-837732.html
14-05-2020||National||Atrocities against Hindus in Bihar, Haryana: VHP||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) has raised concerns over "security" of Hindus in BJP-ruled Haryana and NDA-ruled Bihar. The BJP has been in power in Haryana for nearly six years. Last year, the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP came to power for the second time with a reduced majority with the help of rival-turned-post-poll-ally Dushyant Chautala's Jannayak Janata Party. In Bihar, it is the alliance government of JD(U) and BJP which has ruled the state for 13 of the last 15 years. Nitish Kumar and BJP have been associates for the last two decades. Assembly polls in Bihar are due in October. Strains between the two allies have time and again come to the fore but they have stuck together for nearly 19 years barring a four-year break in 2013-2017. While voicing concern over the rise in alleged attacks by "Jihadi elements" in the border areas of Bihar, the VHP petitioned the Governor. In Haryana, it sent a three-member team to probe "atrocities" against Hindus in Mewat, which has a large number of Meo Muslims.   Tablighi Jamaat, which recently courted controversy over its big event in Delhi, adding to the coronavirus spread, traces its origin to the Mewat region. The VHP alleged that Jamaatis were later sheltered in Mewat. According to the VHP, among the atrocities are cases where no Hindu businessman dares to recover his petty dues from a Muslim and is beaten up for doing so and that a Hindu boy's shikha (lock of hair) was made a point of indecent remarks on May 12. His family was severely beaten by 200 people for protesting this treatment. Alleging that two districts of the region are safe havens for Bangladeshi infiltrators and Rohingya Muslims, it said VHP has set itself up for the protection of the Hindu society suffering from the growing terror of Islamic Jihadis there and announced the formation of a three-member high-level investigation team having Major General (Retd) G D Bakshi and Mahamandaleshwar Swami Dharmadev Maharaj. VHP's Central Joint General Secretary Surendra Jain rued that the way the local police and the administration are showing helplessness in the face of the growing Jihadi activities in the area is a very serious matter. On Wednesday, the VHP Secretary-General Milind Parande voiced anger over the "growing Jihadi attacks on Hindus" in Bihar. Citing incidents of murder of a 15-year-old Hindu boy in Gopalganj, alleged gang-rape of a 15-year-old Hindu Dalit girl by Muslims in Kishanganj, a family in Begusarai not allowed to recite the Ramayana in the month of Ramzan or alleged suing of Hindu businessmen for putting up "Om" flags in Nalanda, VHP alleged such premeditated and deliberate conspiracies were going on at multiple locations including Sitamarhi, Begusarai, Purnia, Araria, Katihar and East Champaran. "The atrocities and footprints of Islamic Jihadists and somewhere direct and somewhere indirect support to them by the administration are quite in plain sight. Many Hindu families of the state are forced to flee," Parande said. He also said that new mosques and Madrasas are persistently popping up in the border areas of the state and those are serving as the Jihadi terror dens of Bangladeshi and Rohingya infiltrators. Last week, the VHP had slammed Odisha and Tamil Nadu governments over the affront to goddess Sita by some writers in the state and attempted to take money from Hindu temples respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atrocities-against-hindus-in-bihar-haryana-vhp-837741.html
14-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi, Bill Gates discuss global COVID-19 response||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday discussed the global response to COVID-19 with philanthropist Bill Gates and pitched for leveraging India's Aarogya Setu contact tracing app globally to strengthen the fight against the disease. During the discussion, Modi sought suggestions from  Gates on how India’s capacities and capabilities could be better leveraged for the general benefit of the world. "Some of the ideas that the dignitaries explored in this context included drawing upon India’s unique model of last-mile health service delivery in rural areas, dissemination of the effective contact-tracing mobile app developed by Government of India, and above all by leveraging India’s massive pharmaceutical capacity to scale-up the production of vaccines and therapeutics upon their discovery," a PMO statement said.  Modi and Gates agreed that given India’s willingness and capacity to contribute to global efforts, particularly for benefit of fellow developing countries, it was important for India to be included in the ongoing global discussions for coordinating responses to the pandemic.  The Prime Minister also suggested that the Gates Foundation could take the lead in analysing the necessary changes in lifestyles, economic organisation, social behaviour, modes of disseminating education and healthcare, that would emerge in the post-COVID world. Gates chairs the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which works closely on healthcare-related issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-bill-gates-discuss-global-covid-19-response-837743.html
14-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Centre reaches out to migrants with free ration||The Centre on Thursday said it will provide free foodgrains to about eight crore migrant workers who do not have ration cards and subsequently make the document portable to enable them to buy foodgrains anywhere in the country. The government also promised to launch next month a Rs 5,000 crore special credit facility for street vendors, who have been badly hit by the COVID-19 outbreak. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman — who unveiled the second tranche of relief measures, part of the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package — said the PDS ration card will be made portable by August and will benefit about 63 crore people in 23 states. Former Chief Economic Advisor Arvind Subramanian had suggested portability of ration cards, making them person-based instead of place-based to help migrant labourers access benefits at their place of work. The free-ration-for-migrants scheme, on which the government is spending Rs 3,500 crore, was widely hailed but also came in for criticism for the lengthy delay in announcing it, considering that thousands of migrant workers were stranded for days without access to ration. “Yes, people are suffering, many are walking back to their homes. We understand migrants are moving. We are committed to extending all benefits to them,” Nirmala said, as the government sought to contain the damage following its handling of the migrant crisis. Under the free ration scheme, migrant workers will be given 5 kg wheat/rice per person and 1 kg chana per family/month for two months. She said the government is also providing jobs under MGNREGA to migrants returning to their homes. At least 14.62 crore person-days of work has been generated till May 13, on which the Centre has spent Rs 10,000 crore in the COVID period, Nirmala said.  In addition, the minister said the government was working on making the right to minimum wage, which covers 30% of the workforce at present, universal. She said the government is also looking to bring gig economy workers under social security net and re-skilling retrenched workers. Work is also in progress to provide housing at affordable rent to urban migrants by converting government-funded housing in cities into affordable rental housing complexes under PPP mode, the minister said. Altogether, nine measures related to migrant workers, street vendors, housing, employment generation in tribal pockets and farmers were announced on Thursday. For farmers, Nirmala said NABARD will extend additional refinance support of Rs 30,000 crore for crop loan requirement. This is over and above the Rs 90,000 crore to be provided by NABARD through the normal refinance route during this year. Apart from that, a Rs 2 lakh crore concessional credit boost will be provided to 2.5 crore farmers through Kisan credit cards. The Finance Minister also announced a Rs 70,000 crore boost to the housing sector that will kickstart sectors such as steel, cement and create jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-reaches-out-to-migrants-with-free-ration-837755.html
14-05-2020||National Politics||Isn't India self-reliant at present? asks Shiv Sena on new Rs 20 lakh crore economic package||The Shiv Sena on Thursday raised questions over the Centre's Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package announced to revive the COVID-hit economy, and asked if India is not a "self-reliant" country at present. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' wondered how Rs 20 lakh crore will be raised, and opined that an environment needs to be created where industrialists, trade and business sectors are encouraged to invest. On the path of new self-reliance, India cannot afford industrialists running away, and for that "political institutions like the ED and CBI need to be put in lockdown for some time," it said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced new financial incentives on top of the previously announced packages for a combined stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore, saying the COVID-19 crisis has provided India an opportunity to become self-reliant and emerge as the best in the world. The Sena said the country is being told that the package will be beneficial for MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises), poor labourers, farmers and the tax-paying middle class. "The package (as per the Centre) will reach 130 crore Indians and the country will become self-reliant. Does this mean India is not a self-reliant country at present?" the Marathi daily asked. It is good that PPE kits and N95 masks are now being manufactured in India, it said. "Any country progresses ahead while learning from crisis and through struggle. Before Independence, not even a needle was manufactured in India but in 60 years, India became self-reliant in science, technology, agro business, defence, manufacturing and atomic science," it said. An institution like the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which is helping in the manufacturing of PPE kits, is part of the self-reliant India, it noted. Wondering how Rs 20 lakh crore, as announced in the central package, will be raised, the Sena said an "environment needs to be created where industrialists, trade and business sectors will be encouraged to invest". "India, on path of new self-reliance, cannot afford industrialists running away, and for that political institutions like the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) need to be put in lockdown for some time," the paper said. Despite announcing the 'lockdown-4' and the economic package, why its impact has not been reflected in the share market? it asked. "Investors are in a dilemma. The prime minister and chief ministers must show them trust and support," it said. "Earlier it was Pandit Nehru and now it is Modi. If (former prime minister) Rajiv Gandhi had not laid the foundation of a digital India, there wouldn't be video conference of PM, CMs and bureaucracy in times of coronavirus," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. It agreed with Modi that coronavirus will stay for long, and lives need not revolve around it. "We need to get back on our feet again," the Sena said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/isnt-india-self-reliant-at-present-asks-shiv-sena-on-new-rs-20-lakh-crore-economic-package-837447.html
14-05-2020||National Politics||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray, 8 others elected unopposed to Council||In what comes as a sigh of relief, Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray was elected unopposed to the state's legislature on Thursday.  The election of Uddhav to the Maharashtra Legislative Council lends stability to the Sena-NCP-Congress ruling alliance, the Maha Vikas Aghadi. The 59-year-old Uddhav is the second from the Thackeray family to enter Maharashtra legislature - the other being his son Aditya, who won the Assembly elections form Worli and is now state's protocol, environment and tourism minister. Besides Thackeray, eight others who were elected are Dr Neelam Gorhe (Sena), Rajesh Rathod (Congress), Shashikant Shinde and Amol Mitkari (NCP) and Ranjitsinh Mohite-Patil, Praveen Datke, Gopichand Padalkar and Ramesh Karad. Thursday was the last date of withdrawal of nomination - and since no additional candidate was there, all nine candidates whose applications were found okay, were declared elected unopposed. Uddhav was sworn in as Maharashtra chief minister on 28 November, 2019, and then, he was neither an MLA or an MLC - and needed to get elected within six months' time. The Shiv Sena was planned for the April elections to Council but in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, all polls were postponed by Election Commission. The MVA government resolved to propose the name of Uddhav for the post of two vacant seats form governor's quota to the Council.  There was a technical issue for Koshyari to take a call as the Representation of People Act, 1951, states that election or nomination to a vacant post cannot be done if the remainder term of the vacancy is less than one year.  The term of the two vacant seats in this case was to end on 6 June. In the crisis situation, Uddhav spoke to prime minister Narendra Modi to discuss the issue. Thereafter, the Shiv Sena cited the emergency situation and requested governor to in impress upon ECI to conduct polls, that the latter agreed. The poll schedule was announced - thereafter the MVA and opposition BJP ensured that it was unopposed. The 288-member Maharashtra Legislative Assembly was the electoral college for the nine seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-8-others-elected-unopposed-to-council-837497.html
14-05-2020||National Politics||Will ensure screams of migrant workers reach govt: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the party will ensure that the screams of migrant workers reach the government and described them as the ones carrying the country's flag. "There is a dense darkness and these are difficult times, have courage, all of us are standing for the safety of all of them. We will ensure that their screams reach the government and they get the help they deserve. They are not the ordinary public of the country, they are the flag bearers of the country's self-respect. We will never let them bow down," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Along with his tweet, Gandhi also shared a video of migrant labourers walking on the roads of the country in an attempt to reach their native places amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-ensure-screams-of-migrant-workers-reach-govt-rahul-gandhi-837546.html
14-05-2020||National Politics||Congress trying its best to save Nirav Modi: BJP's Ravi Shankar Prasad||The BJP on Thursday accused the Congress of trying "its best to save" fugitive businessman Nirav Modi and cited the statement of a former high court judge, also a member of the opposition party, in the diamond merchant's defence in a UK court.  Senior BJP leader and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said Abhay Thipsay, a former judge of Bombay and Allahabad high courts, deposed as a defence witness in the case to oppose extradition proceedings against Modi by stating that the charges of cheating and criminal conspiracy against him will not stand up under Indian law. Prasad noted that Thipsay had joined the Congress in 2018 and had met top party leaders like Rahul Gandhi, Ashok Gehlot and Ashok Chavan. The "judge sahab" is not acting in his individual capacity but is working at the behest of the Congress, he claimed, adding that Thipsay is hardly a big name otherwise in legal circles. "There is overpowering suspicious circumstances existing from which we can infer that the Congress is trying its best to save and bail out Nirav Modi," Prasad said, claiming that the development has "unmasked" the opposition party which has always tried to "protect" Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksy, also a fugitive. Indian probe agencies will mount an effective reply to Thipsay's statement, he said. Though Modi had fled India during the BJP-led NDA government's rule, most of his alleged crimes pertained to the period of the Congress-led UPA rule, Prasad said and asserted that central government has acted strongly with probe agencies confiscating his assets and auctioning them. The probe agencies have been working to bring him to justice in India, the law minister added.  Prasad, himself a senior lawyer, had a swipe at Thipsay, saying that he was transferred to the Allahabad High Court from the Bombay High Court 10 months before his retirement on administrative ground. "That tells its own story," the BJP leader said.  The statement he has made in the UK court is legally unsustainable, Prasad said, calling it a "sinister attempt" of the Congress to help the arrested businessman.  An extradition request from the Indian government was certified by the UK Home Office in February last year before his arrest by Scotland Yard on March 19, 2019. The jeweller remains behind bars at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London since then, failing to get bail despite repeated attempts. According to the case against Modi, a number of PNB staff members conspired with him to ensure Letters of Understanding (LoUs) were issued to companies linked to him without ensuring that they were subject to the required credit checks, without recording the issuance of the LoUs and without charging the required commission upon the transactions. This resulted in a fraud amounting to nearly USD 2 billion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-trying-its-best-to-save-nirav-modi-bjps-ravi-shankar-prasad-837550.html
14-05-2020||National Politics||Govt's 'jumla package' way short of what PM Narendra Modi had promised: Congress||The Congress on Thursday said the government's economic package has so far fallen way short of what the prime minister had promised the nation and dubbed it as a "jumla package". Senior spokesperson of the party Anand Sharma said the country believed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was serious when he made the "dramatic" announcement of giving 10 per cent of the GDP as a package to revive the economy and support workers and migrant labourers, and that expectations had soared. "The finance minister's announcement dashed all hopes," he said. Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's announcements were nothing but a "jumla package". Senior party leader Ahmed Patel said, "It is not an economic package. It is an empty package wrapped with speeches since the last three days." Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari pointed out that the finance minister articulated the second tranche of the bailout or economic package that this government has conceptualised. "It is unfortunate that the entire press conference (of Sitharaman) was a classic display of arrogance, ignorance and insensitivity," he said addressing reporters via a video link. "We expected that the finance minister would come out with what the government is doing to ferry the migrants who are walking on the roads back to their homes safely. But nothing like that happened," Tewari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govts-jumla-package-way-short-of-what-pm-narendra-modi-had-promised-congress-837572.html
14-05-2020||National Politics||Centre’s economic package to corona crisis-hit poor a cruel joke: Left leasers||Terming the economic package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, a “hoax” and mere “political rhetoric”, the Left parties on Thursday said the government has played a cruel joke on the poor of the country. The government on Thursday announced a Rs 3.16 lakh crore package of free foodgrains for migrant workers, concessional credit to farmers and working capital loan for street vendors as part of the second tranche of the fiscal stimulus to heal an economy hit by the coronavirus-led lockdown. “The package did not address any of the fundamental issues plaguing the country. It is all a hoax and a cruel joke on the poor. What the migrants need is free transportation so that they can reach home,” said CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury. Additionally, a cash transfer of Rs 7,500 per month should be given to the poor who have lost their jobs, said Yechury, adding that the poor should also be given 10 kg foodgrain per month for three months. The CPI(M) general secretary added that the surplus foodgrain in godowns should be used to feed the poor rather than letting it rot. CPI general secretary D Raja said the package announced by the finance minister was “mere statistics and did not mean anything”. “This is nothing but political rhetoric and statistical jugglery. There is nothing substantial in her address. Migrant labourers are on roads walking thousands of kilometres, what is the government’s reaction to this?” he asked. “Instead they are saying the workers will get jobs once they reach home through MNREGA. The rural poor are already not getting adequate jobs and wages, it’s irrational. She did not mention anything about urban employment,” he said. At a news conference, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said eight crore migrant workers will get five kgs of grains and one kg of pulses free for two months, while 50 lakh street vendors rendered jobless by the lockdown would be given a working capital loan of Rs 10,000 each. As many as 2.5 crore farmers will be provided Rs 2 lakh crore of concessional credit through Kisan Credit Cards. Yechury also asserted that most of the relief for the poor like street vendors have come in the form of loans which is not immediate relief. Raja also demanded a one-time waiver of loans and a fiscal package from the government. Raja warned that if measures are not taken soon, there will be more deaths due to hunger than the coronavirus infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-s-economic-package-to-corona-crisis-hit-poor-a-cruel-joke-left-leasers-837718.html
14-05-2020||National Politics||Welfare measures announced by FM show PM Modi's 'sensitivity' towards poor, marginal sections: JP Nadda||Lauding a host of measures announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday, BJP President J P Nadda said they show Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "sensitivity" towards the poor and marginal sections. In a series of tweets, Nadda cited various welfare initiatives unveiled by her to assert that they will ensure food security for migrant workers, boost farm sector and benefit small enterprises. "Announcements offering affordable rental housing to urban poor, NREGS support to returning migrant workers, central (govt) assistance of Rs 11,000 Cr to states for free accommodation and food in urban shelters show Narendra Modi Ji's sensitivity towards the poor & marginal people," he said. Nadda said he welcomed the announcements for the benefit of migrant workers. Free food for two months to eight crore migrants, nationwide implementation of 'one nation one ration card' scheme are major initiatives to ensure food security for migrant workers, he said. "Massive" support to farmers in the finance minister's announcements is also welcome, he said, adding that Rs two lakh crore concessional credit to 2.5 crore PM Kisan beneficiary farmers and fishermen and Rs 30,000 crore additional funding from NABARD and other bodies will give boost to farm sector. "I thank our Government for announcing a new scheme to offer Rs. 5,000 crore Special credit facility to 50 Lakh Street Vendors and Rs. 1500 crore interest subvention for Mudra 'Shishu' loans benefiting small enterprises," he said. Sitharaman on Thursday announced free distribution of 5 kg foodgrains and 1 kg 'chana' for next two months to approximately 8 crore migrants who do not have either central or state ration cards. Announcing the second tranche of the economic package, she said about Rs 3,500 crore will be spent towards this initiative. The central government will fully bear the cost, while state governments will be responsible for implementation and identification of migrants for distribution of dry ration, she told the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/welfare-measures-announced-by-fm-show-pm-modis-sensitivity-towards-poor-marginal-sections-jp-nadda-837738.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0: Delhi govt gets 5.48 lakh suggestions on what to do||Suggestions also included allowing autos, taxis and public transport, including Metro, with restrictions and continuing with the bar on the opening of barber shops, cinema halls and educational institutions and indications are that the Delhi government is likely to propose these and some other measures identified by Kejriwal during a digital press conference. The Arvind Kejriwal-led government will refer to the suggestions received from the public to formulate its proposal during a meeting of State Disaster Management Authority chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to be sent to the central government by May 15, the deadline set by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for states to submit its recommendations on how to go about during lockdown 4.0 starting next Monday.  The state government has received 4.76 lakh suggestions through WhatsApp messages, 10,700 through emails and 39,000 telephone calls. It also received 22,700 responses through petition portal change.org till Wednesday evening. Emphasising that lockdown could not be lifted fully, Kejriwal had on Tuesday sought suggestions on the relaxation of lockdown, about the tenure and gravity of the relaxation, on the sectors that should get the relaxation, and whether the public transport system should begin or whether buses, autos and metro ply. He also sought suggestions on whether markets and industrial areas should reopen. According to Kejriwal, almost all who sent suggestions agreed that barber shops, spas, saloons, cinema halls and swimming pools, as well as educational institutions, should remain closed but found no logic in the existing ban on movement between 7 pm and 7 am. Most of them agreed with the restrictions on elderly, children below ten years and pregnant women.  Almost all of them were of the opinion that whatever relaxations are made, there should be strict enforcement of social distancing norms. Fines should be strictly imposed on those not wearing masks. One of the major suggestions was on transport where several asked for allowing plying of autos and taxis as well as buses. "Some suggested that only one passenger should be allowed in autos while two could be allowed in taxis. Buses should also be allowed to operate but with only 20-25 passengers besides re-starting metro in a limited way," he said. Those argued for opening up public transport cited that the offices have now been open but the majority of office-goers do not have private vehicles and they were facing trouble in reaching workplaces. Market associations were of the view that shops should be allowed to open with an odd-even scheme where only half of the shops are opened on a particular day. There were suggestions to open shopping malls, allowing just one-third of the shops to open. Real estate developers felt that the restrictions like allowing only labourers at the site to work should be done away with and permit workers staying across the capital to travel to work sites. Under Disaster Management Act, he said, the Centre has powers to direct the states to do certain things and the state government will have to abide by the directions it would be formulating for Lockdown 4.0||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-40-delhi-govt-gets-548-lakh-suggestions-on-what-to-do-837391.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Centre mulling 15-day work from home in a year for its staff||The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) has issued a draft framework for discussion among ministries and departments on WFH, saying it is quite likely that the Central Secretariat will go for "staggered attendance and variable working hours" for the near future to maintain social distancing at the workplace.  The need for a framework arises as the DARPG finds it important to standardise the operating procedure "even in post-lockdown situations" and to ensure safety and security of information while accessing government files and information remotely from home. At present, all officials above the rank of Deputy Secretary are attending offices while only 33% of officials and staff below this rank are working from home. Those officials working from home are using the e-office and virtual meetings through video conferencing facilities developed by National Informatics Centre (NIC), in a "first of its kind of experience" for the government. Ministries and departments have been asked to respond to the DARPG draft by May 21. The experience during the past around 50 days where a majority of officers had to work from home appeared to have prompted the DARPG to suggest that the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) could provide an option for WFH to eligible officers and staff for 15 days in a year as a matter of policy. One of the concerns while allowing WFH is about how to deal with classified papers. The DARPG draft cited the Ministry of Home Affairs' (MHA) instructions that disallows handling of classified information through e-office and said the NIC should evaluate the existing security protocol for remote access of such files and propose suitable Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). On logistic support like providing laptop and desktops, it said ministries could use the inventory of laptops on a rotational basis for the officers who are working from home and needed such logistic support. Officers working from home could also be reimbursed for data usage.  To ensure seamless work, the draft suggested that text messages and emails should be sent to officers to alert them about important files and communication and the NIC should work out such provisions. The ministries should also ensure that important files and circulars are available in e-office so that important documents needed in examining the files are available while working from home. The officers to whom official laptops are provided should ensure that they do the official work in an official device only while the NIC should ensure that their devices are well protected against malware and malicious websites. "The officers who are working on their personal computers/laptops shall ensure installing regular updates, running antivirus scans, blocking malicious sites, etc with the help of NIC to ensure the safety of their device against information theft," the draft said adding officers on WFH should also be available on phone as per requirements and directions of their superiors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-centre-mulling-15-day-work-from-home-in-a-year-for-its-staff-837396.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Encounter breaks out between militants and security forces in J&K's Kulgam||An encounter broke out between militants and security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district, police said on Thursday. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Yamrach area of the south Kashmir district during the night after receiving specific input on the presence of militants, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants shot at a search party. Reinforcements have been sent to the area, the official said. Further details were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-breaks-out-between-militants-and-security-forces-in-jks-kulgam-837400.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||6 migrant workers killed after bus runs over them in Muzaffarnagar||Six migrant workers, who were walking to their homes in Bihar from Punjab, were killed and four others seriously injured when a roadways bus ran over them on the Delhi-Saharanpur Highway in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district, officials said on Thursday. The incident took place on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday between Ghalauli check-post and Rohana Toll Plaza, about 20 km from here, Senior Superintendent of Police Abhishek Yadav said. The bus driver has been arrested, the SSP said. Medical reports confirmed that the driver, Rajbir, was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the incident, Station House Officer Anil Kapervan said. The Uttar Pradesh roadways bus was returning to Agra from Saharanpur after dropping migrant labourers to their homes. A government official in Lucknow said Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the incident and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the families of the deceased migrants and Rs 50,000 to the seriously injured. He has also asked the Sahranpur Commissioner to conduct an inquiry into the incident and fix responsibility, the spokesman said. The chief minister has directed the officials to ensure proper treatment of the injured and arrangements for taking the bodies to Bihar, he added. The deceased migrants were identified as Guddu (18) from Bhojpur, Virender Singh (28), a resident of Patna, Harek Singh (52), his son Vikas (22), Vasudev (22), Harish Sahni (42) -- all from Gopalganj, police said. The injured were taken to hospital, they said. The incident comes days after 16 migrant labourers, sleeping on railway lines, were crushed to death by a goods train in Aurangabad in Maharashtra on May 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-migrant-workers-killed-after-bus-runs-over-them-in-muzaffarnagar-837407.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||8 migrants killed, nearly 50 hurt in road accident in MP's Guna||Eight migrant workers were killed and nearly 55 others injured when a truck in which they were travelling collided with a bus near Guna town in Madhya Pradesh in the early hours of Thursday, police said. Earlier, police said the migrant workers were travelling in a bus. The accident took place around 3 am when a truck carrying nearly 65 migrant labourers from Maharashtra to Uttar Pradesh collided with an empty bus, which only had a driver, coming from the wrong side on Guna bypass road, Superintendent of Police Tarun Nayak said. Eight migrant workers were killed and 55 others were injured, the official said. Those hurt were undergoing treatment at the Guna district hospital, he said, adding that none of them sustained any serious injury. Prima facie, it seems the carelessness of the bus driver caused the accident, Nayak said. A case has been registered against the bus driver and further investigation is underway, he said. The deceased were residents of Unnao and Raebareli districts of Uttar Pradesh, according to police. The truck carrying the migrant labourers was going to Unnao, they said. Guna Collector S Vishwanathan said the district administration is making arrangements to send the injured labourers home safely after they recover. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan condoled the death of the migrant labourers and said he has directed the officials concerned to ensure proper treatment of the injured persons. Policemen involved in the rescue work were later quarantined in the wake of the COVID-19 scare, a police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8-migrants-killed-nearly-50-hurt-in-road-accident-in-mps-guna-837419.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||HC seeks reply on petition alleging poor condition of quarantine centres in Bihar||The Patna High Court has sought a reply from the Bihar government on a petition alleging poor condition of quarantine centres in the state where migrant workers have been mandated to stay for three weeks upon their return from other parts of the country. A Division Bench headed by Chief Justice Sanjay Karol on Wednesday asked the state's secretary for Disaster Management Department to file an affidavit in response to the petition filed by Rajiv Ranjan Pandey, a resident of Saran district. A preliminary objection was raised by Additional Solicitor General of India S D Sanjay who contended that the Centre "has already taken proper action and as such no interference is warranted". Appearing on behalf of the state government, Additional Advocate General P N Shahi said he "shall have to ascertain the factual aspect and respond accordingly". The petitioner had appended a couple of newspaper reports to buttress his point that there was "no check on the movement of persons housed at the quarantine centres" and that the quality of food served to the inmates was "not of the desired level". The court directed the state government to file its reply by May 18, noting with concern that Bihar has the "highest population density" in the country and "any mismanagement" at the quarantine centres could lead to a substantial increase in the spread of COVID-19 in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-seeks-reply-on-petition-alleging-poor-condition-of-quarantine-centres-in-bihar-837426.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus cases in Himachal Pradesh climb to 70||A 30-year-old woman and her 7-year-old daughter have tested positive for COVID-19 in Himachal Pradesh's Sirmaur district, taking the total number of cases in the state to 70, a state health official said on Thursday. The two had returned from Delhi on May 4. Sirmaur deputy commissioner RK Pruthi said the two were quarantined after they had returned to Hari Om Colony in Paonta Sahib on May 4 and their samples were randomly taken for testing on May 12.  Both of them were asymptomatic. The two tested positive for COVID-19 at Central Research Institute, Kasauli, on Wednesday night, Special Secretary, Health, Nipun Jindal said. A total of 706 people have returned to Sirmaur district from various red zones, Pruthi said, adding that samples of 541 people out of them had been taken and the two tested positive. With this, the number of positive cases in Sirmaur district has risen to four. Two people have been cured in the district. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the state has now climbed to 70 and three people have died due to the virus so far. Thirty-nine people in the state have so far recovered from the infection. Himachal Pradesh now has 28 active COVID-19 cases -- 11 in Kangra, six in Chamba, four in Hamirpur, two each in Sirmaur, Bilaspur and one each in Mandi, Una and Shimla.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-climb-to-70-837441.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi records 472 new COVID-19 positive cases; death toll at 115||At present, the national capital has 8,470 cases, out of which 4,955 or 58.50% of the total cases were reported in May alone. According to the latest medical bulletin, 187 more people have recovered in the last 24 hours taking the total to 3,045 while 5,310 are still under treatment, including 1,123 in home isolation.  So far, around 40 deaths, which were not reported in the bulletins earlier, have been added to the official toll in the past three days after questions were raised about a mismatch in figures reported by the government and hospitals. Incidentally, May 14's bulletin omitted hospital-wise data of deaths. Until May 13, the bulletin provided such data. A count of deaths reported by hospitals stood at around 200 while reports claimed that over 300 cremations were held in the capital, which followed COVID-19 protocol. In one of the cremation grounds near ITO, it was claimed that at least 90 cremations were held since the lockdown from March 25. The number of testing have touch touched 1.19 lakh, with the addition of 6,391 samples tested in the past 24 hours.  On May 1, Delhi had reported 223 cases which saw an increase to 386 on May 2. The capital reported 427 cases on May 3, 349 cases on May 4, 206 on May 5, 428 on May 6, 448 on May 7, 338 on May 8, 224 or May 9, 381 on May 10, 310 on May 11, 406 on May 12 and 359 on May 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-records-472-new-covid-19-positive-cases-death-toll-at-115-837460.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Newborn abandoned by migrant worker's family in Uttar Pradesh||Apparently thinking that they may not be able to take care of her during their arduous trek home, which was still hundreds of miles away, a migrant worker's family abandoned their newborn baby in Uttar Pradesh's Banda district, about 175 kilometres from here. According to the reports, the newborn baby, a female, was found lying in the bushes in Atarra town in the district by the locals, who informed the cops about it. The police took the baby to the hospital, where the doctors had to keep her on a ventilator for several hours. She was stated to be out of danger.  The locals told the police that a pregnant woman, who was among a large group of migrant workers returning home in Madhya Pradesh, had delivered a baby on the road on Tuesday. As the workers had still to trek hundreds of kilometres, the parents must have thought that they would not be able to take care of the newborn in the heat and abandoned her.  The baby was found wrapped in a piece of cloth in the bushes, reports said. The staff at the district hospital named her 'Bhaumya' as she was found on 'bhoomi' (ground), reports said. There have been instances of pregnant women migrant workers, on their way home on foot, delivering on the roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-newborn-abandoned-by-migrant-workers-family-in-uttar-pradesh-837472.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court dismisses plea alleging authorities failure to provide PPE kits to health workers||The Delhi High Court Thursday dismissed a plea alleging failure of authorities to protect the rights of healthcare professionals involved in treating COVID-19 patients in hospitals here by ignoring their health and not providing them complete personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula, which conducted the hearing through video conferencing, observed that the Centre and Delhi government are doing satisfactory work and the Supreme Court has already dealt with the issue. The court said petitioner NGO, Justice For All, has not made any representation to the authorities before filing the petition. The Ministry of Health, represented through Central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul, said they were following all the procedures which are required to handle the situation. The NGO, represented through advocates Khagesh Jha and Shikha Sharma Bagga, claimed that the authorities were risking the lives of doctors by not ensuring the availability of standardised PPE kits, masks, face shields, gloves, starch apparels and overall gowns to all frontline healthcare workers who are actively attending to patients in government or private hospitals in Delhi. It said ignoring the health of healthcare professionals amounts to a violation of their fundamental rights. The plea sought enforcement of directions issued by the Supreme Court for giving full protection to doctors and health workers who were acting as warriors in the fight against coronavirus. The apex court in April had asked the Centre to consider providing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to all medical and paramedic workers, including those working in non-COVID-19 treatment areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-dismisses-plea-alleging-authorities-failure-to-provide-ppe-kits-to-health-workers-837480.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Srinagar airport readies for resuming domestic flights||With domestic flight operations expected to resume soon across the country, airport authorities in Srinagar are putting in place necessary arrangements for maintaining social-distancing norms and other necessary COVID-19 protocols. “We are ready to resume the flight operations but the final call lies with the Civil Aviation Ministry. The moment they give us the nod, we will go ahead,” Director Srinagar Airport, Santosh Dhoke, said. He said all the necessary protocols and SOPs are being put in place to ensure the normal operation without any hesitation soon after the Centre gives a go-ahead.  "Special marks will be used at the checking counters to ensure social distancing among officials. Airlines will also depute their officials who will provide passengers boarding passes after showing valid PNR numbers. But in the entire exercise, proper guidelines will be followed and no laxity will be allowed,” Dhoke said.  The Director assured that they are making the airport touch-free for fliers. “The baggage area of arrival and departure will be sanitised once flight operations are resumed. We are also planning to install a sanitisation tunnel at the drop gate of the airport,” he said.  At present, only flights bringing stranded students are operating at the Srinagar airport. There is a likelihood that airlines may resume domestic flight operations after May 19. The travellers will be asked to download the Aarogya Setu app mandatorily. Apart from that, it will be compulsory for the passengers to wear face masks and undergo screening at departure and only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to board the flights. The resumption of domestic flight services is on the lines of the train services being started by the Indian railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-srinagar-airport-readies-for-resuming-domestic-flights-837489.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||NGT bars CISF from cutting trees in Shona's Mandawar village||The National Green Tribunal Thursday restrained the CISF from cutting trees till necessary permissions are obtained in Sohna's Mandawar village after a plea alleged that non-forest activities on 260 acres of forest land were being carried out without permission. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests of Haryana to submit a compliance report in the matter before September 25. The bench, also comprising Justice Sheo Kumar Singh and expert member Nagin Nanda, passed the order after perusing a report filed by Haryana Principal Chief Conservator of Forests which said that CISF started works of site clearance and pruning of trees in the month of October 2019 without taking prior permission from the Divisional Forest Officer. "Under Aravalli Project plantation area, no proposal under Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 has been submitted by CISF. It is not known whether the permission from the competent authority has been obtained under the provisions of the Aravalli Notification of 1992 or not since the issue is not under the ambit of the Forest Department but with Environment Department," the report said. It said that the area purchased by CISF in the revenue estate of village Mandawar in Gurugram is 260.74 acres out of which 136.65 acres of area is under Aravalli Project Plantation, which is a forest area as per the order of Supreme Court and Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 would apply for its use for non-forestry purposes. "Another 30.35 acres of land is in the 'Gair Mumkin (uncultivable) Pahar' category which is covered 'under Aravalli notification dated May 7, 1992, for which permission from the competent authority is required for its use for construction activities," the report said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Manesar resident Ram Avatar Yadav alleging that non-forest activities were being carried out by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on 260 acres of forest land comprising of Aravali plantation and uncultivable land in Mandawar village in Gurugram without any forest clearance. The applicant referred to a notice issued by the Forest Department, Haryana on November 2, 2019 to the Commandant, CISF, District Gurugram and the Director General, CISF, New Delhi. The plea alleged that the area is a wildlife corridor and felling of trees will be illegal and adversely impact the air quality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-bars-cisf-from-cutting-trees-in-shonas-mandawar-village-837504.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police SHO tests positive for COVID-19||Five others have been sent for quarantine and further contact tracing is being done, they said. On Wednesday, another SHO-rank officer from Dwarka district tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-sho-tests-positive-for-covid-19-837506.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||‘Mathura police solves bank robbery case in less than 36 hours’||In a major breakthrough in a broad daylight dacoity in a bank here in the city, the police arrested five persons, including a woman, and recovered over Rs 17 lakh, a major part of the booty, from them, police said on Thursday. A gang of robbers had on Tuesday looted at gunpoint over Rs 21 lakh from the Gramin Bank of Aryavart at Damodarpura in Sadar Bazar police station area of Mathura, said police. Acting on a tip-off, a police team on Wednesday night raided a place near Jal Shodhan Sansthan in the city where they had gathered to distribute the booty among themselves and arrested four of them, said Senior Superintendent of Police Gaurav Grover. They later arrested the woman involved in the conspiracy of loot, he said, adding the police team is on the lookout for two others involved in the crime. Out of the looted money, the police was able to recover Rs 17.10 lakh besides, four country-made pistols, 11 live cartridges and a motorcycle, used in committing the crime, he added. The arrested woman Rajo is a relative of Gautam Gurjar, with whom the accused had kept the looted money, said the SSP. The police is on lookout for two others involved in the crime, he said. SSP Grover said the Police Department has decided to award a cash prize of Rs 50,000 to the police team, which solved the sensational crime in less than 36 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mathura-police-solves-bank-robbery-case-in-less-than-36-hours-837528.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Akashvani Bhavan sanitized after employee who last came to office on April 27 tests COVID-19 positive||Akashvani Bhavan, the headquarters of the All India Radio here, was sanitized on Thursday as a precautionary measure after an employee who last attended office on April 27 tested positive for COVID-19, sources said. The employee felt uneasy on May 11, reported to the hospital on May 12 and was confirmed coronavirus positive on May 13, a senior AIR official said on condition of anonymity. Most likely, the person contracted the infection outside and developed symptoms, the official said. The entire building has been sanitised as a precaution and a confidence-building measure, the official said, adding that work is continuing normally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akashvani-bhavan-sanitized-after-employee-who-last-came-to-office-on-april-27-tests-covid-19-positive-837533.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||PIL in Delhi High Court seeks release of Tablighi Jamaat members||A plea has been filed in the Delhi High Court to direct the Centre and the Delhi government to release 3288 members of Tablighi Jamat from different quarantine centres after their reports turned out to be negative of Covid-19 on completion 14 days period. Non-release of these persons gave reasons to believe that the government deliberately and intentionally discriminated against them on the ground of religion prohibited under Article 15 of the Constitution, it contended. In a PIL, Sabiha Quadri, a social worker, pointed out the Delhi government has on March 31 quarantined members of Tablighi Jamat from Markaz Nizamuddin here and in case of many, negative endorsements have come on completion of 14 days period. "Though applications have been filed with various authorities by those who completed the quarantine period. However, till date, no action has been taken," her plea said. Their continuous and wrongful confinement, despite negative reports and 14 days quarantine period clearly violated Article 14 (equality) of the Constitution, it said. The petitioner also alleged two members of Tablighi Jamat had died in Sultanpuri here due to hunger and other reasons and sought lodging of an FIR in this regard.  The petitioner claimed the approach of the government and its officials has been "malafide, arbitrary, malicious and ill-motivated and cannot be allowed to sustain in a society governed by rule of law". "The inhuman acts of the government and the responsible respondents have made the life of thousands of people, presently locked up in quarantine centres, impossible to be ensured," it alleged. The petitioner sought a direction from the Centre and the Delhi government to comply with the guidelines for quarantine facilities in Covid-19. She also wanted a high-level inquiry against continuous confinement of Tablighi Jamat members and recommend against guilty officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-in-delhi-high-court-seeks-release-of-tablighi-jamaat-members-837552.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||900 migrants return to Jammu and Kashmir from Maharashtra||Nine hundred migrants from Jammu and Kashmir, including 400 students belonging to the Valley, were ferried home from Maharashtra by a 'Shramik Special' train on Thursday, officials said. However, several students from Jammu stranded in Pune alleged that the union territory administration was biased in the evacuation process. "The government has failed to evacuate us from Pune while some students were sent home from the same area today," a 26-year-old student from Jammu said. Government spokesperson and Principal Secretary, Planning and Information, Rohit Kansal in a tweet said, "900 J&K residents including 400 students in Maharashtra were evacuated by special Shramik train today". "Including road and air evacuees, a total of returnees now exceeds 50000. All others: Not to worry. Everyone being facilitated," he said. A Special Rajdhani Express carrying 1,000 passengers from Delhi reached Jammu at 5.45 am on Thursday. Kansal said special sample collection kiosks have been set up for 100 per cent testing of the passengers on their arrival here. According to reports, J&K students have started arriving at the Nagpur railway station from various adjoining districts of Wardha, Pune, Yavatmal, Amravati, Raigad, Gondia, Aurangabad, Nashik, Washim, Bhandara, Phalgar, Buldana, Akola and Latur for their onward journey to Udhampur through a special train. A fleet of buses has been deployed since Wednesday evening for shifting J&K residents stranded in parts of Maharashtra to Nagpur, they said. Officials said more than half of the union territory residents stuck in other parts of the country have already returned back and the administration is planning the return of the rest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/900-migrants-return-to-jammu-and-kashmir-from-maharashtra-837592.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||No shortage of health workers, vacancies to be filled: Rajasthan health minister||Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma Thursday said there will be no shortage of health workers in the state in its fight against coronavirus as the government has approved recruitment on 1,058 posts of assistant radiographers, after appointing 9,500 nurses. He said that keeping in mind the need of nursing workers, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot himself had cleared the way for the ANM-GNM recruitment which was stuck in the judicial process. About 9,500 nursing workers have been appointed, he said. As many as 735 new physicians have been appointed in districts and the process of recruitment of 2,000 new doctors is also being started, he said. He also said necessary relaxations in the coronavirus lockdown are being given in the state to make to people’s lives comfortable. Lockdown rules are being relaxed keeping in mind the Central government guidelines, he said. Sharma said that in its latest order, the government has now allowed the ''take away'' and ''home delivery'' facilities from restaurants and sweets shops in the state. He said the government has also given permission to open ‘dhabas’. Electronic repair shops besides those of building materials, coolers, TV and electronic goods too have been allowed to open, he said, adding the curb on the sale of two and four-wheelers too has been relaxed. Many other activities too have been permitted, he added. The state government late on Wednesday night issued orders for opening six categories of shops, including those for vehicle sales and construction material. Earlier in day, Sharma launched the ‘giloy’ planting campaign ''Amrita'' in the state under the auspices of the Rajasthan State Drug Plant Division under the Ayurveda Department of the state. He said under this campaign about 1.5 lakh ‘giloy’ saplings will be planted in Jaipur district over the next four months. Dr Manohar Pareek, a special officer in Ayurveda Department, said ‘giloy’ is a safe medicine and it has an important role in developing immunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-shortage-of-health-workers-vacancies-to-be-filled-rajasthan-health-minister-837607.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Online booking, wearing masks must to board Haryana transport buses plying from May 15||Online booking and wearing masks will be a must for passengers boarding the Haryana Roadways buses which are to start plying on select routes in the state from Friday, said Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma. “No passenger will be allowed to board the bus if the online booking has not been done. The bus services will be point-to-point on select routes and wearing masks is mandatory. Thermal screening of passengers will also be done,” Sharma told PTI over the phone on Thursday. The Haryana government has already sanitised its bus terminals and the ordinary non-air-conditioned buses which will hit roads, he said. To ensure that social distancing is strictly followed, only 30 passengers will be allowed to board the 52-seater buses. In the bus terminuses too, passengers will have to maintain social distancing in the waiting area, he said. The buses will ply from depots in Ambala, Bhiwani, Hisar, Kaithal, Karnal, Narnaul, Panchkula, Rewari, Rohtak and Sirsa and ply on select point-to-point routes. Digitally addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar had announced that public transport will resume operation in the state on an "experimental basis" from Friday, with a limited number of buses plying on select routes. A government spokesman, meanwhile, said the buses, which will ply within Haryana, will not be started in areas severely affected by COVID-19. He said bookings for these buses can only be done through the online portal www.hartrans.gov.in. “The buses will ply from the Haryana State Transport bus stands to the scheduled bus stands. No passenger will be allowed to board or disembark the bus on the way,” he added. He said in a statement that the buses passing through worst-hit COVID-19 affected districts will pass through a bypass or flyovers. Notably, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar are among the worst-affected districts in Haryana. He said if the bus movement is not possible on any route due to any reason then passengers will be informed two hours before the scheduled time of departure. The fare paid by the passenger will be refunded, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/online-booking-wearing-masks-must-to-board-haryana-transport-buses-plying-from-may-15-837631.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Man forced to drink urine, commits suicide in Madhya Pradesh||A 20-year old man allegedly committed suicide after he was forced to drink urine in Madhya Pradesh's Shivpur district, police said on Thursday. The three accused in the case, including two women, were arrested. The alleged incident occurred in Amola Police Station limits. Police station in-charge Amit Chaturvedi said Vikas Sharma, resident of Sajor village, hanged himself at his house on Wednesday, leaving a suicide note. In the note, he blamed Manoj Koli, Tarawati Koli and Priyanka Koli for his act, the officer said. As per the suicide note, Sharma ran into the accused when he went out to fetch water from a handpump on Wednesday morning. When he was filling his pot with water to offer it in a temple, some water splashed on the pots of the three accused which angered them, the note said. The accused thrashed him and Manoj Koli urinated in his pot and forced him to drink it, therefore he was committing suicide, the suicide note said. Police officer Chaturvedi said that the accused were booked under IPC sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt). Manoj Koli, Tarawati Koli and Priyanka Koli were arrested on Thursday, said Karera sub-divisional officer of police G D Sharma, adding that further probe was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-forced-to-drink-urine-commits-suicide-in-madhya-pradesh-837646.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Ashok Gehlot seeks central aid to deal with locust menace in Rajasthan||Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide assistance to Rajasthan to deal with the attack of locusts, which, he said, has already begun in the state. Locusts damage crops by eating leaves and fruits. In the past, farmers in Rajasthan have faced huge losses due to attacks by swarms of locusts. "Outbreak of locusts in Rajasthan has already started. Farmers in Rajasthan are facing the menace of locusts which are attacking the crops in several districts of state," Gehlot said in a series of tweets. "I request PM Narendra Modi ji to take this problem seriously and immediately give instructions to concerned central officials to help Rajasthan get rid of this," he said. Steps need to be taken at the earliest so that the situation can be brought under control otherwise farmers will be very badly affected, the chief minister said. "We need central assistance to deal with this. The State Government will extend all cooperation to the Locust Department of the Central Government as in the previous year," Gehlot said. Last year, about 6.70 lakh hectare area in 12 districts -- Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Jalore, Bikaner, Nagaur, Churu, Hanumangarh, Sriganganagar, Sirohi, Pali and Udaipur -- was badly affected due to locusts and there was a loss of about Rs 1,000 crore, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ashok-gehlot-seeks-central-aid-to-deal-with-locust-menace-in-rajasthan-837675.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||CIC to hear RTI applications from Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir from May 15||The Central Information Commission will start hearing appeals and complaints of RTI applicants pertaining to Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh from Friday, nearly nine months after the erstwhile state was split into two union territories ending its special status and local laws. In order to overcome the lack of 4G facility for video calls, the commission will use audio links to hear issues of RTI applicants from Jammu and Kashmir. After the lockdown was announced by the Centre to control the spread of coronavirus pandemic in the country, the Commission is using audio and video links to hear complaints and appeals of petitioners. Chief Information Commissioner Bimal Julka spoke to the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir through video-conferencing on Thursday to discuss preparedness for implementation of the RTI Act 2005 in the UT. "Both sides noted each other's concerns and it was also decided to hold webinars to educate the CPIOs/ first appellate authorities in due course. More such conferences are scheduled in future too," a senior officer said. "The commission will start hearing matters pertaining to Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh from Friday. We have taken a proactive initiative to provide justice at the doorstep to the citizens of Jammu and Kashmir," Julka told PTI. The role of the Central Information Commission came after the repealing of local laws from October 31, 2019, which included the Jammu and Kashmir RTI Act which was replaced with the Right to Information Act, 2005. While the country had enacted the Right to Information Act in 2005, the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state had its own law, the Jammu and Kashmir RTI Act, 2009. The Centre had bifurcated the state into two Union Territories -- Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh -- from October 31, 2019 after passing of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act 2019 in August last year. The Personnel Ministry had given an action plan to the Central Information Commission asking it to take over all the pending appeals and complaints pending before the Jammu and Kashmir State Information Commission. While states have their own Information Commissions, the matters pertaining to Union Territories are handled by the Central Information Commission, according to the RTI Act. Julka also met Union Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh on Thursday, according to a government statement. Applicants from Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh can file RTI applications from home and no one has to travel outside even for appeals to the CIC, Singh said. This will usher in a new culture of "justice from home", he said. The applicants from the two union territories can file first appeal before the officers designated and can avail the facility of hearing from home for second appeal before the CIC, he said. Moreover, people can file RTI applications anytime through the online mechanism, he said. "Any citizen of India can now file RTI pertaining to matters related to J&K and Ladakh, which was reserved to only Citizens of erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir, before the Reorganisation Act of 2019," he said. The minister said till May 10, 2020, 111 second appeals and complaints (fresh cases) from the UT of Jammu and Kashmir have been registered in the CIC consequent to the Reorganisation Act, 2019. "Training for CPIOs (central public information officers) and FAAs (first appellate authority) is being planned and registration/alignment of Public Authorities of Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh on RTI online portal of DoPT is also being taken up with DoPT," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cic-to-hear-rti-applications-from-ladakh-jammu-and-kashmir-from-may-15-837688.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi University final year exam for UG, PG from July 1; 'open book' mode if COVID-19 situation doesn't improve||The Delhi University will hold examinations for its final year postgraduate and undergraduate students from July 1 and in case the situation arising out of the COVID-19 outbreak does not normalise, it will adopt 'Open Book' mode to conduct the test, the varsity said on Thursday. Under the 'Open-Book' mode of examination, the student will be able to refer books, notes and other study materials to answer the questions. Students will sit in their homes and will download question papers for their respective course from the portal. They will upload the answers in a span of two hours. In a notification, the varsity said examinations for final year postgraduate and undergraduate students, including exams for students registered with School of Open Learning (SOL) and Non-Collegiate Women Education Board (NCWEB) will begin from July 1. "All these examinations shall be conducted in three sessions in a day including Sundays with a duration of two hours. A detailed date sheet is likely to be notified by the end of this month. "In case the situation does not appear to be normal in view of COVID-19 and to maintain social distancing, safety and health of the students, the university will adopt alternative mode of examinations i.e. Open Book Examinations (OBE) for final semester/term/year UG and PG students of all programmes and streams along with arrears (ER) of previous semesters/term/year," the notification said. Students will be allowed to attempt their examinations as per the date sheet and courses as filled in examination form from seating at home or any place as per instructions issued in this regard, the varsity said. The varsity said separate guidelines for examinations of the students of first and second year in case of undergraduate programmes and first year in case of postgraduate programmes, shall be issued. On Wednesday, the varsity had written to the heads of departments regarding preparation of question paper for the 'open book' mode of examinations. "Since it would be an Open-Book examination, the questions need to be framed in a manner which would test the understanding and analytical skills of the students and there should be no or minimum scope for verbatim copying from books and study material," the letter said. The three sets of question papers for each course of both UG and PG programmes related to the department should be set and subsequently moderated by the department, the varsity had said. "The duration of the examination would be for two hours. One hour additional would be given for downloading the question paper, scanning the answer sheets, and uploading the answer sheet. The student will have to upload on to the portal, the answer sheet within three hours from start of the examination," the varsity said. The varsity had also said the question papers should have six questions out of which four are to be attempted by the students in two hours. All questions should have equal marks.  There should not be parts to any question, it had said in the letter. All the question papers may be uploaded or sent at the earliest but not later than June 3," the varsity said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-final-year-exam-for-ug-pg-from-july-1-open-book-mode-if-covid-19-situation-doesnt-improve-837707.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: States allowed to run special buses for people arriving in trains||Amid passengers arriving in special trains facing trouble in reaching their homes due to Covid-19 lockdown, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Thursday allowed states to engage special buses to ferry them. In a letter to states, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said some states have requested to allow special buses to ferry passengers arriving by train to their home state, keeping in view of restrictions placed on public and personal transport in various zones. "Keeping in view of the situation, state and Union Territory governments are allowed to engage special buses from railway station wherever public/personal transport is not available, maintaining proper social distancing norms," Bhalla said. There have been reports of people facing trouble in getting transport to their homes from railway stations following the restrictions imposed on transport during the lockdown.  People who do not have personal vehicles especially faced trouble and there were reports that taxis were fleecing people. Earlier, the Centre had allowed to and fro movement of passengers from the railway station to home on the basis of confirmed e-tickets. Railways had started running special trains from Delhi to 15 destinations from May 12, which saw the partial resumption of train services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-states-allowed-to-run-special-buses-for-people-arriving-in-trains-837727.html
14-05-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi Cantt MLA Virender Kadian take oath as NDMC members||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and MLA Virender Singh Kadian took oath as members of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Thursday. In a special meeting of the council, the civic body's chairman Dharmendra Kumar administered the oath of faith and allegiance to the Constitution to Kejriwal who became a member of the NDMC by virtue of being the New Delhi MLA. "Chairman-NDMC also administered the oath to Virender Singh Kadian, Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) from the Delhi Cantonment constituency, as a member of the council in elected category member of the council," an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-delhi-cantt-mla-virender-kadian-take-oath-as-ndmc-members-837734.html
14-05-2020||Opinion||How safe are our children from COVID-19?||By Nina Badgaiyan & Vedeika Shekhar In India, children under five years comprise a sizeable population, constituting over 15% in comparison to 65 years and above, constituting only 6% of the total population. Further, in comparison to India, children under five years comprise around 6% and 4% of the total population of the US and UK, respectively. Children are likely to develop antibodies to wade off the virus with frequent bouts of respiratory illness. However, it still does not rule out the possibility of children not getting affected by a novel coronavirus.  In India, one child under the age of five years dies every four minutes due to pneumonia. According to a report, ‘Fighting for Breath in India’, shockingly, pneumonia killed more than 1,27,000 children under five in 2018, amounting to more than fourteen children every hour. Often termed as the ‘forgotten global epidemic’, it emerged as the biggest killer of children under five, claiming14% of young lives in 2017.  According to the same report, acute malnutrition was found to be one of the main reasons for pneumonia deaths, accounting for more than half of childhood pneumonia deaths in India. As malnourishment is a proven underlying cause of childhood morbidity, associated with infectious diseases in developing countries, the impact of COVID-19 in a country like India where every third child is stunted (38%) and underweight (36%) and every fifth child is wasted (21%) could be phenomenal.  COVID-19 belongs to a family of viruses that severely constrains the function of lungs, and pneumonia is caused in severe cases. Children contracting COVID-19 can fall into four categories: asymptomatic infection; acute upper-respiratory-tract infection; mild pneumonia; and severe pneumonia. Could we emphatically say that children in India run the risk of suffering from serious consequences of this pandemic due to a high incidence of pneumonia? There are not large sets of data and evidence yet available to reach any such conclusion. However, what is worrying is that research by the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention demonstrates that Chinese children with acute respiratory distress syndrome were more likely to contract the novel coronavirus than other children. There seems to be a link between respiratory problems and COVID-19 among children. Therefore, ignoring the possibility of double burden impact on children in India, where a large number of children’s lungs are already compromised by pneumonia as a consequence of malnutrition, could be a big mistake. If at all we are faced with more malnourished children getting this virus and higher pneumonia cases, are we prepared enough? First, acknowledging the criticality of this possibility will pave the way for finding a solution. Each state has nutrition rehabilitation centres for treating severe and acute malnourished children, these could be made ready to treat children with COVID-19. It is crucial that these centres overcome their infrastructural and facility challenges and provide timely treatment to these children. In the context of severe disruption to services/insufficient commodities, the allocation of treatment services for acute malnourishment should be equally prioritised or combined with other public health interventions, such as specific ICU beds allocated to COVID-19 patients. Further, as evidence suggests that children show milder or asymptomatic symptoms of COVID-19, there is a critical need for aggressive testing among them as they may play a potential role in community transmission of the virus. The phase-wise introduction of the pneumococcal vaccine—which prevents pneumonia among children—by the Government of India into its national immunisation programme could be a step in the right direction. We must also treat this time as a window of opportunity to ride home the message of health education with an emphasis on nutrition, water, sanitation, hygiene, to better prepare our vulnerable population to deal with epidemics, as a preventive measure. We must initiate efforts to build the capacity of frontline workers to provide treatment for uncomplicated cases of children with SAM at the community level, including training on watching out for fever/dry cough symptoms and providing social messages on COVID-19. Children have been regarded as the nation’s supremely important asset. They already suffer from the public health crisis of malnutrition and pneumonia and COVID-19 endangers them further. It is our responsibility to act and mitigate the hidden adverse impact that this pandemic threatens our children with for their brighter future. Nina Badgaiyan is Senior Consultant and Vedeika Shekhar is Associate, Health and Nutrition Vertical, NITI Aayog. The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-safe-are-our-children-from-covid-19-837390.html
14-05-2020||Opinion||Government needs to do much more to revive MSMEs||Small industry in this country has been battered in recent times especially due to the economic slowdown of the past year. The latest storm to hit what is known as the MSME (medium, small and micro enterprises) sector has been the pandemic and the lockdown of the entire economy. A multiplicity of problems has impacted these units in the wake of the country’s shut down. The primary issue has been huge revenue losses due to production stoppages and hence an inability to make payments either to workers, vendors, or banks. With the prospect of re-opening on the cards, they are hamstrung due to lack of working capital and the absence of migrant workers. The first big announcement was that three lakh crores worth of credit would be provided to MSMEs without any collateral. The fact that this concession will benefit 45 lakh units is not so impressive when one considers that there are a total of 6.3 crore such units in the country. Besides, the emergency credit line will be up to 20 per cent of the outstanding amount on the loans taken by units. Collateral, it must be pointed out, has already been given for the original loans. So it is the additional collateral on the fresh loan that is being waived with the government being the guarantor.  Even with these riders, however, this is bound to give a boost to companies already availing of credit which are now facing serious working capital hurdles. The big issue here is implementation as banks are notoriously slow in providing loans to units in distress. Manufacturers associations have already expressed doubts about just this issue. On the other hand, the second step of providing Rs. 20,000 crore as subordinate debt provision for those in dire straits is indeed welcome for stressed units. It will support two lakh units that might otherwise have had to shut shop, even though subordinate debt entails a higher interest outgo.  There is a much larger group of MSMEs, however, that have been healthy till now but are floundering due to the lockdown. For them, the Finance Minister has offered the proposal of an Rs. 10,000 crore “fund of funds”. This is more of a long term measure rather than an immediate booster shot for these units.. So liquidity issues have actually been eased for only a small segment of the MSME sector, leaving the rest to literally face the music. On the plus side, the launch of the special liquidity scheme for the non-banking lenders and the revision of the definition of various categories of small business will definitely give a boost to this sector. The Rs. 30,000 crore scheme allowing banks to invest in investment-grade debt papers should help revive non-banking financial companies. And this, in turn, should help small businesses that rely for credit on this sector. Similarly revising the definition of MSMEs by raising the investment limits and including turnover criteria, is bound to give a spur to the growth of units that were constructed by the earlier provisions. But this is a long term reform and will not resolve the immediate crisis being faced by millions of small industries all over the country. There is no doubt that the package for the MSME sector is just not enough to resolve the multifarious problems facing it right now. The bulk of micro, small and medium units which were viable and healthy till recently, do not have enough funds to pay their employees or buy raw materials and components. In many cases, there are not enough workers. The government needs to go back to the drawing board and find solutions that will benefit a much larger swathe of the small industry segment that is now increasingly described as the backbone of the economy. This is certainly the first step towards reviving the MSME sector but much more needs to be done. (Sushma Ramachandran is a senior business journalist and commentator on economic issues) The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/government-needs-to-do-much-more-to-revive-msmes-837662.html
14-05-2020||Opinion||The worth of a mother||The value of children's literature lies in its strength to make children see life through the lens of stories... I recently translated a story that left an indelible impression on my mind --such stories can mould the malleable minds of young children. One such story is-- A king who is keen in celebrating festivals in a unique way, announced that an exhibition will be held during Holi festival and people must bring most valuable things to display. Based on his choice, the best one would win a prize. So, people got valuable gems, gold ornaments, silver antique pieces to display. When the King started looking around, he found a picture of a woman feeding food to her five children and it read mother. One young girl came forward and told him that ‘there is nothing more valuable than a mother in the whole world’. The king was impressed and he presented her hundred gold coins as the prize. The next year, the King announced that this time people must bring the most worthless things to exhibit. The people took stones, thrash, thorny bush. As the King started looking through them, he found a picture of a woman begging for food named mother. He was startled and annoyed and asked who displayed this picture. The same young girl came forward and said it was she who drew it. “Oh earlier you displayed a mother’s picture as the most valuable, now you display the same as the most worthless one?” he asked angrily. “Pardon me O King, but that earlier picture was that of a mother who was feeding food to her children, but this mother is that mother who is not cared for by her children, she is begging for food as none of her children is ready to feed her. Even though everybody knows that there is no God higher than one’s mother, some children feel that a mother is worthless’. Seeing the bitter truth in her words, the king not only presented her gold coins again but passed an order that those who neglect their parents will be punished severely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-worth-of-a-mother-837693.html
14-05-2020||Panorama|| Strategic hedging: That road is narrowing for India||The ongoing pandemic has generated a plethora of literature and discourse dealing with likely changes in the polity and economy of states, leading to definitive changes in strategic behaviour of states and global geopolitics. Among them, a calculated reversal of the processes of globalisation, states’ greater control over resources, strengthening nationalism and embrace of ‘total sovereignty’ are likely to be the stand-outs in the post-Covid-19 behaviour of states. For India, this could mean a much narrower path to manoeuvre through freely in its bid to hedge between two states.   If India’s bandwidth to hedge between global powers in different eras were to be compared, the Cold War provided India with the widest spectrum. India’s leadership in the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) and its ability to navigate between the US and the Soviet Union despite instances of scrimmage with the former and growing proximity with the latter provided a comfortable geopolitical operating space. This space gradually got constricted with the collapse of the Soviet Union. India, like a few other countries, lost its compass to measure its relative movement vis-à-vis what had been two poles. However, there still was enough space for India to stay away from an alliance with the US. The September 11 terrorist attacks brought with it the narrative of "you're either with us, or against us" in the global fight against terrorism led by the US. This further tightened India’s passage in its inability to stay away from unilateral agenda of the leading global power. Though India’s strong opposition to terrorism largely coincided with the agenda of the ‘coalition of the willing’ led by the US, the latter’s purpose, pretext and method of invading Iraq did not. As the UK’s Chilcot inquiry report on the Iraq invasion would later reveal, the Vajpayee government came under intense pressure from the US to put “boots on the ground” in Iraq. Despite good press domestically, India was criticised for its decision not to send troops supporting the international coalition. This experience certainly reflected that the closer India had got to the world’s leading power, the harder it proved to hedge successfully and get out of the situation without much political cost. If anything, India has only got closer to the US since. The emergence of China as the other power centre in the 21st century and the competition between the world’s two largest economies, which has only intensified under the Trump administration, again afforded enough hedging space for a middle power like India. Delhi successfully hedged its bets between the US and China, with both countries competing to be India’s largest trade partners. Although evidence would suggest that in the last few years India has become one of the closest partners of the US, it has been careful not to rile Beijing. One of the remarkable attributes of hedging is that it reduces the political or diplomatic cost of a decision, despite the decision being unfavourable to the stronger power. As such, India has avoided having to choose between the US and China. However, the road to successful hedging between the US and China is becoming narrower for India. In the post-Covid-19 world order, this could be India’s biggest challenge from a grand strategic perspective. Already, there is mounting diplomatic pressure from both Australia and the US, both strategic partners of India and ardently committed members of the Indo-Pacific strategy, for India to join the international chorus on a global inquiry on the origin of the Covid-19 virus, independent of the WHO. Other countries like the Netherlands, Sweden, Germany and France have laid down different demands to China, ranging from investigation to compensation. It is unlikely that India will join a set of countries against China. With the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo doubling down on his call for investigation on the origin of the virus, India’s challenge will lie in successfully hedging to preserve its own national interests. Although an independent investigation into the origin of the SARS-CoV-2 virus does not appear far from its interests, India will be looking to avoid the collective Western call for an investigation against China or any move that is directly hostile to China. Instead, it suits its interests to take a more nuanced position, while still reflecting its displeasure with Beijing. This balance was visible in its recent calls for a reform of the WHO in at least two international forums; the G20 and the NAM. The post-Covid-19 world order will likely mark the third watershed in successive narrowing of the spectrum for India’s strategic hedging. It is also likely that the cost of hedging for India will increase henceforth, even as strategic compulsions from both poles will increase. While an unprecedented halt to economic activities internally and externally will ensure that India’s trade dependence on China would continue, a threateningly realistic US President will mean that India will have to work extra hard on the relationship with Washington. India’s deft hedging has ensured that hitherto, India’s position in the China-India-US dynamic has balanced itself well. Though India’s growing partnership with the US has acted as strategic feelers for China, Delhi has resisted joining either camp. Strategic thinkers have long held that in the China-India-US dynamic, it would take an unprecedented, dramatic and globally consequential step by China for India to cross over to the US camp avowedly. Is this epidemic that consequential moment? Perhaps not. It still suits India’s interests to walk the tightrope between Beijing and Washington. But China’s assertive behaviour, even as the Covid-19 crisis is unfolding, along with Washington's efforts to find a critical mass of countries to push back against China on its culpability in the outbreak of the pandemic could potentially end India's strategic hedging.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/strategic-hedging-that-road-is-narrowing-for-india-837560.html
14-05-2020||Panorama||Treated like criminals before trial||The walls at the sub-jail in rural Karnataka were peeling plaster. A small collection of Hindu gods stared down from these walls, their placid expressions keeping watch on the scene below them, a small room filled with a desk, a few visiting researchers, jail staff, and small cups of coffee. With a job like his, it’s small wonder the jail superintendent felt the need for divine guidance.  The purpose of sub-jails is to hold “undertrial” prisoners--that is, those being held for the period before and during their trial, meaning they have not yet been found guilty and sentenced. The prisoners are not segregated by the seriousness of their offence, creating a serious danger of petty criminals becoming ‘hardened’ in such jails. Furthermore, since sub-jails are controlled by the Revenue Department and not by the Prisons Department, they are subject to less oversight and suffer from a cripplingly low budget. This one is no exception. A forlorn biology textbook hanging from a rope on an outside building is the only sign of self-improvement available. In fact, there are no programs for work, education, or any activity at all. “We lock people up for stealing 500 rupees and confine them for long periods, spending lakhs of rupees, while they sit around and do nothing,” the superintendent lamented. “It’s so unproductive.” Over two-thirds of inmates in Indian jails are in pretrial detention. This contributes to chronic overcrowding, with the average occupancy being around 114%, leading to further issues of health and crowd control. According to Amnesty International, Muslims, Dalits, and Adivasis are disproportionately represented, making up over half the population of undertrial prisoners. India also suffers from a high rate of undertrial non-production-- that is, delays in bringing accused persons to trial, a constitutional violation. In 2014-15, for example, for every 100 officers requested to escort prisoners to court, Uttar Pradesh police sent only 62, delaying court appearances and condemning un-sentenced people to languish in jail for longer. In Rajasthan, over 5,000 instances of non-production occur every month, on average. Legal aid is another problem. The constitution guarantees free legal assistance, but in truth most publicly-appointed, poorly-paid legal-aid lawyers visit each prison in their state only once per month, and often not at all.  While the Home Ministry and the Supreme Court have in the past been vocal about protecting the rights of undertrials, the procedures they have outlined are scarcely followed.  Inside the rural Karnataka jail, prisoners stared from the bars, sweat-dappled faces peering out. "People don’t come to visit, normally," says the superintendent. “When they do, the prisoners are happy. It’s a sort of freedom, I suppose.”  As we left the compound, the metal door, battered and peeling like the rest of the place, clanged shut with a not unpleasant tone of finality. Here, in front of the jail, motorbikes followed the ropey road into the hinterland one way, the ramshackle town centre the other. The scene was like a Raj-era folio portrait, ivory-coloured livestock daubed here and there, a picturesque advertising board or two. And inside, behind us, something else entirely. Overhead, a muted grey sky seemed to heighten the liberty I felt then, a sort of Camusian joy. The world was, all of a sudden, more open than I had left it.  When we read about horrific crimes in the papers --rape, murder, dacoity--it is only human to want vengeance, to want the perpetrators to suffer as their innocent victims did. We must, however, remember two things. Firstly, pre-trial prisoners have not been found guilty by a court, and may well be innocent. Nothing can forgive the wrongful imprisonment of an innocent person, and yet pre-trial detention creates huge danger of this happening. Secondly, let us say that such people really are guilty of what they have been accused of. That would still not excuse the abuse that is being perpetrated against them. India is rightly proud of its democratic nature -- and what makes India democratic is that it is a country ruled by law, not visceral desires and primal urges. If we want to ensure that the constitution is followed, that all members of society are protected from abuse, we must reform the Indian pre-trial detention system.  (The writer is a student of Columbia University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/treated-like-criminals-before-trial-837561.html
14-05-2020||Panorama||A ‘radical socialist idea’ takes root among US lawmakers||One of the most progressive lawmakers in the House and one of the most conservative in the Senate, staring down a pandemic-driven unemployment rate at its highest level since the Great Depression, have come to the same conclusion: It’s time for the federal government to cover workers’ salaries.  As Congress prepares to wage a new battle over how to best aid workers and businesses devastated by the coronavirus crisis, Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington and a leader of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, and Senator Josh Hawley, Republican of Missouri and a rising conservative star, are both making the case to their party’s leaders that guaranteed income programs should be part of the federal relief effort.  “We have a situation where people and families in every part of the country are facing this unprecedented crisis, and they are looking for relief,” Jayapal said in an interview. “They are looking for certainty, and they are looking for a policy response that matches the scale of the crisis.”  “This is a proposal with broad support that should be taken seriously,” she added. “What are we waiting for? Are we waiting for unemployment to reach 50%?”  Democrats are divided over how far to go during an extraordinary economic crisis in building a government backstop for workers’ livelihoods. And support for such ideas on both ends of the ideological spectrum signals how far the political debate has shifted in just a few months. The former presidential candidate Andrew Yang raised eyebrows last year on the campaign trail with what at the time seemed like an unconventional proposal to give every American adult a $1,000-a-month “universal basic income.” But by March, when Congress approved the last major round of coronavirus relief, Republicans and Democrats had come around to the idea of direct payments, embracing $1,200 checks for individuals that President Trump insisted be emblazoned with his signature.  House Democratic leaders have included a second round of those checks in the relief bill they plan to push through on Friday, but many of their rank-and-file members want to go much further.  Jayapal’s bill would cover workers’ salaries up to $90,000 for up to six months — allowing businesses to rehire furloughed and laid-off employees — and distribute grants to businesses to cover operating costs. It would cost $654 billion over six months and benefit more than 36 million workers, according to an analysis by Moody’s prepared for her office. A similar measure was introduced in the Senate by Senator Bernie Sanders, the Vermont independent and one of the most progressive members of Congress, along with Senators Doug Jones of Alabama and Mark Warner of Virginia, both centrist Democrats.  Supporters of the plan, which include labour leaders like Richard Trumka, the AFL-CIO president, and Janet Yellen, the former chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, argue that it would allow businesses to rehire workers to keep them on their employer-based insurance plans amid unemployment insurance backlogs. They argue that the second round of $1,200 checks is insufficient to address the seriousness of the crisis. The effort comes at a time when the idea of creating a temporary government backstop to help workers weather the pandemic has gained traction among lawmakers and economists around the world. The British government announced in March that it would pay up to 80% of wages for workers furloughed as a result of the pandemic, and the Spanish government unveiled a plan to permanently provide low-income citizens with cash payments. “We’re all overwhelmed by the current crisis,” said Matt Zwolinski, the director of the University of San Diego’s Center for Ethics, Economics and Public Policy. “Part of what it means to be overwhelmed is that a lot of the standard objections that people have had to large government transfer programs have been swamped by considerations of the great need that has to be met quite urgently.”  Representative Steny Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the majority leader, told reporters on Tuesday that both he and Speaker Nancy Pelosi believe the proposal “has great merit to it.”  “This is not going to be the last word nor the final word as we move forward,” Hoyer told reporters on Tuesday of the $3 trillion relief package unveiled this week. Jayapal’s proposal, he added, “is certainly under great discussion.” Speaker Nancy Pelosi has been publicly lukewarm on the idea, while acknowledging last month in an interview with MSNBC that “we may have to think in terms of some different ways to put money in people’s pockets.”  The measure has received a chillier reception from Republican leaders. Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the minority whip, called guaranteed income a “radical, socialist idea”, but Hawley, the Missouri Republican, has introduced a proposal mirroring the British plan that would cover 80% of employers’ payroll costs up to the median wage, about $49,000 a year. A companion bill that Hawley introduced goes further, providing families and single parents making less than $100,000 with a monthly check for the duration of the crisis. “Let’s not overthink this,” Hawley said in unveiling his bill. “These families need relief — now — to pay bills that are coming due, make those emergency grocery runs and get ready for potential medical bills. Let’s get it to them.”  Other conservative lawmakers, including Representative Justin Amash, Independent of Michigan and a libertarian, has also backed direct payments to Americans. “The best thing we could have done is get universal monthly cash relief to the people,” he wrote on Twitter.  Amash voted against the $2.2 trillion stimulus package enacted in March, which included hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of business relief programs and an enormous expansion of jobless aid.  The package was “inefficient and fundamentally flawed,” he wrote on Twitter. “This direct aid to their employees would have more quickly and effectively supported those small businesses that need the most help and are being left behind by the convoluted relief package.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-radical-socialist-idea-takes-root-among-us-lawmakers-837692.html
14-05-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus: Don't leave anyone behind||Different issues have dominated the discussion, from the sudden loss of livelihood of the migrant workers to the wrongful portrayal of the Muslim community in India, as the spreaders of the epidemic by different media enterprises. A multitude of articles have been written about these topics and brought forth into the public domain. Sadly there has been very little, to no mention of the issues faced by people with disabilities during these testing times, barring a few disability organisations.  As the lockdown began on March 24 this year, I was flooded with phone calls. Being the convenor of Javed Abidi Foundation (JAF), I am used to receiving such calls but the sheer magnitude of issues that people were facing, was overwhelming!  On April 3, we decided to have a formal consultation with over 30 participants with disabilities online. This was to dissect the crisis and see how best, we as a youth-led initiative contribute towards resolving some key issues by raising our voice.  We reviewed the Comprehensive disability-inclusive guidelines for persons with disabilities during COVID-19 issued by the government but they were just set of statements with no standard operating procedures! On April 21, JAF wrote a letter to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), marking copies to the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (MSJE). Due to inaccessibility and lockdown measures, many people with disabilities are not able to reach ration shops/places where food is distributed. The competent authority needs to issue an advisory to designated ration shops and canteens to deliver food to the door of persons with disabilities. Further caregivers are unable to reach the homes of people with disabilities. In this regard, an order should be issued to the police to assist caregivers in reaching their respective workplaces.  Caregivers have to be provided with free PPE (masks, gloves and sanitizers) as a bare minimum. This should be delivered to their homes along with ration. As per the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana Rs. 1000/- has been sanctioned towards the welfare of persons with disabilities. This ex-gratia amount is highly inadequate as the cost of living of persons with disabilities is much higher than non-disabled people. Therefore the competent authority needs to announce unemployment and caregiving allowance for people with disabilities as mandated by Section 24(3) H and I respectively of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act of 2016, along with the ex-gratia money being increased to Rs. 5000 per month. It has been 3 years since the Act has been passed and these allowances have not been announced!  The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has to ensure that testing centres and quarantine zones sanctioned by the government are accessible to persons with disabilities and regularly used medicines by people with chronic illnesses and disability should be kept in reserve to ensure that they do not run out.  Updates and awareness campaigns need to have sign language interpretation, captions as well as audio descriptions to be accessible to people with disabilities. Ideally, when the Honourable Prime Minister or anyone doing press briefing, the sign language interpreter should be standing by the side of the person speaking.  While we are waiting for a response, I would like to say that I firmly believe that we have a fundamental right to make ourselves heard and only if we express our concern will the authorities act!  India is committed to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which states, “No one should be left behind” and “to reach the furthest behind first”.  This needs to be seen in action.  I would like to urge anyone who feels strongly about the cause of disability to bring these issues to the notice of the policy-makers in the Government, private sector and civil society organisations to focus on the issues of people with disabilities. One could send letters or email or use social media to hold the people in power accountable. Further, if you want to join us then feel free to each out to me!  (Writer is the Convenor of Javed Abidi Foundation. He can be reached at shameer@jaf.org.in or tweet him @RishadShameer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-dont-leave-anyone-behind-837694.html
14-05-2020||Right in the Middle||Death is not the opposite of life||Sometimes in life, good things fall apart so other things can fall together. My father- in- law was a large-hearted, larger than life individual. He lived on his own terms, enjoyed life and living and was generous to a fault. Recently, when he suddenly passed away, we were shocked into grief and shrouded with questions that had no answers. The lockdown made things even more complicated and the subsequent helplessness rendered us angry and broken. Naturally, my husband was deeply affected. His grief was palpable; the fact that he could not be there for his father during his final hours corroded his spirit. He immersed himself in the rituals, trying to find a way out of his deep sorrow. Rumi says, “The wound is the place where the light enters you”. As each day made way for another, it dawned on me that despite our fragility, vulnerability and moments of melancholy we humans find meaning and beauty even in the most debilitating circumstances. As all of us and especially my husband coped with the loss, I tried to anchor him home. Like most marriages, ours too was replete with friendship, gentleness, exasperations, anger, inside humour and love. However, meeting the requirements of time, our careers, children and life itself, a thin layer of routine had covered our love and marriage as the years went by. In this time of abject grief, this love rose fierce yet tender. There was nothing I would not do to alleviate my husband’s grief. As I stood beside him enveloped in rituals, pain and memories, I realized that the layers of mundane vanished in an instant and what remained was pristine unconditional love. Yes we were facing trying circumstances, and grappling with difficult emotions and fears, yet we were facing them together. Together we rationalized, that although my father–in- law had passed away unexpectedly, he had lived a wonderful life and that he would always be a part of us in memories, thought and action. As the days of the rituals came to an end we found our affection for each other renewed. In moments of extreme grief, we rediscovered deep love. As my father–in–law began his journey towards heaven, we could see him looking over his shoulder and smiling at us. He seemed to be saying; joy and sorrow don’t have to be mutually exclusive. As leaves become grass, the grass helps the tree attain new leaves. As we bid adieu there were tears of sadness but also tears of joy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/death-is-not-the-opposite-of-life-837695.html
14-05-2020||Second Edit||TB could be rising silently||A bacterial infection that affects the lungs, TB is a highly contagious disease. Indians are particularly prone to it as people live in crowded housing. But TB can be cured. Still the fight against the disease has not been easy. The social stigma attached to the disease prevents people from seeking treatment; they end up infecting dozens of others. Additionally, patients are required to take a combination of several drugs over a period of 24-27 months. Many find this tedious and simply give up. In recent years, newer strains of the bacteria that are resistant to treatment have emerged. Despite formidable challenges, India has made progress in fighting TB. That is now in peril. Unlike in the case of other diseases, with regard to TB, diagnosis and treatment of patients cannot be paused till the pressure from Covid-19 eases. The costs are too high. Spiralling of TB cases will make patients susceptible to a range of other diseases, including Covid-19. Five years ago, the international community pledged to end the TB epidemic by 2030. That goal may now have become a distant dream.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/tb-could-be-rising-silently-837557.html
14-05-2020||Second Edit||A new low in Islamist terrorism||The violence that terror groups unleashed at a maternity ward of a hospital in Kabul on Tuesday is a crime of utmost savagery, one that merits investigation and punishment as a crime against humanity. At least 24 people were killed and several more injured when heavily-armed terrorists stormed the hospital, carried out a suicide bombing and then went on a shooting spree inside the maternity ward. Among the dead were two new-born babies and 12 new mothers as well as nurses. Many of the injured were children. Even by the grim standards of the unspeakable violence that Afghanistan has suffered for decades, the attack on new-born babies and their mothers at the Dasht-e-Barchi hospital was horrifying. The hospital is in a Hazara-Shia neighbourhood. The two main suspect groups, the Taliban and the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), the IS’ Afghan affiliate, have a long record of slaughtering Shias. No ideology or grievance can justify killing of unarmed civilians, much less just-born babies. Scenes of mothers cradling their infants, their bullet-ridden dead bodies lying strewn on the hospital floor and of infants in blood-soaked blankets being rushed into ambulances will traumatise Afghans for decades to come. Both the Taliban and the ISKP have targeted hospitals with increasing frequency since 2014. Just hours before the massacre at the hospital, an ISKP suicide bombing at a funeral of a former police commander in Khewa district in Nangarhar province left over 40 people dead. The ISKP said it targeted the funeral as many police personnel and militia commanders were expected to be present. The continuing targeting of civilians and police forces by the Taliban and the ISKP and the escalation of violence in recent months is all the more reprehensible as Afghanistan, like the rest of the world, is struggling against the Covid-19 pandemic. This is a country with fragile health infrastructure. Terror groups are worsening the situation by targeting hospitals and healthcare personnel. The goal of the Taliban and the ISKP is to establish an Islamic state. How are they furthering Islamic principles and values by slaughtering Muslims during the Ramzan month? How does the killing of helpless children further their cause? The Afghan government has been offering the Taliban a ceasefire, especially during the Ramzan month. If the Taliban is indeed a defender of the faith, the least it could have done is reciprocate the offer and halt the killing of civilians. With their accelerated violence during the Ramzan period, the Taliban and ISKP have only underscored their degenerate ideology and behaviour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-new-low-in-islamist-terrorism-837687.html
14-05-2020||South||Coronavirus scare hits Kerala police as 70 cops, including SP, go on quarantine after 3 test positive||Coronavirus scare has gripped the police in the district as around 70 personnel, including their chief, have gone on quarantine as a precautionary measure after three colleagues tested positive for the pathogen. A day after three personnel of Mananthavady police station tested positive for COVID-19, District Superintendent of Police R Illango said on Thursday he and others decided to quarantine themselves as they had been in contact with some other colleagues from the station. Twenty four personnel, including a Deputy Superintendent of Police, have gone on quarantine after giving their samples for testing three days ago as a measure of abundant caution after a man questioned in Manathavady police station in connection with a case tested positive for the virus on May 9. Of the 24, results of 18 have been received so far and three personnel tested positive on Wednesday, following which the station has been disinfected and virtually closed and contact tracing underway. On Wednesday, the SP and some other police personnel had interacted with the DySp for close to an hour at a checkpost following which over 40 police personnel have voluntarily decided to go on quarantine. "We are actually being over cautious. I have spoken to all the policemen. We know we are in the high-risk job. We are concerned that we might spread it to family members, public, or colleagues. So we want to maintain extreme caution", Illango, who is on home quarantine, told PTI. With the three personnel testing positive in the state, Kerala Director General of Police Loknath Behera said the force should take all necessary precautions and fearlessly go ahead in the fight against the virus. The three from Manathavady are believed to have contracted the virus after they came in contact with a man who was called to the station in connection with a case on April 28 and May 2. He later tested positive for COVID-19 on May 9. This man is suspected to be a contact of a truck driver, who has turned out to be a super spreader after returning to the district from Chennai's Koyambedu market, a hotspot, and had infected at least 10 others, including his wife, mother and grandchild. The Mananthavady police station has been disinfected with the help of the Health Department and Fire Force personnel. Computers and wireless equipment have been shifted to other police buildings and the station's charge has been temporarily given to Vallamunda Station House Officer, a release from the DGP's office said. Two police personnel wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) kits would be at the station to take care of necessary work and a health worker posted to help them, it said. Police personnel from other stations have been mobilised to meet any shortage, Illangosaid adding they need not come to the police station but directly go to the duty points. Meanwhile, the district health authorities said the standard operating procedure (SOP) has been initiated as soon as the test results of the three came by Wednesday noon. Accordingly, all personnel who were on duty were sent to nearby lodges and resorts for quarantine. One of the policemen who tested positive had been to Sulthan Bathery police station and Muthanga area, where the DySP and few other officials were also present. This is being seen as a lapse on the part of the police department. However, police sources said none had directed the 24 personnel, whose samples were collected on Monday, to go on quarantine or abstain from duty. The health department is trying to map out the contact list of the police personnel to contain further spread from their direct and secondary contacts. According to police sources, the Sulthan Bathery Circle Inspector, two sub-inspectors and about 18 police personnel of the Mananthavady police station are among those who have been put on quarantine. As part of containment measures, the courts in Sulthan Bathery and Mananthavady have been closed on Thursday, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-scare-hits-kerala-police-as-70-cops-including-sp-go-on-quarantine-after-3-test-positive-837524.html
14-05-2020||South||How Kerala geared up to contain further local spread of coronavirus||With Kerala witnessing a further spike in COVID-19 cases on persons returning from other states and countries, the state has initiated yet another meticulous plan and stringent enforcement to prevent the local spread of the infection. Everyone entering the state from other places would be literally under police radar and the police have even identified toilets along highways for exclusive use for those coming from other places during the transit. So far around 40,000 people reached Kerala by road, over 1,500 by air and around 850 by ship. Trains are coming in from Thursday night. Around 30 persons who reached from other places were already tested COVID-19 positive. Of the 534 COVID cases reported in Kerala till Wednesday, 70 percent got infected from outside the state. The remaining 30 percent got infected through local contacts with those who came from abroad, mainly family members. Considering this, the Kerala government decided that everyone entering the state would be quarantined for 14 days in a room in their house, even if they have not symptoms of COVID-19. Till Wednesday, 33,953 persons were kept under home quarantine.  In order to ensure proper compliance, a tight surveillance plan with the active participation of police also, along with health official and local body authorities is put in place. As soon as a person enters the state from outside and undergoes screening at entry points, like state borders, airports and railway stations, the police would start tracking their movement. The local police would also ensure that each person reached their house in time after entering the state. The police have identified a number of relief centres with toilet facilities along highways so that one travelling to home after entering the state should use those facilities only during transit. The list would be shared with everyone entering the state. The Highway Police would be ensuring the compliance of this.  Community police officials and local police would constantly visit the houses to ensure that the persons who came from other places were strictly following room quarantine. The help of neighbours and representatives of residents' associations would be also sought for the purpose. State Police Chief Loknath Behera said that cases would be registered against those flouting the quarantine norms. Four cases were registered, with two in Wayanad, one each in Kasargod and Kozhikode districts, against persons flouting the home quarantine norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/how-kerala-geared-up-to-contain-further-local-spread-of-coronavirus-837535.html
14-05-2020||South||Feeding the street dogs during coronavirus pandemic with community participation||When 25-year-old Megha Jose heard of street dogs in the industrial city of Coimbatore starving as they could not find food due to the Covid-19 lockdown, she and a group of animal lovers swung into action. Since the last week of March, Jose and 50-odd volunteers are feeding around 1,500 street dogs in various parts of Coimbatore every day to ensure they do not go hungry. Jose, who quit her job in Cisco and returned to Coimbatore to join her family business, is not new to rescuing and saving street dogs. She runs a not-for-profit organization, The Pawsome People Project, that is involved in sterilizing the street dogs, putting them in homes, and the organization aims at transforming them into “service dogs.” The NGO, which was launched in September 2019, has been working to reduce the overpopulation of street dogs that leads to their abandonment and death.  “To be honest, this (feeding street dogs) was not on our minds, when the Covid-19 lockdown came into force in the last week of March. We came to know that several street dogs are starving, and a cat died too due to lack of food and that is when we decided to pitch in. We are 50 volunteers now going around the city to feed 1,500 dogs every day,” Jose told DH. The volunteers are mostly professionals and college students who are confined to their homes now. With restaurants and other food outlets in the city downing their shutters due to the lockdown, street dogs that depend on discarded food began starving. The Pawsome People Project decided to put its social media handles to optimum use to generate funds for feeding the street dogs and the “overwhelming” response proved that people indeed love animals.  As they say, small drops make an ocean, humble contributions from hundreds of people have made a difference to these 1,500 street dogs – they do not go hungry anymore. And Jose’s WhatsApp is flooded with requests to help street dogs in a particular locality and people offering to be volunteers. Jose said they buy dry food in bulk from stores that are open and also collect cooked food from those willing to offer and give them to the street dogs. “Volunteers take the dry food with them in bulk and feed the dogs every day. As far as the cooked food is concerned, they take it from wherever it is available and give it to the hungry dogs. It is the community participation that has made our initiative a success,” the entrepreneur said. And the street dogs have become “friendly” with the volunteers which could be immensely helpful in taking these creatures for sterilization programmee in the future. Jose said the complaints against street dogs from residents have also reduced considerably. “Ultimately, we are working for the betterment of dogs. We want to reduce the number of street dogs, put them in homes, and in the future, train them to become service dogs. Our effort is ensuring peaceful co-existence with street dogs,” Jose said. The Pawsome People Project surprised the city of Coimbatore when it hosted Tamil Nadu’s first Pet Festival in February this year which saw the participation of over 3500 people and nearly 300 dogs. The NGO plans more such events and conducts awareness campaigns to spread the message of co-existence and adoption of our street dogs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/feeding-the-street-dogs-during-coronavirus-pandemic-with-community-participation-837538.html
14-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: Tamil Nadu panel suggests ramping up of testing, gradual release of lockdown||An expert panel of doctors on Thursday asked the Tamil Nadu government not to reduce the testing numbers as increased testing helps in getting to know the spread of Coronavirus, even as the state continues to report massive spurt in Covid-19 cases. The panel also opined that there should no panic over the increasing number of cases and suggested to the government not to reduce the number of tests being conducted every day. The state on an average test more than 11,000 tests with over 3,000 to 4,000 in Chennai alone. Tamil Nadu had tested nearly 2.80 lakh samples since the Covid-19 outbreak began in March and the tally touched 9,227 on Wednesday. “We have suggested to the government that they should not reduce the number of tests that are being conducted now. They can increase and there is no problem with that, but the numbers should not be reduced. The focus should continue to be on surveillance, testing, contact tracing, isolation, and quarantine,” Dr. Prabhdeep Kaur, Deputy Director of National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, told reporters here.  She also said Tamil Nadu has one of the lowest death rates due to Covid-19 in the country and suggested improving participation from the community. Dr. Kaur, who was talking after meeting Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, added that the committee also suggested the gradual release of the lockdown.  Dr. P. Kuganantham, former Chennai city health officer and epidemiologist, said the government agreed to their suggestion that the lockdown should be relaxed gradually. “We also told the government that people’s participation in the fighting the virus is vital and suggested that some of the restrictions should continue. We also told them that people should be educated on social distancing,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-tamil-nadu-panel-suggests-ramping-up-of-testing-gradual-release-of-lockdown-837542.html
14-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: Congress MPs and MLAs in Kerala quarantined, triggers political row||Three Congress MPs and two MLAs in Kerala, who protested against the hardships allegedly being faced by people in entering Kerala from neighbouring Tamilnadu, were directed to go on home quarantine for 14 days, apart from over 200 others, including media persons. It triggered a political row with Kerala Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress suspecting a political ploy in the directive to the Congress MPs and MLAs to remain in home quarantine. However, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the quarantine directives were issued as per the medical board's advice. He also accused the MPs and MLAs of allegedly playing political drama at the time of COVID-19.   Meanwhile, the Youth Congress demanded that Kerala Local Administration Minister A C Moideen who visited a quarantine centre in Thrissur should be directed to remain in home quarantine as one person was tested COVID-19 positive. MPs T N Prathapan, V K Sreekandan and Ramya Haridas and MLAs Shafi Parambil and Anil Akkara have visited the Kerala - Tamilnadu border at Walayar in Palakkad district on May 9 following the allegation that many Malayalis were not being allowed to enter the state. A person who fainted at the area at that time was later tested COVID-19 positive. Hence the district administration directed that about 400 persons present on the spot, including the MPs MLAs and media persons, should remain in home quarantine for two weeks.  POLICE STATION IN WAYANAD HIT The functioning of Mananthavady police station in Wayanad district in Kerala was hit after three police officials were tested COVID-19 positive and around 20 police personnel of the station were kept under quarantine. The police personnel were suspected to have got infected through a person held for ganja smuggling. The duties of the police station were designated to nearby stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-congress-mps-and-mlas-in-kerala-quarantined-triggers-political-row-837544.html
14-05-2020||South||Farm to home initiative helps Hyderabadis consume immunity boosting fruits during coronavirus lockdown||A farm to home supply initiative in this COVID-19 lockdown time has helped Hyderabadis relish fresh fruits and develop immunity to combat the virus, at an inexpensive price. All it takes is a missed call to a number 88753-51555; placing an order according to your need on a webpage directed to and the packets of assorted fruits are delivered to your doorstep. According to Karunakar Reddy, who is the brain behind the project running with Telangana government support, over one lakh packets have been supplied to households across Hyderabad since April 7 till now.  Karunakar, an entrepreneur in water treatment sector, says that an incident at the beginning of the lockdown where a watermelon farmer dumped his produce in a waterbody unable to get it into Hyderabad city pressed him to work on this plan to supply the seasonal fruits directly from farmers to consumers, who could also not step out for shopping like earlier.  A basket containing 1.5 kg mangoes, 3 kg papaya, 4 kg watermelon, 2.5 kg sweet lime, one kg sapota and a dozen lemon, costing about Rs 500-600 in retail shops, supermarkets, was provided for Rs 300, and Rs 30-50 transportation charge. Delivery is free for 30 or more packet orders. “The fruits are of good quality and the pricing being attractive, we can order more and consume nutritious fruits rather than binging on junk food in this inactive period,” says Dr Syam Kumar from Kukatpally who received two packets.      While consumers appear satisfied, farmers say they are getting a fair price for their produce otherwise having lesser demand this year.  “Dealers used to visit us and pay up to Rs 35,000 per tonne of sweet lime, but because of Coronavirus, this time we were getting about Rs 15,000 only. However, we are offered around Rs 18,000 through this home supply initiative,” Prabhakar Reddy, who has a 10-acre sweet lime farm in Poosalapadu of Nalgonda, tells DH. The Telangana district is famous for its citrus fruit harvest. Karunakar’s enterprise has also provided employment to several construction labours and others rendered jobless because of the lockdown. Dozens of workers are engaged at the stocking, sorting, and supplying point of the fruits in Hyderabad, which receives supplies in trucks from various Telangana districts. “Many of those working with us are from AP’s Srikakulam district and Odisha. We pay them Rs 500 per day per head besides providing meals,” Karunakar tells DH. Vemula Srinivas, who was engaged with Amazon delivering TV etc., home appliances are using his mini truck to supply the packets and says he gets paid about Rs 3000 per day for his logistical services, “on par with his income before.” Based on public feedback and suggestions of agriculture and marketing minister Niranjan Reddy, the combo packets are now coming with 4 kg watermelon, 4 kg sweet-lime and 3 kg mangoes, at Rs 300 and Rs 50 delivery charge. A tie-up with India Post is also helping deliver the fruits within Hyderabad at Rs 50 per pack. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, in his COVID-19 situation presser conferences on live TV, asking people to consume fruits like locally grown sweet lime to develop immunity against Coronavirus helped gain more orders. “But comparatively fruit consumption is far lower in our country, state. People do not show interest in fruits as they do in chicken, mutton varieties,” says Karunakar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/farm-to-home-initiative-helps-hyderabadis-consume-immunity-boosting-fruits-during-coronavirus-lockdown-837551.html
14-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: Kerala witnessing steep increase in cases||COVID-19 graph of Kerala is witnessing a further spike with 26 more being tested positive on Thursday, of which 14 were those who came from outside the state, including one from Bengaluru. Ten of fresh cases were reported in Kasargod district, which included two health workers also. Seven more NRIs evacuated and seven from other states were tested positive, taking the number of evacuated NRIs tested positive so far to 21 and from other states to 18. A total of 560 persons were so far infected in Kerala so far. Though the number of active cases came down to 16 last week, it is again witnessing a spike with many returning from other countries and states being tested positive. Three persons recovered on Thursday.  Kerala Chief Minister Mr Pinarayi Vijayan said that the fresh spike was indicating that the state would be remaining under COVID-19's threat for more time. Hence even as the lockdown was being relaxed the people should remain cautious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-kerala-witnessing-steep-increase-in-cases-837573.html
14-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: Tamil Nadu to test all persons who come from other states, countries||Tamil Nadu has decided to test every person coming from other states and countries through various modes of transport for Coronavirus as the state continues to report over 400 cases every day. Also, the state has formed a 400-member committee to screen people who arrive in Chennai through trains and other modes of transport. So far, seven flights carrying 1,275 passengers have landed in Tamil Nadu till Thursday, and nine of them, four from Kuwait and five from Malaysia, have tested positive. While the positive patients have been shifted to hospitals, rest are at quarantine facilities. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu recorded 447 fresh Covid-19 patients on Thursday, the lowest in the past one week. The state will receive 1,076 passengers who will arrive by New Delhi-Chennai Special Train and all of them will be taken to quarantine centers for testing. In a cause of concern, 22 people who returned from Maharashtra and two from Qatar have tested positive on Thursday with Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar terming handing those coming from other states and countries as a “challenging task.”  In a GO, the state said it will conduct RT-PCR tests on everyone who comes from other states. If they test negative, they will be sent to 14-day home quarantine. If facilities are not available at home, they can opt for institutional quarantine. “Those coming from hotspot states such as Delhi, Gujarat, and Maharashtra will be sent to institutional quarantine for seven days even if they test negative. After seven days, they will be sent home after seven days and display no symptoms,” the order said.  Persons coming from one district to another within #TamilNadu will be tested if they display symptoms, the GO said. “Those coming from abroad are tested and sent to hospital if found positive. If the result is negative, they will undergo institutional/hotel quarantine for seven days. Another test will be conducted after 7 days, if it continues to be negative, they will be sent for home quarantine for 24 days. #coronavirus #Covid_19,” it further added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-tamil-nadu-to-test-all-persons-who-come-from-other-states-countries-837598.html
14-05-2020||South||BSNL orders compulsory retirement of employee-woman activist who tried to enter Ayyappa temple||A woman activist in Kerala who tried to visit the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in 2018 was allegedly terminated from the job by BSNL. Rahana Fathima, who was a telecom technician with BSNL, was allegedly terminated from service. Rahana said in a social media post that she was served a termination notice and she would move legally against it. Sources said that a case was registered against her in November 2018 for allegedly hurting religious sentiments based on a complaint against her related to Sabarimala. She was subsequently placed under suspension and BSNL conducted an internal enquiry also. Based on that she was terminated from service. BSNL officials were not available for comments. Rahana tried to visit Sabarimala in Nov 2018 after the SC lifted restrictions on the entry of women to the hill shrine. But she could not reach the temple owing to protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bsnl-orders-compulsory-retirement-of-employee-woman-activist-who-tried-to-enter-ayyappa-temple-837633.html
14-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: Tamil Nadu engineer builds robot to help shoppers maintain social distancing||As long, jostling queues formed outside liquor stores in India during the easing of a coronavirus lockdown, Karthik Velayutham found a way to maintain social distancing -- by building a robot to shop for him. The humble machine -- a cardboard box resting on a four-wheel wooden platform -- took the computer engineer two days to make and cost Rs 3,000 ($40). But it is performing a crucial job for its creator at a time when social interactions carry the risk of catching a virus that has infected more than four million people and killed over 297,000 worldwide. "I ran my robot to the wine shop as a trial to demonstrate how someone can use it in a crowded place and to create awareness about the importance of social distancing to prevent the spread of coronavirus," Velayutham, 31, told AFP. "I have tested this device on the streets and it has no problems and goes smoothly, even over speed bumps because I have used a gear motor." Velayutham controls the machine from the comfort -- and safety -- of his home in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu state. Using the robot's built-in smartphone, he can send it commands via the internet. He tells the shopkeeper what he wants to buy via a video call. The machine can carry loads of up to 50 kilogrammes (110 pounds). "The speciality of my robot is that it can be controlled from anywhere in the world," Velayutham said. "The payment can be done using any mobile wallet or electronic payment system remotely." Around the world, robots have been deployed during the pandemic to deliver food, conduct health checks and even disinfect places. Velayutham is confident his machine, with a bit of tinkering, can join them on the front lines. "It can be used in hospitals to interact with patients remotely," he said. "It can be used in unlimited ways -- for shopping, for police patrolling or even in situations like a fire where it's dangerous for people to go."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-tamil-nadu-engineer-builds-robot-to-help-shoppers-maintain-social-distancing-837649.html
14-05-2020||South||Little relief? Andhra Pradesh CM Jaganmohan Reddy orders food-water provision every 50 KM on highways for migrants walking home||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has directed officials to set up food, water provision centre for every 50 KMs along the highways in the state where the migrant labour are walking towards their homes. Personnel manning such relief centres should counsel the migrants about the Shramik trains and buses etc., transport facilities and dissuade them from walking further. The move comes in the wake of reports from across the country of several migrants dying on their long walk without food or water or after reaching destinations severely dehydrated and exhausted. One such construction worker walking from Hyderabad towards his home in Odisha reportedly died on Tuesday after walking for about 300 KMs in the sun.   In a review meeting held on the COVID-19 situation and the humanitarian crisis the pandemic has caused, Reddy, according to officials, has expressed worry over migrant labour walking with their children in the summer heat frantically to reach their native places.  A few Shramik trains have left from AP in the last few days. Though officials are persuading migrants to wait till necessary trains are arranged, some are choosing to trust their feet.  “Officials should keep a watch on such migrants. If found walking long distances, migrants should be sheltered at the relief centres and made to wait till priority arrangements are made to facilitate their travel by Shramik Trains,” said M T Krishna Babu, principal secretary, roads and buildings department.  State run RTC buses would be used to take such exhausted labour to the nearest train embarking point. Babu, who is the State’s COVID-19 control room coordinator, said that respective district collectors should make arrangements for the food-water takeaway centres at every 50 KM distance, for which NGOs could also be mobilized. “In the instance of migrant workers going by walk to their native within AP, they should be taken to the nearest relief centre, organized in groups to drop them at their respective areas by buses,” the official further stated. Meanwhile, 36 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Andhra Pradesh on Thursday, taking the total to 2100. The figure excludes the 105 migrants who tested positive after arriving in AP from various states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/little-relief-andhra-pradesh-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-orders-food-water-provision-every-50-km-on-highways-for-migrants-walking-home-837703.html
14-05-2020||State||Two killed, three injured inside shaft||Three people were killed, while two others fell ill after they entered a closed gold mine shaft at Marikuppam for burglary. The deceased are Kanda (55), a resident of Andersonpet, Joseph (45) and Padiyappa (20), both from Sosaipalya. The injured Karhik and Victor are being treated at a public hospital. According to the police, all the five reached the shaft in an autorickshaw and cut open wire in the rear side to gained entry. Joseph and Kanda entered inside. Kanda inhaled poisonous gas and fell unconscious. Joseph lost balance, fell down and died. The police and the fire force staff rushed to the spot and traced the two bodies at 60 feet deep inside the shaft. It is over 1,000 feet deep shaft and a large part of it is submerged in water. Relatives of the deceased in a complaint stated that Richard had taken them to the shaft to enter inside. The shaft was shut down two decades ago. However, incidents of thefts for gold-mixed mud and gold ore are reported frequently. It is said that thieves are hand in glove with the local police and BGML security personnel for the theft. Several gangs that are active in the region bribe the officials for the burglary. Security was tightened at Marikuppal and Champions Reefs after the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-killed-three-injured-inside-shaft-837541.html
14-05-2020||State||Apply for crop loss at Nadakacheri office, floriculturists told||Flower growers may apply for compensation towards their crop loss in Nadakacheri offices or taluk horticulture department offices, Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said. Speaking at a district-level meeting held at DC's office on Thursday, she said that floriculturists would be provided with Rs 10,000 per acre. "The compensation will not exceed Rs 25,000 per hectare," she added. She further stated that if the crop survey had not been done, the same will be carried out by the officials from the department of horticulture, for the disbursal of compensation. Horticulture department Deputy Director Sridhar said that the flowers which come under the compensation scheme were the short term crops like Marigold, Chrysanthemum and Aster and the long term crops such as Aboli, Rose, Jasmine, Kakada and Bird of Paradise. The compensation will also be provided for Gerbera, Carnation, Orchid and Anthurium, he added. The original RTC, self-declaration and details of the bank account should be submitted along with the application. Eligibility to the compensation will be based on the crop survey report of 2019-20. Crops transplanted after March 24, 2020, will not be considered. The RTC of the land should be in the name of the applicant claiming the compensation. In case of joint RTCs, the letter of consent should be obtained by the applicant If the RTC holder has expired and the account has not been transferred in the name of the applicant, compensation will be disbursed after obtaining necessary documents. For details, contact: Deputy Director of Horticulture department  (94489 99227).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/apply-for-crop-loss-at-nadakacheri-office-floriculturists-told-837663.html
14-05-2020||State||'Govt should help private schools'||"The private schools are in distress following lockdown. The government should extend assistance to private schools," said MLC S L Bhoje Gowda. Speaking at a meeting of private school headteachers organised by the Private Schools Federation, he said, "Only a few schools collect exorbitant fees. Private schools have been imparting quality education. The private school management have been struggling to pay salaries of the teachers and staff since the lockdown. The state government should reimburse the fee of the students who are studying in private schools under RTE Act." He urged the department of public instruction to withdraw the circular on paying salary to teachers and staff of private schools as per the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission. The issue will be discussed with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa as well, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-should-help-private-schools-837668.html
14-05-2020||State||Heavy rain in Subrahmanya||Heavy rain, accompanied by lightning,  lashed Kukke Subrahmanya and surrounding areas for more than one-and-a-half hours. Due to incomplete road work on Kukke Subramanya Bypass Road, water clogged the road and inconvenienced vehicle users. A few vehicles remained stuck on the flooded road. A lodge near the temple too flooded. A house was damaged when a tree fell on its rooftop at Valagada Keri near Subrahmanya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/heavy-rain-in-subrahmanya-837723.html
14-05-2020||State||COVID-19: Karnataka's first plasma therapy patient dies||A 60-year-old critically ill patient, who was the first to receive convalescent plasma therapy in Karnataka, died here on Thursday, three days after he was administered the treatment. P796, a resident of Anantpur in Andhra Pradesh, was admitted to Victoria Hospital after testing positive for COVID-19 on May 10. The patient had co-morbidities like severe pneumonia, respiratory distress, hypertension and diabetes mellitus. He died on Thursday after a cardiac arrest. As a last resort, the doctors had administered plasma therapy on him on Monday. Unlike a Delhi patient whose condition improved tremendously with the therapy, the Karnataka case didn't recover.  Dr Vishal Rao, the principal investigator of the clinical trial, told DH that it was an "absolutely wrong interpretation" to say it was a failure of plasma therapy.  Rao said the patient fit into the criteria of critically ill. According to the clinical trial approval given by the WHO, plasma therapy can be given to two categories: severe and critically ill patients. "We know that 86% of patients who are critically ill don't come out of the condition. Only 14% on ventilators make it. The trial wants to address this 14%. Globally, trials are being done on moderately ill or severe patients, not critically ill," he explained.  "This patient with co-morbidities had not taken medication for six months. A clinical trial is not assessed based on the outcome in one patient," Rao said, adding that if only "good patients" are selected, then it is not a clinical trial but a marketing game. "Since we are bound by a confidentiality agreement, we did not reveal that the plasma was administered on May 11," he said.  Severe patients are those who are breathless and are in the ICU, but not on a ventilator. Critically ill are those who are on a ventilator. Currently, there are nine patients in ICU in the state but none who are eligible for plasma therapy. "This patient was alright, but suddenly became breathless and started deteriorating. He was taken to the ICU but couldn't be maintained on oxygen, so had to be intubated. We were given a call if Victoria Hospital could try plasma therapy on him," Rao said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-karnatakas-first-plasma-therapy-patient-dies-837736.html
14-05-2020||State||Karnataka to allow private markets for farmers to sell goods||In a move that can have far-reaching consequences, the Cabinet on Thursday approved an ordinance that removes restrictions on the sale of agricultural produce, thereby allowing private individuals to set up trade markets where farmers can sell. The ordinance was approved even as some reservations were expressed inside the Cabinet, while outside, the Opposition Congress and JD(S) are up in arms claiming that the move will adversely impact farmers. The ordinance seeks to amend the Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) Act, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy explained while briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting. "There was a time when APMCs (agricultural produce market committees) were the only markets where wholesalers and big businesses would go to. Now, we have decided to allow individuals to set up private markets and purchase. The objective is to give farmers the freedom to sell their materials directly by avoiding middlemen," he said.  The powers of local APMCs will be restricted to the existing APMC yards (mandis), allowing farmers to sell their produce in the markets of their choice. "This is a step towards doubling farmers' income after 2020 as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has envisaged," Madhuswamy said, adding that the move was "truly in the interest of farmers". Curtailing the power to notify markets also has a political ramification in that it diminishes the significance of APMCs whose elections involve political parties. Like in other local elections, parties back candidates in APMC polls and claim bragging rights after victory.  Madhuswamy clarified that the Karnataka State Agricultural Marketing Board will continue to have the power to regulate the goings-on in the trade of agricultural commodities. "The ordinance ensures enough protection to farmers," he said. "For instance, we have made the use of electronic weighing scales mandatory. Also, those who want to set up private markets must be a licensee of the state board and show a bank guarantee," he said.  The BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have implemented a similar amendment. According to Madhuswamy, the ordinance was approved in line with the recommendations made by the Centre based on a model Act that was circulated to the states. According to sources, some ministers felt that the ordinance will be used as a tool to attack the government. "We could have convinced people about this first. What was the hurry," some asked. But Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and a few others were keen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-allow-private-markets-for-farmers-to-sell-goods-837742.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: CET to be held on July 30, 31||The Common Entrance Test (CET) 2020 will be held on July 30 and 31.   Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan announced the new CET dates on Wednesday. The exam, originally scheduled to be held on April 22, 23 and 24, was postponed due to the nationwide lockdown in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. More than 1.9 lakh students have registered for the test which is the gateway for admission to all undergraduate professional courses, except the medical, dental and Ayush courses. The minister said that the number of centres will be increased to maintain social distancing in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. “There will be an increase in the number of centres across the state. Currently, we have 500 test centres,” the minister said.  However, a source in the Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) said, “If the situation worsens, we will take a call on cancellation of the exams.”  GetCETGo, a big hit The minister said GetCETGo, a Karnataka government initiative to provide a free crash course to students and help them prepare for CET and NEET, has received a good response.  The programme was launched on April 20 and since then, 76,913 students have logged into the app and the web portal. The total number of views for YouTube videos is 2,45,402.  The programme has a synopsis, tests, practise questions and videos and is available free of cost to the students. During this lockdown, GetCETGo application, given by the government, has become a last-mile preparation portal for the students. Several students said that they are easily preparing with a lot of video lectures from experts in the industry and are more confident in cracking the exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-cet-to-be-held-on-july-30-31-837363.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Karnataka to relax laws to benefit industries?||According to sources, the government is considering amending the Factories Act, the Industrial Disputes Act and the Contract Labour Act. The cap on overtime in factories is expected to go up from 75 hours per quarter to 100 hours, sources indicated.   Karnataka may join other BJP-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat that have eased regulations to help ailing industries.  Trade unions have been up in arms on the proposed labour law tweaks, especially after Labour Secretary P Manivannan, who has since been transferred, reportedly assured the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) during a video conference last week that some laws will be revisited. The Cabinet is also expected to approve an ordinance to remove restrictions on the sale of agricultural produce, which the government believes will help farmers get greater market access. The ordinance will amend the law to curtail the powers of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC), and farmers will be able to sell their produce anywhere and not just in 'notified markets' as required currently. The Opposition Congress and JD(S) have strongly protested the move. On Wednesday, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah spoke with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa over the phone, urging him to drop the ordinance. He argued that this would make it difficult for the government to regulate prices and that farmers will become vulnerable to market forces.  Another ordinance is expected to come up before the Cabinet today that seeks to regularise an estimated 75,000 unauthorized properties in layouts developed by the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) by levying a penalty. Such illegal properties are located on about 5,000 acres of BDA land spread around the city. The cash-strapped government will look to raise some revenue by regularizing these properties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-30-karnataka-to-relax-laws-to-benefit-industries-837425.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Opposition against Karnataka govt's proposed ordinance on APMC||Opposition parties, including the JDS on Thursday, came out against the Karnataka government's proposal to amend the laws governing the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC), claiming that the move would curtail its powers and also affect the farmers' interests. The state cabinet to meet this evening is likely to clear an ordinance, which according to government sources is aimed at bringing in reforms to facilitate market access for farmers and usher in APMC reforms. Terming as "incorrect" the government's move to amend APMC Act through an ordinance at a time when the state was fighting COVID-19, JDS Supremo Deve Gowda in a series of tweets said the government should withdraw it as it was being done without consulting the farmer community and discussing in the assembly. Expressing apprehension that farmers will fall prey to the exploitation of capitalists and multinational companies if APMC laws were diluted, he said, there will no protection for ryots if this was done. Gowda's son and former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy have warned the government of agitation if it goes ahead with the ordinance. Describing the step as 'submission' to multinational companies, he said, subjecting farmers to such a risk amounts to "breaking our own back bone." Alleging that the state government was bringing the amendment at the behest of the Centre, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah said it was against the Constitution as agriculture was the state subject. The move will destroy the agriculture sector, he claimed. The state government is said to have taken the ordinance route to amend the APMC Act following the Centre's suggestion to adopt its Model Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2017. The BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have already made amendments to the APMC Act. The proposed amendment to agriculture produce marketing committee laws is aimed at removing restrictions on sale of farm produce and allowing farmers to sell their produce anywhere. Recently, Governor Vajubai Vala had returned the ordinance citing procedural reasons, and had asked the cabinet approve it first. The government had earlier planned to take post-facto approval from the Cabinet for the ordinance. The cabinet is also likely to approve an ordinance to amend labour laws in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/opposition-against-karnataka-govts-proposed-ordinance-on-apmc-837554.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to allow private markets for ryots to sell goods||In a move that can have far-reaching consequences, the Karnataka Cabinet on Thursday approved an ordinance that removes restrictions on the sale of agricultural produce, thereby allowing private individuals to set up trade markets where farmers can sell. The ordinance was approved even as some reservations were expressed inside the Cabinet, while outside the Opposition Congress and JD(S) are up in arms claiming that the move will adversely impact farmers. The ordinance seeks to amend the Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) Act, Law Minister JC Madhuswamy explained while briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting. "There was a time when APMCs were the only markets where wholesalers and big businesses would go to. Now, we have decided to allow individuals to set up private markets and purchase. The objective is to give farmers the freedom to sell their materials directly by avoiding middlemen," he said.   The powers of local Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) will be restricted to the existing APMC yards (mandis), allowing farmers to sell their produce in the markets of their choice. "This is a step towards doubling farmers' income after 2020 as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has envisaged," Madhuswamy said, adding that the move was "truly in the interest of farmers." Curtailing the power to notify markets also has a political ramification in that it diminishes the significance of APMCs whose elections involve political parties. Like in other local elections, parties back candidates in the APMC polls and claim bragging rights after victory.   Madhuswamy clarified that the Karnataka State Agricultural Marketing Board will continue to have the power to regulate the goings-on in the trade of agricultural commodities. "The ordinance ensures enough protection to farmers," he said. "For instance, we've made it mandatory for the use of electronic weighing scales. Also, those who want to set up private markets must be a licensee of the state board and show a bank guarantee," he said.  The BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have implemented a similar amendment. According to Madhuswamy, the ordinance was approved in line with recommendations made by the Centre based on a model Act that was circulated to the states. According to sources, some ministers felt that the ordinance will be used as a tool to attack the government. "We could've convinced people about this first. What was the hurry," some asked. But Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and a few others were keen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-allow-private-markets-for-ryots-to-sell-goods-837653.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Two special trains to leave Hosapete for UP on May 17||A total of 11,300 migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Rajasthan among other states, in the district, have registered on state's Seva Sindhu portal, seeking travel arrangements to return home, said Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul adding that two Shramik special trains will leave Hosapete for Uttar Pradesh on May 17. Speaking at a district-level task force committee here on Thursday, the deputy commissioner said, "The migrant labourers stranded across the district will be ferried to Hosapete railway station in buses." Shramik special trains will also leave for Bihar and Jharkhand from Hosapete and the date and departure time of the said trains will be announced soon, he said. As many as 1,402 migrant labourers (from other states) in the district had been quarantined in different places, he said. The DC suggested the DHO to start testing swab samples of the quarantined from Day 12 itself and take up IEC activities at quarantine facility. District Surgeon Dr Basareddi told meeting that of the 17 Covid-19 cases reported in the district, 13 have been discharged post-recovery. The remaining four patients were undergoing treatment at the designated hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-special-trains-to-leave-hosapete-for-up-on-may-17-837655.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Influx from Maharashtra, Gujarat ups COVID-19 cases in Karnataka||The COVID-19 cases linked to Mumbai and Gujarat continued to swell in the state. On Thursday, as many as 10 persons with travel history to Mumbai or Ahmedabad, tested positive for novel coronavirus. The rising influx of migrants returning home from Maharashtra or Gujarat, following the lockdown relaxation, has resulted in a spurt in cases. Every day hundreds of migrants return to their native districts, keeping the administration on toes. KR Pet taluk in Mandya district saw four Mumbai returnees test positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. A man (P-962), a bouncer at a hotel in Mumbai Central, and his six-year-old son (P-963) have tested positive for the virus, Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh told reporters. A 48-year-old woman from KR Pet taluk (P-961), a resident of Andheri in Mumbai, tested positive for COVID-19 after she returned home along with her family. However, swab samples of her husband and their son have returned negative. A 26-year-old man from Kikkeri, with travel history to Vadagaon, also tested positive for coronavirus. Mandya district's COVID-19 tally has increased to 35. A 27-year-old woman from Belagavi, a resident of Mumbai, contracted the virus after she returned to her maternal home at Sadashivanagar. She's been admitted to BRIMS, the designated COVID-19 hospital in Belagavi district.  Bidar district saw seven fresh cases on Thursday. One of which has a Mumbai link. Neighbouring Kalaburagi district reported two cases. The hotspots from Kalyana Karnataka - Bidar and Kalaburagi - combined have recorded a staggering 131 cases and eight fatalities. Infections continued to swell in Gadag district. Four Ahmedabad returnees from Gadag-Betageri have tested positive for COVID-19. On Wednesday, a 35-year-old man with Gujarat travel history had tested positive.  A total of 25 people from Gadag-Betageri have returned home from Ahmedabad in two batches. Out of which, five have contracted virus. Copy contracts virus Meanwhile, Davangere is grappling with growing cases. A 34-year-old police constable and a garlic trader among three from the city to have contracted virus on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi told reporters, "Constable had worked in KTJ Nagar containment zone from May 7 to 9. On May 10, his throat swab sample was sent for testing after he developed a fever. His report has returned positive for the virus." As on May 14, the district has 88 cases. Of which 82 are active.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/influx-from-maharashtra-gujarat-ups-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-837666.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||It’s destination hope for labourers pedalling towards home||It’s a new challenge for these 15 men in the cycle called life. They will have to pedal with the zeal of professional cyclists looking to win medals. The group is hoping to do at least 100 km daily for 15 days. But all that they will see at the end of the fortnight is their city, Puri in Odisha. They want to be in the temple town, their sweet home, having started from Belagavi. Their logic is this: “We want to be in our place amidst our people, even if we were to contract Covid-19,” as one of them puts it. These labourers, who worked at a small steel-related industry in Belagavi, still had 1,650 km to pedal when they spoke to DH in Bagalkot on Thursday. The group is heading home for the first time, after they had arrived here in March 2019. They want to reach home before they exhaust whatever cash they have on hand. The group of 15 is carrying some packed food. But they have encountered people offering food and water on the way. "The police are also helping them in whatever way possible,” team leader Sudarshan Sain said. He said their employer had given them some money, in instalments, after the lockdown came into force. They were not sure whether their job will remain.  Having left Belagavi in the wee hours of Wednesday, they plan to travel via Hyderabad. None of them had lockdown travel passes nor did they seem to be aware they should apply for them through the Seva Sindhu app. The group is finding its way with the help of the Google map on Sudarshan’s phone. Each of the 15 men bought a new bicycle, each costing Rs 1,200 for the journey. The group starts early so that it can cover a good distance before it starts getting hot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/it-s-destination-hope-for-labourers-pedalling-towards-home-837670.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Promote us without exams, say VTU students||Students in colleges affiliated to the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) are demanding that they be promoted to the next class without conducting examinations. The students have started an online campaign for the same. The nationwide lockdown has delayed the examination process at all universities, including VTU. As per the annual calendar issued by VTU, the academic year was to conclude on May 30 and the examinations were supposed to be held in June. The lockdown has affected the entire schedule and examinations are now expected to be held in August or September. Currently, the classes are being conducted online. "Many of us have missed the classes due to poor internet connectivity in rural areas. How can we appear for the exams without attending classes," say some students. "I have returned to my native place as I was asked to vacate my hostel room. My college is conducting online classes. But most of the days, I am missing my classes," said one of the students in the final semester. Another student said, "the government should intervene and consider our request. It should direct the university to promote us without any evaluation." "Promoting students without any evaluation is not acceptable. Instead of promoting them, universities can conduct offline classes once normalcy returns and conduct the exams," says Prof K R Venugopal, Vice Chancellor of Bangalore University, also a former senior faculty at University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering (UVCE), Bengaluru. However, officials from VTU said, "the government has to make a decision since it is a demand before most of the universities."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/promote-us-without-exams-say-vtu-students-837674.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PG students, interns on Covid duty threaten strike from May 18||The PG students and medical interns, deputed on COVID-19 duty at Chigateri Hospital in the city, have threatened to go on an indefinite strike from May 18, demanding the release of pending stipend for the past 15 months. As many as 230 students of JJM Medical College - 133 PG students and 97 medical interns- are risking their lives every single day to treat COVID-19 patients at Chigateri Hospital, which is witnessing a flurry of cases in the past one week or so. These front-line workers, hailed as corona warriors, are denied of their dues. Both the state government and JJM Medical College management have turned a blind eye to their demand. A final year PG student in Radiology, JJM Medical College, Davangere, on the condition of anonymity told DH, “The postgraduate students and medical interns have not received their stipend for the past 15 months. We are doctors only for namesake. But we are treated worse than the daily-wage workers.” The government used to pay a stipend to interns for the past several years. But it became an issue in 2016 when an auditor appointed by the government of Karnataka objected to payment of stipend to students of two private medical colleges - JJM, Davangere and KMC, Mangaluru, which are attached with Chigateri and Wenlock district hospitals respectively, she said.  Following the request by medical interns, the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government resumed paying stipends to the PG students and interns of the aforementioned colleges. Directorate of Medical Education (DME) continued to release money towards payment of stipend to interns till February 2019. However, the then Principal Secretary of DME, Manjula, issued an order stating that students of JJM Medical College, selected under government quota, for 2017-18 and 2018-19 batches shall be given a stipend from Aarogya Raksha Samiti (ARS) account of the district general hospital, she added. But the hospital could not pay as it did not have adequate money to pay the stipend to students. Since March 2019, there is no stipend for medical interns and PG students. This despite, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa instructing the DME to clear the pending dues of interns and PG students at the earliest, the PG student said. “We have been working round the clock for the past 15 months without stipend. We have taken loans from banks to pay college and hostel fees. We depend on stipend which is rightfully ours. All our pleas for stipend have gone unheard,” she lamented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pg-students-interns-on-covid-duty-threaten-strike-from-may-18-837676.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt schools to be quarantine centres||The government schools will be hereinafter used for quarantine purpose. A circular issued by state government states that schools can also be used as quarantine centres and at rural areas Grama Panchayat authorities should ensure that all norms are adhered to. The circular said that quarantined person should be provided a single occupancy and separate set of utensils.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-schools-to-be-quarantine-centres-837697.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Nursing mothers with babies walk home to Karnataka from Mumbai||Two nursing mothers along with babies who set out on foot from Mumbai reached their homes safely four days after they began the journey. While Pooja Manasingh Jadhav(22) delivered a baby girl 22 days back, Anitha Dineshkumar (23) gave birth to a baby boy 18 days ago. They are the residents of Tari Tanda in Chittapur taluk of the district. A total of 52 people from this Tanda migrated to Mumbai in search of a job. Since there is no work after the lockdown, they began their journey home on foot from Mumbai on May 10. The lactating mothers walked for about 34 km. While walking home, the police helped them to reach Pandarapura on Wednesday evening. After a person contacted MP Dr Umesh Jadhav over the phone and informed it, he arranged a car for the lactating mothers and a bus to other 50 people. All of them, except the nursing mothers, have been quarantined at a quarantine centre set up at Sevanagara School on the outskirts of Tari Tanda in wee hours of Thursday. The lactating mothers were allowed into their homes for the sake of babies. After health check-up, quarantine seal has been applied even for the babies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-nursing-mothers-with-babies-walk-home-to-karnataka-from-mumbai-837708.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt okays Rs 162 cr additional relief measures||The state government on Thursday announced relief measures for fruits and vegetable farmers who suffered losses due to the dip in demand during the COVID-19 lockdown. These farmers will get a total of Rs 137 crore as compensation.  While vegetable farmers had suffered losses on 50,083 hectares of land, fruits on 41,054 hectares of land were lost, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said after the Cabinet meeting which decided the relief measures. Each farmer will get Rs 15,000 per hectare for the losses suffered. Speaking to reporters later, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced an additional compensation of Rs 25 crore weavers working in 1.15 lakh power looms in the state. “Every person will get Rs 2,000 assistance,” Yediyurappa said. “We’re also aware that maize farmers are in distress. I will discuss what we can do for them,” he said.  In other decisions, the Cabinet also approved a “design-build-finance-operate-transfer” project of Integrated Transport Hub at Pumpwell, Mangaluru under PPP model at an estimated Rs 445 crore. Administrative approval of Rs 14.3 crore was given for a detailed project report on construction of a balancing reservoir near Navile village as an alternative for resolving the issue of the storage capacity of the Tungabhadra reservoir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-okays-rs-162-cr-additional-relief-measures-837711.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Railway coaches-turned-COVID-19 wards idle at stations||The South Western Railway (SWR) has converted 312 railway coaches into isolation wards and Intensive Care Units (ICUs) for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. Parked at the railway stations, they have remained unused for one-and-half months now. “The Railways has made arrangements to provide isolated space for 2,496 people, including the COVID-19 patients, doctors and medical staff, in the specially prepared railway coaches. At present, the patients are being treated at hospitals. The specially prepared isolated railway coaches will be used as and when the demand arises,” said Union Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi. He said the special coaches would be sent wherever necessary as per the instructions from the Home Ministry and Health Ministry. SWR Chief Public Relations Officer E Vijaya said these rail coaches could be used if there was a shortage of space in hospitals. At present, there is no medical equipment in the coaches. But, they would be provided once patients are admitted there. Each coach has nine compartments. The special coaches are painted yellow for easy identification. Each compartment is separated by a plastic screen and the windows are covered by nets.  There are separate wards for doctors, para-medical staff, who will be treating the COVID-19 patients. The toilets and bathrooms have been redesigned. Soaps and sanitisers have been kept at every sink for washing hands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/railway-coaches-turned-covid-19-wards-idle-at-stations-837739.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||From growing up without a care in the world to doing a world of good||When COVID-19 lockdown was implemented, like-minded youths in Mangaluru decided to support the disadvantaged in whatever way possible.  Within a day after the announcement of the lockdown, four friends, Sudheer Pai, Varun Raj, Sanjay Bhat and Sreejith began cooking for people in a small way. Soon, others followed and the number of volunteers increased to 37. They together launched a forum called ‘Helping Hands Foundation’. Members were entrusted with tasks like identifying the needs of underserved people, buying provisions, deciding the menu, coordinating the distribution of food and collecting funds from donors.  So far, the team has served 1,200 plates of breakfast, 12,000 cooked meals, 900 grocery kits. This apart, they provide food (rice plus chicken broth) to 150 stray dogs every day. Those who worked from home ensured that the responsibilities they shouldered did not interfere with their work. The elderly who had seen the mischievous side of youth were overwhelmed by their selfless work and helped in whatever way possible. Some of them prepared masala powder, a rice mill owner donated 300 kg of rice for feeding the stray dogs. What made this team stand out was the fact that they met the food needs of other COVID-19 volunteers and social workers who were working with the communities and served them food. They also support officials in whatever way possible.  “After we starved for days, the boys appeared like gods and gave us ration kits that would last for a week,” informs Jagannath. He and 17 other families from Hangodu in Hunsur, who operate amusement rides during fairs, were stranded in Kanapady, three km from Brahmarakotlu toll gate near BC road. The families have no money to hire trucks and returned to their village with the amusement rides.  A family of migrant labourers utilised the resourcefulness of the team and reached their village in Ballari district.  Shahnaz, a widow and migrant labourer from Vijayapura, has to support her family of seven members. “Helping Hands got to know of my fate and donated ration kits. I intend to approach them again as I still have no job,” she told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/from-growing-up-without-a-care-in-the-world-to-doing-a-world-of-good-837745.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Goa officials help state’s migrant workers to register on app||The Goa government has started a special facilitation drive to help migrant workers from Karnataka stranded in Goa obtain mandatory travel pass. Special desks have been set up at the Peddem sports complex in North Goa - where most of the migrant workers from Karnataka are currently camped. Goa government officials are helping them upload their details on the Karnataka government's Seva Sindhu app, to obtaining travel pass. "Help desks have been put up at the Peddem Sports Complex, where our staff are registering the names of persons wanting to go back to Karnataka, on Seva Sindhu app," a government spokesperson told DH.   "The registration details are being forwarded to respective districts of Karnataka to expedite granting of permissions to the migrants," the official said. Workers from Karnataka top the list of those wanting to return home, followed by those from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The special facilitation drive followed after the district administration of Belagavi, which borders Goa, did not allow migrant workers from Karnataka to cross over the border earlier this week. The government spokesperson said that the migrant workers were denied permission to cross the borders due to inadequate paperwork, which includes lack of a valid no-objection certificate from Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/goa-officials-help-state-s-migrant-workers-to-register-on-app-837748.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Institutional quarantine waived for four categories of interstate passengers||After receiving flak for providing institutional quarantine exemption only to four categories of international passengers, the state government on Thursday extended the waiver to interstate passengers too. According to the current standard operating procedure, all individuals who enter the state are subject to 14 days of mandatory institutional quarantine. However, the state government on Wednesday announced exemptions to four categories of international passengers: pregnant women, children under-10, terminally ill patients and those above 80 years. These four categories can now opt for home quarantine. Henceforth, this holds good for the aforementioned four categories of interstate passengers. But there’s a caveat. They have to be asymptomatic (belong to category II), and also test negative upon arrival for COVID-19 in a RT-PCR test. They will also be checked for symptoms, temperature and oxygen saturation Asked if the mother or the father of a child below the age of 10 will be allowed to accompany him or her home, Minister S Suresh Kumar, in-charge of COVID-19 briefings said, “No, parents will be exempted. If we start exempting then we have to start exempting the husbands of the pregnant women to accompany them home.”   The state on Thursday saw 28 new cases. Of which 10 have a domestic travel history to Mumbai and Ahmedabad, four are from containment zones and a case of Influenza-Like-Illness. The rest are contacts of previously diagnosed patients.  The fresh cases have taken the state tally to 987. Of which, 491 are active cases while 460 patients have recovered.  The state has tested more than 7,000 samples in the last 24 hours, which is the highest, so far, for a single day testing. Two deaths were reported on Thursday. Patient 507, an 89-year-old woman from Dakshina Kannada, who had been admitted to hospital following a stroke, tested positive for Covid-19 and died due to a septic shock. Patient 796, a 60-year-old man, a resident of Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh was admitted at Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru, with severe pneumonia, respiratory distress and hypotension. He died due to cardiac arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/institutional-quarantine-waived-for-four-categories-of-interstate-passengers-837750.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||APMC ordinance will hurt farmers, says HD Deve Gowda||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda, on Thursday, joined a growing chorus of voices, opposing the government’s move to allow setting up of private markets where farmers can sell their produce.  Opposing the ordinance that the Cabinet approved, the JD(S) patriarch said the move could hurt farmers, especially with the powers of the agricultural produce market committees (APMC) curtailed.  “The APMC Act provided farmers with protection from middlemen to some extent. The amendment brings with it the danger of farmers being exploited by capitalists and multinational companies,” Gowda said in a tweet.  “When the entire state is fighting COVID-19, it’s wrong to amend the APMC Act through an ordinance,” he said, pointing out that the government had neither consulted farmers nor placed the ordinance before the legislature. The government should withdraw its decision.”   Earlier in the day, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah continued his tirade against the BJP government on this issue. “Agriculture is a state subject, but the Centre came up with a model Act and asked the states to pass it in the legislature or promulgate an ordinance. How can this be done? It’s against the Constitution and the federal structure. It will destroy the agriculture sector,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/apmc-ordinance-will-hurt-farmers-says-hd-deve-gowda-837752.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HM suspended for not allowing quarantine in school||The Education department has ordered suspension of the headmaster of a government school in Sindagi taluk after the latter refused to turn a portion of school building into a quarantine facility to keep the migrant labourers. Vijayapura DDPI C Prasannakumar suspended Devaranavadagi Govt Boys Higher Primary School headmaster Ashok Radder, pending enquiry. The headmaster had been told not to leave the headquarter without the permission of a competent authority during his suspension period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hm-suspended-for-not-allowing-quarantine-in-school-837753.html
14-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Man held for duping migrant workers||The Kodigehalli police have arrested a 50-year-old man for collecting Rs 250 from fellow migrant workers to get police clearance for train tickets to return home. The accused has been identified as Ramesh Chandra Parada, a resident of Bhadrappa Layout nearHebbal, and a native of Bhubaneswar in Odisha. Police seized Rs 8,000 from Ramesh along with forms, in which he took the workers’ signatures. Ramesh has been booked under IPC Section 420.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/man-held-for-duping-migrant-workers-837754.html
14-05-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Coronavirus: Mumbai returnee tests positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi||The woman, aged 27 years, is identified as P974. Her swab sample sent for testing has come out positive and she has been admitted in Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital for treatment.  District Surveillance Officer Dr B N Tukkar confirmed that the woman tested positive was pregnant. She had come to her maternal home here and her husband is a resident of Mumbai. With this, the district has recorded the first case that has a Mumbai connection. Earlier, positive cases reported had travel history of attending a religious gathering of Tablighi Jamaat at New Delhi and their primary and secondary contacts. Persons who tested positive on Sunday had returned from Ajmer in Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/coronavirus-mumbai-returnee-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-belagavi-837450.html
14-05-2020||West||Maharashtra's Gadchiroli stays vigilant to retain COVID-19-free tag||The administration of Gadchiroli, which is the only district so far untouched by the scourge of coronavirus in Maharashtra, is now being more vigilant to ensure it retains the green zone tag. The authorities are mindful that if at all any COVID-19 case comes to light in the district, it will come from outside and hence, they have enhanced efforts and are closely monitoring migrant workers entering the territory. Maharashtra has total 36 districts. Gadchiroli, located over 900 km from Mumbai in the state's Vidarbha region and having a population of around 12 lakh, has not reported a single COVID-19 case yet. "If at all any (positive) case comes here, it will come from outside the district now. So, we are strictly monitoring the labourers who are entering the district limits. We are being extra careful of people coming from non- containment zones of places which have reported more cases, Gadchiroli Collector Deepak Singla told PTI over phone. Singla said nearly 18,000 workers have entered the territory of Gadchiroli from neighbouring districts like Nagpur and Chandrapur and states like Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh since May 1. These people were allowed to enter the district only if they possessed medical certificates as per norms and were kept under institutional quarantine according to the guidelines, he said, adding that the workers are not allowed to enter their native villages directly. "We have formed gram samitis (committees) of sarpanch, talathi (revenue officer), gram sevaks locally to keep a watch and people coming from outside are being quarantined at schools for a 14-day period, Singla said. Nearly 2,500 migrant workers have been sent to their native states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, and other districts in Maharashtra from Gadchiroli till now, he said.  The district authorities had earlier (before May 1) quarantined 18,000 to 20,000 people after the nationwide lockdown was announced, Singla said, adding that their quarantine period is over. MaharashtraThe district administration has allowed markets in the district to remain open from 7 am to 5 pm with certain restrictions and on the condition of maintaining social distancing. "We are, however, not allowing public events, the official said. As of Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 25,922 positive cases and 975 deaths -- highest in the country. Mumbai in the state has so far reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases and deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-gadchiroli-stays-vigilant-to-retain-covid-19-free-tag-837429.html
14-05-2020||West||Cops asked not fine vehicles carrying migrant in Maha||Maharashtra Highway Police have issued an order asking their personnel not to collect fine from vehicles carrying migrant labourers during the lockdown. Following complaints that some police personnel were collecting money illegally in the guise of fine from such vehicles, the highway police warned that those found indulging in such acts would be terminated from service. Amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, thousands of migrant workers who have lost their jobs and people stranded in Maharashtra have been returning to their native places. Many of them are leaving in private vehicles, and the state highway police have been taking action against them for violation of provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act. However, senior police officials recently received complaints that at some places, the highway police personnel were collecting money illegally in the guise of fine from those vehicles. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray also took note of the complaints and state Director General of Police conveyed his displeasure over such incidents. Subsequently, the highway police on Wednesday issued an order to stop any kind of fine collection from vehicles carrying migrants labourers, and asked that if any action is needed to be taken under the Motor Vehicles Act, it should not involve taking money.  "If any officer or personnel is found collecting money from those vehicles, then he or she will not only be suspended but also terminated from service," the order said. The order was circulated in north and west Maharashtra, and Konkan, which falls under the jurisdiction of Thane region's superintendent of police of the state highway. The order also said that the police personnel should help migrant workers in their travel during this tough time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cops-asked-not-fine-vehicles-carrying-migrant-in-maha-837442.html
14-05-2020||West||Rajasthan records another COVID-19 death, toll climbs to 122||The state has also recorded 66 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the virus tally to 4,394. "One more death has occurred and 66 fresh cases have been reported in 10 districts of the state today, including 20 in Udaipur district," Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Rohit Kumar Singh, said. Singh said that besides Udaipur, 16 cases were reported from Nagaur, 13 in Jaipur, seven in Jodhpur, three from Sikar, two each in Ajmer and Jalore and one case each in Kota, Alwar and Karauli.   A total of 4,395 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. Apart from these, 177 migrants who travelled from other states have also been tested positive. He said so far 2,575 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 2,346 have been discharged from hospitals. The state has 1,697 active cases.  The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer and 43 BSF jawans brought from Delhi. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-records-another-covid-19-death-toll-climbs-to-122-837475.html
14-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Workers gather at Maharashtra's Kolhapur highway, demand passage home||Hundreds of migrant labourers gathered on Pune-Bengaluru Highway in Maharashtra's Kolhapur district on Thursday, demanding special trains to their hometowns in the northern states, police said. Labourers from Shiroli MIDC, who were stranded since the COVID-19 lockdown was enforced, gathered on the highway to voice their demands, the official said. As the crowd swelled in the area, the police were deployed to convince the protesting labourers to clear out and subsequently the district collector and police superintendent also reached the spot, he said. The authorities were trying to convince the migrants that they will be allowed to return to their home states depending on the availability of trains, he added. Labourers, who were predominantly from Uttar Pradesh, said they wished to head to their hometowns, as they had left their living quarters and did not have work or means to survive the lockdown, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-workers-gather-at-maharashtras-kolhapur-highway-demand-passage-home-837479.html
14-05-2020||West||129 arrested over communal clashes in Bengal's Telinipara over COVID-19: Home Dept||A total of 129 people have been arrested so far for their alleged involvement in clashes between two communities in Telinipara in West Bengal's Hooghly district, the state Home Department said on Thursday. It also said some people were "trying to spread the communal virus to further their political interests". "Strong action has been taken against miscreants in Telinipara, Hooghly. 129 persons have so far been arrested and more will be arrested. Senior officers along with a large number of forces are patrolling the area round the clock," the Home Department tweeted. Noting that the administration is committed to ensuring peace, it said that "some persons are trying to spread the communal virus to further their political interests. Strong legal action is being taken against all these persons." Clashes had erupted in Telinipara on Sunday after members of a community were allegedly taunted as "corona" by some people belonging to another group. Several shops were ransacked during a clash between two groups in Victoria Jute Mill area in Telinipara on Sunday night. The two groups also hurled bombs at each other and set shops on fire on Monday morning. Internet services have been suspended in the area since Tuesday evening and the suspension will continue till the evening of May 17. Section 144 CrPC has also been imposed in Telinipara and its adjoining areas and the inspector-in-charge of the local police station has been removed for failing to control the situation, sources said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had said no one involved in the clashes will be spared and stern action will be taken against the miscreants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/129-arrested-over-communal-clashes-in-bengals-telinipara-over-covid-19-home-dept-837494.html
14-05-2020||West||Police complaint lodged against news portal over defamatory article about Maharashtra Governor||A police complaint has been lodged against a news portal with the Cyber Crime Police Station at Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai on Thursday  regarding the publication of a defamatory news about Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. The report on the internet and its circulation on social media related to the alleged facilitation of the travel of a model from Maharashtra to Dehradun enroute Delhi. "The contents of the news are false, fabricated and based on the nefarious design with an intent to malign the unblemished image of Governor," a Raj Bhavan communique said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-complaint-lodged-against-news-portal-over-defamatory-article-about-maharashtra-governor-837580.html
14-05-2020||West||14 persons booked for fleeing COVID-19 containment zone in Maharashtra||An offence was registered against 14 persons for allegedly escaping from a COVID-19 containment zone in Maharashtra's Aurangabad city, police said on Thursday. The incident came to light on Wednesday, when 16 residents of Pundalik Nagar escaped from the area, which has been declared a containment zone, investigating officer Vishnu Munde said. Police teams deployed in the area were alerted about the escapees, including two children, and a hunt was launched to trace them, the official said. The escapees were finally traced to Tirthpuri village in neighbouring Jalna district, where they will remain under quarantine for 14 days, following which further action will be taken against them, assistant police inspector Ghanshyam Sonawane of Pundalik Nagar police station said. A case was registered under section 188 (disobeying an order issued by a public servant) and other relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/14-persons-booked-for-fleeing-covid-19-containment-zone-in-maharashtra-837584.html
14-05-2020||West||First special train from Delhi reaches Mumbai, passengers relieved||Nearly 54 days after the lockdown came into force, the first outstation train arrived at Mumbai Central station here from New Delhi on Thursday, with several passengers feeling happy at being back after about two months. Some passengers, however, also complained that after alighting from the train, they were forced to stand in a queue for a couple of hours for thermal screening and sanitisation of their baggage. The special passenger train started from New Delhi on Wednesday evening and reached Mumbai Central station at around 8.40 am on Thursday, according to railway sources. The city civic personnel put the 'Home Quarantine' stamp on the hands of all passengers who arrived, asking them not to move out of their homes till May 20. Before stamping their hands, personnel of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the Railway Protection Force conducted thermal screening of all the passengers and the Mumbai fire brigade sanitised their baggages with disinfectant. However, a long queue and delay in the screening process upset some passengers as they were forced to stand for over two hours before being able to leave the station. One of the passengers, K Lakhiyani, who was stranded at Kota in Rajasthan but managed to take the train from Delhi, said the long queue for screening and baggage sanitisation after arrival here moved quite slowly. "I stood in the queue for almost two hours, said Lakhiyani, who thereafter rushed to Ulhasnagar township of neighbouring Thane district in a private vehicle. A senior citizen, who did not wish to be named, said there was no arrangement for sitting in the queue and hence, he suffered back pain after standing for nearly two hours. The railway security agencies with the Mumbai city police maintained tight security to avoid overcrowding and any law and order issue. Several passengers had arranged private vehicles to reach their destination from the railway station, while some booked cabs. The city civic body's transport wing BEST (Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport) also arranged buses for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) passengers who did not have any personal mode of transport. Passengers who had to go outside MMR travelled in the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses. For Priyambada Pande and her father, who is a cancer patient, the MSRTC bus proved helpful after a private cab driver from Pune did not turn up. "My father is a cancer patient and I had taken him to Delhi for treatment on March 13. His treatment got over a month ago, but we were stuck there. We arrived here by train, but the cab driver ditched us, she said. Most passengers were happy, saying they felt lucky to get the train ticket to return home. "I am really happy to return after being stranded in Delhi for two months. I had gone there for a course which was till March end, but suddenly the lockdown was announced and I got stuck, said Supriya Singh, a student. However, she added that she did not face any major issue in Delhi, all thanks to a generous woman with whom she was stayed as a paying guest. Passengers also appreciated the precautions and care taken by the railway authorities during the journey. "The railway authorities took care of everything. They were making regular announcements, asking passengers to maintain social distancing and to wear masks all the time, said Vipul Koli, a resident of Charkop area in Mumbai. Another passenger, who did not wish to be identified, said travellers were also aware of the various guidelines and were taking proper care about maintaining social distance. On Tuesday, the Indian Railways operated a special train carrying 1,107 passengers from Mumbai Central to New Delhi. The Railways had stopped running passenger trains since March 22 this year, while only goods and parcel trains were being operated till May 1 in the wake of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Since the start of this month, the railway authorities are also operating Shramik special trains for ferrying the stranded migrant labourers to their native places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/first-special-train-from-delhi-reaches-mumbai-passengers-relieved-837586.html
14-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Dharavi's journey to becoming Mumbai's COVID-19 hotspot||Among the most populated and congested areas of Mumbai, Dharavi may have had a delayed entry into the COVID-19 health crisis, but with over 1,000 cases, it has certainly found itself in a precarious position. In less than 45 days, Asia's largest slum has recorded 1,028 cases and 40 deaths, indicating the extent and intensity with which the virus has spread there. With 66 fresh cases detected on Wednesday, Dharavi's COVID-19 tally crossed the 1,000 mark. It has just been 43 days since the city's most congested ward detected its first case at Dr Baliga Nagar on April 1, setting the alarm bells ringing for the city's administration. The progression was, however, slow in the area and it took a little over a fortnight for Dharavi to add 100 cases to its tally and by May 3, it crossed the 500 mark. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's data till May 6, the doubling rate of COVID-19 cases in Dharavi was six days and majority of the patients were in the age group of 31 to 40 years. Located at the north end of the island city, Dharavi has a population of around 6.5 lakh and is spread over 2.5 sq km area. With a population density of 2,27,136 persons per sq km, Dharavi is a sort of ticking time bomb for the civic administration, which is working on a war footing to contain the pandemic, a health expert said. According to BMC sources, the civic body has been supplying essentials and medicine in 213 containment zones, which have reported coronavirus cases. Raju Korde, president of Dharavi Punarvikas Samiti said lack of proper sanitation facilities and crowded housing conditions were primary reasons for the spread in the area. "Dharavi has small congested houses and narrow lanes. Hence, even if the BMC creates containment zones, it's impossible to follow the norms of social distancing," Korde said.    Volunteers from the organisation were distributing sanitisers and immunity boosting homeopathy medicines to residents, he said. According to civic officials, Dharavi has around 225 community toilets, 100 public toilets and 125 toilets built by the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority. "As hundreds of people use common toilets in the area, the risk of coronavirus spread is high, which is why these lavatories have to be cleaned regularly," said a BMC officer. Dharavi has nine municipal dispensaries, 50 private clinics apart from fever clinics.  Altogether 47,500 people from the high-risk zones and 1.25 lakh residents of containment zones of Dharavi have been screened so far, according to BMC data. As per the data, around 4 lakh Dharavi residents have been screened with the help of 24 private practitioners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-dharavis-journey-to-becoming-mumbais-covid-19-hotspot-837619.html
14-05-2020||West||Gujarat govt launches 'Rs 1 lakh loan at 2% interest' scheme||The Gujarat government on Thursday announced a scheme under which people in the lower-middle-income group can avail guarantee-free loan of Rs 1 lakh from banks at 2 per cent annual interest as it seeks to help them get back to normal life disrupted by the COVID-19 lockdown. The government will pay another 6 per cent interest to banks giving loan under the scheme, Atmanirbhar Gujarat Sahay Yojna (AGSY), targetted at small businessmen and a cross-section of people falling under the lower-middle-income group. According to scheme norms, while the tenure of the loan will be three years, payment of instalments will begin only after six months of disbursal. The central government has given a package of Rs 20 lakh crore to make India 'atmanirbhar' (self-reliant). The state government has also decided to launch Atmanirbhar Gujarat Sahay Yojna (AGSY) for small businessmen, skilled workers, autorickshaw owners, electricians and barbers, among others," Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said. Other states have declared assistance of Rs 5,000 or so to such people. However, we are of the opinion that such a small amount will not bring their life back to normal, he said. "Around 10 lakh such people will be given the loan of Rs 1 lakh each from banks at just 2 per cent annual interest to start their lives afresh, Rupani said. Loans will be provided on the basis of application where no guarantee will be required, he said. The state government will pay the remaining 6 per cent interest on the loan to banks. The tenure of such loans will be three years. Re-payment of principal and interest will start after six months of sanction, he said. The government has come up with this scheme after discussion with the district, scheduled and cooperative banks, the chief minister said. The state government will come out with detailed information on AGSY in a few days and loan will be made available to all those who are in need of it, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-launches-rs-1-lakh-loan-at-2-interest-scheme-837620.html
14-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra's death toll crosses 1,000 mark||Nearly two months after the first set of COVID-19 cases were reported, Maharashtra's death toll crossed 1,000 on Thursday. In the past 24 hours,  44 deaths were reported taking the toll to 1,019. The first case that was reported in Maharashtra was on 9 March when a Pune-based couple,  with a travel history to Dubai, tested positive. The first death was reported in Mumbai, on 17 March when a 64-year-old person, with a travel history to Dubai,  passed away. On Thursday, the highest 24-hour increase of 1,602 cases were reported. As of now, the total number of cases in the state now stands at 27,524. As many as 512 patients discharged on Thursday taking the total to 6059 Covid-19 patients discharged after full recovery until today. Of the 44 deaths in the state, 25 were reported in Mumbai,  the worst-affected place of the country,  where cases are expected to peak during end of May.   Out of 2,40,145 laboratory samples, 2,12,621 were negative and 27,524 have been tested positive for coronavirus till date.  Out of the 44 deaths on Thursday, 31 were men and 13 were women. 21 of them aged over 60 years, 20 were from the age group 40 to 59 years and 3 were aged less than 40 years. 34 out of 44 patients (77%) had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtras-death-toll-crosses-1000-mark-837660.html
14-05-2020||West||324 new coronavirus cases take Gujarat tally to 9,592; 20 deaths||With 324 new coronavirus cases reported in the last 24 hours, the tally in Gujarat reached 9,592 on Thursday, while the death toll increased to 586, said health department officials. During the same period, 20 patients succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 586 in the state, said Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi. She said as many as 191 persons also recovered and given a discharge from different hospitals in the state, taking the number of such people to 3,753. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 9592, new cases 324, deaths 586, discharged 3753, active cases 5253, people tested so far 1,24,709.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/324-new-coronavirus-cases-take-gujarat-tally-to-9592-20-deaths-837683.html
14-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Hunger is most grave and serious problem in state, people are without food, says Gujarat HC||Gujarat high court on Thursday advised the state government that its “entire concentration should be to provide maximum succour and relief to the migrant labourers and the other members of the poor and downtrodden class of society and ease their pain and suffering” caused by the complete lockdown in view of the coronavirus pandemic. A division bench headed by Justice J B Pardiwala said in the order that was made available late on Thursday night that "The gravest and serious problem as on date within the state is hunger.  People are without food, more particularly, the migrant, the labourers and the people hailing from the poor and downtrodden class of the society."  The bench, hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL), also observed that "this is not the time to educate the migrant workers, poor and the needy people of the concept of social distancing, etc. They will never be able to understand any such concept. They are not worried about the virus. They are worried about food. It would be very harsh to say that a person should not die because of COVID19, but no problem if he dies because of hunger. Therefore, the  entire concentration should be to provide the maximum succour and relief to the migrant labourers and the other members of the poor and downtrodden class of society and ease their pain and suffering." Gujarat is one of the worst affected states where a large number of migrant labourers were stranded following the announcement of lockdown in March. Since then, they had been agitating for permission to travel back home. The worst affected districts where the migrants are stuck are Surat, Rajkot, Kutch, Surendranagar among others where they turned violent and clashed with the police. Following their protests, the state has started sending them home in special Shramik trains. Till Thursday night, nearly 4 lakh labourers were sent back to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand among other states. Court warns private hospitals for exorbitant charges Meanwhile, the division bench slammed the private hospitals for exorbitant charges from COVID-19 patients and directed to the state to intervene in the matter. The court has stated that " If the private hospitals do not budge and are determined to demand exorbitant amount, then this court will have to take appropriate legal action against such hospitals and the consequences may be quite bitter including cancellation of licence."  The court underlined that the "excessive charge in this critical war like situation when humanity is fighting for survival is absolutely unjustified and deserves to be deprecated."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-hunger-is-most-grave-and-serious-problem-in-state-people-are-without-food-says-gujarat-hc-837719.html
