15-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada sees record spike in fresh coronavirus cases||With 16 cases reported till noon, Dakshina Kannada saw a record spike in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday. This is the highest number of cases reported since first case registered in the district on March 22 when Dubai-bound youth from Bhatkal was tested positive.  Out of 179 passengers who landed at Mangalore International Airport on May 12, 15 passengers from DK have been tested positive on Friday. Another  positive is a 68-year-old woman who is suffering from SARI (Severe Accute Respiratpry Infection).  A total of 16 COVID-19 survivors have been discharged from hospital after recovery. Five have succumbed to coronavirus. DK district has registered a total of 50 cases so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-sees-record-spike-in-fresh-coronavirus-cases-837854.html
15-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Udupi reports five new coronavirus cases||After 47 days, five COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Udupi district on Friday. Five passengers from Udupi, who landed at Mangaluru international airport from Dubai and were quarantined at hotels in Udupi, tested positive and are undergoing treatment at designated COVID-19 TMA Pai hospital in Udupi.  The new cases include a 52-year-old man, 31-year-old man, 33-year-old woman, 38-year-old woman and 37-year-old man.  Out of 179 passengers from Dubai, who landed at Mangaluru, 49 were from Udupi.  Udupi district in the past had registered three positive cases between March 25 to 29 and all three had recovered and discharged. With the five fresh cases, Udupi district registered eight cases so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-reports-five-new-coronavirus-cases-837863.html
15-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Three persons including minor test positive for COVID-19 in Bidar||A 14-year-old girl (P-990) contracted the COVID-19 virus from P-936, a 40-year-old woman (P-991), who was tested positive after she came in contact with P-937.   The test results of a 24-year-old youth (P-999) came back positive. He caught the virus while roaming in containment zone in the old city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-persons-including-minor-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bidar-837864.html
15-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Three more test coronavirus positive in Hassan||Three more fresh positive cases of COVID-19 has been reported from Hassan on Friday. All three patients have a travel history to Mumbai. Patient 996 is a 24-year-old woman and P997 is a 7-year-old boy. P998 is a 33-year-old man. All the patients are isolated at a designated hospital in Hassan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-more-test-coronavirus-positive-in-hassan-837866.html
15-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Woman killed in cowshed collapse||A 42-year-old woman died after the rooftop of a cowshed collapsed on her at Hadaginakoppa in Sringeri taluk. The deceased is Annapoorna. The incident occurred when she was inside the cowshed. She is the wife of farmer Venkatesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-killed-in-cowshed-collapse-838090.html
15-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kenyan thanks Mysureans for help during lockdown||A Kenyan PhD student of the University of Mysore (UoM), has thanked Mysureans for their courtesy and help, during the coronavirus lockdown. Kenneth Munene Mbae said that his guide and professor, S Umesha, department of studies in Biotechnology, chauffeured him around for tests and other formalities to facilitate his travel back home. “I am married, with a 13-year-old daughter. I am pursuing a PhD degree in Biotechnology, under the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) scholarship for African students. I am from the Department of Food Science, Meru University of Science and Technology, Meru, Kenya,” he said. “India and Kenya have a long standing relationships and cooperation in commerce, education and healthcare. Many Kenyan businessmen, patients and students were stranded in India as international flights were stopped. The uncertainty on resumption of normalcy caused distress among many. When the High Commission of the Kenyan Republic announced plans of a repatriation flight, I was eager to return home, until the situation stabilises,” Mbae said. “Among the requirements to board the flight, back home, was a COVID-19 free certificate. Owing to the hurried arrangement of the evacuation flight and the demand that the certificate be obtained within seven days prior to the flight, the task to secure the certificate from Mysore Medical College and Research Institute, the only testing facility then, in Mysuru, seemed difficult. However, my research guide Umesha referred me to Dr M S Basavaraju, chief medical officer of UoM, who was extremely helpful,” he said. Mbae said, “Dr Basavaraju liaised with the authorities concerned and I was directed to the district Hospital, for sampling. The sample was swiftly analysed alongside others and the report was ready in 24 hours. I was delighted to have a negative COVID status. I am indebted to the district administration and Health department of Mysuru for their efficiency.” “In the absence of public transport and taxis Umesha chauffeured me in his private car, whenever I required to reach a specific destination, in pursuit of the COVID test. As I return home, I look forward to successfully undergoing the prescribed 14 days quarantine in Kenya, before meeting my family. Despite the setback caused by COVID outbreak, I hope to complete my PhD degree once the situation gets better,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kenyan-thanks-mysureans-for-help-during-lockdown-838115.html
15-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Smart Nurse’ robot to help medical staff||In an effort to reduce human activity in hospitals, offices and hotels, a city-based company D M Techtrix, has developed a robot and has named it ‘Smart Nurse’. The robot is developed to help doctors, nurses and paramedics, working in hospitals as corona warriors. It reduces the number of visits to the patient. The robot is capable of performing the duties of a nurse, like providing medicines to patients. It has a capacity to carry medicines, water, food and medical equipment weighing up to five kg. It can move around 10 to 15 rooms and travel up to 100 metre distance. One end of the machine has a sanitiser bottle and a nozzle. It is designed to spray sanitiser, if a hand is stretched before the nozzle. The robot can be controlled through a mobile application. D M Techtrix founder-CEO Eshak Rajendran, managing director Srivalli Srinivasan and architect Pramod have designed and developed the ‘Smart Nurse’. Eshak Rajendran said that they have developed and sold five such robots so far. “Health has become the priority, due to the spread of coronavirus. By using the robot, the nurses need not go near the patient frequently. The machine can be used to shift medicines and small articles,” he added. Not only in hospitals, the robots can be used in hotels and offices. It can carry food items, plates and coffee to the customer’s table. The machine has 12 volts battery and can work for eight hours. The price of the robot is Rs 5,000, he said. ‘Smart Nurse-2’ We are developing the next version ‘Smart Nurse-2’ and would have more features. It can carry more weight and travel more distances. It will be designed to work for more than eight hours, he explained. Sudhakar of JPOS Software said, “We are using this technology in our office. It is used to move files from one room to another. The machine is kept at the entrance to spray sanitiser.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/smart-nurse-robot-to-help-medical-staff-838117.html
15-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hassan: 7 more test positive for COVID-19||With seven more persons testing positive for COVID-19 in Hassan, the number of positive cases increased to 16, on Friday. All have a travel history to Mumbai. While three are women, four are men. Patient (P) 996 is a 24-year-old woman and P-997 is seven-year-old boy. P-998 is a 33-year-old man. Similarly, P-1033 is 30-year-old man, P-1034 is 18-year-old woman. P-1035 is an eight-year-old boy and P-1036 is 30-year-old woman. All are being treated at the designated COVID hospital in Hassan. It may be mentioned that the district, which was in the green zone, reported five cases on Tuesday. The district administration has tightened the lockdown norms and all those coming from other states are being mandatorily quarantined. All five persons who tested positive on Tuesday have a travel history to Mumbai in Maharashtra. The district administration has restricted the movement of inter-district vehicles also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-7-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-838118.html
15-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Won't hold post if farmers interest affected: B S Yediyurappa||Defending his government's ordinance that amended laws to curtail powers of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said he has taken oath of office in the name of farmers and would not hold the post 'even for a minute' if their interests are affected. "Our motto is farmers first," he asserted. Despite objections from opposition parties, the state cabinet on Thursday had approved the ordinance, which, the government claimed, is aimed at bringing in reforms to facilitate market access for farmers. "The amended APMC act will provide an opportunity for farmers to sell their produce directly to any purchaser outside APMC yards or in other APMCs. This will help them get remunerative prices for their produce," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters here, he said the amended act would definitely benefit farmers in improving their income and reduce their suffering from losses due to market fluctuations. "The intention of my government and that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is that farmers should be protected from market trends. This amendment will indirectly help farmers in doubling their income by 2022...the Prime Minister's dream," he added. Opposition parties have vehemently opposed the ordinance and threatened to stage agitations, alleging that it would dilute the APMC laws and affect farmers' interests. The measure would only help big private companies as it will clip the powers of the APMCs, they have charged. Clarifying that his government had not removed the APMC Act and had only amended two sections in it, which enable farmers to sell their produce at the markets they wanted to, Yediyurappa said the amendment would also end their exploitation by market forces to a certain extent. "Many a time we have seen farmers resorting to distress sales due to collapse in the prices of commodities. But the new amendment will allow farmers to sell their produce at a market selected by them," he said. "Many are misleading the farmers on this issue and amendment. But I reiterate that I being the Chief Minister, sworn in the name of farmers, I will not sit in this chair even for a minute if their interests are affected. I will never allow them to suffer," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/wont-hold-post-if-farmers-interest-affected-b-s-yediyurappa-837987.html
15-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: States will be the bosses in Lockdown 4.0||It has become clear that states will have a bigger say in lockdown 4.0 with chief ministers submitting their views on how to deal with various nuances during the lockdown and a graded exit from it, to the Centre by May 15. In a video conference meeting of chief ministers with Prime Minister Narendra on May 11, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee did some plain talk telling the Centre that the latter must involve states when decisions are taken. And this is happening with the active consent of the Centre, which after three lockdowns is gradually seen passing the baton to the states, which are the actual implementation agency at the ground level. States have been given a substantial say in deciding the colour coding of zones—Red, Orange and Green depending upon the spread of the disease in the respective regions as well as the time frame and model of quarantine from institutional to home. State inputs played a key role in Railway Ministry’s decision to cancel general passenger trains till June as a number of states in the PM-CMs meeting had raised concerns over even the partial resumption of train services. “We requested public transport should not be allowed in lockdown 4.0, only those who are stuck in different places within the country or outside India should be allowed to come back. General public transport should not be allowed,” a chief minister said after the meeting.      Even when the Home and Railway ministries issued the Standard Operating Protocol for movement of persons by trains last week, they made it clear “on the arrival of their destination, the travelling passengers will have to adhere to such health protocols as prescribed by the destination State/Union Territory.” So while Bihar, which had enforced 21 institutional quarantine regime for those coming from Shramik Special trains, decided to send the passengers alighting from Rajdhani Special trains to home quarantine. Karnataka decided to send them to institutional quarantine. Before running of either of these trains Centre had prescribed an institutional quarantine of 14 days.  While Lockdown 3.0 is still continuing, Delhi government flagged its reservations against Home Ministry bracketing all 11 districts of the state under the Red zone, saying specific hotspot areas, not entire districts should be declared red zones, an idea, which later found favour with many other states. Centred agreed to the hotspot centric idea, which is a key component of Lockdown 4.0. Interacting with Chief Secretaries of states,  Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Sunday made it clear that states will have to take a call on whether more stringent measures than provided by MHA guidelines are required in a particular state or district. “You are the in-charge of your jurisdictions and you have to make a call,” Gauba told them. While flagging concern over the crowd gathering outside liquor shops, Gauba reminded them that their opening was allowed “in response to suggestions by states.” "I want states to make a blueprint on how to deal with various nuances during and after the gradual easing of the lockdown”, the prime minister had said. On May 14, the Delhi government has already sent its views to the Centre after seeking direct feedback from the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-states-will-be-the-bosses-in-lockdown-40-837756.html
15-05-2020||National||Shramik Special train leaves for Bengaluru, to take 60-hours to reach||A Shramik Special train, which left for Bengaluru on Thursday night carrying 960 people from Karnataka stranded in Delhi, will reach IT city after 60-hour long journey. Though the train was earlier scheduled at 8 pm, it left two-hour delay from Old Delhi Railway Station as several passengers have come late to the designated place. From the designated place, Delhi police picked them and dropped at the railway station. The train will have only two official stoppages at Hubballi and Kalburgi before reaching  Bengaluru. The train first will go to Hubballi after making 35 to 38-hour journey via  Bhusaval, Miraj and  Belagavi. After dropping passengers of that region, it will go to Gulbarga via Gadag and Vijayapura after 8 to 10-hour journey.  After dropping passengers at Gulbarga, it will go to Bengaluru via Guntakal after around 12-hour journey. Shramik Special is running at Rajdhani Express speed since tracks are empty due to suspension of regular passenger trains, officials said still the train takes a long time as it has to criss-cross several places.  Normally Rajdhani Express train from New Delhi to Bengaluru takes 31 hours as it travels via Nagpur-Kachiguda. The Karnataka Government already announced that it will bear the ticket expenditure of the passengers. The railways made onboard food and drinking water free of cost. Though 1200 people stranded in Haryana, Punjab, and Uttar Pradesh, have registered in Sevasindu website, only 960 people have turned up. Officials in Karnataka Bhavan in co-ordination with Delhi government for  logistics for ferrying these stranded people. Upon reaching their respective destination, an official in Karnataka will make arrangements for their institutional quarantine or home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shramik-special-train-leaves-for-bengaluru-to-take-60-hours-to-reach-837776.html
15-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 15, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-15-2020-edition-837777.html
15-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 15||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 85,572 as of May 15. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 2,729 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 23,386 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-15-837778.html
15-05-2020||National||DH Cartoon | Indian Army proposes 3-year 'Tour Duty' for civilians||The Indian Army is examining a proposal for allowing civilians to join the force for a three-year tenure, officials said. At present, the Army recruits young people under short service commission for an initial tenure of 10 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-cartoon-indian-army-proposes-3-year-tour-duty-for-civilians-837782.html
15-05-2020||National||Online classes during coronavirus: Disabled students at disadvantage||Classes on Zoom or other video conferencing platforms may be the current trend during this COVID-19 lockdown, but thousands of disabled college students are finding it hard to access classes with no laptop and internet, lack of study material in format suitable for them and absence of sign language interpreters and transcripts. The disabled students fear that they would be in further disadvantage if the universities go ahead with the examinations soon after the national lockdown is lifted, as they could not even access organisations that could help them with extra assistance in their academics. At least 75,000 students with disability are estimated to be attending colleges in the country but disability activists are complaining that the government has not yet formulated a guideline for online classes and finalising examination schedule. The Department of Empowerment of Persons With Disabilities (DEPWD) had on April 29 written to the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD) to issue an "appropriate advisory" to states and academic institutions to take measures to ensure that disabled students participate equally with others in online classes. It also urged the MHRD to take into consideration their plight while finalising the examination schedule. The DEPWD communication came after the Javed Abidi Foundation (JAF) shot off a letter highlighting that online classes are not accessible to students, especially, to those having visual, hearing and specific learning disabilities. It said majority of disabled students come from lower strata of society and may not have laptop and internet to avail online classes. However, JAF Convenor Shameer Rishad said, the MHRD has not yet formulated the guidelines despite they submitting elaborate recommendations to it on May 5. "The Centre had launched the Digital and Accessible India campaigns in 2015, but students want to know if these initiatives were just tokenisms, or does the government really envision them as the future of an 'Atma Nirbhar Bharat' (Self Reliant India)? How serious is the Modi administration about being inclusive in addressing the needs of people with disabilities?" Rishad said.  He said data shows that 74,435 students are enrolled in universities across the country who are now unable to access education due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "This is merely because there are no guidelines issued by the competent authority," he said. In its letter to DEPWD it stated, online classes are troublesome for disabled students for diverse reasons, including inaccessible study material. Most of them are either in the image form and no alternative text is provided while documents are not scanned properly or at times not converted via OCR Reader. Students with hearing disabilities face the problem because there are no sign language interpreters and unavailability of transcripts of lectures. On the exam schedule, the letter asked, when students with disabilities do not have access to study material or many of them even do not have access to electronic devices, how will they prepare for exams? In its recommendations to the MHRD, JAF and Diversity And Equal Opportunity Centre (DEOC) suggested that colleges should use accessible web/video conferencing platform, which uses assistive technologies like screen reader, magnifier and speech recognition software. A sign language interpreter should be provided if there is a deaf student who is a sign language user. It should be ensured that the window for the interpreter is not small and that there is enough light on the interpreter to ensure good visibility, it said. "Videos should have captions and audio descriptions. Transcripts should also be provided, which would help deaf and blind people," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/online-classes-during-coronavirus-disabled-students-at-disadvantage-837788.html
15-05-2020||National||ICMR in talks with two more pharma companies for production of desi antibody kits||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is in talks with two more pharma companies for mass production of the antibody test kit for COVID-19 developed by Pune-based National Institute of Virology. The Covid Kavach Elisa, developed by ICMR-NIV, already has a “non-exclusive agreement” with Zydus Cadila, a Gujarat-based pharma major that exports medicines to European and US markets. “ICMR has also been approached by Cipla Pvt. Ltd. and NextGen Life Sciences for providing non-exclusive license for ‘COVID KAVACH ELISA’, which is under process,” the ICMR statement said. After the test was developed at NIV, the ICMR had approached companies such as SPAN, J-MITRA, Zydus-Cadila and Cipla with an offer to take up production. “Except Zydus-Cadila, three others refused to accept the offer,” the ICMR said. The ELISA test has the advantage of processing 90 samples together in a single run of two-and-a-half hours and can be deployed easily at the district-level as the kit has inactivated virus. “On external validation, the IgG test kit produced by ICMR-NIV, Pune has been found to have sensitivity and specificity of 98.7% and 100% respectively,” a statement from the ICMR said. The first batch of kits produced by Zydus Cadila have been validated by the NIV and it was found that they have similar sensitivity and specificity. The kits will be deployed in the to carry out the sero survey among 24,000 individuals across 69 districts to assess the prevalence of the Covid-19 infection in the country. Sero survey involves collection and analyses of blood samples to find out the extent to which Covid-19 has spread in the country and provide insights into which communities and populations are most affected by it. “The survey will involve collection of venous blood samples from 400 randomly selected individuals (one per household) from 10 clusters in each district. Sera from these individuals will be tested for presence of IgG antibodies using ELISA test developed by ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune,” the ICMR had said on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-in-talks-with-two-more-pharma-companies-for-production-of-desi-antibody-kits-837798.html
15-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: India-US collaboration needed now more than ever, says Ambassador Taranjit Sandhu||"COVID-19 has made us recognise the need for collaborations more than ever before. Our Prime Minister has emphasised a global coordinated response to deal with the challenges even as we work to strengthen our domestic capacities to deal with this crisis," Sandhu said during a virtual interaction with eminent Indian-American scientists on Thursday. Noting that India's partnership with the US in health sciences and technologies is longstanding, the diplomat said research and innovation institutions of both the countries have been engaged in understanding important chronic and infectious diseases and in developing therapeutics and diagnostics. India and the United States have closely collaborated in combating diseases such as tuberculosis; cancer; HIV; eye diseases and environmental health research, he said.  There are over 200 ongoing NIH-funded projects in India, involving 20 Institutes from the NIH network and several eminent institutions in India. "A recent successful example of our co-operation is the development of the ROTAVAC against rotavirus. Such collaborations will be critical in the fight against COVID-19," Sandhu said. "From the initial days of the outbreak, our scientists and institutions have been actively engaged in an exchange of information. Even as both our countries are focused on combating the disease domestically, NIH and Indian Council for Medical Research have come together and announced a call to support collaborative research and training through India-US partnership to understand the disease," he said. The India-US Science and Technology Endowment Fund has called for proposals that would enable scientists to carry out joint research and work towards the development of new technologies, tools, safety, outreach and also support public-private virtual networks to fight COVID-19, he added. Indian pharmaceutical companies are global leaders in producing affordable low-cost medicines and vaccines and will play an important role in the fight against this pandemic, Sandhu said. "As I speak here today, there are at least three ongoing collaborations between Indian vaccine companies with US-based institutions. These collaborations would be beneficial not just to us, but for the billions who would need to be vaccinated against COVID-19 across the world," Sandhu said. Asserting that innovation will be the key driver in pandemic response and recovery, the Indian diplomat said that the tech-companies and start-ups have already begun to take the lead in this direction. Telemedicine and telehealth will evolve as will other digital platforms across sectors, he noted. India, he said, takes immense pride in the contribution of doctors, scientists, academicians of Indian-origin, who came to the United States in the pursuit of academic excellence and have distinguished themselves in diverse fields.  “Your contributions are widely acknowledged and deeply appreciated by the political leadership in the United States,” he added. The online interaction was attended by Dr Chandan K, Sen J Stanley Battersby Chair and Professor of Surgery and Director of the Indiana Center for Regenerative Medicine and Engineering, Pawan Sinha, professor of vision and computational neuroscience in the Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Professor Shivaji Sondhi, professor of physics at Princeton University, known for contributions to the field of quantum condensed matter, Professor Aseem Chair of the Department of Chemical Biology and Therapeutics, St. Jude Children's Hospital and Dr Sanjay Kumar Jain, Professor of Pediatrics, Radiology and Radiological Science. “The scientific community has a critical role to play in the unprecedented circumstances that we face today. As doctors, you are at the frontlines of the fight against COVID-19, as scientists and biotech experts, you are at the forefront of global efforts to find a cure for COVID-19,” Sandhu said in his remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-us-collaboration-needed-now-more-than-ever-says-ambassador-taranjit-sandhu-837804.html
15-05-2020||National||Post-coronavirus Flights: Cabin crew attire to have face shield, gown and mask||Cabin crew members of Indian airlines will have personal protective equipment (PPE) like face shields, gowns and masks as part of their attire on commercial passenger flights when they resume operations, industry sources said. India is under a lockdown since March 25 to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, and all scheduled commercial passenger flights remain suspended. Airlines such as IndiGo, Air India, Vistara and AirAsia India have decided to go with the new attire to ensure safety of cabin crew members as they are in close proximity to passengers during flights, the sources said. This would be similar to the attire unveiled by Philippines AirAsia for its cabin crew on April 27. The attire comprise a red-coloured full body suit consisting of a face shield and a face mask. "While AirAsia India will have face shields, masks, gowns, aprons and gloves as a part of their PPE attire for cabin crew members, Vistara would have a lap gown, face mask and face shield as the new dress code," a source said. Once commercial flights resume, each IndiGo's crew member will have to wear a surgical mask, gloves, face shields along with a gown or a body suit, the sources said. Air India, which is currently conducting repatriation flights under the Vande Bharat Mission to bring stranded Indians home from abroad, will have its crew members wear a body suit, gloves, face shield and face mask even in scheduled commercial passenger flights, whenever they restart, the sources said. The virus has infected more than 78,000 persons and killed more than 2,500 in India. Earlier this month, the Civil Aviation Ministry asked Indian airlines and airports to give their comments on a draft Standard Operating Procedure regarding the post-lockdown commercial flight operations. On May 12, the ministry said on Twitter that it has received comments from the stakeholders and is yet to issue the final SOP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/post-coronavirus-flights-cabin-crew-attire-to-have-face-shield-gown-and-mask-837811.html
15-05-2020||National||FM Nirmala Sitharaman to address media at 4 pm detailing 3rd part of Rs 20 lakh crore package||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will hold a press conference, on Friday, at 4 pm, to explain the third part of the Atmanirbhar (Self-reliance) economic package. She will be speaking, from Delhi at the National Media Centre, sharing more details of Rs 20 lakh crore economic package. Watch LIVE here 👇 Follow for LIVE updates 👇 In her first press briefing about the economic package, on Wednesday, Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled details of the massive economic stimulus package, announced by the Prime Minister a day earlier, launching six relief measures for MSMEs, two measures each for EPF and NBFCs and MFIs, one each for DISCOMS, contractors, real estate, and three tax measures.  The Finance Minister said that essentially this is to spurt growth and to build a self-reliant India, which is why this initiative is called Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. The five pillars of Atmanirbhar Bharat are economy, infrastructure, system, demography and demand, the Finance Minister reiterated. On Thursday, she unveiled 9 measures - 3 for migrants, 1 loan within mudra, 1 for street vendors, 1 for housing, 1 for employment generation for tribal pockets, 2 for small farmers. The economic package was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Tuesday, in his address to the nation. In his address, the PM spoke about being self-reliant in the 21st century and that the country must turn the COVID-19 crisis into an opportunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-to-address-media-at-4-pm-detailing-3rd-part-of-rs-20-lakh-crore-package-837817.html
15-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: World Bank approves $1 billion aid to support India's efforts for providing social assistance to poor||This takes the total commitment from the World Bank towards emergency COVID-19 response in India to $2 billion. A USD 1 billion support was announced last month to support India's health sector.  The response to the COVID-19 pandemic around the world has required governments around the world to introduce social distancing and lockdowns in unprecedented ways, said Junaid Ahmad, World Bank Country Director in India in a webinar interaction with the media. These measures, intended to contain the spread of the virus have, however, impacted economies and jobs – especially in the informal sector. India with the world's largest lockdown has not been an exception to this trend, he said. Of the $1 billion commitment, $550 million will be financed by a credit from the International Development Association (IDA) – the World Bank's concessionary lending arm and $200 million will be a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), with a final maturity of 18.5 years including a grace period of five years. The remaining $250 million will be made available after June 30, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-world-bank-approves-1-billion-aid-to-support-indias-efforts-for-providing-social-assistance-to-poor-837818.html
15-05-2020||National||India’s 50-day coronavirus lockdown brings misery as COVID-19 numbers surge||By Muneeza Naqvi and Ari AltstedterMore than 50 days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi locked down India, the pandemic’s human and economic toll is worsening -- even as new cases of the coronavirus surge at a record pace. On Sunday, India marked its highest daily tally of fresh infections, about 4,400, and the total now is more than 78,000. The Markit Purchasing Managers’ Index for India, a measure of business activity, has fallen to the lowest worldwide over the course of the lockdown. The economy is headed for its first annual contraction in forty years, and the human cost has piled up in the form of hunger and untreated disease. The economic devastation rippling through the nation is forcing the government to start easing restrictions even as new cases climb. Lockdown curbs are expected to be loosened further next week in many parts of the country. That’s raising worries the disease could spread faster as people are allowed out over the coming weeks. Meanwhile, even as the government has scaled up testing to identify new cases, bureaucratic snafus have slowed the process, leaving some wondering if the multiple extensions to the initial lockdown have been worth the hefty price. “The overall cost benefit in India is not favorable,” said T Sundararaman, the New Delhi-based global coordinator of the People’s Health Movement, a public health group. “After having increased deaths on other counts, and increased deaths and suffering due to economic distress, you haven’t curbed the coronavirus at all.” India’s experience reflects the balancing act that countries worldwide are facing during the pandemic, even as emerging nations face a particularly steep cost with millions poised to fall into poverty. The Modi administration argues that India would have had as many as 8,20,000 cases by April 15 if it hadn’t been for the lockdown. At the very least, the shutdown has slowed the virus’s trajectory for now, even though it hasn’t flattened the curve as much as hotspots like Spain and Italy did with their lockdowns. On Wednesday, India’s federal health minister told reporters that the lockdown had helped India significantly lower the rate at which infections were doubling. Cases are doubling in about 12 days, he said, compared with three to four days when the lockdown began. India’s total number of recorded cases is also still low compared to other countries like the US, where cases have touched 1.4 million. But the difficulties in testing India’s vast population has also left lingering questions about whether the official tally reflects the true scale of the outbreak. The South Asian country may not yet have seen the worst of the epidemic. Government experts have begun to acknowledge the outbreak won’t peak in the country until June or July. While countries like the US, Germany and Italy must worry about a second wave of infections as they exit their lockdowns, India’s plan to ease its measures on Monday will come as its first wave continues to grow.  “India’s case and death numbers are increasing every single day,” said Madhukar Pai, Canada research chair in epidemiology and global health at McGill University in Montreal. “This means the peak is yet to come.” The economic hit has been stark. About 122 million Indians were forced out of their jobs last month, according to estimates from a leading private sector think tank, pushing up the jobless rate to 27.1% compared with 22% implied for the US In recent days, Modi has pledged a $265 billion stimulus package to shore up the economy.  Still, ratings agency Crisil Ltd. projects that Indian companies will have their worst revenue performance in at least a decade. The strict stay-at-home curbs have posed a number of hurdles for market participants. The curbs have led to thinning of volumes and an increase in volatility, prompting the central bank to shorten trading hours for bonds and currency markets. Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of laborers who’d migrated from India’s villages to its megacities were left with little choice but to start walking home, in many cases hundreds of kilometres, as train and bus services were suspended.  Still, ratings agency Crisil Ltd. projects that Indian companies will have their worst revenue performance in at least a decade. The strict stay-at-home curbs have posed a number of hurdles for market participants. The curbs have led to thinning of volumes and an increase in volatility, prompting the central bank to shorten trading hours for bonds and currency markets. Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of labourers who’d migrated from India’s villages to its megacities were left with little choice but to start walking home, in many cases hundreds of kilometres, as train and bus services were suspended. In one particularly tragic case, 15 migrants were killed by a freight train while walking along the tracks trying to get home. In recent days, steps have been taken to help the migrant workers home via special trains but that shift will mean that thousands will be moving across state borders right when the number of cases are climbing. People should have been given advance warning to prepare and some movement should have been allowed before the initial lockdown began, said K. Sujatha Rao, a former health secretary. “What they should have done earlier they’re doing at the very end,” Rao said about the government’s policies. “It’s so badly sequenced and so badly implemented.” Most public health experts agree that the purpose of a lockdown is not to stop the disease entirely, but to buy time to build capacity so the health-care system isn’t overwhelmed when cases pick up again. On these preparations the Modi government claims progress. Where early in the pandemic doctors reported shortages of protective equipment like face masks and gloves, some of those concerns have eased as more Indian companies were pressed into manufacturing them. Despite difficulties acquiring test kits amid a global shortage, India has managed to test more than 80,000 samples a day so far in May, more than the U.K. or Italy, according to data compiled by Our World in Data. And over the full course of the lockdown the government has created 656,769 isolation beds in the country for those with mild illness, and about 34,000 intensive care beds, according to official statements. It’s unclear if that will be enough in a country with crowded cities and slums where social distancing is almost impossible. One forecast from the Brookings Institute estimates the country will need as many as 220,000 ventilator-equipped critical care beds. India’s huge population means its testing covers a relatively small portion of its citizenry. It’s doing about 0.06 tests per thousand people per day, compared to 0.7 in Italy and 0.9 in Australia. The country’s premier government health body, the India Council of Medical Research, first purchased and then recalled faulty Chinese anti-body testing kits, meant to show if a person has had the virus in the past. Local testing kit manufacturers say their testing products have been held up because they haven’t been able to get access to samples of the virus, allowing mainly imported kits to be used. “Without the samples, it is not possible to standardize the product, and scale up commercial production,” said Pavan Kumar, executive director of Bengaluru-based Bhat Bio-tech India Pvt Ltd. India’s health ministry and ICMR did not respond to a request for comments. Even as the lockdown is poised to ease and people set to emerge, India’s public health system is already stretched thin. Other diseases like diabetes and tuberculosis are going increasingly untreated because resources have been shifted to fight the virus and patients are reluctant or unable to visit hospitals. Every month of lockdown will translate into an additional 71,290 tuberculosis deaths over the next five years, according to a study from the Stop TB Partnership. “Essential health services, whether it’s clinic visits, admissions, deliveries, surgeries, are all down,” said Naman Shah, a doctor who runs a hospital system in Chhattisgarh. “I think we have to ask what was the goal of the lockdown and did it achieve that.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-50-day-coronavirus-lockdown-brings-misery-as-covid-19-numbers-surge-837824.html
15-05-2020||National||Coronavirus death toll in India rises to 2,649; cases climb to 81,970: Health Ministry||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,649 and the number of cases climbed to 81,970 on Friday in India, registering an increase of 100 deaths and 3,967 cases in the last 24 hours since Thursday 8 am, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active cases stood at 51,401 while 27,919 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said. "Thus, around 34.06 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. The total confirmed cases include foreign nationals too. Of the 100 deaths reported since Thursday morning, 44 were in Maharashtra, 20 in Gujarat, nine in Delhi, eight in West Bengal, five each in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, four in Rajasthan, two each in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka and one in Andhra Pradesh. Of the 2,649 fatalities, Maharashtra tops tally with 1,019 deaths, Gujarat comes second with 586 deaths, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 237, West Bengal at 215, Rajasthan at 125, Delhi at 115, Uttar Pradesh at 88,Tamil Nadu at 66 and Andhra Pradesh at 48.   The death toll reached 35 in Karnataka, 34 Telangana and 32 in Punjab. Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir have reported 11 fatalities each due to the disease while Bihar has registered seven and Kerala has reported four deaths. Jharkhand, Chandigarh and Odisha have recorded three COVID-19 fatalities each while Himachal Pradesh and Assam have reported two deaths each. Meghalaya, Uttarakhand and Puducherry have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data. More than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities (existence of multiple disorders), according to the ministry. The data updated this morning showed the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 27,524, followed by Tamil Nadu at 9,674, Gujarat at 9,591, Delhi at 8,470 Rajasthan at 4,534, Madhya Pradesh at 4,426 and Uttar Pradesh at 3,902. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 2,377 in West Bengal, 2,205 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,935 in Punjab. It has risen to 1,414 in Telangana, 994 in Bihar, 987 in Karnataka, 983 in Jammu and Kashmir and 818 in Haryana. Odisha has reported 611 coronavirus infection cases so far while Kerala has 560 cases. A total of 197 people have been infected with the virus in Jharkhand and 191 in Chandigarh. Tripura has reported 156 cases, Assam has 87 cases, Uttarakhand has 78, Himachal Pradesh has 74 cases, Chhattisgarh has 60 and Ladakh has registered 43 cases so far. Thirty-three COVID-19 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Goa reported 14 COVID-19 cases while Meghalaya and Puducherry registered 13 cases each. Manipur has three cases. Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Dadar and Nagar Haveli reported a case each till how. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website. State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-death-toll-in-india-rises-to-2649-cases-climb-to-81970-health-ministry-837833.html
15-05-2020||National||Coast Guard ship, 2 interceptor boats commissioned by Rajanth Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday commissioned a ship and two interceptor boats of the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) in Goa through video conferencing from New Delhi in the backdrop of COVID-19, adding muscle to operations of the maritime security agency. Indigenously built Indian Coast Guard Ship Sachet, interceptor boats C-450 and C-451 were commissioned in Goa by Singh via video link. An ICG spokesman said the ship 'Sachet', the first in the series of five offshore patrol vessels (OPVs), has been designed and built indigenously by Goa Shipyard Ltd (GSL) and is fitted with state-of-the-art navigation and communication equipment, sensor and machinery. He said this was first time in the Indian maritime history that a Coast Guard ship was commissioned through digital medium, maintaining the strict protocol of social distancing in the backdrop of the COVID -19 pandemic. Along with Singh, Ajay Kumar, defence secretary, and D G Krishnaswamy Natarajan, Director General of ICG, were also present on the occasion. Minister of State for DefenceShripad Naik was present at Vasco facility of Goa Shipyard Ltd at the time of commissioning. The 105 metre ship displaces approx 2350 tons and is propelled by two 9100 KW diesel engines designed to attain a maximum speed of 26 knots, with an endurance of 6000 nm. "The sustenance and reach, coupled with the latest equipment and system, provides her the capability to perform the role of a command platform and undertake tasks to fulfil the Coast Guard charter, he said. The ship is designed to carry a twin-engine helicopter and four high-speed boats and one inflatable boat for swift boarding and search and rescue operations, the spokesman added. It is also capable of carrying limited pollution response equipment to undertake oil spill pollution response at sea, he said. ICGS Sachet is commanded by Deputy Inspector General Rajesh Mittal and manned by 11 officers and 110 men. The spokesman said the interceptor boats C-450 and C- 451 are indigenously designed and built by L&T Shipyard, Hazira (Gujarat) and is fitted with latest navigation and Communication equipment. The two 30 metre boats are capable of achieving speeds in excess of 45 knots and are designed for high speed interception, close coast patrol and low intensity maritime operations, he said. The interceptor boats are commanded by Assistant Commandant Gaurav Kumar Gola and Assistant Commandant Akin Zutshi. The spokesman said the ICG has been a pioneer in inducting indigenous assets which has enabled it to remain operationally available throughout the year. In continuation of our efforts to maximise the indigenous content in our new assets, the ICG is proud to state that the ships commissioned today, have about 70 per cent indigenous content, thus providing the necessary fillip to the Indian shipbuilding industry, he said. He said the ship and boats, on joining the ICG fleet, will be deployed extensively for EEZ (exclusive economic zone) surveillance, coastal security and other duties. With today's commissioning, the Indian Coast Guard has reached a landmark of 150 ships and boats and 62 aircraft. Further, 40 ships are at various stages of construction at different Indian shipyards," the spokesman said. Also, 16 Advanced Light Helicopters are under production at HAL, Bengaluru, which will provide the added strength to the surveillance capabilities of the ICG to deal with the ever-dynamic maritime challenges, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coast-guard-ship-2-interceptor-boats-commissioned-by-rajanth-singh-837849.html
15-05-2020||National||Will not reimburse train fare of those who violate discipline at quarantine centres: Bihar Govt to migrants||Concerned over the increase in incidents of ruckus created by migrants at various quarantine centres (QCs) in Bihar, the Nitish Kumar regime has warned the inmates that “the train fare of those migrants, who violate discipline at quarantine centres, will not be reimbursed.” The government missive, issued by the Disaster Management Department to all the 38 District Magistrates (Deccan Herald has a copy of the letter), says that loud speaker or public address system should be used at all the quarantine centres in 38 districts to inform the inmates that “the train fare of only those migrants will be reimbursed who complete their 14 days stay at quarantine centres followed by seven-day home quarantine in a disciplined manner.” In Bihar, over 1.5 lakh migrants have arrived so far in more than 125 Shramik Special trains since May 3. More than one lakh migrants have been kept at 3,474 quarantine centres, run by the State Government. “The most worrying aspect is that out of total 997 positive cases recorded till May 14 in Bihar, there are 352 migrants who are COVID-19 patients. This essentially means that of all coronavirus positive cases in the state, 36 per cent cases are that of migrants,” said a senior government official, wishing not to be identified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-not-reimburse-train-fare-of-those-who-violate-discipline-at-quarantine-centres-bihar-govt-to-migrants-837858.html
15-05-2020||National||Centre to apprise it about accommodation to quarantine doctors near hospitals||The Supreme Court Friday asked the Centre to apprise it about steps taken for quarantining doctors and medical staff engaged in the fight against coronavirus in accommodations near the hospitals itself. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai, which took up the matter through video conferencing asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, to take instructions and apprise it by next week. During the hearing, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for doctor-petitioner Arushi Jain, said that resident doctors in government hospitals, after completing 7/14 days on duty, are supposed to be quarantined. He said these doctors are quarantined in places where they have to share rooms, bathrooms but it should be done in places, where social distancing can be maintained. Rohatgi said this type of arrangements would defeat the purpose of quarantining and corona warriors will fall down. He said the government should requisition such hotels and guest houses where proper facilities are available and social distancing could be maintained. He said he was not seeking any adversarial order but is only asking for suitable accommodation with necessary facilities near the hospital for the doctors and medical staffs, who are in forefront of dealing with Covid-19 pandemic. He added that there must be some standard operating procedures as doctors are also facing problems in travelling from their residences to the hospitals, facing trouble in housing societies and the government should help them, or these frontline warriors will fall down. Mehta said that Centre has issued directions to all state governments to requisition hotels and guest houses for the doctors and medical staffs, which include budget hotels and five-star hotels. He said that necessary steps are already being taken but if there are any aberrations in any particular instance, it can be brought to the notice of the government and it would be resolved. Mehta said that government is taking every steps to protect the warriors and directions have been issued and it is now a criminal non-bailable offence to attack doctors or asking them to leave the house or housing society. The bench asked Mehta, to consider the suggestions given by the petitioner for providing doctors accommodations nearby the hospital for quarantining. Mehta said that some advisories are under considerations of the government and this would be one of them. Rohatgi intervened and said that what the Solicitor General is saying is too few too little as directive is fine but it should be told as how many hotels or accommodations are there. He said there should be a helpline for doctors and medical staffs to complain about any problem they are facing/ Mehta said that Rohatgi’s client does not have knowledge of pan India and these kinds of debates are demoralising as for government protection of corona warriors is first priority. The bench asked Mehta as to why can’t the government consider requisitioning other places with better facilities near the hospital itself? Mehta replied that it was a fair suggestion and would be considered. He said that as far as helpline is considered there already exists one. The bench, then told Mehta that it would take up the matter next week and by then he should take instructions on quarantine facilities for doctors and medical staffs nearby the hospitals. On April 8, the top court had observed that the doctors and medical staff are the "first line of defence of the country" in the battle against COVID-19 pandemic, and directed the Centre to ensure that appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) are made available to them for treating coronavirus patients. While passing a slew of interim directions to ensure safety of doctors and healthcare professionals, the apex court had expressed concern over the recent incidents of attack on them and directed the Centre, all states and Union Territories to provide necessary police security to the medical staff in hospitals and places where patients, who are either quarantined, suspected or diagnosed with COVID-19, are housed. The top court had directed that "states shall also take necessary action against those persons who obstruct and commit any offence in respect to performance of duties by doctors, medical staff and other government officials deputed to contain COVID-19". The court had passed the order on three petitions including that of Arushi Jain seeking protective kits, other requisite equipment and safety measure for doctors and healthcare workers amid the coronavirus pandemic. The apex court had directed that police security be extended to doctors and other medical staff, who visit places to conduct screening of people to find out symptoms of the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-apprise-it-about-accommodation-to-quarantine-doctors-near-hospitals-837873.html
15-05-2020||National||SC stays Gujarat HC order nullifying election of Minister Chudasama||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-gujarat-hc-order-nullifying-election-of-minister-chudasama-837891.html
15-05-2020||National||SC stays HC order for online sale and home delivery of liquor in Tamil Nadu||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-hc-order-for-online-sale-and-home-delivery-of-liquor-in-tamil-nadu-837894.html
15-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Migrant on way to station to catch Shramik special train collapses, dies||A 45-year-old migrant worker from Rajasthan, who walked 30 km from his residence to catch a Shramik Special train, collapsed and died near the Vasai Road railway station, an official said on Friday. The incident took place on Thursday evening and the deceased was identified as Harish Chander Shankarlal, a resident of Bhayander in adjoining Thane district, he said. He had walked nearly 30 km from his local residence to catch a Shramik Special train at the Vasai Road station in the district to travel to his hometown in Rajasthan, the official said.  Shankarlal, a carpenter by profession, was working at a construction site and was without a job due to the lockdown, he said. On Wednesday, they got information that a special train will be leaving for Rajasthan on Thursday evening, he said. Shankarlal ran and walked on Thursday afternoon on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Highway in sweltering heat to reach the station as he was left with no money to hire an autorickshaw or any other private vehicle, he said. The migrant labourer felt uneasy and collapsed near the station out of exhaustion, the official said, adding he also vomited. The Manikpur police took him to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead before admission, he said. His train was scheduled to leave at 6.30 pm. An accidental death case has been registered at the Manikpur police station and a probe was underway, the official added. His body has been sent for a post-mortem to the government hospital, another official said.  migrant workers staying in Bhayander said authorities had not made any arrangements to ferry them to the railway station. When contacted, Vasai tehsildar Kiran Survase said they had arranged for travel to the station only for migrant workers living in Vasai. Bhayander did not come in their jurisdiction, he said. Survase said on Thursday two trains left from Vasai Road, one for Jaunpur (Uttar Pradesh) and another for Sikar (Rajasthan) with a total of 3,045 passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-on-way-to-station-to-catch-shramik-special-train-collapses-dies-837899.html
15-05-2020||National||Nepal objected to India's road to Lipulekh at someone else's behest: Army Chief||In an apparent indication to a Chinese role, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane on Friday said there were reasons to believe that Nepal objected to India laying a road connecting the Lipulekh pass in Uttarakhand at the behest of someone else even as he asserted that the Army is dealing with incidents of face-offs with Chinese military on a case-by-case basis. In an interaction at a defence think-tank, Gen Naravane said India will have to remain "alive" to a scenario of a "two-front" war along the northern and western borders, but noted that he does not foresee the possibility of every confrontation leading to such a situation. On the Army's big-ticket proposal to induct youngsters for a three-year tenure under the Tour of Duty (ToD) concept, the Army Chief said the idea germinated following feedback from school and college students that they want to experience military life without opting a permanent career in the Army. Gen Naravane said the ToD will help the Army in cutting down revenue expenses on account of payment of pensions and other benefits. Expenditure is being cut through a variety of measures including restricting large movements of troops, he said in the video-conference organised by Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses. On Nepal raising objections to India laying the Lipulekh-Dharchula road, Gen Naravane said the reaction by the neighbouring country was surprising. "The area east of Kali river belongs to them. The road that we built is on the west of the river. There was no dispute. I don't know what they are agitating about," the Army Chief said. "There has never been any problem in the past. There is reason to believe that they might have raised the issues at the behest of someone else and that is very much a possibility," he said. The 80-km-long strategically crucial road at a height of 17,000 feet along the border with China in Uttarakhand was thrown open by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh last week. Nepal on Saturday raised objection to the inauguration of the road, saying the "unilateral act" was against the understanding reached between the two countries on resolving border issues. On two separate incidents of face-offs between Indian and Chinese troops, the Army chief said there was no link between the two, adding "We are dealing with them on a case-by-case basis. I have not seen any concerted design into the face-offs." On the two-front war, he said it is a possibility and that the country will have to remain prepared to deal with such a scenario. "It is a possibility. It is not that it is going to happen every time. We have to be alive to all contingencies which can happen, various scenarios that can unfold. We have to remain alive to the possibility. "But to assume that in all cases both fronts would be 100 per cent active, I think that would be an incorrect assumption to make. In dealing with the two-front scenario, there will always be a priority front and a secondary front. That is how we look at dealing with this two-front threat," Gen Naravane said. He said the priority front would be addressed in a different manner while the secondary front will be kept as dormant as possible just to conserve resources to focus on the priority front. "We should not look at a two-front scenario just as a military responsibility. A country does not go to war with its armed forces alone. It has other pillars like diplomatic corp and other organs of government which will come into play to make sure that we are not forced into a corner where we will have to deal with two adversaries at the same time and in full strength," he added. "I think that's where the whole-of-the-nation approach will come into play," said the Army Chief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepal-objected-to-indias-road-to-lipulekh-at-someone-elses-behest-army-chief-837904.html
15-05-2020||National||Vande Bharat Mission: Over 300 people arrive from London, former top TN official among returnees||As many as 333 people arrived here on Friday from London by an Air India flight as part of the Vande Bharat Mission to bring back Indian nationals stranded in various countries, airport officials said. Former Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary Girija Vaidyanathan was among the returnees, they said. There were 202 men, 126 women and five infants and this was the ninth evacuation flight that landed here from the United Kingdom, they said.  Last night, 167 passengers (110 men and 57 women) arrived from Manila, the capital of the Philippines. Throat and nasal swab samples were taken from the passengers for coronavirus testing and later they were accommodated in different hotels and the premises of an educational institution in a city suburb. Of the over 1,700 returnees till date since May 9, nine have so far tested positive for the contagion. Dubai, Kuala Lumpur and Muscat were among the other cities from where the flights originated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vande-bharat-mission-over-300-people-arrive-from-london-former-top-tn-official-among-returnees-837908.html
15-05-2020||National||Return of the native: Spike in coronavirus cases as migrant workers and others reach home||‘Coming home’ has acquired an edge of anxiety since India went into lockdown with states recording a spike in COVID-19 cases each time there is an influx of people, whether from cluster events or the return of migrants getting back to where they once belonged.    Clambering on to trains, packed into trucks and buses or simply cycling, hitchhiking and walking, lakhs of exhausted migrant workers have begun reaching home, more than 50 days after the lockdown that began on March 25. As people crisscross the country, eager to return to their homes, the cases have raced past 80,000 with at least 2,649 deaths, according to the Union Health Ministry on Friday. While there is no exact count, this includes a large number of those who have returned to their states. Parallel to the large movement of people, signalling reverse migration in Maharashtra, for instance, are cases of people going back home from mass gatherings such as the Tablighi congregation in Delhi in the early days of the lockdown or more recently the return of people from a gurdwara in Nanded in Maharashtra.   Many people are put into quarantine centres once they enter their states but the incidence of the highly infectious disease rises inexorably, and unstoppably.   In Odisha, for instance, 71 of the 73 people who tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday had returned from other states.   Of the 71, 50 returned from Surat in  Gujarat, 20 from West Bengal and one from Karnataka, an official said. With lakhs of migrants on the move – in what is possibly the largest movement of people in India since partition – Odisha’s count rose rapidly to 611 on Thursday, from just 162 11 days ago on May 3. Ganjam district in south Odisha had no cases till May 2 and now has 137, all except one returned from the textile town of Surat. It is a good sign that positive cases come from within the quarantine centres and not from the community, said Odisha government’s COVID-19 spokesperson Subroto Bagchi.   The ‘return of the native’ has also led to a spike in Bihar, which has 940 cases. Migrant workers comprised more than 75 per cent of those testing positive over the last week, state Principal Secretary, Health, Sanjay Kumar said on Monday at a review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. The number of cases rose from 528 to 707 between May 4 and 10. Of the 179, 150 were migrant workers, including 41 from Delhi-NCR, 36 from Maharashtra and 35 from Gujarat. Thousands of people, stranded across various parts of India, are pouring into West Bengal too. These include 2,500 students and their families from Kota and train loads of migrants returning from different places, including Kerala.   Though the state government is not sharing any details, the state has been reporting more than 100 cases a day since May 6.   A senior leader of the ruling TMC said on the condition of anonymity that bringing migrant workers back has the risk of a spurt in the number of cases.   The other source of worry has been people returning from gatherings attended by hundreds, maybe thousands, of people. In Punjab, for instance, pilgrims who returned from the Nanded Hazoor Sahib gurdwara constitute the bulk of cases with 1,225 of 4,216 testing positive.   As of Thursday, the state had 1,934 cases with 32 fatalities.        The state government had brought the pilgrims stranded in Nanded for more than a month in buses. Punjab has another challenge with around 20,521 migrant workers returning from other parts of the country, said National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) director S K Singh. Initially, many coronavirus positive cases in the state were linked to NRIs. A 70-year-old religious preacher who had returned from a trip to Germany and Italy, for instance, was found to be responsible for infecting almost 27 people.   It was a task for the state government to trace around 1,50,000 NRIs and foreign returnees arriving in different parts of the state but it has managed to trace and quarantine most of them, officials said.   Among those infected was a 42-year-old driver from Nanded who ferried five pilgrims to Haryana and then returned, a journey of about 3,000 km, and is puzzled about how he contracted the infection.   “We left from Nanded on April 19, and I returned on April 23… We took stops only where there was no crowd or mostly at empty places. I left those five at Sirsa in Haryana and returned. I can’t figure out from where I got the infection,” the driver told PTI.   Worried about those coming from outside, Haryana has sealed its borders. More than 120 of its 793 cases are because of those who had attended the Tabligh event in March, said Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij. Vij has cited the movement between Delhi and the state as the reason for the rise in cases.  Sonipat, Jhajjar, Gurgaon and Faridabad, part of the National Capital Region, have reported a bulk of the cases. About 1,000 of Delhi’s almost 8,000 cases are also attributed to the Tabligh gathering in the city’s Nizamuddin area.   Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s home district Shivamogga was in the green zone for long but recently reported that eight of the nine affected had returned from Ahmedabad were contacts of Tablighi Jamaat cases. Hassan district in the state was also corona-free but five people, including two children, with a travel history to Mumbai tested positive.        Tracking the spread of the disease in Jharkhand, officials said the first case was a 22-year-old Malaysian woman, one of 17 foreign nationals taken into custody on March 29 in Ranchi. She sparked off a chain of infections in the Hindpiri locality with 93 people testing positive.   If Nanded and the Tablighi gathering were two major cluster events, other crowded places have also led to the spread of the disease.   The wholesale market in Koyambedu in Chennai is one such, reflecting in increased numbers in Andhra Pradesh.   Over 160 individuals with contacts to people who returned from Koyambedu were traced in Chittoor district and tests revealed 27 COVID-19 positive cases in two days this week.   And sometimes, just when you feel the battle has been won, come new cases—from outside.   Kasaragod in Kerala, one of the early COVID-19 hotspots in the country, had a lot to rejoice on Sunday when its tally touched zero. Within hours, however, there were four new cases, all who had travelled from  Maharashtra. Ditto with Goa, which was declared a green zone with no active cases since May 1. The situation has now changed with seven COVID-19 cases. While six came from Mumbai, the seventh is a truck driver who recently reached the state from Gujarat. Beyond the big picture story are the many individual ‘spreaders’.   In the Rajasthan capital Jaipur, for instance, a man who returned from Oman violated guidelines and led to his family, friends and relatives getting infected, officials said. Within days, the cases suddenly increased in Ramganj locality, which became a hotspot.  Himachal Pradesh has about 25 active cases (of a total 66), many who have come from outside. and the worry is that the numbers will spiral.   Kangra MP Kishan Kapoor said 40,000 people have returned to Kangra alone from other states and urged people to strictly observe social distancing norms and follow all precautions to check spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/return-of-the-native-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-as-migrant-workers-and-others-reach-home-837912.html
15-05-2020||National||Delhi Police calls out BJP MP Parvesh Verma for sharing old video, says he shared it with malicious intent||West Delhi MP Parvesh Verma, who raised hackles during Delhi Assembly elections by tweeting that anti-CAA supporters would enter homes and rape women, is at it again! This time, he has tweeted an old video of Muslims offering namaz in large numbers to claim that they were violating social distancing norm only to be called out by Delhi Police on Friday, which said he was using an old video with "malicious intent to spread rumour". Almost an hour after Delhi Police's response, Verma deleted the tweet.  The son of former Delhi Chief Minister Sahib Singh Verma, the West Delhi MP had on Thursday tweeted the 1:03 minute video on Twitter asking whether any religion would allow such "antics" during COVID-19 pandemic by violating social distancing norms. He accused Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of increasing the salaries of Muslim priests and dared him to cut their salaries. "Will these actions stop automatically or have you (Kejriwal) vowed to destroy Delhi?" he tweeted. However, Deputy Commissioner of Police (East Delhi) tweeted from the verified handle, "This is totally false. An old video is being used with a malicious intent to spread the rumour. Please verify before posting and spreading rumours." Fact-checking website Alt News said the video was taken on March 20, five days before the lockdown was announced. Verma had made several controversial remarks during the campaign for February 7 Delhi Assembly elections and was taken off BJP's star campaigner list by the Election Commission. He also faced campaign ban for 96 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-calls-out-bjp-mp-parvesh-verma-for-sharing-old-video-says-he-shared-it-with-malicious-intent-837913.html
15-05-2020||National||Package for migrant workers a cruel hoax: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) on Friday described the second tranche of Rs 20 lakh crore financial package for migrant workers, farmers and the poor reeling under COVID-19 impact a "cruel hoax" and claimed the Finance Minister's announcement was mainly provision of loans only. In a statement, the party Polit Bureau said not a single paisa is being transferred from the government to any of the worst affected sections of our people, specifically migrant workers, street vendors, domestic workers and fishing workers among others. Describing the Rs 3,500 crores allocation for extension of the provision of free food grains as the "only direct benefit", it said Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has now made a "grand gesture" after having cancelled crores of ration cards in the name of corruption making the poor suffer. "Repackaging schemes like one nation, one ration card that will see the light of the day only by mid-2021, is of little consequence to the sufferings that crores of people face today," the statement said. The party also found fault with the government's estimation on the number of migrant workers at eight crore, saying the Parliament was informed in March 2020 that the current estimate is 10 crores. "This means that the allocations for free food will not cover the entire population," the party alleged.  "Modi govt is blind to all that is happening across India. FM said there are 8 crore migrant labour, against 10 crore informed in Parliament. Only 10 lakh have been transported, upon payment, using trains started after 45 days. Centre's response to the crisis has been cruel," CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted.  On MNREGA workdays, the CPI(M) accused the Finance Minister of misleading the country by claiming that there was a 40-50% increase. In April last year, 27.3 crore person days were generated compared to 11.1 crore this year, the lowest in a decade, it said adding unemployment is going to "haunt" all those lakhs of migrants returning to their villages.  "The Finance Minister had dealt with the issue of retrenched workers with callousness. Instead of linking all easy loans to business and enterprises to their protection of the workforce and guaranteeing direct financial aid to ensure at least a part of their salaries, the  Finance Minister declared that those who would be retrenched would be ‘skilled’ for other jobs. Such is the anti-worker policy mindset of this government," it said. National Federation of Indian Women (NFIW) General Secretary Annie Raja said Modi government's attitude towards migrant workers was "insulting".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/package-for-migrant-workers-a-cruel-hoax-cpim-837920.html
15-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Man walks over 1,300 km to meet lover||Lockdown following COVID-19 pandemic may have restricted peoples' movement but it failed to deter two lovers, who lived hundreds of miles apart, from meeting each other. That love knows no bounds came true once again when a youth walked all the way from Ahmedabad to Varanasi covering a distance of around 1300 kilometres to meet his lover. It took him two weeks to reach Varanasi. According to the police sources here on Friday, a woman lodged a report with Mirzamurad police station in Varanasi district on Wednesday stating that her daughter had gone missing since Tuesday evening. The police launched a search operation and managed to trace the location of the girl through mobile phone surveillance and the lovers were found in a house in Lanka area in Varanasi town on Thursday.  It turned out that the two lovers had come in contact through a missed call a few months back. They were desperate to meet but the youth, who lived in Ahmedabad, could not come to Varanasi owing to the lockdown. He, however, set off on foot for Varanasi on the insistence of his lover and reached Varanasi after 14 days. The girl too left her home on Tuesday evening and cycled her way to Varanasi. Police said that the girl was persuaded to go with her parents and the youth was let off after a warning. He may again have to walk back to Ahmedabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-man-walks-over-1300-km-to-meet-lover-837927.html
15-05-2020||National||Minor Dalit rape victim kills herself after after watching her father being threatened||A minor Dalit rape victim, whose father was threatened by the alleged rapist's brother, killed herself in Bachaupur village in Uttar Pradesh, police said on Friday. She hanged herself on Thursday evening after witnessing her father being threatened by Sonu Gautam (30), whose younger brother Sachin had allegedly abducted and raped her six months ago, they said. Circle Officer (Sadar) Rishikesh Yadav said Sonu Gautam hurled expletives on the victim's father in her presence which could have drove her to take the extreme step, Yadav said. Police arrested Sonu Gautam and booked him for abatement to suicide, criminal intimidation and intentional insult. The girl was raped on December 19 and Sachin was arrested and sent to jail, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minor-dalit-rape-victim-kills-herself-after-after-watching-her-father-being-threatened-837935.html
15-05-2020||National||UP bureaucrat mocks migrant workers walking home||A senior Uttar Pradesh bureaucrat came under attack from different quarters after he mocked the migrant workers walking hundreds of miles on foot to their native towns and villages amid the lockdown. On Wednesday a picture of a woman migrant worker pulling her trolley bag on which her exhausted little child slept had gone viral on the social networking sites. The woman, who was part of a group of a dozen migrant workers, were on way to Mahoba in UP from Ludhiana in Punjab, around 900 kilometres.  The group was passing through Agra when the picture was clicked by a passer-by. Agra district magistrate Prabhu Narain Singh, when asked about the picture, said that he too used to travel in the same way in his childhood. ''I also used to travel in this way in my childhood,'' Singh said in a display of utter insensitivity.  He also refused to acknowledge the difficulties being faced by the migrant workers saying that the government had made arrangements for providing them food and shelter and also transport. The opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) demanded action against the DM for his 'insensitive' remark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-bureaucrat-mocks-migrant-workers-walking-home-837936.html
15-05-2020||National||Harsh Vardhan appeals all states, UTs to ban sale of tobacco products, spitting in public||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has appealed to all states and Union Territories to ban sale of tobacco products and spitting in public places in line with the orders of the Rajasthan and Jharkhand governments to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection. In a letter to all state health ministers, Vardhan said smokeless tobacco users have a tendency to spit in public places or otherwise and therefore, increase health risks especially those of spreading contagious diseases like COVID-19, tuberculosis, swine flu, encephalitis and others. "Use of smokeless tobacco also creates an unhygienic environment which further spreads the diseases. Large gathering at the retail outlets where smokeless tobacco products are sold, also pose the risk of spread of COVID-19," he said. In the letter dated May 11, the Union minister underlined that tobacco use is a major threat to public health globally. He also mentioned the Indian Council of Medical Research's (ICMR) appeal to the public not to consume and spit smokeless tobacco products in public places. Chewing tobacco products and areca nut increases production of saliva followed by a very strong urge to spit. Spitting in public places could enhance the spread of the COVID-19, Vardhan said. "By banning spitting in public places, states and UTs can help in achieving not only Swachh Bharat but also Swasth Bharat (Clean India and Healthy India)," he said. Vardhan also mentioned the May 1 guidelines issued by the Union Home Ministry under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, which stipulate that "spitting in public places shall be punishable with fine as may be prescribed by the state/UT local authority and consumption of liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco etc in public places is not allowed". Appreciating the efforts taken by Rajasthan and Jharkhand in this direction, the Union Health Minister urged all states to take similar measures and create widespread awareness regarding the harm of spitting in public places. The Rajasthan government had by an ordinance banned spinning in public places and sale of paan, gutka and tobacco in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The Jharkhand too has imposed a complete ban on all types of tobacco products to prevent spitting in public places that could increase the spread of coronavirus infection. Tobacco smoking is a known risk factor for many respiratory infections and increases the severity of related diseases. A review of studies by public health experts convened by WHO on April 29 found that smokers are more likely to develop severe diseases, compared to non-smokers, said Binoy Mathew, senior programme officer of Voluntary Health Association of India. He said that according to the Global Adult Tobacco Survey, with 268 million or 28.6 per cent of all adults in India, the country has the second largest number of tobacco users in the world. At least 12 lakh die from tobacco-related diseases every year, Mathew said. Those keen to quit smoking and smokeless products can avail of free of charge telephone-based services launched by the government. The Ministry of Health has set up a National Tobacco Quit Line Services to provide counselling services to help tobacco consumers quit the habit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-appeals-all-states-uts-to-ban-sale-of-tobacco-products-spitting-in-public-837943.html
15-05-2020||National||Rare even in most undemocratic countries: BMS on labour law freeze||Describing the "total withdrawal" of labour laws in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat and other states as "unheard in history and rare even in most undemocratic countries", the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) has called a nationwide protest moves on May 20 against moves like increasing working hours. The decision was taken at a meeting of BMS national office bearers through video conference on Wednesday when the trade union leaders said only Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh alone showed the courtesy of meeting them even as they have already written to Chief Ministers of other states. In the meeting, the BMS has chalked out a three-pronged agitation programme for the next fortnight, starting with writing letters to district authorities between May 16 and 18 on local issues like payment of wages, job loss, relief measures for unregistered workers and opposing an increase in working hours from eight hours to 12 hours. This will be followed by nationwide protests with the BMS planning to organise demonstrations at Taluk and district headquarters by maintaining social distancing. On May 30 and 31, they will also organise conventions of workers at various places. In a statement, the BMS said the national office bearers' meeting "condemned the total withdrawal of labour laws" in UP, MP and Gujarat. "States like Rajasthan, as well as the increase in working hours by Maharashtra, Goa and Odisha. The working hours have been increased from 8 to 12 hours. It is learnt that many other states are readying to follow the trend. This is unheard in history and is rare even in most undemocratic countries," it said. It said the migrant workers' issues have aggravated mainly because there is a gross violation of laws related to migrant workers in most states and they were "pushed to the wall" with "no other way out except going for agitation". "Hence, the BMS has decided nationwide agitation in solidarity with the fight against the anti-worker ordinances in UP, MP, Gujarat as well as increase of working hours in Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Goa and Odisha," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rare-even-in-most-undemocratic-countries-bms-on-labour-law-freeze-837944.html
15-05-2020||National||Harsh Vardhan appeals all states, Union Territories to ban sale of smokeless tobacco products, spitting in public||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has appealed to all states and Union Territories to ban the sale of smokeless tobacco products and spitting in public places in line with the orders of the Rajasthan and Jharkhand governments to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection. In a letter to all state health ministers, Vardhan said smokeless tobacco users have a tendency to spit in public places or otherwise and therefore, increase health risks especially those of spreading contagious diseases like COVID-19, tuberculosis, swine flu, encephalitis and others. "Use of smokeless tobacco also creates an unhygienic environment which further spreads the diseases. The large gathering at the retail outlets where smokeless tobacco products are sold, also pose the risk of spread of COVID-19," he said. In the letter dated May 11, the Union minister underlined that tobacco use is a major threat to public health globally. He also mentioned the Indian Council of Medical Research's (ICMR) appeal to the public not to consume and spit smokeless tobacco products in public places. Chewing tobacco products and areca nut increases the production of saliva followed by a very strong urge to spit. Spitting in public places could enhance the spread of the COVID-19, Vardhan said. "By banning spitting in public places, states and UTs can help in achieving not only Swachh Bharat but also Swasth Bharat (Clean India and Healthy India)," he said. Vardhan also mentioned the May 1 guidelines issued by the Union Home Ministry under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, which stipulate that "spitting in public places shall be punishable with fine as may be prescribed by the state/UT local authority and consumption of liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco etc in public places is not allowed". Appreciating the efforts of Rajasthan and Jharkhand in this direction, the Union Health Minister urged all states to take similar measures and create widespread awareness regarding the harm of spitting in public places. The Rajasthan government had by an ordinance banned spinning in public places and sale of paan, gutka and tobacco in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The Jharkhand too has imposed a complete ban on all types of tobacco products to prevent spitting in public places that could increase the spread of coronavirus infection. "I am happy to note that the governments of Jharkhand and Rajasthan have already completely banned the sale of tobacco products and spitting in public places. Therefore, I urge upon you to take similar measures and also create widespread awareness in your state/ UT regarding harms of spitting in public places. "It is also requested that the directions of Ministry of Home Affairs in this regard may be implemented scrupulously and effectively," Vardhan said in the letter. Tobacco smoking is a known risk factor for many respiratory infections and increases the severity of related diseases. A review of studies by public health experts convened by WHO on April 29 found that smokers are more likely to develop severe diseases, compared to non-smokers, said Binoy Mathew, senior programme officer of Voluntary Health Association of India. It is one of the main risk factors for a number of chronic ailments, including cancer, lung and cardiovascular diseases, he said, adding that according to the Global Adult Tobacco Survey, with 268 million or 28.6 per cent of all adults in India, the country has the second largest number of tobacco users in the world. At least 12 lakh die from tobacco-related diseases every year, Mathew said. Those keen to quit smoking and smokeless products can avail of free of charge telephone-based services launched by the government. The Ministry of Health has set up a National Tobacco Quit Line Services to provide counselling services to help tobacco consumers quit the habit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-appeals-all-states-union-territories-to-ban-sale-of-smokeless-tobacco-products-spitting-in-public-837949.html
15-05-2020||National||May accounts for 60% of Delhi COVID-19 cases||With 425 new cases on Friday, the first fortnight of May accounted for more than 60% of the total cases reported in the national capital since the first case was detected in early March. Delhi now has 8,895 cases out of which 5,380 or 60.48% of the total cases were reported in the first 15 days of May. The bulletin issued on Friday also added nine more deaths to the official toll, taking the total to 123. The bulletin described it as "cumulative deaths where primary cause of death is found to be Covid-19, as per the report of Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from hospitals". In the past 24 hours, 473 people have recovered taking the total to 3,518. There are 5,254 people still under treatment, including 1,634 in-home isolation. A total of 1.25 lakh samples have been tested so far, which include 5,453 fresh samples.  On May 1, Delhi had reported 223 cases which saw an increase to 386 on May 2. The capital reported 427 cases on May 3, 349 cases on May 4, 206 on May 5, 428 on May 6, 448 on May 7, 338 on May 8, 224 or May 9, 381 on May 10, 310 on May 11, 406 on May 12 and 359 on May 3. On May 14, Delhi had reported 472 cases, the highest for a single day. Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain said, "there was a time when we all thought that this pandemic will be over by May 1 due to summer. But now we have seen that in the Latin American countries also the pandemic is increasing. The temperature of these countries is very high. This shows that we have to learn to live with Covid-19. Yesterday in India the growth rate of Covid-19 was 5% and earlier there was a time when the growth rate was 20%. I believe that the numbers should be seen in terms of the percentage increase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/may-accounts-for-60-of-delhi-covid-19-cases-837951.html
15-05-2020||National||HC seeks Delhi govt stand on pleas challenging levy of 70% special corona fee on liquor||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought the response of the AAP government on several pleas challenging the levy of 70 per cent "special corona fee'' on the MRP of all liquor brands in the national capital. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar issued a notice to the Delhi government and sought its response, by May 29, to the petitions which seek setting aside of the May 4 notification imposing the levy. While issuing the notice, the court declined to grant any interim stay on the notification for now and decided to wait for Delhi government's reply, one of the petitioners, Lalit Valecha, said. Delhi government standing counsel Ramesh Singh accepted the notice on behalf of the administration and said a detailed reply would be filed, indicating the levy was valid. The Delhi government imposed the "special corona fee'' on alcohol, a day after allowing re-opening of 150 state-run liquor vends in the city from May 3. Valecha, a lawyer, has contended in his petition that the "special corona fee'' is in excess of what has been authorised by law and accordingly it is being collected arbitrarily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-seeks-delhi-govt-stand-on-pleas-challenging-levy-of-70-special-corona-fee-on-liquor-837954.html
15-05-2020||National||Mobile phones potential carrier of coronavirus, hospitals should restrict their use: Doctors||A group of doctors from the AIIMS, Raipur has recommended restrictions on the use of mobile phones in healthcare institutions amid the COVID-19 pandemic, warning that such devices can be a potential carrier of the virus and lead to infection among healthcare workers. In a commentary published in the BMJ Global Health journal, the doctors stated that mobile phone surfaces are a peculiar 'high-risk' surface, which can directly come in contact with the face or mouth, even if hands are properly washed and one study indicates that some healthcare workers use phones every 15 minutes to two hours. Though there have been many significant guidelines from various health organisations like the WHO and CDC focusing on prevention and control of disease, the commentary highlighted "there is no mention of or focus on mobile phones in these guidelines, including the WHO infection control and prevention guidelines, which recommends the use of handwashing". In healthcare facilities, phones are used to communicate with other health care workers, look up recent medical guidelines, research drug interactions, understand adverse events and side effects, conduct telemedicine appointments and track patients among others, stated the document. The document has been authored by Dr Vineet Kumar Pathak, Dr Sunil Kumar Panigrahi, Dr M Mohan Kumar, Dr Utsav Raj and Dr Karpaga Priya P from the Department of Community and Family Medicine. "In their tendency to come in direct contact with the face, nose or eyes in healthcare settings, mobile phones are perhaps second only to masks, caps or goggles," the authors said. "However, they are neither disposable nor washable like these other three, thus warranting disinfection. Mobile phones can effectively negate hand hygiene... There is growing evidence that mobile phones are a potential vector for pathogenic organisms," they said. It is the need of the hour to address proper hygienic use of mobile phones in healthcare settings. In a study in India, almost 100 per cent of health workers of a tertiary care hospital used mobile phones in the hospital, but only 10 per cent of them had at any time wiped their mobile phones clean, the commentary published on April 22 said. "The safest thing to do is to consider your phone as an extension of your hand, so remember you are transferring whatever is on your phone to your hand," Dr Pathak said. Amidst the ongoing pandemic, two biggest mobile phone companies have uploaded their user support guidelines, saying that 70 pc isopropyl alcohol or Clorox Disinfecting Wipes can be used to gently wipe the exterior surface of phones in switched-off mode. However, in doing so, the use of bleach or entry of moisture through any of the openings must be avoided, and any harsh chemical may damage the oleophobic screen, leading to damage in the touch screen sensitivity of the phone, the article stated. Mobile phones are one of the most highly touched surfaces according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), along with counters, tabletops, doorknobs, bathroom fixtures, toilets, keyboards, tablets and bedside tables. The doctors recommended restriction on mobile phone usage in healthcare settings like hospital wards, ICUs and operation theatres, while advocating the use of headphones to prevent contact with the face while talking. There should be no sharing of mobile phones, headphones or headsets of any kind. In addition, where available, the use of interdepartmental intercom facility may be promoted. "Although hand hygiene and mobile phone use by a person are not mutually exclusive, it is high time to acknowledge the potential role of mobile phones in disease transmission cascade and to take evidence-based appropriate actions. This is especially important, given the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic," the authors said. They said it is necessary for government agencies and the WHO to generate public awareness and to formulate suitable information, education and communication material on mobile phone hygiene, especially in healthcare settings. AIIMS, New Delhi, Resident Doctors' Association (RDA) General Secretary, Dr Srinivas Rajkumar T said even outside health care settings, people should pay special attention to the usage of mobile phones as they carry them to all places. "Phone and computer peripherals like keyboard, mouse, etc. should be covered with transparent plastic covers which can be cleaned without interfering with their function. Cleaning hands by soap or alcohol-based hand sanitizer before and after contact with phone and between contact with other surfaces can decrease the risk of potential transmission. "Using a handsfree headset, dedicated operator/assistant per ward handling the communication via common line in hospitals while on duty can enable communication without compromising safety," Dr Srinivas said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mobile-phones-potential-carrier-of-coronavirus-hospitals-should-restrict-their-use-doctors-837955.html
15-05-2020||National||Amid COVID-19 scare tale of human-bat bonding in Bengal||The bond that formed between a large group of bats and resident of the Khatpukur area of West Bardhaman district in West Bengal 50 years ago has remained intact despite unfounded speculations that bats may be carriers of the dreaded COVID-19. The winged mammals arrived and settled at Khatpukur in the industrial town of Durgapur half a century ago. They did not leave the area even as it became heavily urbanized as factories sprang up in large numbers. Locals said that the bats have never caused any harm let alone attack humans. They are used to waking up to the sound of the bats returning to the trees at5 crack of dawn. “The bats are harmless. They don’t disturb us and we don’t disturb them. It is live and let live policy between us,” said Saikat Mondal, resident of the area. Even the panic of the pandemic has failed to affect the compassion of the local’s to the bats whom they often describe as their “friends.” However, the local’s commitment to protecting the bats is not confined to waking up to their sound in the morning. Sources in the district police said that to ensure the bats are not disturbed locals have not burst crackers during Diwali for ages.  According to sources in the Forest Department nearly 2000 bats have made Khatpukur their home. For the elderly residents of the area, the bats are part of their childhood memories. They fondly recall seeing the bats flying out of the tress late evening in search of food as they played with friends in the local park. “ The bats only eat fruits. We don’t care what others say about them. Our friendship will continue no matter what happens,” locals said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-scare-tale-of-human-bat-bonding-in-bengal-837956.html
15-05-2020||National||Special train from Delhi arrives in Kerala; 7 with symptoms of COVID-19 shifted to hospital||The first special train from New Delhi carrying nearly 1,000 passengers arrived in Kerala and seven of them were shifted to COVID-19 care centres and hospitals as they showed some symptoms of the disease during screening, officials said on Friday. Barring the seven passengers -- six of whom alighted in Kozhikode and one here -- others were allowed to proceed by taxis and buses arranged by district officials and they have to remain under quarantine in their homes for 14 days. The all-air conditioned Rajadhani Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram superfast train arrived here at 5.10 AM on Friday after two stoppages in the state at Kozhikode and Ernakulam South, where over 560 passengers deboarded, officials said. At least 350 people reached here and underwent medical check-up conducted by a team of doctors and health officials and the railway staff who wore personal protection equipment. "One person was shifted to the hospital after he showed some symptoms," a senior district official told PTI. The rest of the passengers were sent to their homes. Earlier, the train reached Kozhikode, the first station in Kerala, on Thursday night where 261 people deboarded. "Out of the 261, five persons were shifted to the COVID care centre and one person to the Kozhikode Medical College," Kozhikode district medical officer said. Later it reached Ernakulam South where many passengers who had booked their tickets to Thiruvananthapuram got down after taking necessary permission as they found it convenient to travel to their home districts from there. In all, around 300 people alighted at Ernakulam, railway sources said. Health department workers disinfected the railway stations and the taxis used by the passengers. Railway officials said the train will be disinfected and commence its return journey on Friday evening. The superfast train was among the special passenger trains operated from New Delhi railway station to 15 destinations in the country including Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-train-from-delhi-arrives-in-kerala-7-with-symptoms-of-covid-19-shifted-to-hospital-837957.html
15-05-2020||National||NEET-UG students can change exam centre till May 31||Students appearing for the NEET-UG will have one final chance to change their candidate particulars and choice of test centre till May 31, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced on Friday. He said he had asked the National Testing Agency to give the applicants the option to review their applications in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. The NTA said it would make efforts to allot the city of examination to candidates in order of their choices subject to the availability of capacity in the city desired by them. “However, due to administrative reasons, a different city may be allotted, and the decision of the NTA regarding allotment of Centre City would be final,” the NTA said. The changes will come at a cost as candidates may have to pay an additional fee through credit/ debit cards, net banking, UPI and PayTM. Changes to the form will only be reflected after the payment has been made, the NTA added. The NTA also further extended the dates for submission of applications for ICAR-2020 examinations, Jawaharlal Nehru University Entrance Examination, UGC-NET and Joint CSIR-NET to May 31. The submission of the application process will conclude at 5 pm on the last date but fee payment option will be active till 11.50 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-ug-students-can-change-exam-centre-till-may-31-837967.html
15-05-2020||National||Atma Nirbhar Bharat: Key takeaways from Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's Presser||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, on Friday, held a presser, in which she announced a slew of measures to revive the economy. This was the third tranche of announcements that focused on agriculture, fisheries, animal husbandry and allied industries.  "Indian farmers would give us on the highest yield despite monsoons and droughts and most of these farmers are small and marginal farmers," said the finance minister at the beginning of her speech. “Indian farmers, against all adversaries, have always stood up to the challenge and endured a lot,” she added. "It goes to the credit of our rural population that our farmers have mostly concluded rabi crop harvest despite the lockdown," said Sitharaman prefacing her 11 measure financial package for agriculture and allied industries "11 measures were announced today by the finance minister. Eight of which pertain to the strengthening of infrastructure and capacity building. Three measures will be made to affect governance and administrative reforms related to agriculture and allied industries," said the Finance minister. The finance minister addressed various schemes undertaken by the government of the past few months related to the dairy and fisheries sectors. Additional measures were taken in the last 2 months, such as MSP purchases of amount more than Rs 74,300 crore. PM Kisan transfer of Rs 18,700 crores. PM Fasal Bima Yojana of Rs 6,400 crores. The finance minister said that during the lockdown, milk demand went down by 20-25% and that 560 lakh litres of milk was being produced against a daily sale of 360 lakh litres. Further 11 crore litres of extra milk was procured ensuring payment of Rs 4100 crores to fairy farmers. "New scheme has been launched for interest subvention at 2% per annum to dairy cooperatives for 2020-21 aimed at unlocking Rs 5000 crores additional liquidity, benefitting two crore farmers  The validity of Sanitary Import Permits for import of Shrimp broodstock will be extended by 3 months. Delay up to 1 month in the arrival of Broodstock consignment will be condoned. Registration of 242 shrimp hatcheries and Nauplii rearing hatcheries expiring on 31st march 2020 extended for 3 months. To help the Fisheries sector, operations of Marine Capture Fisheries and Aquaculture has been relaxed to cover Inland Fisheries. Here are the 11 measures that finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman put forward today. 1. One lakh crore to be provided for agriculture infrastructure projects  One lakh crore will be provided for funding agriculture infrastructure projects at farm-gate and aggregation points. agriculture entrepreneurs, primary agriculture cooperative societies, startups, farmer producer organisations. Impetus for development of farm-gate and aggregation point, affordable ad financially viable post-harvest management infrastructure. 2. 10,000 crores for formalisation of Micro Food Entreprises  "Aiming to implement PM's vision of ‘Vocal for Local with Global outreach’, a scheme will be launched to help 2 lakh Micro Food Enterprises, Improved health and safety standards, integration with retail markets and improved incomes to be key focus areas," said the finance minister. Unorganised MFE units need technical upgradation to attain FSSAI food standards, build brands and marketing. Cluster-based approach to be taken to make use of the strengths of various regions. This will benefit 2 lakh MFEs attain the specified goals. The expected outcome of this scheme is to improve health and safety standards, integration with retail markets.  "Focus will be on women, on SC/STs and on aspirational districts... This will benefit 2 lakh Micro Food Entrepreneurs," said the finance minister. 3. 20,000 crores for Fishermen through Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana Govt will launch the PMMSY for integrated, sustainable, inclusive development of maritime and inland fisheries. Rs 11,000 crore for activities in marine, inland fisheries and aquaculture. 9000 cr for infrastructure. The expected outcome is to create employment to over 55 lakh persons, double exports to 1 lakh crore and create additional fish production of 70 lakh tonnes over 5 years. 4. National Animal Disease Control Programme National Animal Disease Control Programme for Foot and mouth disease and brucellosis launched with a total expenditure of 13,343 cr. It ensures 100% vaccination of cattle, buffalo and other livestock covering a total of 53 cr animals for Foot and mouth disease and for brucellosis. Till date, 1.5 crore cows and buffalos tagged and vaccinated.     5. 15,000 crores Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund 15,000 crore will be provided for the animal husbandry infrastructure development fund. Aim to support private investment in dairy processing, value addition and cattle feed infrastructure. Incentives to be given for establishing plants for the export of niche products. 6. 4,000 crores for promotion of herbal cultivation National medicinal plants board (NMPB) has supported 2.25 lakh hectare area under cultivation. 10 lakh hectare will be covered under herbal cultivation in next 2 years with an outlay of 4,000 cr. Will lead to Rs 5,000 cr income generation for farmers. NMPB will bring 800-hectare area by developing a corridor of medicinal plants along the banks of the Ganga. 7. 500 crores for beekeeping initiatives This fund is aimed at increasing yield and quality of crops through pollination. The government will implement a scheme for infrastructure development related to integrated beekeeping development centres, collection, marketing and storage centres, post-harvest and value addition facilities. 8. 500 crores- Top to Total Operation Greens will be extended from tomatoes, onions and potatoes to all fruits and vegetables. 50% subsidy will be provided on transportation from surplus and deficient markets. 50% subsidy will be given on storage, including cold storage. Distress sale of perishables needs to be prevented including the reduction of price. This will be run as a pilot for 6 months and will be expanded and extended. Expected outcome is better price realisation to farmers, reduced wastages and affordability of products for consumers. Governance and administrative reforms 9. Amending the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 Essential Commodities Act, 1955 was enacted in days of scarcity. The government will amend the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 to address the need to enable better price realisation for farmers by attracting investments and making agriculture sector competitive. Agriculture products including cereals, edible oils, pulses, onions, potatoes will be deregulated. Stock limits will be imposed under very exceptional circumstances like national calamities, famine with a surge in prices. No stock limits shall apply to processors or value chain participants, subject to their installed capacity or to any exporter subject to the export demand. 10. Agriculture marketing reforms to provide marketing options for farmers Farmers were bound to sell agriculture produce only to licensees in APMCs which resulted in hindrances in the free flow of agriculture produce, fragmentation of markets and supply chain. A central law will remove barriers from inter-state trade. Adequate choices will be given to farmers to sell produce at an attractive price. Framework for e-trading of agriculture produce. "Industries not restricted to sell to licensees, why only farmers?" questioned Nirmala Sitharaman. 11. Agriculture produce price and quality assurance A facilitative legal framework will be created to enable farmers to engage with processors, aggregators, large retailers, and exporters in a fair and transparent manner. Risk mitigation for farmers, assured returns and quality standardisation will be an integral part of the framework, said the finance minister. This is being done to tackle the issue of farmers lacking an enforceable standard mechanism for predictable prices of crops at the time of sowing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atma-nirbhar-bharat-key-takeaways-from-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharamans-presser-837970.html
15-05-2020||National||Govt to amend Essential Commodities Act to deregulate cereals, edible oil, pulses||The government will bring amendments to the Essential Commodities Act of 1955 to enable better price realisation for farmers by attracting investments and making agriculture sector competitive. The amendment will ensure deregulation of agriculture foodstuffs including cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onions and potato. The government also vowed to bring agriculture marketing reforms to provide marketing choices to farmers. After the amendment stock limit will be imposed on these commodities will be done under very exceptional circumstances like national calamities, famine with the surge in prices. Under the act, the government directs agencies for the maintenance of stock limits of essentials so that prices of these commodities can be regulated, but that is all set to change. It added that ‘no such stock limit shall apply to processors or value chain participant, subject to their installed capacity or to any exporter subject to the export demand.”  The government said the EC Act was enacted in the days of scarcity and deregulation was meant to attract better prices, investment and to make farm sector competitive.  The long-awaited reforms in the farm sector were announced in the third tranche of measures, which focused on farmers and fishermen. While the first tranche of measures focused on alleviating the distress in the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) sector, the second set was aimed at migrant workers, farmers, and street vendors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-amend-essential-commodities-act-to-deregulate-cereals-edible-oil-pulses-837978.html
15-05-2020||National||Govt projects 4th consecutive year of record foodgrain output at 295.67 million tonnes for 2019-20||The country is estimated to achieve an all-time high foodgrains production of 295.67 million tonne in 2019-20 crop year, the fourth consecutive year of record production, buoyed by good rains, the Agriculture Ministry's latest data released on Friday said. According to the data, the estimated output of foodgrains this year is up 3.67 per cent over the year-ago period and has even crossed its target of 291.10 million tonne, which it had set before the beginning of the 2019-20 sowing season. Total foodgrains production includes crops grown during both kharif (summer) and rabi (winter) seasons. At present, harvesting of rabi crops is in the final stages amid the COVID-19 crisis.  This is the fourth consecutive year-on-year higher output of foodgrain since 2016-17 crop year (July-June). The previous record was 285.21 million tonne during the 2018-19 crop year. "The cumulative rainfall in the country during the monsoon season (June to September, 2019) had been 10 per cent higher than the Long Period Average (LPA). Accordingly, the production of most of the crops for the agricultural year 2019-20 has been estimated higher than their normal production," the ministry said releasing the third estimate of production. Among all crops, the output of wheat -- the main rabi crop -- is estimated at an all-time high level of 107.18 million tonnes in 2019-20, up from 103.60 million tonne previous year. Harvesting of wheat crop is in the final stage of completion. Similarly, the output of rice -- the main kharif crop -- is estimated to be a record 117.94 million tonne this year, higher from 116.48 million tonne last year. At the same time, the production of coarse cereals is estimated to be a record 47.54 million tonne as against 43.06 million tonne in the said period. Production of maize is pegged at a record 28.98 million tonnes this year, up from 27.72 million tonne in the 2018-19 crop year, but barley output is estimated to lower at 1.59 million tonne as against 1.63 million tonne in the said period. In case of pulses, total production is estimated to increase to 23.01 million tonne this year from 22.08 million tonne last year. Of which, tur production is pegged at 3.75 million tonnes and chana at 10.90 million tonne for this year. Foodgrains basket comprises wheat, rice, coarse cereals and pulses. As far as oilseeds were concerned, total production is estimated to increase marginally to 33.50 million tonne in the 2019-20 crop year from 31.52 million tonne last year. Among cash crops, the country would see an all-time high production of cotton at 36.04 million bales (of 170 kg each) in the current year, much higher than 28.04 million bales last year. The previous record was 35.90 million bales in 2013-14 crop year. Meanwhile, sugarcane production is estimated to decline to 358.13 million tonne this year from 405.4 million tonne last year due to fall in production mainly in Maharashtra and Karnataka. The output of jute is estimated flat at 9.43 million bales (of 180 kg) this year as against 9.49 million bales in 2018-19 crop year, while mesta output is estimated to increase to 4.89 million bales from 3.23 million tonnes in the said period. Although the third estimate might just be revised after harvest of rabi crops, the final output figures may not be less than what is estimated right now. The Agricultural Ministry releases four advance estimates of production followed by a final estimate. In fact, the fourth advance estimates are considered as good as the final estimates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-projects-4th-consecutive-year-of-record-foodgrain-output-at-29567-million-tonnes-for-2019-20-837988.html
15-05-2020||National||Illegal extraction of groundwater a criminal offence: NGT||The National Green Tribunal Friday expressed concern over the repeated allegations of "tankers mafias" in the city engaged in the extraction of groundwater without any remedial action by the authorities. The tribunal observed that illegal extraction of groundwater is a criminal offence and directed the authorities to devise effective mechanism for preventing its withdrawal through unauthorised tubewells. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed that a suitable mechanism for preventing extraction of ground water by illegal tubewells needs to be devised and wherever such illegalities found, prompt coercive measures must be taken.   "Illegal extraction of ground water is a criminal offence under the Environment Protection Act. Compensation must be recovered on the formula already laid down. It will be appropriate that Chief Secretary, Delhi calls a meeting of all concerned within one month from today and oversees preparation of an appropriate SOP for fixing responsibility on the subject," the bench said. The Ministry of Jal Shakti may also take necessary steps in the matter, the bench said. The tribunal had earlier constituted an independent Monitoring Committee, headed by former Delhi high court judge, Justice S P Garg, to look into the issue. The Committee had found that 14,231 borewells were illegally operating in Delhi and 15 per cent of the groundwater had reached below 40 meters. "Depleting of groundwater was also affecting the flow the river Yamuna, the committee said and suggested that subsidy in the form of free water was being misused and to avoid payment of water charges for more than 20,000 litres free water, groundwater was being freely extracted without any remedial action by the authorities.  The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by city resident Rakesh Kumar alleging that water filling plants were being operated without license and supplying contaminated water to the residents at Kashmere Gate here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/illegal-extraction-of-groundwater-a-criminal-offence-ngt-837989.html
15-05-2020||National||SC tells Centre not to take coercive action against companies unable to pay full salary||The Supreme Court on Friday told the Centre not to take any coercive actions against the companies which expressed their inability to ensure payment of full salary, and wages to employees, daily wagers, and migrant workers.  A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to file a response to a batch of the PILs highlighting the plight of the private companies. One of the council, representing the petitioners, contended that essential industries have been permitted to work. But if workmen were not coming voluntarily, we should not be forced to pay them. We need clarification on this issue as Ministry of Home Affairs issued directions on March 29 against any salary cut.  The bench, however, orally said if a worker was in a containment zone, he would not be allowed to come. In such cases, how will you not pay them, the bench asked? Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the notification for payment was issued as a welfare measure. The workers may be under the containment zones. The issue will have to be considered, he said.  The bench then issued notice to the Union government on separate petitions filed by Ludhiana Hand Tools Association, Ficus Pax Private Limited, Rajasthan Steel Chambers, Instruments and Chemicals Private Limited and Others, NCR Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Teknomin Construction Limited, and Garments Exports Manufacturing Association and others. The court put the matter for further consideration next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-tells-centre-not-to-take-coercive-action-against-companies-unable-to-pay-full-salary-837991.html
15-05-2020||National||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announces Rs 1.63 lakh cr for agriculture-allied sectors||The Centre on Friday announced a Rs 1 lakh-crore fund to boost agriculture infrastructure and allocated over Rs 60,000 crore to animal husbandry, fisheries and other allied activities aiming at reducing imports by upping domestic output. It also vowed to amend the 65-year-old Essential Commodities Act to de-regulate agricultural products and ensure better price realisation to farmers. Announcing the third set of measures to soften the COVID-19 blow on farmers, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Centre will implement a law to bring about agriculture marketing reforms and help farmers sell their produce at attractive prices, remove barriers to inter-state trade and encourage e-trading. Farmers are currently bound to sell produce only to licensees in the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC). Such restrictions don't exist for any industrial produce. After amending the EC Act of 1955, cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onions and potatoes will be deregulated and stock limits will be imposed on these only in exceptional circumstances. The Economic Survey 2019-20 had argued against the Act calling it "anachronistic", and saying interventions under it only led to price volatility.  "The government will bring in a facilitative legal framework to enable farmers to engage with processors, aggregators, large retailers and exporters in a fair and transparent manner. This will ensure assured returns and risk mitigation for farmers. A central law will be formulated to provide adequate choices to farmers to sell produce at attractive price, barrier-free inter-state trade and a framework for e-trading of agriculture produce," Sitharaman said, unveiling a long-pending reform on the agriculture front. In recent years, the EC Act has been criticised for being draconian, giving too much powers in the executive to control price and volume of agri produce thereby, discouraging farmers. Among other sectoral announcements was a Rs 20,000-crore fund to fishermen was aimed at additional fish production of around 70 lakh tonnes over the next five years and to create 55 lakh more jobs.  Besides, special emphasis on herbal farming, bee keeping, dairy development and national animal disease control programme were aimed at increasing domestic production under "vocal for local" slogan given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that seeks to reduce imports in every sector. But the minister was criticised for not giving immediate relief to farmers and farm sector suffering the virus impact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-announces-rs-163-lakh-cr-for-agriculture-allied-sectors-837998.html
15-05-2020||National||16 more tested COVID-19 positive in Kerala||Sixteen more persons in Kerala, including 13 who came from other states and countries, were tested COVID-19 positive on Friday (May 15) taking the number of active cases to 80. Of the 576 persons tested COVID positive in Kerala since January 30, 311 came from abroad, eight were foreigners and 70 came from other states. Only 187 got the infection through a local contact. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that as part of ensuring proper compliance of home quarantine by those coming from other places, motorcycle brigades would be also deployed for frequent monitoring. At present 48,287 people in Kerala are in-home quarantine in the state. Cases were registered against 65 persons for flouting home quarantine on Friday.  Bengaluru - Kerala daily trains The Chief Minister said that the railway authorities have informed that special trains would be allowed for migrant workers and those stranded in other states to commute. Daily services would be operated between Bengaluru and Thiruvananthapuram and it would be non-A/C trains. As many as 28 trains services between Kerala and West Bengal would be operated between May 18 and June 14. A train for students stranded in Delhi would be also operated soon, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-more-tested-covid-19-positive-in-kerala-838000.html
15-05-2020||National||India does not seek isolationist arrangements when it speaks of self-reliance: Foreign Secretary||A self-reliant India will automatically be more "internationalist" India as it does not seek self-centered or "isolationist" arrangements, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Friday. His comments came days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched for making India self-reliant by turning the coronavirus crisis into an opportunity through sustained focus on making the Indian economy globally competitive. In an address at the National Defence College, Shringla said all crises alter geopolitics and there will be significant changes too after COVID-19 blows over, such as re-balancing of hard and soft power, emergence of new multilateral conversations and change in strength of "players". "As we remain engaged globally, we also need to become 'Atma Nirbhar' or self-reliant, as the prime minister observed in his address to the nation recently, to recover from the current crisis," the foreign secretary said. "We do not, however, seek self-centered or isolationist arrangements when we speak of self-reliance. A self-reliant India will automatically be a more internationalist India," he added. The foreign secretary said the coronavirus pandemic has reaffirmed India's role as a "pharmacy of the world", adding that medical supplies were sent to 133 countries which included 446 million hydroxychloroquine tablets and 1.54 billion paracetamol tablets. Talking about major challenges facing the globe, Shringla said terrorism remains a "growing and resistant cancer" which continues to destabilise and weaken states besides diverting their resources. He said though India's efforts led to isolation of terrorists and their sponsors, the nation needs to ensure that the world follows an "undifferentiated and unambiguous" approach to terrorism. "Radical ideologies continue to generate violence and insecurity. As a country which has suffered for long from cross-border terrorism, we have been steadfast in seeking action against those who control, support, fund and shelter terrorists," Shringla said. "There are no good or bad terrorists. We also need to ensure that politicisation of global mechanisms such as UN listings is avoided, and the global community finalises a Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism," he added. The top diplomat also referred to growing global uncertainties. "We also live in a very dangerous world. The current pandemic underlines some of these dangers. It is a time of disruptions, of the unexpected and of the uncertain," he said. "The pandemic, and its consequences, immediate and future, are an illustration of the level of uncertainty that we must live with. We are faced with new and uncertain dangers even as we struggle with existing threats to international peace and security," Shringla added. On the impact of the coronavirus crisis, he said it has provided India with an opportunity to take note of the extent of globalisation and integration and of the sweeping nature of the transition. "This is also a time of opportunity. Empirically speaking, all crises are succeeded by periods of growth. The Great Depression and the Second World War were followed by one of the greatest sustained spurts of economic growth," he said. On the convergence of interests between the military and diplomatic establishments, he said it is no longer like a coin and "foreign and security policies are now facets of a many-sided polygon."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-does-not-seek-isolationist-arrangements-when-it-speaks-of-self-reliance-foreign-secretary-838005.html
15-05-2020||National||Doctors brief Delhi police personnel about precautionary measures against COVID-19||Delhi Police personnel were on Friday briefed by doctors about precautionary measures they need to take to combat coronavirus and were also made aware of myths and fears shrouding the pandemic, officials said. In the interactive sessions, over 33 doctors briefed personnel of all police station in the northern range about the precautionary measures and dos and don'ts to fight the contagion, they said. "As the government move towards graded opening up of the lockdown, these sessions will ward-off various myths and fears attached to the pandemic and will motivate the police personnel to continue the hard work in the service of mankind. "The doctors have also assured that they would provide consultation-cum-counselling over phone," Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) Manish Kumar Agrawal said. More than 875 police personnel took part in the sessions which were held at more than 29 locations, including police stations and other units, a senior police officer said. The sessions were also recorded and are being played at other police stations and units for the benefit of those who did not take part in Friday's session, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-brief-delhi-police-personnel-about-precautionary-measures-against-covid-19-838008.html
15-05-2020||National||SC notice to Centre, Maharashtra & UP on plea for assisting migrants travelling from Mumbai||The Supreme Court Friday sought responses from the Centre and governments of Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra on a plea seeking directions to provide safe and secure means of transportation to migrants travelling from Mumbai to their native places amid COVID-19 pandemic. The apex court asked these states to apprise it about the steps being taken by the concerned authorities to assist these migrants. A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao was told by the petitioner's counsel that there were no means for these people to go back to their native places in Uttar Pradesh from Mumbai and they were unable to access the mechanism laid down to apply for availing transport facility.  The petitioner's counsel told the bench, also comprising Justices S K Kaul and B R Gavai, that government must engage people at lower level and they cannot have just one nodal officer for a district. "Issue notice returnable in two weeks," the bench said in its order. The bench, which was hearing the matter through video-conferencing, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that there should be officers at the lower level to look into the grievances of migrants. Mehta told the bench that nodal officers have been appointed at the state level and he would coordinate with the states on the issue. The plea, filed by advocate Sagheer Ahmed Khan, has sought directions to ensure that migrant workers in Mumbai, particularly those hailing from Sant Kabir Nagar in Uttar Pradesh, are safely transported home so that their continuous suffering in their attempts to reach their destination comes to an end. "The petitioner is moving this court as the migrant workers in Mumbai who have no source of livelihood due to the lockdown are constrained to leave Mumbai and are forced to travel to their hometowns in inhuman conditions," the plea has said, adding that the petitioner has offered to pay up to Rs 25 lakh towards cost of travel of migrants belonging to districts Sant Kabir Nagar in Uttar Pradesh. It has claimed that repeated attempts made by the petitioner to contact the nodal officer appointed by Uttar Pradesh to ensure safe return of migrants from Maharashtra have failed as telephone lines are continuously busy and e-mails have not been answered. It has also sought a direction to ensure that enough number of trains and buses be dedicated for evacuation of migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-maharashtra-up-on-plea-for-assisting-migrants-travelling-from-mumbai-838010.html
15-05-2020||National||Media bodies slam authorities for 'curtailing' press freedom||Media bodies on Friday raised concerns over incidents of alleged misuse of the law by authorities in India to "intimidate" journalists and "curtail" press freedom. The Press Council of India on Friday expressed concern over the alleged threat of criminal prosecution and questioning of an Indian Express journalist by the Delhi police and asked its commissioner to submit a report on the matter. Since the matter affects the free functioning of the press, while taking suo-motu cognizance of the matter, a report on facts of the case is being called for from the Commissioner of Police, Delhi, the print media watchdog said in a statement. The Press Club of India, meanwhile, condemned the slapping of sedition charges on an editor of a Gujarati news portal and the reported filing of 10 FIRs against six journalists in Himachal Pradesh, saying such actions are a "blot on our democratic aspirations".  In a statement, the Press Club of India said going on the basis of a "string of seemingly malafide actions" against journalists by BJP-run states and the Centre-controlled Union Territories, it calls on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda to step in to bring "sanity to the proceedings". The Vienna-headquartered International Press Institute (IPI), a global network of editors, media executives and leading journalists for press freedom, also expressed "grave concern over the misuse of the law by authorities in India to intimidate journalists and curtail press freedom".  "The rapid decline in India's press freedom is alarming," IPI Director of Advocacy Ravi R Prasad said. The Indian government has resorted to various tactics to prevent independent media from criticizing the government and reporting about the pandemic, the IPI alleged. The Editors Guild of India on Wednesday had condemned the slapping of sedition charges on the editor of the Gujarati news portal and the Indian Express journalist being asked by the Delhi Police to join the probe into Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad's audio clip, saying the state and central governments should desist from misusing the law to threaten free press. In a statement, the Guild had said it notes with concern a growing pattern of misuse of criminal laws to intimidate journalists in different parts of the country. The Guild had first highlighted the incident of Dhaval Patel, editor and owner of a Gujarati news portal, ''Face of Nation'', being booked for sedition and detained by the state police on May 11 for publishing a report suggesting the possibility of a leadership change in the state due to criticism over rising coronavirus cases. The second instance of "egregious and high-handed action" has come from Delhi Police, it had said. "On May 10, the Delhi Police sent a notice to Mahender Singh Manral, Special Correspondent, The Indian Express, through the City Editor and Chief Reporter, The Indian Express, requiring the journalist, who had reported that police investigations found the possibility of the audio clip of Tablighi Jamaat leader, Maulana Saad, being doctored, to join a probe on this matter on May 10," the statement said. "While Manral wasn't charged under any law, he was threatened that failure to join the probe could result in legal action under Section 174 of the IPC with punishment of a prison term and fine," it had said. The Press Club of India had also condemned the questioning of Indian Express journalist by the Delhi Police. The Press Club of India, in its statement on Friday, said the latest media victims of deplorable police actions "evidently in cahoots with the ruling party- emerge from Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh". The Press Club said in Himachal Pradesh, six journalists from various districts of the state have reportedly had as many as ten FIRs registered against them. "The reason for this unwanted police attention is that the journalists in question have reported on the plight of migrant workers and on the shortcomings of the state authorities in dealing with relief in the fight against COVID-19," it said. These are legitimate areas of enquiry for journalists and examples of high-handed and irregular behaviour by those in authority, the Press Club said. "Before these cases in Gujarat and HP, the administration and police in Uttar Pradesh, J&K and Delhi had already presented shocking examples of suppression of the media so that their questionable actions do not get to be known to the wider world," it said. "We condemn such actions. They are a blot on our democratic aspirations," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/media-bodies-slam-authorities-for-curtailing-press-freedom-838016.html
15-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: AAI asks air passengers to mandatorily download Aarogya Setu app, carry hand sanitiser||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) on Friday asked travellers to mandatorily download the Aarogya Setu app, do a web-check in and carry a print out of their boarding pass before heading to the airport to catch a flight. The government run-AAI, which manages more than 100 airports across the country, said air travellers must maintain a distance of four feet from co-passengers, wear a mask and other protective gear, wash or sanitise their hands frequently and carry a 350 ml bottle of sanitiser all the time. Airports in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad are managed by private companies and not by the AAI. The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) had said on Wednesday that air travellers would be permitted to take up to 350 ml of hand sanitiser on a flight. "With the possibility of resumption of domestic flights soon, the AAI has released some steps that must be followed so passengers are fully geared up while travelling," the government-run body said on Twitter.  "Guidelines to be adhered by all passengers: mandatorily download Aarogya Setu app, wear a mask and other protective gear, maintain 4-feet physical distance from co-passengers, do web-check in, carry a print out of boarding card, wash or sanitize hands frequently, carry a 350 ml bottle of sanitizer all the time and cooperate with airport staff," it said.  The government-owned Aarogya Setu app gives colour coded-designation to users as per their health status and travel history. It helps the user know if he or she is near anyone who has tested positive for the virus. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the coronavirus pandemic. The virus has infected more than 81,900 people and killed around 2,600 people in the country till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-aai-asks-air-passengers-to-mandatorily-download-aarogya-setu-app-carry-hand-sanitiser-838020.html
15-05-2020||National||ITDC offers quarantine facility at its hotel to support Vande Bharat Mission||In a bid to support the government's Vande Bharat Mission, ITDC on Friday said it has offered one of its hotel in Chanakyapuri as self-quarantine facility for people coming from abroad. The India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) has offered 50 rooms at special rates in Hotel Samrat. The company has offered to support Vande Bharat Mission,  the repatriation operation by the Indian government to bring back stranded Indians from different parts of the world in the wake of the coronavirus crisis, ITDC said in a statement.   The hotel is taking all required measures to sanitize the facility as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, it added. "Standing in support with the nation in this time of unprecedented crisis, we intend to offer support and care to the community. We have reached out to the government with a proposal to offer quarantine facility at one of ITDC's run hotels at Chanakyapuri," ITDC Commercial & Marketing Director Piyush Tiwari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itdc-offers-quarantine-facility-at-its-hotel-to-support-vande-bharat-mission-838022.html
15-05-2020||National||79% COVID-19 cases in 30 municipal areas in India||A staggering 79% of the over 82,000 confirmed COVID-19 cases across the country are concentrated in 30 municipal regions, prompting the government to strengthen containment measures in regions reporting maximum infections and deaths due to the disease. India witnessed the highest single-day increase in coronavirus cases and 3,967 fresh infections were reported from across the country till Friday (May 15) morning when the total confirmed cases had risen to 81,970. The death toll also increased by 100 to reach 2,649. A separate DH COVID-19 Tracker put the total confirmed cases at 82,793 and the death toll at 2,662 at 6:30 p.m. on Friday (May 15). The Group of Ministers (GoM) on the COVID-19 response, chaired by Health Minister Harshvardhan, discussed that the focus of the COVID-19 management strategy should be on the states with the highest number of confirmed cases and highest number of fatalities. It also stressed on timely detection of infection and contact tracing was the best way forward for treatment and fatality management due to COVID-19.  The stock-taking by the GoM came as the nation-wide lockdown, announced on March 24 and extended twice, was scheduled to end on Sunday.  Maharashtra continued to be the worst affected state with 27,524 confirmed cases and 1,019 deaths, followed by Gujarat which has reported 9,591 cases and 586 deaths. Tamil Nadu came third with 9,674 cases and 66 deaths, followed by Delhi which has 8,470 cases and 115 deaths. The GoM was informed that domestic manufacturers had stepped up production of personal protection equipment kits and N-95 masks to three lakh units each per day which was sufficient to meet the requirement of the country at present.  He also said that the COVID-19 testing capacity has increased in the country to 1,00,000 tests per day through 509 government and private laboratories and over 20 lakh samples have been tested in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/79-covid-19-cases-in-30-municipal-areas-in-india-838034.html
15-05-2020||National||Kerala CM flays centre over migrant welfare funds||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has flayed that even as the Centre stated that additional allotment was being given to states for welfare of migrant workers, it was only part of the disaster response fund that the state was entitled to. As per the 15th finance commission Kerala was entitled for Rs. 314 crore. Of this, Rs 157 crore was now allotted. He also flayed that the centre was not allowing state's repeated pleas for enhancing borrowing limits from 3 percent. The Chief Minister also said that a study by experts estimated that Kerala may suffer a revenue loss of Rs. 35,455 crore owing to COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-cm-flays-centre-over-migrant-welfare-funds-838035.html
15-05-2020||National||Supreme Court partially cancels summer vacations||The Supreme Court on Friday decided to partially cancel summer vacations between May 18 and June 19, 2020, to allow some courts to take up urgent matters through video conferencing. In a circular, it was informed that the summer vacations have been rescheduled and declared as a period of functioning for the courts. The move is likely to help the top courts to compensate for the loss of the number of working days following the nation-wide lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Several high courts, including the Delhi High Court, have already cancelled their summer vacations.  As per the previous schedule, the Supreme Court was to go for summer break between May 18 and July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-partially-cancels-summer-vacations-838036.html
15-05-2020||National||Rajnath Singh approves setting up of testing facilities for domestic defence industry||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday approved a scheme under which infrastructure would be developed at a cost of Rs 400 crore to help domestic military firms carry out testing of indigenously developed military hardware. The Defence Testing Infrastructure Scheme (DTIS) is aimed at boosting domestic defence and aerospace manufacturing, officials said. "The defence minister approved the launch of DTIS with an outlay of Rs 400 crore for creating state-of-the-art testing infrastructure for defence sector," the defence ministry said in a statement. It said the scheme would run for a duration of five years and envisages to set up six to eight new testing facilities in partnership with private industry. It said projects under the scheme will be provided up to 75 per cent government funding in the form of 'grant-in-aid'. The remaining 25 per cent of the project cost will have to be borne by private entities and state governments. The special purpose vehicles to be set up to implement the scheme will have to be registered under the Companies Act, 2013, and shall also operate and maintain all assets under the scheme in a self-sustainable manner by collecting user charges. The equipment/systems tested will be certified as per appropriate accreditation, officials said. At present, India is one of the top importers of military hardware globally. The government has been focusing on making India a hub of defence production. According to the latest report by Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), a leading think-tank on military spending, India's defence expenditure stood at USD 71.1 billion in 2019, which is third highest after the US and China. In 2017, the government came up with an ambitious policy under which select private firms were to be roped in to build key military platforms like submarines and fighter jets in India in partnership with global defence majors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-approves-setting-up-of-testing-facilities-for-domestic-defence-industry-838041.html
15-05-2020||National||COVID-19: States submit suggestions to PMO on Lockdown 4.0||Two days before Lockdown 3.0 ends on Sunday, states have submitted their views to the Prime Minister’s Office on what should be the contours of the Lockdown 4.0 beginning Monday and how a graded exit from lockdown can be achieved at. The Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 headed by Health Minister Harshvardhan on Friday had an in-depth deliberation on containment strategy and management aspects of COVID-19, as well as the measures being taken by the Centre and various states.   While it remains to be seen how much life will change after May 18 and how much of restrictions will remain, already some states have opened markets, some began bus services with restrictions and others allowed the majority of the industry to operate. Liquor shops are now open in Nagpur, vegetable, grocery shops in Ahmedabad and Haryana roadways have decided to run buses in the district while limiting the number of passengers to 30 in each of them. Punjab is also in favour of running buses in select cities and routes. Holding a video conference meeting with Chief Ministers on May 11, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asked for specific feedback on lockdown from them asking them to share with him by May 15 a broad strategy on how each one of them would want to deal with the lockdown regime in their particular states.  The Prime Minister asked states to make a blueprint on how to deal with various nuances during and after the gradual easing of the lockdown and underlined the need for an all-encompassing approach to deal with various challenges that will arise. While different states have presented different sets of plans but there is a near unanimity and limiting lockdown restrictions, smaller hotspot zones, ramp up tests and controlled opening of transport with substantial relaxation to commercial activities. Most states want that the decision for earmarking of zones in red, green, and orange should be left to them and have voiced disapproval of Centre’s earlier strategy of making the district the area benchmark for zoning. Many states are not in favour of restarting normal passenger train services, there are divergent views on starting domestic flight service while almost are not in favour of resuming international air service. Most have battled for resuming economic activities in safe zones. Delhi, Punjab and UP are in favour of opening shops by rotations. While Delhi is not in favour of continuing night curfew, Madhya Pradesh is for it. Few states are wary of starting inter-state transport, though they want to run buses within the confines of the cities and are an open inter-district movement. Rajasthan is in favour of running smaller vehicles including taxis with curbs. Uttar Pradesh government plans to permit construction activities, open factories and shops though the malls, market complexes would remain closed. It is also mulling to open salons, beauty parlours, hotels and restaurants with curbs. Kerala favoured resuming public transport services and interstate movements regulated with passes. Maharashtra government is not lifting the lockdown in Mumbai, Pune metropolitan regions, Aurangabad, Solapur and Malegaon towns. It wants to run the local trains for people in essential services and staggering office hours to reduce crowding in roads and workplaces. West Bengal is for the phased resumption of public transport such as allowing intra-district buses in green zones with maximum of 20 passengers and strict compliance to social distancing. It wants the red zones to be clarified into three categories. Bihar plans different testing norms for migrants coming from different zones and has suggested to the Centre to extend the lockdown beyond May 17 because of the rapid increase in the number of coronavirus patients in the state. Tamil Nadu will go for a gradual relaxation in lockdown rules and is in no mood to resume public transport like bus and Metro in Chennai, while it may allow private vehicles with some restrictions. Its offices will function from May 18 with 50 per cent staff who will work in batches.   (With Inputs by Sanjay Pandey, ETB Sivapriyan, Arjun Raghunath, Mrityunjay Bose, Abhay Kumar, Soumya Das)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-states-submit-suggestions-to-pmo-on-lockdown-40-838043.html
15-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: SC postpones summer vacation by five-weeks, decides to function till June 19||The Supreme Court, which has been hearing urgent matters through video-conferencing from March 25 due to COVID-19 pandemic, on Friday decided to postpone its summer vacation by five weeks and declared that it would remain functional from May 18 to June 19. As per the October 14 notification, the summer vacation would have started from May 18 and concluded on July 5 (both days inclusive) in the apex court. “In partial modification of Notification of even number dated October 14, 2019 notifying the list of Supreme Court holidays, 2020 and the summer vacation of the court, it is hereby notified that the five-week period from May 18, 2020 to June 19 (both days inclusive) of the summer vacation of the SC calendar 2020 has been rescheduled and declared as period of functioning of the court,” the apex court notification said. It said that the earlier notification on the list of holidays would remain unchanged. The decision has been taken by the judges of the apex court in its virtual full court meeting and it has also been resolved that Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde will keep an eye on developing situation. The decision to shorten the summer vacation has been hailed by SCBA (Supreme Court Bar Association) President Dushant Dave who also said that the apex court should take all steps to help poor citizens in the present crisis.  The apex court, since March 25, has been holding courts through video conferencing due to the nation-wide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) and had suspended the entry of advocates and other staff into the high security zone on the basis of their proximity cards, till further orders. The SCBA, on April 11, had appealed to the CJI and his companion judges to declare cancellation of summer vacation and treat it as working period of apex court in the larger interest of the litigants and interest of justice in view of ongoing nationwide lockdown. Meanwhile, the top court has started a pilot project in which judges may come to the courtrooms in the apex court premises from next week to hold proceedings through video conferencing. During the lockdown, the benches usually assemble at the residences of the judges and the lawyers are allowed to join the video conferencing from their homes or offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-sc-postpones-summer-vacation-by-five-weeks-decides-to-function-till-june-19-838044.html
15-05-2020||National||SC rejects plea seeking closure of liquor shops during coronavirus lockdown||The Supreme Court Friday rejected a plea seeking closure of liquor shops across the country during the lockdown amid COVID-19 pandemic observing that it has been filed only for publicity. A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao also dismissed another petition, which had claimed that it is impossible for the shop owners to maintain social distancing at liquor and gutka shops. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, the petitioner who was seeking closure of liquor shops during lockdown period citing violation of social distancing norms told the apex court that many coronavirus cases in India are asymptomatic. "These are all publicity oriented," the bench, also comprising Justices S K Kaul and B R Gavai, said. The bench observed that it cannot have multiple petitions of this nature and said these were being filed only for publicity. The bench also dealt with another petition which had claimed that it is not possible for shop owners to maintain social distancing at liquor and gutka shops. The bench, while dismissing the plea, said it is for the system to deal with these issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-plea-seeking-closure-of-liquor-shops-during-coronavirus-lockdown-838047.html
15-05-2020||National||Gadkari expresses displeasure over delay in according green nod to projects||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday expressed displeasure over inordinate delays in according environmental clearances to projects, saying it causes hindrances in execution of works.  Observing that files seeking environment and forest clearances are sometimes stuck for as long as two years, Gadkari said "by then the bank (sanctioning the loan) runs away and the account turns NPA". The union MSME minister said there was "no time clause" for according time-bound clearances, causing delay in giving no objection certificate to projects.   Addressing a webinar on higher education organised by industry body FICCI, Gadkari -- who also holds road transport and highways portfolio -- also exhorted Indian educational institutions to forge industrial tie-ups and collaborate with foreign universities to attract overseas students for increasing their economic viability and mitigate the impact of the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.  Gadkari also highlighted government plans to form joint ventures in micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) sector, upgrade technologically and attract foreign investment.  Stating that there are 1.5 lakh deaths in 5 lakh road accidents in the country every year, the minister also proposed that students from IITs and other engineering institutes could be engaged in carrying out road audits to identify "black spots" through assessing various defects in road designing including curves and traffic density.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gadkari-expresses-displeasure-over-delay-in-according-green-nod-to-projects-838048.html
15-05-2020||National||First four Rafale jets likely to arrive in India by last week of July||The first four of 36 Rafale jets are expected to land in India by last week of July as the coronavirus pandemic delayed their scheduled delivery by around 11 weeks, official sources said on Friday. The first batch of the Rafale jets was scheduled to arrive in India by the first week of May. India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France in September 2016 for procurement of 36 Rafale fighter jets at a cost of around ₹58,000 crore. The aircraft is capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA's Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile and Scalp cruise missile will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets. Meteor is the next generation of BVR air-to-air missile (BVRAAM) designed to revolutionise air-to-air combat. The weapon has been developed by MBDA to combat common threats facing the UK, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Sweden. Besides the missile systems, the Rafale jets will come with various India-specific modifications, including Israeli helmet-mounted displays, radar warning receivers, low-band jammers, 10-hour flight data recording, infra-red search and tracking systems among others. The IAF has already completed preparations, including readying required infrastructure and training of pilots, to welcome the fighter aircraft. The first squadron of the aircraft will be stationed at Ambala air force station, considered one of the most strategically located bases of the IAF. The Indo-Pak border is around 220 km from there. The second squadron of Rafale will be stationed at Hasimara base in West Bengal. The IAF spent around Rs 400 crore to develop required infrastructure like shelters, hangers and maintenance facilities at the two bases. Out of 36 Rafale jets, 30 will be fighter jets and six will be trainers. The trainer jets will be twin-seater and they will have almost all the features of the fighter jets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-four-rafale-jets-likely-to-arrive-in-india-by-last-week-of-july-838052.html
15-05-2020||National||Centre to enact law to allow farmers sell at markets of choice||Ushering in far-reaching agri-marketing reforms, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the Centre has decided to enact a law that would free the farmers of the obligation to sell their produce only to licensees in Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC). Sitharaman said the central law would allow farmers to sell their produce to sellers of their choice and across the borders of the state, a reform measure welcomed by experts as long overdue. Announcing the administrative reform initiatives for the agriculture sector as part of the third instalment of the economic package on Friday, the Finance Minister said that a central law will help farmers in better price realisation for their produce. Under the provisions of the APMC Act, farmers are required to sell their produce only in designated mandis at prices that are often regulated and many times lower than prevailing market price. Sitharaman argued that such restrictions did not exist for any industrial production and proved to be a hindrance in free flow of agricultural produce.  Amendments to the APMC Act have been on the agenda of governments of all hues and mooted by the Centre on different occasions, but the states were reluctant to bite the bullet. Sitharaman said that as being in the concurrent list, the Central law will be formulated to provide adequate choices to farmers to sell produce at attractive prices. The law will also provide for barrier-free inter-state trade for farmers and facilitate a framework for e-trading of agriculture produce. “Kudos to Modi government for biting the bullet for promising to change ECA, APMC, and Contract farming. Bold move in the right direction that will create efficient value chains and benefit both the farmers & consumers,” Ashok Gulati, Infosys Chair Professor – Agriculture, ICRIER, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-enact-law-to-allow-farmers-sell-at-markets-of-choice-838056.html
15-05-2020||National||Death toll due to COVID-19 climbs to 153 in West Bengal||With 10 deaths in last 24 hours, the death toll due to COVID-19 in West Bengal climbed to 153 in West Bengal on Friday. Earlier 72 had died to comorbidities in the state. The number of cases in the state also witnessed a spike in the number of as 84 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours. The active cases in Bengal stand in 1407. The results of ramped-up testing reflected in the number of samples tested in the last 24 hours with 6706 samples tested. So far 69,543 samples have been tested in the state. Kolkata continued to remain a cause of concern for the state government with 623 active cases and 99 deaths directly due to the virus. It is followed by Howrah district which currently has 370 active cases out of which 23 were detected in the last 24 hours. So far there have been 24 deaths directly due to COVID-19 in Howrah. The third spot is occupied by the North 24 Paraganas district with 175 active cases and 24 deaths directly due to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-climbs-to-153-in-west-bengal-838059.html
15-05-2020||National||Lift the lockdown for people’s welfare, peak is yet to come: Scientists||With India expected to breach 100,000 active COVID-19 cases in another ten days, researchers tracking the pandemic are in the favour of lifting the lockdown for the benefit of the people as the epidemic’s peak is at least a couple of months away. “From epidemiology principles, epidemic in India will peak when 414 to 552 million people are cumulatively infected and that is anticipated between the first week of July and mid-August 2020,” T Jacob John, one of India’s leading experts and a retired professor of clinical virology in Christian Medical College Vellore told DH. Several other scientists operating disease prediction models concur that India is yet to see the COVID-19 peak. But they also point out that the success in implementing the intervention will determine when the peak would come. “We would only know when we are on the other, declining side of the peak of active coronavirus cases! The more inefficient our intervention measures are the higher and more delayed the peak might be,” said Dibyendu Nandi, a scientist at the Indian Institute of Science, Education, and Research, Kolkata who runs one such model. The numbers would rise. “I do a projection of active cases till May 25 - but I suspect that after May 20 (by which time we should have about 80,000 active cases) we will start to see a deviation resulting from the easing of the lockdown. If the present trend continues after that I expect to see the active number of cases crossing 100,000 by May 24,” noted Sitabhra Sinha, a professor at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, who too carry out modelling studies on COVID-19 in India.  The simulations produced by Sinha and his colleagues are on course so far. Earlier they had predicted nearly 60,000 active cases by May 17 when the third phase of the lockdown would end. Two days before the deadline, there are nearly 52,000 active cases. “The lockdown helps keep down the rate, and prevents the health infrastructure from being overwhelmed (which has ensured that we haven't had a catastrophic situation like Italy) but it has not helped in bringing down R below 1 (a mark of the exponential growth of the epidemic). We cannot keep it on indefinitely,” Sinha said.  “Indefinite lockdown is like burning the house to kill the rat. There are other options. You can keep the house with the rat killed or driven out. Under no logic should lockdown be extended beyond May 17,” noted John. “If fighting against coronavirus is for the benefit and welfare of the people, you cannot sacrifice the benefit and welfare of the people in the fight,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lift-the-lockdown-for-people-s-welfare-peak-is-yet-to-come-scientists-838065.html
15-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi practicing voodoo economics: Congress||Congress on Friday slammed the Centre’s announcements to perk up the farm sector as “insensitive” to farmers as it failed to put a single penny in their pockets at a time when they were battling the COVID-19 outbreak. “This is a big ‘jumla’ and Rs 20 lakh crore is only 13 zeros for the citizens of the country,” Randeep Surjewala, in-charge of the AICC Communication Department told reporters here. Former Rural Development Minister Jairam Ramesh asked Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to shed light on the actual cash outflow in addition to the Rs 30.42 lakh expenditure mentioned in the Union Budget. “Everything else is dramabaazi,” said Ramesh. Surjewala accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of practising “voodoo economics”. “The prime minister and the finance minister only talk big things and indulge in headline management, but have done nothing concrete for farmers or any other section of society,” he said.  “During the coronavirus pandemic, farmers and labourers are facing the most difficulty. Instead of giving them relief the Modi government is hurting the farmers and labourers and instead of providing help, it is pushing the farmer into a debt trap,” Surjewala said. He alleged that it is clear the Modi government neither understands the pain of the farmer nor the problems of farming. Therefore, the farmers have not been extended any help, even worth a single penny.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-practicing-voodoo-economics-congress-838068.html
15-05-2020||National||Awaiting govt's nod to reopen Tirupati temple for devotees: TTD||The Tirupati temple authorities are preparing for a post-COVID-19 pilgrimage at the hill shrine – lesser footfalls, larger restrictions. The celebrated Lord Venkateshwara temple, which attracts millions of devotees especially from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Telangana has remained closed for visitors for about two months now because of the pandemic. This is the first such prolonged close down, in the recorded history of the age-old temple. The absent human activity allowed wildlife from the Seshachalam forests like bears, snakes, deer roam on roads usually abuzz round the clock. An exact date as to when the temple reopens is dependent on the government’s COVID-19 instructions on religious places, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) officials say. However, senior officials are lately meeting to discuss the crowd management strategy in the virus infection time. A TTD board meeting to decide the future course is scheduled for 28 May.   Tirupati temple usually attracts 75,000 pilgrims daily with the number touching one lakh on auspicious days and holidays.   “It would be a hugely altered scenario now. Obviously, we cannot have the same numbers and old systems to enforce the new normal of social distancing. We have to ensure that devotees follow rules, wear masks, do not congregate,” TTD board chairman YV Subba Reddy told DH. The temple which in March brought several measures like thermal screening, asking devotees to carry sanitizers, setting up awareness and health camps, constant COVID-19 announcements, says such procedures would be broadened to help protect devotees from contacting the Coronavirus.     For two days before closing on March 20, the TTD experimented with time slot allocations for about 40,000 pilgrims daily – in place of waiting in crowded Vaikuntam Complex and walking in close contact in the darshanam queue lines.   “We would go back to the time slot, initially allowing, let us say, 10,000 pilgrims daily and gradually increase it to 40,000 (till the virus threat is removed),” Reddy says. Meanwhile, officials are understood to be contemplating a trial exercise first allowing TTD employees and their families and then people from Tirupati, Chittoor district later in a phased manner for about a week to devise a failsafe crowd administration. “To begin with not more than 500 people per hour would be allowed for darshan,” one official said, adding that each accommodation room could have only two pilgrims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/awaiting-govts-nod-to-reopen-tirupati-temple-for-devotees-ttd-838073.html
15-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Over 20 lakh RT-PCR tests conducted in India, says ICMR||The number of RT-PCR tests for detection of COVID-19 crossed the two million-mark in India on Friday, ICMR officials said as the total count of coronavirus cases shot up to 81,970 in the country. A total of 20,39,952 samples were tested in the country as on Friday 9 am, with 92,911 tests being conducted since Thursday 9 am, Dr Rajnikant Srivastava, the head of the Department of Research Management, Policy Planning and Communication at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) here said. According to officials, testing for COVID-19 has been scaled up significantly over the last two months and the capacity has increased to around one lakh tests per day. "To promote Make in India and facilitate domestic manufacturers to get their COVID-19 diagnostics kits validated, the number of ICMR-approved validation centres and laboratories has been increased from five to 14," Srivastava said. Starting with one laboratory at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune and 100 laboratories at the beginning of the lockdown, the RT-PCR tests are now available at 360 government and 147 private testing facilities across the country, he added. Till March 31, 47,852 samples were tested while till April 30, a total of 9,02,654 samples were tested for coronavirus, another ICMR official said. From May 1 till 8 am on May 15, 11,37,298 samples were tested, he added. The RT-PCR throat/nasal swab test is the best method for the diagnosis of COVID-19. The test detects the virus early and is the best strategy to identify and isolate the individual, the apex health research body said.  "The gold standard for COVID-19 testing remains the RT-PCR test," Srivastava said. Also, Union Heath Minister Harsh Vardhan dedicated the COBAS 6800 testing machine to the country on Thursday. He said it is the first fully-automated, high-end machine for performing real-time PCR testing for COVID-19 procured by the government and it is installed at the National Centre for Disease Control. The machine will provide quality, high-volume testing of around 1,200 samples in 24 hours, Vardhan said, adding that it will increase the testing capacity with a reduction in pendency. The machine requires minimum human intervention and can be monitored remotely. Vardhan said the COBAS 6800 is a machine enabled with robotics that minimises the chance of contamination as well as the risk of infection to healthcare workers since it can be operated remotely with limited human intervention. Meanwhile, the NIV has successfully developed and validated the first indigenous IgG ELISA test kit, "COVID KAVACH ELISA", for antibody detection for COVID-19, which will play a critical role in the surveillance for coronavirus. The test kit has the advantage of testing 90 samples together in a single run of two and a half hours, so that healthcare professionals can proceed quickly with the next steps. According to an ICMR statement on external validation, the IgG ELISA test kit has been found to have a sensitivity and specificity of 98.7 per cent and 100 per cent respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-over-20-lakh-rt-pcr-tests-conducted-in-india-says-icmr-838082.html
15-05-2020||National||NIA files chargesheet against six in killing of Jammu and Kashmir BJP secretary Anil Parihar, brother||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a chargesheet against six people, including three slain terrorists of banned Hizbul Mujahideen, in connection with the killing of Jammu and Kashmir state BJP secretary Anil Parihar and his brother in 2018. According to a spokesperson of the NIA, the chargesheet named Nisar Ahmed Sheikh, Nishad Ahmed Butt and Azad Hussain Bagwan, alleged to be over ground workers of the terror group, and charged them with various provisions of Indian Penal Code and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The chargesheet was filed in a special court here. The NIA also named Osama-bin-Javid, Haroon Abbas Wani and Zahid Hussain in the chargesheet as accused who carried out the terror strike on November 1, 2018 in Kishtawar. However, all three were killed in encounters with security forces from September 2019 to January 2020. Parihar and his brother were gunned down outside his house in 2018. During investigation, the NIA alleged that Sheikh, Butt and Bagwan, all residents of Kishtwar and arrested in November last year, had helped the three terrorists in carrying out the attack on the brothers. The NIA said that the probe unearthed a larger conspiracy of these terrorists and the OGWs of the terror outfit to revive terrorism in the region of Chenab valley -- Doda, Kishtwar and Ramban in Jammu region. These terrorists not only carried out the murder of Parihar brothers but they carried out three other terrorist acts in Kishtwar in 2019. The NIA said that Hizbul Mujahideen commander Jahangir Saroori had devised ways and means to raise funds to sustain the activities of banned terror group for which they looted weapons from police to enhance their armed strength. The agency said further investigation continues against Saroori who is absconding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-files-chargesheet-against-six-in-killing-of-jammu-and-kashmir-bjp-secretary-anil-parihar-brother-838083.html
15-05-2020||National||With 3 major agri-market reforms, govt finally bites the bullet: Agri experts||Hailing the third tranche of stimulus focussing on the agriculture and allied sector, farm industries and experts on Friday said the government has finally decided to "bite the bullet" by announcing long overdue big market reforms that would benefit both farmers and consumers. In the third set of measures under the COVID-19 package, the government on Friday announced a slew of measures for the agriculture sector, including a Rs 1.63 lakh crore outlay, and amending the stringent Essential Commodities Act (ESA) to remove cereals, edible oil, oilseeds, pulses, onions and potato from its purview. Also, a new law will be framed to give farmers the option to choose the market where they want to sell their produce by removing inter-state trade barriers and providing e-trading of agriculture produce. "The last three of the 11 measures announced by the Finance Minister are bigger than the first eight. This should have been done in the first term of the Modi government. With three big measures, the government finally bites the bullet," noted agricultural economist Ashok Gulati told PTI. It's a bold reform and announcing it now shows that the government wants to convert this COVID-19 crisis into an opportunity for farmers. But it should be implemented in letter and spirit, he said. The last three measures related to deregulation of agriculture commodities from the Essential Commodities Act (ECA), imposition of stock limits only during emergencies, giving marketing choice to farmers and allowing private participation will benefit both farmers and consumers, he added. Echoing views, EY India Partner Satyam Shivam Sundaram said that deregulation of mandis is a "very bold step" and it was due for a long time. "We will get to know more as we see the fine-prints come out. When considered along with farm gate infrastructure and proposed investments in the value chain, it would go a long way in helping farmers realise 25 to 30 per cent higher income, depending on the produce," he said. Ajay Kakra of PwC India also mentioned that the decision to amend the ECA is a correct measure to ensure supply chain continuity and trade flows in the event of short supplies and exceptional circumstances. In an event like COVID-19, this will be helpful to control supply chain disruptions. Industry chamber CII Director General Chandrajit Banerjee said that the amendment of the ECA and the agricultural marketing reforms proposed by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman are indeed "heartening". "We hope that the states fall in line with these changes. What is also critical is that these changes are being supported by substantial allocation of funds including Rs 1 lakh crore for the development of agricultural and food processing infrastructure," he said in a statement. The agricultural sector has been subjected to a host of restrictions which are no longer relevant, and this has hindered the marketing and price realisation of agricultural products, he added. Deloitte India Partner Anand Ramanathan said the announcements will help improve farmer realisations and also help them build better market linkages for their produce. The removal of cereals from the ECA, the agricultural marketing policy changes being made to facilitate direct sale to aggregators and the assistance being provided to enhance food processing and post harvest infrastructure in proximity to farm gates are excellent formulations which will help farmers, he added. Agri-tech firm AgriBazaar co-founder and CEO Amith Agarwal said the announcement of Rs 1 lakh crore Agri Infrastructure Fund will significantly contribute towards mitigating post-harvest losses and wastage by giving a fillip to scientific storage facilities and also, help the small farmers earn additional income by way of value-added agri-produce. "In the immediate term, it will provide an impetus for the agri sector to come out of the COVID-19 shock, while in the long run it will secure India's food security and supply chain in a self-sufficient manner. Today is a great day for India's small farm owners," he added. Food services firm Elior India CEO Sanjay Kumar said, "The steps taken by the government in order to empower the marine and agriculture sectors is appreciated. In order to go local to global, the stimulus and capital funds should be used for bringing in value addition for fishery and agricultural products to gain advantage in international markets and boost exports." However, with regards to price assurance for farmers, there is a need for an assured demand for consumption, he said. "Hence, we look forward to an announcement regarding reduction in tax on consumption and GST rate that will in turn drive consumption. Also, we hope that input tax credit is restored as this will help ensure the success of the finance minister's initiative in streamlining and supporting the development of infrastructure in the food supply chain," Kumar noted. Tasty Dairy Specialities Chairman Atul Mehra said the measures announced will help in reviving the agriculture, dairy, fisheries and allied sectors, taking closer to the Prime Minister's vision of 'self reliant' country. "India is one of the largest milk producers in the world, and the suggested initiatives and reforms will help India to go to the next level. This will help the country to make a mark internationally with the higher quality dairy products...," he said. Animal husbandry infrastructure development fund and national animal disease control programme are few of the noteworthy initiatives among others which will help in long term development, Mehra added. These are going to fulfill the aim of doubling farmers' income and establishing our products in the international market, he added. Krishi Network Platform CEO Ashish Mishram said making the agri-produce market more competitive by minimising controls and democratising access is definitely the biggest reform agri sector needs at the moment. "It is a welcome move, and should be backed with the new APMC act soon," he said. The finance minister also talked about devising ways so that farmers could have an idea of harvest time prices, he said adding that this is a complex technological problem, the government should collaborate with farmer tech platforms for this. Welcoming the measures, FINDOC Executive Director Nitin Shahi said, "Government has been offering loans and moratorium till now, actual demand of the industry is to reduce taxes and direct benefits for the economy to revive."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-3-major-agri-market-reforms-govt-finally-bites-the-bullet-agri-experts-838084.html
15-05-2020||National||Amit Shah welcomes Sitharaman's announcements for agri sector||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday welcomed Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's announcements for the agricultural sector, which is facing hardships due to the ongoing lockdown, and said the Modi government believes that India's development lies with the welfare of farmers. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah said the Narendra Modi government would bring a central law to give farmers enough options to sell their produce at a better price. "Modi government believes that India's welfare lies in the welfare of farmers. This unprecedented assistance given to farmers today shows Modiji's foresight to make the country self-sufficient by empowering farmers. For this, I congratulate @narendramodi ji and @nsitharaman ji," he said. The home minister said he was confident that the decision of the Rs one-lakh crore 'Agriculture Infrastructure Fund' will give a new direction to the agriculture sector and the welfare of farmers of India. "With the landmark decision of Agriculture Marketing Reforms, the Modi government will bring a central law that will give farmers enough options to sell their produce at a better price. He (the farmer) will be able to do barrier-free inter-state trade and through e-trading, his produce will reach every corner of the country," he said. In the third tranche of the COVID-19 economic package, Sitharaman on Friday announced a slew of measures for the agriculture sector, including a Rs 1.63 lakh crore outlay and amending the stringent Essential Commodities Act to remove cereals, edible oil, oilseeds, pulses, onions and potato from its purview. Also, a new law will be framed to give farmers the option to choose the market where they want to sell their produce by removing inter-state trade barriers and providing e-trading of agriculture produce, she said. Announcing the third tranche of an overall package of Rs 20 lakh crore to deal with the economic fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Union finance minister said foodstuffs, including cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onion, and potato, will be deregulated after the amendment to the six-and-half-decade-old Essential Commodities Act. The Act empowers the government to regulate price as well as stocks of commodities. The minister said after the amendment, stock limit will be imposed only under very exceptional circumstances like national calamities and famine when there is a surge in prices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-welcomes-sitharamans-announcements-for-agri-sector-838095.html
15-05-2020||National||Nothing but 'jumlas', says Amarinder Singh on Nirmala Sitharaman's announcements for farmers||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday dubbed Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcements of stimulus for the lockdown-hit agriculture sector as “nothing but a pack of jumlas.” Singh said the “so-called” economic package offered no immediate relief to distressed farmers, who were battling the stress of handling two major crops one after the other in extremely tough conditions. With all the three tranches of the much-awaited economic package announced so far turning out to be a “major disappointment” for the targeted sections of the society, it is clear that the Centre has “failed” to come to the rescue of the people who were struggling with the unprecedented COVID crisis and the resultant lockdown, said the CM in a statement here. Expressing serious concern over the “lack of anything substantial” in announcements for farmers, the CM said the farmers need urgent interventions, and not so-called reform measures that have been long in the making and were not needed to be pushed through in haste at this critical juncture. As one of the most affected states, agriculturally, Punjab needed support for farmers during the wheat harvesting and procurement, which the Centre has failed to deliver, he alleged. Despite repeated pleas, the central government did not provide incentive bonus to farmers for staggered procurement, he added. Despite the Centre's “total lack of support”, the farmers of Punjab pushed the limits of their courage and battles against all ends to once again provide the nation with a bumper wheat crop, a special necessity in this hour of crisis, said the CM. The state agencies have worked day and night to ensure smooth and seamless procurement, without help from the Centre, the CM said. Now that the paddy nursery transplantation had already commenced in the state, ahead of schedule to cope with the strict COVID protocols and labour shortage, the CM said once again the central government had shown no indication of helping out. As part of the agriculture sector package, the finance minister should have announced an increase in minimum support price of paddy, along with incentive bonus to check stubble burning instead of coming out with long-term plans which would have no immediate positive impact on the lives of farmers or those working in allied sectors, he said. Referring to the announcements made in earlier tranches too, including those for migrant labourers, the CM said even those offered no concrete immediate relief. Two months of free rations, which in any case most of the state governments are already providing, is not going to stop the large-scale exodus of migrants from industrial hubs and cities, the CM stated. And in the absence of any clear incentives that could encourage migrants to stay back, industrial and economic revival of the country will not happen even after the lockdown is lifted, he said. The CM urged the Centre to focus on addressing urgent needs of various sections, especially of those most affected by the lockdown, and leave the long-term reforms to a more suitable time, when things stabilize on the economic and social fronts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nothing-but-jumlas-says-amarinder-singh-on-nirmala-sitharamans-announcements-for-farmers-838098.html
15-05-2020||National||Liberation day for farmers, announcements made by FM will hugely benefit them: BJP||The BJP on Friday hailed the finance minister's announcement for the agriculture sector, asserting that it is a "liberation day" for farmers who will now have the "right to right prices" as it will create an enabling environment for them to get best results for their produce. Welcoming the decisions announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, BJP president J P Nadda described the proposed amendments to the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and the APMC Act, among other measures, as "far-reaching" agricultural reforms and lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi for these "very effective" decisions. "Today's announcements will hugely benefit farmers and enhance their incomes," he said. Senior BJP leaders and Union ministers Prakash Javadekar and Ravi Shankar Prasad lauded the package. Prasad said all the decisions announced in the last few days as part of the Rs 20 lakh crore special package is aimed at "rejuvenation" of India during the COVID-19 crisis and have one recurrent theme, which is "compassion" for the poor and marginalised, farmers and the MSME sector, with an aim to empower them and turn the challenging time into an opportunity. "Today is liberation day for farmers," Javadekar told PTI and added that it was a 70-year-old demand of farmers that they should get the choice of whom to sell their produce as they were bound so far to go to a particular agency. This "exploitation" will now be over and farmers can sell their produce by their choice, he said. The Essential Commodities Act was promulgated in 1955 when there used to be scarcity of food, which is not the case now. "We should not tie farmers to unnatural conditions and deprive them of their fair chance to get good price outside or within the country. That will be done. "They will have the right to right prices as a farmer will not only choose his buyer but also the method. In any industry, nobody monitors sale but it was done in agriculture. It was discouraging," he said. Prasad said the announcement made on Friday focuses on creating a resurgent infrastructure for farming, dairy, animal husbandry and fishing. In an apparent rejection of criticism from some quarters that the central government has not handed over cash to the poor in this time of crisis, he noted that over Rs 52,000 crore has gone into hands of the needy through direct benefit transfer and other digital mode of payments. Over Rs 1,000 crore was delivered by postmen through Aadhaar-enabled payments to the remotest regions of the country, Prasad said. Javadekar said the announcements made in the last three days address immediate problems and also correct many wrongs done in the past. Large sections of the needy population, including farmers, senior citizens and women, have been given cash by the government, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/liberation-day-for-farmers-announcements-made-by-fm-will-hugely-benefit-them-bjp-838102.html
15-05-2020||National||India weighs options as Taiwan seeks its support to take part in World Health Assembly||Even as Taiwan has requested India to support its bid to participate in the next session of the World Health Assembly commencing on Monday, New Delhi is still weighing its options.  The United States has been nudging India to support Taiwan’s participation at the 73rd session of the World Health Assembly (WHA), which will be held virtually on Monday and Tuesday. Beijing, however, has been aggressively countering the US campaign in favour of inviting Taiwan to attend the WHA as an “observer”. China in fact of late repeatedly reminded India the “One-China policy”, which the successive governments in New Delhi stuck to since 1949.  “We are confident that, given that Taiwan has received a tremendous amount of support from general public, scholars and the media lately in India, the Government of India will appreciate Taiwan's rights in this direction (to participate at the World Health Assembly),” Chung-Kwang Tien, Taipei’s envoy to New Delhi, told the DH on Friday. Sources in New Delhi said that India was in touch with other nations on Taiwan’s participation in the WHA and would take a stand “closer to the date” of the conclave, depending on “how the formal agenda (of the assembly) would evolve”.  Taiwan attended the World Health Assembly as an observer from 2009 to 2016. But Beijing blocked its attendance since 2017 after Tsai Ing-wen of the Democratic Progressive Party was voted to the office of Taiwan’s President.  The US, Japan, Australia and New Zealand and several other countries recently wrote to the WHO asking it to invite Taiwan to attend the WHA as its input on fighting the COVID-19 successfully would help in the review of the global response to the pandemic. China vehemently opposed it as it perceives the US-led move a ploy to encourage the DPP Government in Taipei to seek independence for Taiwan. It invoked the “One-China Principle” that most of the nations around the world had accepted almost seven decades back. The One-China policy recognizes only the People's Republic of China, which came into existence in 1949 after the communists defeated the nationalists in the civil war of China. It does not recognize the existence of Taiwan (or the Republic of China), where the nationalists retreated to and based the seat of their government after losing to the communists. India, like most of the other nations, has been adhering to One-China policy since 1949, recognizing only the People's Republic of China. The WHA consists of the Health Ministers of the 194 member states of the World Health Organization (WHO). It is a forum that governs the WHO and sets the international health policy. The assembly generally has its annual sessions in Geneva, but it will be held through video-conference this year in view of the COVID-19 crisis. The COVID-19 also made the WHA session all the more significant as a review of the global response to the pandemic and discussion on a strategy to deal with such global outbreaks of diseases would be high on its agenda. India will take over the chair from Japan at the end of the assembly on Tuesday. Taiwan attended the WHA as an observer from 2009 to 2016. Beijing, however, has been blocking its attendance since 2017, after Tsai Ing-wen of the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) was voted to the office of the president of Taiwan. The US, Japan, Australia and New Zealand and several other countries recently wrote to the WHO asking it to invite Taiwan to attend the WHA so that it can share experience of fighting the COVID-19 successfully and contribute to a review of the global response to the pandemic. China vehemently opposed the US-led move as it perceived it as a ploy to encourage the DPP Government in Taipei to seek independence for Taiwan. “As a part of China, Taiwan has no right to join WHO, which is a specialized agency of the United Nations restricted to only sovereign states,” said Ji Rong, counselor and spokesperson of the Embassy of People’s Republic of China in New Delhi. “The intention of Taiwan Democratic Progressive Party authorities sharing its anti-epidemic experiences is purely trying to take the epidemic as an excuse to engage in seeking independence for Taiwan and achieve its political purpose of separation through this move.” Taipei’s envoy to New Delhi however said that Taiwan’s keenness to participate the WHA should not be seen as a political move. “It is a matter of people’s lives, public health and human rights,” he added, “Taiwan’s exclusion from WHO poses a regrettable risk to global health and safety”. He underlined that Taiwan and China were two “separate jurisdictions”, neither subordinate to the other. “Regrettably, since 2017 WHO has continually caved in to China’s unreasonable interference and discontinued its practice of issuing invitations to Taiwan to attend the WHA as an observer.” Beijing also reminded US, India and other nations the “One-China Principle” that the most of the nations around the world had accepted almost seven decades ago. The “One-China principle” recognizes only the People's Republic of China, which came into existence in 1949 after the communists defeated the nationalists in the civil war of China. It does not recognize the existence of Taiwan (or the Republic of China), where the nationalists retreated to and based the seat of their government after losing to the communists. India, like most of the other nations, has been adhering to One-China policy since 1949, recognizing only the People's Republic of China with no formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan. India-Taipei Association, which is headed by a diplomat, functions as a de facto mission of India in Taipei. Taipei Economic and Cultural Centre (TECC) in New Delhi is the de facto diplomatic and consular mission of Taiwan in India. “(The) WHO needs Taiwan, just as Taiwan needs (the) WHO. Yet, Taiwan has long been excluded from (the) WHO due to unfair politics,” Chung-Kwang Tien, who heads the TECC in New Delhi, said. “This is regrettable given all that Taiwan could share with the world thanks to its renowned public health experience, health system and ability to perform rapid testing as well as research and manufacture vaccines and drugs against COVID-19. We can also share our methods of using Artificial Intelligence for analyzing and tracking the spread of the virus.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-weighs-options-as-taiwan-seeks-its-support-to-take-part-in-world-health-assembly-838106.html
15-05-2020||National||COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu breach 10,000 mark||Tamil Nadu on Friday (May 15) crossed the 10,000 mark, with 434 people, including those who returned from abroad and other states like Maharashtra and Karnataka, testing positive for COVID-19, even as Chennai continues to be on the top with 5,946 patients. The state’s tally now is 10,108 with 7,435 active cases, 2,599 recoveries and 71 deaths. For the second consecutive day, the positive cases fell below 500 and the number of recoveries today was 359, which is a good sign for the state that is battling a massive spike in numbers for the past few weeks. Five deaths were reported on Friday with the daily COVID-19 bulletin released by the Health Department mentioning that all had co-morbid conditions. Besides the increasing number of deaths, the state has another reason to worry as 49 persons who returned from abroad and other states testing positive for coronavirus. While six people who returned from Maldives testing positive for COVID-19, 40 who came from Maharashtra, two from Gujarat and one from Karnataka, have also contracted the virus. Tamil Nadu is testing every person who comes from abroad or other states in the country.   Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had written to the Centre not to resume train traffic from other states to Chennai as the city is waging a battle against coronavirus with nearly 6,000 cases. As per the daily bulletin, 11,672 samples were tested on Friday, taking the number of total samples tested to 3,03,104, which is among the highest in the country. In total, 2,90,906 individuals have been tested in Tamil Nadu since the outbreak began in March. Chennai, the biggest hotspot for coronavirus infection in the state, reported 309 cases, taking the total tally to 5,946.  The state has three major clusters – Koyambedu Market, foreign returnees, and Delhi conference – which has contributed to the majority of the 10,100-odd cases. The Koyambedu cluster has travelled across the state and to neighbouring Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. Meanwhile, offices owned by the Tamil Nadu government will work for six days a week as they have been allowed to function with 50-percent of staff from May 18 on a rotational basis. A detailed order issued by the government on Friday says all Group ‘A’ officers should attend office on all six working days.  The government had on May 3 allowed government offices to open with 33-percent staff and has increased it to 50-percent as the third phase of lockdown ends on March 17. In the GO released on Friday, the government said the offices will function with half of its workforce on a rotational basis while announcing that it will be six days a week with Saturday being made a working day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-in-tamil-nadu-breach-10000-mark-838114.html
15-05-2020||National||Coronavirus has forced courts to rethink on how to function: CJI S A Bobde||The coronavirus pandemic has forced the courts to rethink on how to function and provided a compulsory training to prepare for a new working environment, Chief Justice of India S A Bobde said on Friday. The CJI, who was speaking during an online demo of Supreme Court e-filing module, said the system is the first step in the entire process of e-courts and has brought Registry to the chambers of the advocates. "The pandemic has forced to rethink on how to function and what is essential in the judicial process. The real threat came in March and I am happy that the Supreme Court was one of the first institutions to announce that it will not be open in a usual way and function in a restricted manner. "This period has provided a compulsory training to prepare for a new working environment. There is no looking back. We will have to change the mindset regarding the way we look at Court proceedings. We are rolling out the module with the suggestions of and for the Bar," the CJI said. Justice Bobde said that the apex court was one of the first institutions to respond to the crisis by restricting the normal functioning and it was determined to ensure that the court does not become the Centre for the propagation of the coronavirus. "We found that it was not possible to maintain the safety and protect the lives of advocates and members of Registry because every space is it filing counters, barrooms, copy rooms or canteens were congregated by people. It was found absolutely necessary to work jointly to reduce footfalls in the apex court premises "This transition was not easy and it was difficult to deviate from the time honouring manner of functioning. This was the conflict between old and the new style of working," he said. The CJI said e-filing is very significant since it is the basis of a system of artificial intelligence and the system can also enable to extract information at an incredible speed of one million words per minute.  "E-filing would be available round the clock...If we had this at the time of Ayodhya hearing we could have moved at a very fast speed as thousands of pages were being filed. During the lockdown, 820 matters and 552 documents filed through e-filing. This period has provided a compulsory training to prepare for a new working environment.There is no looking back," he said. Justice Bobde further said that technology should be simple to use and not exclude citizens anywhere and this system of e-filing will make access to justice simple and inclusive through the inexpensive system. Speaking on the occasion, Justice D Y Chandrachud said that the pandemic has affected the daily lives of the people and calls for robust and calibrated institutional responses. "In significant ways what we do today will define the future. Our responses must deal with the present but the footprints of the pandemic will redefine how we function tomorrow in ways which may not be readily apparent to us today. Yet our assessment must be based on facts and on consultation, collaboration and a creative view of out resources.  "In using the technology our motto in the e-committee is simple: efficiency, transparency and access to every user of justice services. We are also conscious of the fact that not every lawyer has access to technology. Hence our solution must factor this to ensure that we continue to be an inclusive institution and reach out to those do not have the access to technology, in particular the junior members of the bar," Justice Chandrachud said. He said one of the initiatives is to open ‘e-Seva Kendra’ in every high courts and district courts of the country to roll out the e-services. "We must seek to provide sustainable digitalisation and transformational change in reconceptualising the interaction between the citizens, lawyers, the judiciary and the environment. "We must enhance our TEST values, where T stands for trust, E stands for empathy, S for sustainability and T for transparency," Justice Chandrachud said. He said that some of the key features of the e-filing module include 24/7 filing while we envisaging online communication of the defects and the scrutiny of the matters which are filed. “There’s e-payment of the court fees so that one does not have to come to the courts and it also provides the facility of e-signatures. So that our courts look as modern courts for the future, incorporating technology but at the same time inclusive to all members of the bar," Justice Chandrachud said. Supreme Court Bar Association President Dushyant Dave said e-filing is a lifeline for the apex court and especially for the Bar in the times of the ongoing pandemic. "These are times of crisis but it is such times that we have to rise to face the crisis. For administration of justice bar and the bench have to move side by side. If the judicial work is paralysed democracy is in danger. Today, more than ever, people of India need the healing touch from the Lordships. The Constitution is the suprema lax (supreme law) but it only works if the Supreme Court and the High Courts enforce the principles of constitutionalism. Present times demand a greater vigil by the judiciary," Dave said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-has-forced-courts-to-rethink-on-how-to-function-cji-s-a-bobde-838120.html
15-05-2020||National||Govt defends move to combine fiscal, monetary measures in stimulus package||The government on Friday defended its decision to include Rs 6.5 lakh crore liquidity measures in its COVID-19 stimulus package, saying most countries have combined fiscal and monetary initiatives to deal with the crisis. Many analysts and political leaders have expressed dismay over inclusion of monetary interventions in the stimulus package. Explaining this, Expenditure Secretary T V Somanathan said unfortunately the argument is not correct and the fact is that packages announced by most countries are a combination of actual fiscal outgo and liquidity provisions.  For example, he said, "One country that gave out what is called a 15 per cent (of GDP) package which a lot of people talk about. Please look at it, 14.9 per cent of it was liquidity. So, it is not as if only one part of a package is counted." There is a mix of fiscal measures and liquidity provision, and almost every country in the world counts it this way, he said. "Some have counted something, left out something, but it is not as if it is only we who are counting this way. This is in fact the way most of the countries are counting it," he added. Countering the criticism that the government has included both fiscal and monetary initiatives in the package, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharam said when tax refunds are being given, it is not included in the stimulus package as it is the money due to the taxpayers. "We are given it back...we are not delaying we are not sitting over it. I am giving it to you now because money is required now and it should reach now. I didn't mention even then...tax refund money has not gone into our calculation in claiming what we are giving as stimulus," she said. Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj said the government is actually telling what is the liquidity and what is going through the budget.  "The important thing today to understand is also that the liquidity is also helping the stressed sector to come out of that stress. So, what is the objective of doing that. One way could be to give the money from the Budget, the other is, whether we do it through a process which is different," Bajaj added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced a massive Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus, the largest economic package announced by nations around the world, to weather the fallout of the coronavirus pandemic. Asked about the dues the various central departments owe to MSMEs, Sitharaman said the government has been reviewing the pending payments to such units. The government has asked all departments to clear dues of these MSMEs within 45 days, except litigated ones, she said. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram took a swipe at the Centre, saying the ministers of finance and MSMEs should "settle their accounts" first and allow the MSMEs to save themselves without the government's "help". He highlighted the differences between Sitharaman and MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari, with the latter saying that governments and PSUs owe Rs 5 lakh crore as unpaid dues to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), while the finance minister has said the government will offer collateral-free loans worth Rs 3 lakh crore to the MSMEs. Expenditure Secretary Somanathan said as of March 31, 2020, total pending dues of such units from central government and central PSUs are less than Rs 10,000 crore. Most of the pending dues fall under the stipulated 45-day payment period, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-defends-move-to-combine-fiscal-monetary-measures-in-stimulus-package-838124.html
15-05-2020||National||Lockdown: Unable to sell cucumber farmer commits suicide||A 45 years old farmer, a father of five daughters and a son, committed suicide after he suffered loss reportedly due to the extended lockdown during which he was unable to sell cucumbers he had grown on rented land in a village in Ahmedabad. This is said to be the second case of farmers' suicide in the ongoing lockdown for containing coronavirus pandemic. A day before, an onion grower had ended his life in Bhavnagar. The latest case was reported at Sola police station in Ahmedabad where a farmer Ganpatbhai H Dantani, a resident of Sola Gam allegedly hanged himself at his house. Police record states that he hanged himself while his family was sleeping sometime on May 13 midnight. He was rushed to Sola civil hospital where he was declared dead. Sola police inspector J P Jadeja confirmed DH that “A case of accidental death (suicide) has been registered.” During the investigation, Dantani's wife Saroj told the police that he was into cucumber farming. He had taken lands on rent in the vicinity and used to sell the produce near Satyam Mall. She also said, as mentioned in the police report, that “Due to lockdown, Dantani was unable to sell cucumbers for a very long time while his debt kept increasing.”   Meanwhile, an onion grower farmer identified as Bhupat Jethva, 53, a resident of Isora village in Bhavnagar district also committed suicide by hanging himself in a tree in his farm on Thursday. His family members have claimed that Jethva was under stress due to poor price of onions in the wholesale market. However, a police officer claimed that Jethva ended his life due to a family dispute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-unable-to-sell-cucumber-farmer-commits-suicide-838132.html
15-05-2020||National||West Bengal govt to support Centre on lockdown decision: TMC sources||The West Bengal government will go with the Centre on its decision on the lockdown given the situation on the ground, but at the same time, it wants the states to be allowed to decide on relaxations in their respective areas, sources in the ruling TMC said on Friday. While there has been no official confirmation about the state's recommendation to the Centre on the lockdown, the sources in the Trinamool Congress (TMC) said the Bengal government believes that the lockdown should continue for the time being, in view of the spike in the number of COVID-19 cases across the country. The nationwide lockdown induced by the coronavirus pandemic had begun on March 23 and its third phase is scheduled to end on May 17. All states were asked by the Centre during a video-conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 11 to convey their recommendations and suggestions to the Union government by May 12. The TMC sources said the state government is keen on having more relaxations during the lockdown and wants clarity on the resumption of rail and air services. "A strict implementation of the lockdown and resumption of transport services cannot go hand in hand," they said. "Our (TMC's) stance is clear -- the states are at the forefront in the fight against COVID-19 and so they are the best judge of the situation. They should be allowed to decide on relaxations and what all can be allowed during the lockdown, given its field situation and capabilities," the sources said. West Bengal wants more autonomy to decide on the marking of "zones" during the lockdown, namely green, orange and red, according to the COVID-19 situation, they said. It also wants the Centre to release its "legitimate dues" so that it can fight the battle against COVID-19 more effectively. "It does not seem that there will be any immediate relief from either COVID-19 or the lockdown due to it. We have to learn to live with it. We will support the Centre's call on the lockdown, but there should be proper clarity on the issue of resumption of transport services," the sources iterated. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation on Monday, had said lockdown 4.0 would have a "completely different form" with a new set of rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-govt-to-support-centre-on-lockdown-decision-tmc-sources-838135.html
15-05-2020||National||Responsibility of states to facilitate migrant workers' travel: MHA||With more reports of migrant workers walking to their native places emerging, the Centre on Friday said it is state governments' responsibility to facilitate their travel to their homes on special trains while asking them to ensure that there is no movement of such labourers on roads. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said the Railways is running more than 100 'Shramik (Labourers) Special Trains' daily and is willing to "arrange additional trains" as per requirement. In a letter to states, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said movement of migrant workers walking on roads, railway tracks and travelling in trucks is still being noticed in different parts of the country. He said he had already written a letter on May 11 urging states to counsel migrant labourers who have set on foot and ensure that their train or bus travel is arranged. "It is now the responsibility of all states and union territories to ensure that movement of stranded migrant workers who are willing to go to their home states is facilitated," he said. States should widely disseminate the arrangements for travel in special buses or Shramik special trains amongst the migrant workers and persuade them that they should not be walking when they can travel on buses, he said.  "I urge you to ensure that there is no movement of migrant workers walking on roads and railway tracks and the same is facilitated through special buses or 'Shramik' special trains," Bhalla said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/responsibility-of-states-to-facilitate-migrant-workers-travel-mha-838140.html
15-05-2020||National||E-NAM platform onboards 1,000 mandis in 21 states/UTs: Centre||The Centre on Friday said it has achieved integration of 1,000 wholesale mandis, located in 21 states and union territories, with the electronic-National Agriculture Market (e-NAM). While 585 mandis were integrated in the first phase, 415 mandis were integrated in the second phase. The deadline for second phase was May 15. Right now, farmers auction their agriculture produce at 6,900-odd APMC (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees) mandis spread across the nation. Some of them are also using online bidding through e-NAM platform. "38 additional mandis were integrated with the e-NAM platform today, thus achieving a milestone of integration of 415 mandis as per the planned target (for the second phase)," the Agriculture Ministry said in a statement. The 38 mandis integrated are in Madhya Pradesh (19), Telangana (10), Maharashtra (4), and one each in Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, Kerala and Jammu and Kashmir, it said. "With this, the e-NAM platform now has a total number of 1,000 mandis across 18 states and 3 union territories," it added.  e-NAM, which was launched in April 2016, is being implemented by Small Farmers Agribusiness Consortium (SFAC), a central government agency, with the support of state governments. The purpose of e-NAM is to create a network of existing mandis on a common online market platform as 'One Nation, One Market' for agricultural commodities in India. More mandis are being integrated in the current COVID-19 situation as the e-NAM platform provides distant bidding facility for wholesale produce in APMC mandis without physical presence of buyer/trader near the auction site for bidding.  The electronic platform also provides e-payment facility through which traders can pay farmers, after the trade is executed, from anywhere, be it home or office, without going to banks, thus avoiding crowds. To decongest mandis during COVID-19 lockdown situation, the government has launched new features on the e-NAM platform, enabling direct trading from warehouses as well as collection centres of farmers producers organisations (FPOs), besides logistics support. In the last four years, the ministry said, e-NAM has registered a user base of 1.66 crore farmers, 1.31 lakh traders, 73,151 commission agents and 1,012 farmers producers organisations (FPOs). As on May 14, farmers have transacted over Rs 1 lakh crore on the eNAM platform with a trade volume of 3.43 crore tonnes of commodities, and 38.16 lakh bamboo and coconuts, it said. Presently, 150 commodities, including foodgains, oilseeds, fibres, fruits and vegetables, are traded on e-NAM. The online trading platform provides a single window service for all mandi related information and services, including commodity arrivals, quality assaying, competitive bid offers and electronic payment settlement directly into farmers' accounts, the ministry said. The online digital market aims at reducing transaction costs, bridging information asymmetries, and helping expansion of market access for farmers and other stakeholders, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/e-nam-platform-onboards-1000-mandis-in-21-states/uts-centre-838142.html
15-05-2020||National||Health Ministry issues additional guidelines on rational use of PPEs in non-COVID-19 hospitals||The Health Ministry on Friday issued additional guidelines on rational use of Personal Protective Equipment for healthcare functionaries working in non-COVID-19 hospitals. The guidelines differentiated various areas in the hospital like in-patient ward and out-patient wards into low, moderate, mild and high risk categories. The Help desk or registration counter, doctors' chamber used for clinical management of patients, sanitary staff and pharmacy counters among others have been marked in the mild-risk category. The ministry has recommended the use of triple layer medical mask and latex examination gloves, besides following social distancing guidelines and frequent use of hand sanitiser over gloves in the mild risk category areas. Chambers of dental or ENT doctors or ophthalmology doctors and pre- anesthetic check-up clinics have been categorised as moderate-risk areas where the usage of N-95 mask, goggles, latex examination gloves and face shield have been advised. As far as in-patients departments in non-COVID-19 hospitals are concerned, the ministry has designated ward or individual rooms used for clinical management activity as mild-risk areas, while the ICU or critical care, labour room and operation theatres have been categorised as moderate-risk areas. It has recommended the use of triple layer medical mask, face shield (wherever feasible), sterile latex gloves and goggles. Patients should also wear masks in labour rooms, the guidelines stated. The ministry has recommended wearing of triple layer medical mask and latex examination gloves in wards. According to the guidelines, areas where emergency cases are attended, come in the mild risk category and areas in the emergency department, where severely ill patients are being attended to while performing aerosol generating procedures, have been marked in the high risk category. Besides, laboratories which are used for sample collection, transportation and testing of routine (non-respiratory) samples come under mild-risk category, while labs where respiratory samples are collected and tested fall in moderate-risk category, according to the guidelines. Radiodiagnosis and blood bank among others fall in the mild-risk category, while kitchen areas have been marked in the low-risk category. Ambulances transporting patients not on any assisted ventilation and driving areas come under the low-risk category, while emergency vehicles carrying patients with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) come under the high-risk category. The guidelines said standard precaution has to be followed at all times. It also advised people to always follow the laid down protocol for disposing off PPEs as detailed in infection prevention and control guidelines available on the website of the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-issues-additional-guidelines-on-rational-use-of-ppes-in-non-covid-19-hospitals-838143.html
15-05-2020||National||Will not allow combat readiness to be impacted by financial constraints: Army chief||Army Chief Gen M M Naravane on Friday said his force will not allow its combat readiness along the northern and western borders to be impacted by the financial constraints triggered by the coronavirus pandemic. In an interaction at a leading defence think-tank, Gen Naravane said a directive has been received from the government to cut expenditure by 20 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 and the Army is implementing it without compromising on its operational efficiency. He said several steps are being identified to cut expenditure which include deferment of holding of major exercises and restriction on movement of units from one peace-station to another. The Army Chief said the number of movement of units and battalions per year is between 250 to 300 and the Army is looking at suspending some of them. "Each movement costs us around Rs one crore. Units in high-altitude areas and units carrying out counter insurgency operations will have to move. However we can restrict movement of units from one peace station to another. We have identified 100 units who can stay in their current locations," he said. "We will see what we can defer or scale down like exercise of troops," Naravane said hinting that military exercises may not take place at least for a year. Gen Naravane at the same time said that there will be no cut in expenditure on account of purchase of arms and ammunition, asserting that operational efficiency along India's active borders will not be compromised at all. Noting that defence expenditure contributes significantly to the country's overall development, he said: "any investment on safety and security is actually an investment on growth". To emphasise his point, Gen Naravane said the stock market had nosedived after the Pulwama terror attack but it surged significantly after India carried out the Balakot strikes. Talking about budgetary constraints, he said the ratio of revenue to capital budget continues to be a matter of concern for the Army. "We are a manpower-intensive Army. Requirement of manpower along the borders and for counter insurgency and counter terror operations are not going to go away any time soon. So we have to live with the situation of 80 per cent of our budget going into the revenue side," he said. Asked about the possibility of India facing a two front war along the borders with China and Pakistan, Gen Naravane said it is a possibility and that the country will have to remain prepared to deal with such a scenario. "It is a possibility. It is not that it is going to happen every time. We have to be alive to all contingencies which can happen, various scenarios that can unfold. We have to remain alive to the possibility. "But to assume that in all cases both fronts would be 100 per cent active, I think that would be an incorrect assumption to make. In dealing with two front scenario, there will always be a priority front and a secondary front. That is how we look at dealing with this two front threat," the Army chief said. He said the priority front would be addressed in a different manner while the secondary front will be kept as dormant as possible just to conserve resources to focus on the priority front.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-not-allow-combat-readiness-to-be-impacted-by-financial-constraints-army-chief-838147.html
15-05-2020||National||IPI voices concern over abuse of laws to harass journalists||The International Press Institute (IPI) on Friday expressed grave concern over the misuse of the law by authorities in India to intimidate journalists and curtail press freedom. The statement by the Vienna-headquartered, a global network of editors, media executives and leading journalists, came after sedition cases were filed against the owner ad editor of a Gujarati news portal and a Delhi-based journalist was threatened with penal action for a report on Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi. The Editors Guild of India and the Press Club of India had condemned the action against the journalists and urged the governments to stop using legal tools to harass the press. The Guild called these instances “deeply disturbing” and condemned the “growing pattern of misuse of criminal laws.” The Press Club of India also criticized the police, saying that their actions were “an affront to every canon of independent and responsible journalism”. “The rapid decline in India’s press freedom is alarming,” IPI Director of Advocacy Ravi R Prasad said. “A democracy like India can only thrive if media pluralism is allowed to flourish, but the government appears to have no tolerance for criticism and fears objective, independent journalism,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ipi-voices-concern-over-abuse-of-laws-to-harass-journalists-838148.html
15-05-2020||National||Delhi Metro: Thermal scanners, social distancing stickers in coaches, platform areas||From thermal scanners to test the temperature of commuters to stickers on social distancing norms pasted on seats and platform floors, the Delhi Metro is preparing to handle commuters as per safety guidelines, whenever the services are ordered to be resumed. On regular days, the average daily ridership of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is over 26 lakh. The Delhi Metro has been closed since March 22 when the 'Janata Curfew' was imposed in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, and subsequently the nationwide lockdown. While there are no clear indications as to when the services might be resumed, Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said on Friday the government is ready to resume the public transport services in the city, with safety precautions in place for COVID-19, if the Centre allows it. Delhi Metro authorities have been working on protocols to ensure social distancing norms are in place whenever the commuters return. Red lines have been drawn at regular intervals next to AFC gates and security checking gates, just before commuters enter near the platform areas. On platform floors, large stickers bearing 'Ensure Social Distancing' message have been pasted at regular intervals, with a white circle bordered by an outer red circle to alert the commuters. Sources said thermal scanners will be used to screen commuters before they proceed further. The DMRC authorities, however, remain tight-lipped on whether keeping the Aarogya Setu app will be mandatory for travelling in the metro whenever the services are resumed. "The decision to resume metro rail services in Delhi-NCR will be taken by the government after which the detailed protocol to be followed by passengers for travelling in the metro will be shared with the media and the public," the DMRC said in a statement. At present, the DMRC is taking up the necessary cleaning mechanisms inside the trains and indoor areas of stations such as entrance lobbies, corridors, staircases, escalators, elevators, security area etc, it said. "Other necessary logistical arrangements such as provision for hand sanitisation, thermal screening at stations and installation of social distancing related signages are also being handled in the interim," the statement said. The DMRC authorities have been working on protocols for social distancing and other safety norms for passengers for using trains and station premises in the last few days. In a series of tweets on Wednesday, the DMRC had indicated that it was gearing itself up and keeping its staff battle-ready to ensure adherence to all safety protocols by commuters. It had also tweeted an image, showing caution stickers being put up on back of seats at regular intervals, on the maintenance of social distancing. "The exercise will be extremely exhaustive as it involves cleaning and maintenance of 264 stations over 2200 coaches and over 1100 escalators and 1000 lifts etc," it earlier said. The coronavirus death toll in Delhi has mounted to 123, even as the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the national capital rose to 8,895 on Friday, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-metro-thermal-scanners-social-distancing-stickers-in-coaches-platform-areas-838158.html
15-05-2020||National||China starts sharing hydrological data for Brahmaputra river||China on Friday began sharing with India hydrological data for the Brahmaputra river, an annual practice during the monsoon which is crucial for generating information on floods in northeast India, officials said. The data is being shared from three hydrological stations -- Nugesha, Yangcun and Nuxia -- lying on the mainstream of the Brahmaputra, known as Yarlung Zangbo in China, officials in the Jal Shakti Ministry said. For the Sutlej river, known as Langqen Zangbod in China, data is shared from a station at Tsada, the official said. The development comes amid the recent face-offs between the armies of the two countries at the eastern and northern borders of India. On May 5, around 250 Indian and Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in Pangong Tso area in Eastern Ladakh. Four days later, there was a similar face-off near Naku La Pass in North Sikkim. In 2017, China had stopped sharing the data citing that the hydrological data gathering sites were washed away due to floods. It also coincided with the 73-day Doklam stand-off between the two neighbours that took place during the peak monsoon period. It resumed sharing data from 2018. India and China have signed an agreement under which Beijing shares hydrological data with New Delhi. Under the agreement, for the Brahmaputra river, the data is shared by China from May 15. In case of the Sutlej river, the data is shared from June 1. The data is also shared twice daily until October. The Brahmaputra originates from Tibet and flows into Arunachal Pradesh and Assam and later drains into the Bay of Bengal through Bangladesh. The sharing of data is very helpful in generating flood related information for the northeastern states, officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-starts-sharing-hydrological-data-for-brahmaputra-river-838162.html
15-05-2020||National||Amit Shah holds meeting with MHA officials ahead of announcement of lockdown 4.0 guidelines||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday held several meetings with his ministry's officials ahead of the announcement of guidelines for the fourth-phase of the coronavirus-induced lockdown that begins from Monday, officials said. Shah, who was in his North Block office for nearly five hours on Friday, held meetings with top officials of the ministry, including Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla. Senior officials have been busy in finalising the guidelines for the fourth-phase of the lockdown, a home ministry official said. However, details of Shah's meetings were not known immediately. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation on Tuesday, had said that the lockdown 4.0 will have a "completely different form", with new rules. Modi had also said the guidelines will come before May 18. Officials said greater relaxations and flexibility will be seen in the lockdown-4, which will begin on Monday, with gradual reopening of railways and domestic airlines while powers will the given to states and union territories to define COVID-19 hotspots. The final guidelines will be issued by the home ministry only after going through suggestions of state governments. State governments and union territories administrations were supposed to submit their recommendations by Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-holds-meeting-with-mha-officials-ahead-of-announcement-of-lockdown-40-guidelines-838164.html
15-05-2020||National||Telangana CM says COVID-19 active cases confined to four zones in Hyderabad;40 fresh cases recorded on Friday||Barring four zones of Hyderabad, there are no COVID-19 active cases in the state,Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao said on Friday, as 40 people tested positive for the virus. COVID-19 cases are confined to only LB Nagar, Malakpet, Charminar and Karwan zones in Hyderabad, Rao said. Rao, who held a meeting with ministers and officials on the COVID-19 situation, said lockdown in the state would continue as it is and that further strategy would be decided as per the guidelines to be given by the Centre after the ongoing nationwide lockdown comes an end on May 17. "Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has declared that except in four zones in Hyderabad, there are no coronavirus active cases in the State," an official release said on Friday night. Rao had earlier announced lockdown in the state till May 29. The release said shops selling ACs, automobile spare parts and also automobile showrooms would be permitted to open from Saturday. On Friday, 40 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported which took the number of virus cases in the state to 1,454. No fresh death was reported and the number of deaths continued to be 34, according to a COVID-19 bulletin issued by the state government. The number of people cured/discharged as on date was 959 and the number of active cases in the state stood at 461. "Coronavirus in Telangana has limited itself to four zones in Hyderabad city. LB Nagar, Malakpet, Charminar, Karawan Zones have corona active cases. There are 1442 families in these areas," he said. Only some migrant workers in Yadadri Bhongir, Jangaon and Mancherial districts have tested positive for the virus, but not residents of the districts, he said. Hence, it cannot be considered that three districts are having the positive cases, he said. The lockdown restrictions are being implemented completely in the four containment zones where there are positive cases, he said. Observing that there is nothing to be scared about the virus, Rao said a strategy to live with it has to be adopted as it is not known how long the virus would remain active. "A majority of people have been recovering from the virus. In Telangana state, the percentage of people who died due to the coronavirus was only 2.38 per cent.This is less than the nation's average of 3.5 per cent," he said. "Hence, there is no need to be fearful about corona.We don't know how long this virus will be with us. .....we have to adapt a strategy to live with it and we have no option," the CM said. The state government has earlier allowed, among few others, shops related to agriculture and construction activities besides liquor shops to function. Rao instructed officials to take precautionary measures to prevent outbreak of seasonal diseases during the coming rainy season, while continuing the efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-cm-says-covid-19-active-cases-confined-to-four-zones-in-hyderabad40-fresh-cases-recorded-on-friday-838172.html
15-05-2020||National||COVID-19 lockdown likely to be extended by two weeks, guidelines soon||The COVID-19 lockdown is likely to be extended by two weeks with more relaxations and an announcement is expected on Saturday. The lockdown 4.0 will have considerable relaxations, especially in green and orange zones while a final call is to be taken on what more restrictions can be lifted in red zones. However, stricter implementation of lockdown measures will continue in containment zones. The third edition of the lockdown is ending on Sunday. The lockdown had started on March 25 and was extended twice. Except for half-a-dozen states like Telangana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Punjab, all have been asking for further relaxations with the main objection on the Centre deciding on the coding of districts. States like Assam have informed that it would go by the Centre's decision and would support a two week extension. Telangana had already extended lockdown measures till May-end. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had set May 15 as the deadline for states to submit their recommendations on relaxations to be provided by during lockdown 4.0. The coding of districts into red, orange and green may continue as it is and the Centre may have a say in it, officials said. Most of the states have favoured extension of lockdown. While supporting the extension, Delhi government has demanded that public transport, including Metro, should be allowed with restrictions. Officials said they were weighing the idea of opening of Metro but will factor in the routes before giving a nod. They pointed out that Metro routes may be passing through containment zones and hotspots and it may not be advisable to open it. There may not be immediate opening up of aviation sector but autos and taxis may see running again even in red zones but with minimum passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-likely-to-be-extended-by-two-weeks-guidelines-soon-838173.html
15-05-2020||National||Health Ministry issues advisory for healthcare workers||The Union Health Ministry on Friday issued guidelines on preventive measures, isolation and quarantine for healthcare workers deployed in COVID and non-COVID areas of hospitals. The ministry advised the healthcare facilities to activate their Hospital Infection Control Committees (HICC) which would be responsible for implementing the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) activities and organising regular training for staff. A nodal officer (Infection Control Officer) shall be identified by each hospital to address all matters related to Healthcare Associated Infections (HAIs), the advisory said. The nodal officer has to ensure that healthcare workers in different settings of hospitals use PPEs appropriate to their risk profile, as detailed in the guidelines issued by the ministry, and they have undergone training on IPC and are aware of common signs and symptoms, need for self-health monitoring and prompt reporting of such symptoms, it added. The officer also has to make provisions for regular (thermal) screening of all hospital staff and ensure that all healthcare workers managing COVID-19 cases are provided with chemo-prophylaxis under medical supervision, the ministry said. On actions for healthcare workers, the advisory says it needs to be ensured that all preventive measures like frequent washing of hands/use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers and respiratory etiquettes (using tissue/handkerchief while coughing or sneezing) are followed at all times. "He or she shall use appropriate PPE at all times while on duty. A buddy system to be followed to ensure that there is no breach in infection prevention control practices," it said. Under the buddy system, two or more-person teams are formed amongst the deployed hospital staff who share responsibilities for his/her partner's safety and well-being in the context of appropriately donning and doffing of PPEs, maintaining hand hygiene and taking requisite steps on observing breach of PPEs. The advisory also asks healthcare workers to follow social distancing and use masks to prevent transmission or acquiring infection. "Pregnant/lactating mothers and immuno-compromised healthcare workers shall inform their medical condition to the hospital authorities for them to get posted only in non-COVID areas," the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-issues-advisory-for-healthcare-workers-838174.html
15-05-2020||National Politics||55 fresh cases in Rajasthan; total 4,589||Rajasthan recorded 55 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the state's virus tally to 4,589, an official said. The state has so far seen 125 deaths due to the virus, with Jaipur accounting for 63 deaths. "As many as 55 fresh cases have been reported in nine districts of the state today, including 29 in Kota district," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. Singh said that besides Kota, 11 were reported from Jaipur; nine from Udaipur and one cases each in Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Dausa, Dungarpur, Baran and Bharatpur. A total of 4,589 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. Apart from these, 267 migrants who have come from other states have tested positive. He said so far 2,646 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 2,403 have been discharged from hospitals. The state has 1,818 active cases. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer and 43 BSF jawans brought from Delhi. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/55-fresh-cases-in-rajasthan-total-4589-837823.html
15-05-2020||National Politics||Piyush Goyal and opposition CMs lock horns over running trains for migrants||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Opposition ruled Chief Ministers locked horn on Friday over the return of stranded migrant workers in Shramik Special trains. "It pains me that several states such as West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, are not giving enough permissions for 'shramik special trains' to enter their states," Union Railways Minister Piyush Goyal said. These four states have the highest number of migrants workers stranded in different parts of the country and eager to go home, he said.     Without receiving states approval railways can't operate Shramik Special trains, says Goyal. The railways operated 1000 Shramik Special trains since May 1 and ferried over 12 lakh stranded people mostly migrants workers, students and tourists. Of the total trains, Uttar Pradesh received highest with 487 trains followed by Bihar with 254 trains. Rajasthan received 22 trains, Chhattisgarh( 2 ) Jharkhand (48) and West Bengal received just 9 trains, says railways statement.      As per railways guidelines, receiving states have to approach it after getting approval of sending states to send migrants in a Shramik special trains. The railways work as just a carrier. While the railways bearing 85 % cost of ferrying migrants, states have to bear 15 % of the cost. Besides, the railways also arranging onboard food and water. Counter Goyal's statement Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said that there was no pending approval from his state on running Shramik Special trains. "There is no permission pending for any train with govt of Rajasthan. In fact, Rajasthan was in strong favour that Railways shd b allowed for a commute of Migrants. But I am not surprised to see the statement by Railway minister, they are skilled in passing their failure on to state govts," Gehlot tweeted. Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemanth Soren said it has become the habit of BJP & Centre to play politics over everything. Jharkhand Govt has given NOC for 110 trains. Around 50 trains have brought back over 60,000 migrant workers so far, the CM said.  Even West  Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who announced 105 trains to bring home migrants on Thursday, attacked the Centre asking it not to indulge in cheap politics over the issue. Countering this, Goyal said " As per the news, West Bengal arranged 105 trains till June 30. If the states took that much time to ferry migrants, how could stranded people reach their home early?. " Goyal also said the railways kept 1200 trains to operate as Shramik Special trains and ready to operate 300 trains daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/piyush-goyal-and-opposition-cms-lock-horns-over-running-trains-for-migrants-837828.html
15-05-2020||National Politics||Akhilesh Yadav jokes about economic package||Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav on Friday took a dig at the “Atmanirbhar” economic package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, suggesting that self-reliance and loans do not go together. The opposition leader posted a make-believe conversation in which a student asks what is meant by a “loan” and also seeks to know the meaning of “self-reliant”. “Are loan and self-reliance synonymous,” the student asks. “I will ask Delhi and tell you,” the teacher replies. Yadav did not elaborate on the teacher-student joke he tweeted in Hindi. But the apparent reference was to the loans announced in the Rs 20 lakh crore “self-reliance” package to revive the economy hit by the COVID-19 crisis. Yadav had earlier termed the package a “jumla”, or empty rhetoric. “What kind of solution is this,” he had asked in an earlier tweet. “Farmers are being asked to take loans. This is not the time to talk in the air about the future but to give immediate relief to farmers,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/akhilesh-yadav-jokes-about-economic-package-838002.html
15-05-2020||National Politics||Modi govt insensitive to farmers; PM, FM must apologise: Congress||The Congress on Friday accused the government of being "insensitive" and "inhumane" towards farmers and demanded that the prime minister and the finance minister apologise for neglecting them in the COVID-19 economic package. He said the government has not put a single penny in the pocket of farmers or farm labourers through the package and claimed that farmers have lost over Rs 50,000 crore this Rabi season. "One thing is absolutely clear that the so-called Rs 20 lakh crore economic package has proved to be a jumla package. It reflects the 'voodoo' economics being followed by the prime minister and the finance minister," Surjewala said at a press conference through video-conferencing. The Congress leader noted that the package, which is now being declared in instalments by the finance minister, "has proved to be only 13 zeros". He said the PM and FM are trying to befool farmers and this is not in national interest. They should apologise to them for betraying them by not giving even a single penny in their pocket, he noted. Former finance minister P Chidambaram said in their estimate, the fiscal stimulus part of the second tranche of announcements was Rs 5,000 crore with which analysts agree. "In today's tranche it is close to zero. Even the FM declined to answer how many of the amounts mentioned today were already part of the Expenditure Budget and how many are additional sums of money." His colleague and former union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted, "Madam Finance Minister, one simple question. What is the ADDITIONAL cash you are putting into the system over the next 6 months? The announcements you made today are mostly contained in your budget presented on Feb 1. Another case of repackaging and remarketing." He also asked the finance minister if she would shed light on basics of 'atmanirbhar arthashastra'. "On Feb 1, 2020, she projected Centre's expenditure at Rs 30.42 lakh crore for year 2020/21. Now with 'atmanirbhar bharat' package what is the REVISED expenditure figure for 2020/21? Everything else is dramabaazi," he said on Twitter. Surjewala said the prime minister and the finance minister only talk big things and indulge in headline management, but have done nothing concrete for farmers or any other section of society. Taking a dig at government's announcement of bringing new laws, he said, what help will new laws provide when farmers continue to sell their produce below MSP. He said farmers have lost Rs 21,000 crore by distress sale of wheat far below minimum support price (MSP) and an equal amount through crops like chana, sarson and masoor, while another Rs 10,000 crore was lost through distress sale of vegetables and fruits. He claimed that since the markets were shut and farmers have to sell at distress prices as the government was buying only 26.5 per cent of the Rabi crop at MSP. "Neither farmers nor farm labourers will benefit from these jumla announcements of the finance minister. Today, farmers and farm workers are frustrated and disappointed," he said. The Congress leader said it is unfortunate that the prime minister and finance minister have not given anything even to MSMEs as their own minister Nitin Gadkari has exposed the entire set of contradiction and lies by saying that the government and PSUs owe over Rs 5 lakh crore to them. Unfortunately, he said, neither of them even chose to express concern, much less implement any decision qua that, and "that is where the MSME minister's statement becomes relevant and exposes the entire set of contradiction and lies on part of Union government". Surjewala said the attempt of the finance minister to repackage the budget and befool the people is "insensitive and inhuman" and needs to be condemned. Sitharaman on Friday gave details of the third tranche of the Centre's economic package, announcing relief for agriculture and allied industries. Modi earlier this week announced a cumulative package of Rs 20 lakh crore (nearly 10 per cent of GDP) to provide relief to various segments of the economy battered by coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govt-insensitive-to-farmers-pm-fm-must-apologise-congress-838137.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand using 'ghost' villages as coronavirus quarantine centres||Abandoned houses in Pauri district's 'ghost' villages, called so as they have become empty after their residents left them, are proving useful for the administration which is converting them into quarantine centres for migrants returning in droves to Uttarakhand.           "In view of the huge influx of people coming from outside the state, the utility of the abandoned houses on the peripheries of deserted villages becomes immense," BDO of Rikhnikhal block in Pauri district S P Thapliyal said. Poor infrastructure, difficult living conditions and lack of employment have been cited as the reasons for the mass migration of locals from such villages which have been lying vacant for years now.   Derelict houses under padlocks are being used for the purpose as school buildings or panchayat bhawans where migrants are supposed to be quarantined primarily are sometimes located in the central part of the villages where putting up the returnees may make local residents more vulnerable to infection, he said. At least 576 migrants have been quarantined in the abandoned houses in Pauri district which has the highest number of ghost villages in the state at 186,  Thapliyal said.         Migrants coming from outside are being mandatorily quarantined for 14 days by the state government either at home or at centres set up for the purpose as a precautionary measure. Such houses are being cleaned up, sanitised and converted  to serve as quarantine centres in addition to the panchayat bhawans and school buildings where also migrants are being quarantined, the official said.              With the return of a large number of migrants amid the ongoing COVID-19-induced lockdown from outside the state and shortage of places to quarantine them, abandoned houses are being used as quarantine facilities, he said.               Many migrants are returning to their villages after decades and their ancestral homes are either totally destroyed or dilapidated.            They are being kept at panchayat bhawans and school buildings mainly but in some cases, if the number of returnees is high or the location of the quarantine centre is not appropriate, the migrants are being taken to the ghost villages after ensuring proper sanitisation measures, the official said. A total of 19,846 migrants had reached 1,049 gram panchayats of Pauri till May 13 and the influx continues, the district information office said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-using-ghost-villages-as-coronavirus-quarantine-centres-837846.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||SP, BSP express concern over plight of migrant labourers returning home||Amid reports of accidents involving migrant labourers on their way back home, the opposition Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party expressed concern over their plight. SP president Akhilesh Yadav in a tweet said, "The government is giving passes to industrialists to bring workers to work but there is no arrangement for the helpless labourers returning home who are forced to die of hunger and thirst on the road." "By now, all have come to know that this government is with the rich and against the labourers, farmers and poor. The BJP has been exposed." BSP supremo Mayawati said in a tweet, "Videos of millions of migrants labourers, their helpless families on the streets returning home, their hunger and deaths on the way shown on TV are heartbreaking and sad. In such a situation, effective arrangements should be immediately made by central, state governments to help them in their life-and-death battles."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sp-bsp-express-concern-over-plight-of-migrant-labourers-returning-home-837870.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Can't stop or monitor movement of migrant workers on roads, says Supreme Court||"How can we stop them from walking on roads and railway tracks," the Supreme Court on Friday asked a lawyer raising the issue of deaths of migrant labourers. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai expressed their exasperation as advocate Alok Alakh Srivastava raised the issue of migrants' death after being crushed by trains and buses in several incidents across the country. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said everybody will get a chance to travel, subject to agreement among states. Using any force against them would be counter productive, he said. Hundreds of 'Shramik Special Trains' were being run on requests by states. But as the number of migrants were huge, they failed to get tickets. Hundreds of them were forced to walk on foot to their natives places, resulting into accidents. "There are people walking and not stopping. How can we help?" the bench asked Srivastava, who brought forth incidents related to death of migrant workers. The bench, however, said every advocate reads incidents in the newspaper and becomes knowledgeable about every subject.  "Your knowledge is totally based on newspaper clippings and then under Article 32, you want this court to decide. Let the state decide. Why should this court decide or hear?," the bench said.  The petitioner said 16 migrants were killed on the highway in Una MP and in Saharanpur, UP. The bench, however, refused to pass any order saying it was impossible for this court to monitor who was walking on the roads. To a query from the court whether there is any way to stop the migrants from walking on the road, Mehta said States are providing interstate transport. But if people get angry and start on foot instead of waiting for the transport to be provided, nothing can be done. We can only request that people not to walk, he said. As many as 16 migrants were killed after being run over by a goods train in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district on May 8. Six others were killed in Uttar Pradesh after coming under wheels of a bus on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-30-cant-stop-or-monitor-movement-of-migrant-workers-on-roads-says-supreme-court-837875.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Low intensity quake hits Delhi; fourth since April 12||A low-intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.2 hit the national capital on Friday, the fourth since April 12, the National Centre for Seismology said. The epicentre was Pitampura in north Delhi. The NCS said the quake occurred at 11:28 am at a depth of eight kilometres. The NCS is a body under the Ministry of Earth Sciences. On May 10, a medium-intensity earthquake of magnitude 3.4 hit the area near Wazirpur in northeast Delhi. Wazirpur and its nearby areas were the epicentre of the earthquakes on April 12 and April 13, of magnitude 3.5 and 2.7, respectively. There are five seismic zones. Delhi falls in the fourth zone. According to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, seismicity around Delhi appears to be associated with a major geological structure known as the Delhi-Hardwar Ridge. An earthquake of magnitude 2.8 had hit the national capital in 2004. Another 3.4 magnitude quake was recorded in the city in 2001, according to official data. The major quakes recorded near the national capital were at Bulandshahr (magnitude 6.7) on October 10, 1956 and at Moradabad (magnitude 5.8) on August 15, 1966. Both are in western Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/low-intensity-quake-hits-delhi-fourth-since-april-12-837879.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Mumbai returnee tests positive for COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh's Jaunpur||A resident of Haridwar village under Barsati Police Station area, the man drives an autorickshaw in Mumbai and had come here on May 2, District Magistrate Dinesh Kumar Singh said.  His sample was sent for testing on May 10 and in the report received on Friday, he was found to be coronavirus positive, the DM said. The health and district administration is taking all necessary steps and his village has been sealed, the DM added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mumbai-returnee-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttar-pradeshs-jaunpur-837881.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: CM Bhupesh Baghel asks Centre to return CSR donations made by Chhattisgarh industrialists to PM CARES fund||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday asked the Centre to return CSR donations made by industrialists of his state to the PM CARES fund, saying the money "is ours...of the people of the state". In an interview to PTI, he also said the country has a right to know about the donations in the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) fund.  The assertion comes days after Baghel went public with details of contributions made to the chief minister's relief fund. “Country has the right to know about PM CARES fund. They (people) should know. There is nothing to hide anything on it,” he said. Baghel said he has told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that donations to the PM CARES fund have been made by industrialists of the state as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). “I have told the PM that the money is of Chhattisgarh. It is ours. It is of the people of the state. Give that money to us so that we can take decisions for their benefit and welfare,” he said. Going public with the details of donations made in the chief minister's relief fund, Baghel on Monday said Rs 56.4 crore has been received in it between March 24 and May 7 by commercial and social organizations, firms, government staff and citizens. On Wednesday, the PM CARES fund trust decided to allocate Rs 3,100 crore for the fight against COVID-19. The PM CARES fund was set up in late March, with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation, like posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and to provide relief to the affected.  Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday demanded an audit of the PM CARES fund and said the account of money received in it and spent be made public||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cm-bhupesh-baghel-asks-centre-to-return-csr-donations-made-by-chhattisgarh-industrialists-to-pm-cares-fund-837889.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: 6 migrants killed, over 65 injured in separate road accidents||Six migrant workers were killed and 95 others injured in separate road accidents in Uttar Pradesh when they were returning home during the ongoing lockdown to combat the coronavirus outbreak, police said on Friday. The accidents have taken place in Barabanki, Jalaun, Bahraich and Mahoba districts since Thursday evening, they said. In Barabanki, a group of seven labourers returning from Surat to Bahraich were waiting for conveyance near Badel on the Lucknow-Ayodhya National Highway on Friday morning when a speeding truck hit them, killing three on the spot and injuring the rest. Those killed have been identified as Shishupal (32), his brother Jeetendra (30) and uncle Mohan Nishad (40), the police said, adding that the four injured have been admitted to a hospital. The group members were working in a handloom company in Surat in Gujarat and had left for their homes after the factory was shut due to the ongoing lockdown to combat the novel coronavirus outbreak. They reached Barabanki in a truck and were waiting for another vehicle to take them home, the police said. In a separate accident, two people were killed and 40 injured when a truck carrying them from Mumbai to their homes in Uttar Pradesh fell in a ditch after being hit by another truck in Jalaun district. According to Jalaun Superintendent of Police Satish Kumar, the truck with 46 migrant labourers, hailing from different districts of Uttar Pradesh, had started its journey from Mumbai four days ago and met with the accident on Thursday night. The injured have been admitted to Orai Medical College, the police officer said. The deceased have been identified as Sundari, belonging to Chitrakoot district, and Sher Bahadur Gautam of Bhadohi district. Another truck, also ferrying migrant labourers from Mumbai, overturned after the driver lost control of the vehicle after hitting an electric pole on the Lucknow-Bahraich highway in Bahraich district, police said. The accident occurred under Chakkarpur Police Station and left 32 people injured, Additional SP Ajay Pratap Singh said. All the injured were rushed to Sadar Hospital where Ghulam Jilani (28), belonging to Bahraich, succumbed to injuries. All the injured are said to be natives of Bahraich, the SP added.  In Mahoba district's Panewadi township, a truck carrying migrants from Gujarat to Chhattisgarh overturned injuring 20 people. The truck carrying about 70 to 80 migrant workers from Gujarat was on its way to Chhattisgarh when it overturned on Jhansi-Mirzapur National Highway, injuring 20 of them, Circle Officer (City) Jatashankar Rao said. The accident took place in the wee hours on Friday morning , he said adding that all the injured were however out of danger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-6-migrants-killed-over-65-injured-in-separate-road-accidents-837890.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Part of Sena Bhavan sealed after soldier tests COVID-19 positive||"One soldier tested positive for COVID-19. The affected area of Sena Bhawan closed for sanitation and disinfection," the official said.  "Actions as per protocol such as contact tracing and quarantine are in progress," he said. Sena Bhavan is the headquarters of the Indian Army.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-part-of-sena-bhavan-sealed-after-soldier-tests-covid-19-positive-837910.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Cemetery keeps graves ready for speedy burials||Considering the rise in COVID-19 cases and lockdown restrictions, a Muslim cemetery, in one of the worst-affected areas of Bhopal city, has arranged for at least 10 ready-to-use graves for speedy burials. Madhya Pradesh's capital city has recorded 900 cases of novel coronavirus so far, of which 35 patients have succumbed to the infection. Jhada Kabristan is located in Jahangirabad area, one of the worst affected areas of the city, with over 220 COVID- 19 cases detected in the locality. "We have got at least 10 graves ready at Jhada Kabristan because bodies from all city hospitals are brought here. We don't even know if the deceased are COVID-19 positive or not," said Rehan Golden, the chairman of the cemeterys management committee. When asked why these graves were kept ready, he said, "Digging a grave can take about four to five hours. Under the present circumstances, we can't keep people waiting for a burial for five hours, especially when the authorities are not allowing bodies of suspected patients to be taken home for mourning." The graveyard has received 38 bodies from different hospitals of the city since April 6, he added. If a grave is ready, it will only take half an hour to perform the burial rituals, he said, adding that on May 5 the cemetery had received six bodies at the same time. According to health officials, of the 900 COVID-19 cases reported in Bhopal, 25 per cent were from Jahangibad locality alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cemetery-keeps-graves-ready-for-speedy-burials-837914.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: 932 Shramik Special trains operated so far, over 11 lakh migrants ferried home||On Friday, railways operated 145 such trains. Of these, Uttar Pradesh received the maximum number of trains followed by Bihar, they said. Out of the 932 trains which have been operated so far, 215 are in transit while 717 have terminated at various stations. Sixty-seven more are in the pipeline, an official said. These 932 trains were terminated in various states like Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Mizoram, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal.  So far, Uttar Pradesh has given approval for 487 trains, followed by Bihar which has given nod for 254 and Madhya Pradesh for 79 trains. The number stands at 48 for Jharkhand, 22 for Rajasthan and nine for West Bengal. Proper screening of the passengers is being carried out before they board the trains, railways said, adding that during the journey, the passengers are given free meals and water. From Monday, these Shramik Special trains started carrying around 1,700 passengers each, instead of the earlier 1,200, to ferry as many workers home as possible. While initially these trains had no stoppages, railways announced on Monday that up to three stoppages in the destination states will be allowed. The decision was taken after several state governments made a request in this regard, officials said. While railways is yet to announce the cost incurred on these special services, officials indicated that the national transporter is spending around Rs 80 lakh per service. The Centre had earlier stated that the cost of the services was shared on a 85:15 ratio between Centre and states. Since the Shramik Special train service started, Gujarat has remained the top originating state, followed by Kerala.  Earlier, railways drew flak from opposition parties for charging for these services. In its guidelines, the national transporter has said the trains will ply only if they have 90 per cent occupancy. On Monday, a statement issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said railways will now run 100 Shramik Specials every day to facilitate faster movement of stranded workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-932-shramik-special-trains-operated-so-far-over-11-lakh-migrants-ferried-home-837916.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt to release Tablighi Jamaat members with no coronavirus symptoms from quarantine: HC told||The Delhi High Court was informed on Friday that the AAP government has decided to release the members of Tablighi Jamaat, who have completed mandatory quarantine and show no coronavirus symptoms. The submission was made at the outset of the hearing on a petition seeking release of nearly 3300 Tablighi Jamaat members, who have been put under various quarantine centers for nearly 40 days and not released despite negative reports of COVID-19. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar, which conducted the hearing through video conferencing, was told by the counsel for the petitioner that they wish to withdraw the petition as the Delhi government has already directed for release of Tablighi Jamaat members who do not show any symptoms of COVID-19. The court allowed petitioner Sabiha Quadri, a social worker, to withdraw the plea. The plea, filed through advocate Shahid Ali, had alleged that many people have been illegally lodged in quarantine centers and submitted that several persons who are staying in those centers have written letters to the authorities but they have not been considered. It had sought direction to the authorities to comply with the guidelines of 14 days quarantine and to constitute a high level committee to enquire as to whether continuous confinement of members of Tablighi Jamaat is violative of the provisions of the Constitution. After being exposed to a large gathering on March 31 amid the COVID-19 or coronavirus lockdown many members of Tablighi Jamaat from Markaz Hazrat Nizamuddin were taken out by the authorities and lodged in different quarantine centres in Delhi. Some of them were sent to the centres a few days later after being detained from various mosques. “A total of 3288 people from Tablighi Jamaat have been put under different quarantine centers and till date none has been released from there, despite the fact that they are not in any manner infected with the disease (coronavirus) and in case of many members, three consecutive reports with negative endorsement have come,” the plea said. The Centre was represented through advocate Amit Mahajan in the proceedings. On May 6, the Delhi government had said the Tablighi Jamaat members who have completed mandatory quarantine and show no coronavirus symptoms can go home. In April, COVID-19 cases in Delhi spiked after hundreds of many Tablighi Jamaat members, who had attended a large congregation in Nizamuddin, tested positive.  The other members were directly taken to quarantine centres to contain the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-release-tablighi-jamaat-members-with-no-coronavirus-symptoms-from-quarantine-hc-told-837917.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan social justice minister airlifted to Gurgaon hospital||Rajasthan's Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Bhanwarlal Meghwal was on Friday airlifted to a private hospital in Gurgaon for further treatment. A special plane took off for Gurgaon from Jaipur Airport on Friday morning. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and health minister Raghu Sharma were present at the airport when the flight departed. Gehlot has wished Meghwal a quick recovery. Earlier admitted at Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur, Meghwal had to be shifted after Asthma specialist Dr. Virendra Singh and the minister’s family members expressed their desire to get him treated at the Gurgaon hospital. Meghwal was hospitalised on Wednesday night after suffering a paralytic stroke.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-social-justice-minister-airlifted-to-gurgaon-hospital-837925.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan making khadi masks amid COVID-19 crisis||Washable khadi masks are being made in view of the coronavirus pandemic crisis by khadi institutions in the state, Additional Chief Secretary Subodh Agarwal said on Friday. He said Khadi institutions of the state have prepared and made available more than 1.70 lakh masks. He said more than one lakh of these masks have been made available free of cost at district administration and police officials, besides at hospitals and other places. Agarwal said initiatives have been taken to start work in Khadi and village industries in the state. Work has started in 1,614 village industries and 58 Khadi institutions related to Khadi in the state. With this, cottage industries have started operating in rural areas and artisans are getting employment. He said due to the state government efforts, daily activities have picked up pace. Small and cottage industries have started functioning along with large enterprises, he added. He said in 1,614 small village industries units, works related to earthen pots, flour milling and other products, spices, papad-mangodis, pickles, handicrafts etc have started. He said about 6,644 workers have started working in village industries units, while 1,553 workers have started getting employment due to the opening of Khadi institutions. Industries Commissioner Muktanand Agarwal said that the control room of the department has been made effective to assist in the conduct of industrial activities. The general managers of district industry centers and officials of RIICO have been directed to address the doubts of the entrepreneurs by coordinating at the local level. He said it is the effort of the state government that the industrial activities of the state be brought back on track by ensuring adherence to the advisory and safety protocols issued by the central and state governments. As a result, all industrial areas have been opened in the state, except the areas under curfew, with a directive to ensure 100 per cent security protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-making-khadi-masks-amid-covid-19-crisis-837932.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Will not reimburse train fare of undisciplined migrants at quarantine centres: Bihar government||Concerned over the increase in incidents of ruckus created by migrants at various quarantine centres in Bihar, the Nitish Kumar regime has warned the inmates that “the train fare of those migrants who violate discipline at quarantine centres will not be reimbursed”. The government missive, issued by the Disaster Management Department to all the 38 district magistrates (Deccan Herald has a copy of the letter), says that a loudspeaker or public address system should be used at all the quarantine centres in 38 districts to inform the inmates that “the train fare of only those migrants will be reimbursed who complete their 14-day stay at quarantine centres followed by seven-day home quarantine in a disciplined manner”. The fresh missive corroborates Deccan Herald’s exclusive story on May 10. “We paid Rs 930 each for travel from Kerala to Bihar”, which dealt at length how the migrants had to cough up train fare for their journey. This was in sharp contrast to the Government’s much-publicised claim of free travel for migrants as the Centre said the Railways would bear the 85 per cent cost, while the remaining 15 per cent cost would be borne by the respective state governments. In Bihar, over 1.5 lakh migrants have arrived so far in more than 125 Shramik Special trains since May 3. More than one lakh migrants have been kept at the 3474 quarantine centres run by the Bihar government. “The most worrying aspect is that out of the total 1005 positive cases recorded till May 15 in Bihar, there are 416 migrants who are COVID-19 patients. This essentially means that of all coronavirus positive cases in the state (Bihar), around 40 per cent cases are that of migrants,” said a senior government official, wishing not to be identified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-not-reimburse-train-fare-of-undisciplined-migrants-at-quarantine-centres-bihar-government-837952.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Indore records 61 fresh COVID-19 cases; tally rises to 2,299||With 61 new cases in the last 24 hours, the COVID-19 count in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district rose to 2,299, while two more patients succumbed to the infection, a health official said on Friday. Indore, one of the districts worst-affected by coronavirus in the country, recorded 61 fresh cases and two deaths since Thursday, chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Praveen Jadia said. Two men, one aged 75 and the other 55 - who were being treated at different hospitals in the district - succumbed to the infection on Thursday, he said. Both patients suffered from high blood pressure and other chronic ailments, the official added. The latest deaths had taken the toll in the region to 98, Jadia said. As of Friday morning, the mortality rate among COVID- 19 patients in the district stood at 4.26 per cent. At least 1,103 patients in the district had recovered from the infection so far, another official said. The first four cases of COVID-19 were reported in Indore on March 24, following which a curfew was imposed in the city the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-indore-records-61-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-2299-837958.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Trade unions to go on strike on May 22 to protest against labour laws suspension||Ten central trade unions on Friday gave a call for a nationwide strike on May 22 to protest against the suspension of labour laws by some states during the lockdown period, and also decided to take the matter to International Labour Organization (ILO). "The joint platform of Central Trade Unions (CTUs) in their meeting held on May 14 , 2020 took note of the critical situation for the working people in the country during the lockdown period and decided to enhance united actions to meet the challenge," a joint statement by 10 CTUs said. "The joint platform...has decided to observe nationwide protest day against the anti-worker and anti-people onslaughts of the government on May 22, 2020," it added. While Uttar Pradesh has suspended major labour laws, Madhya Pradesh has tweaked some rules amid the lockdown to spur economic activities. As per media reports, Gujarat, Tripura and many other states are following suit. The CTUs have also decided to send joint representation to ILO in this regard. They said that suspension of labour laws violates international commitments on labour standards and human rights. "Uttar Pradesh government has brought a draconian ordinance titled “Uttar Pradesh Temporary Exemption for certain labour laws ordinance 2020” under the guise of facilitating economic activities," it said. With one stroke, 38 laws were made defunct in UP for 1,000 days, and only section 5 of Payment of Wages Act 1934, Construction Workers Act 1996, Compensation Act 1993 and Bonded Labour Act 1976 remain functional, it added. The laws that have been suspended include Trade Union Act, Industrial Disputes Act, Act on Occupational Safety and Health, Contract Labour Act, Interstate Migrant Labour Act, Equal Remuneration Act, Maternity Benefit Act etc, it said. According to the statement, Madhya Pradesh government has tweaked labour laws while Gujarat government has decided to increase working hours to 12 from 8 hours. Assam, Tripura and several other states have been actively preparing to take the same route, they added. The move came after 8 states-- Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar and Punjab -- increased the daily working hours to 12 from 8 earlier through executive order in violation of the Factories Act, taking advantage of the lockdown situation, they said. These draconian measures have thrown vulnerable sections into conditions of slavery, the statement said. The national-level leaders of the ten trade unions would organize a day-long hunger strike on May 22 at Gandhi Samadhi, Rajghat, New Delhi. Simultaneous protests would be jointly organized in all states. Their demands include, immediate relief to stranded workers for safe reaching to their homes, food to be made available to all, universal coverage of ration distribution, cash transfer to all unorganized labour force (registered or unregistered or self employed), among others. The ten central trade unions that issued the joint statement are INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC. There are 12 CTUs in the country. RSS-backed Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh has also given a call for nationwide protest against labour laws suspension on May 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/trade-unions-to-go-on-strike-on-may-22-to-protest-against-labour-laws-suspension-837990.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir acquires 30k VTM kits to ramp up testing for COVID-19||As 50,000 stranded people returned home to Kashmir, the union territory administration has acquired 30,000 viral transport media (VTM) kits to ramp up the testing for coronavirus to ensure that the infection does not spread.  An Indian Air Force (IAF) plane brought in the 30,000 VTM kits to Kashmir on Friday, officials said.  They said the kits have been imported in bulk to ramp up the testing of people from Kashmir who are stranded in various parts of the country due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown.  "We had 13 travellers, who returned to Kashmir recently, testing positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Foreseeing this possibility, additional kits were procured to ensure that we test more and more people so that the infection does not spread," the officials said.  They said over 50,000 people have returned home since the administration launched efforts to bring back people stranded abroad and in various parts of the country. Srinagar Deputy Commissioner Shahid Iqbal Chaudhary said the VTM kits are much needed as the authorities will be able to expedite testing.  "We have had nearly 4,000 arrivals in Srinagar so far, with over 1,200 arriving on Thursday. Many of them have gone home after testing negative for COVID-19 but, sadly, 13 travellers tested positive," Chaudhary said. He appealed to the people returning from outside the valley to exercise utmost caution. "Nothing is more important than this," he added.  The Jammu and Kashmir administration has conducted over 63,000 tests for COVID-19 so far. Out of these, 983 people have tested positive.   While 11 patients have died due to the infection, more than 450 have recovered. More than 1.03 lakh persons were put under various kinds surveillance and 26,603 were put in administrative quarantine facilities set up across the union territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-acquires-30k-vtm-kits-to-ramp-up-testing-for-covid-19-837997.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi min asks Twitter, WhatsApp, Facebook to act on 'hate campaigns' against Dalits, women||Delhi Social Welfare Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Friday said WhatsApp, Facebook, and Twitter were being used to slander people belonging to marginalised castes as well as women, and asked their management to take action against those running "venomous hate campaigns" on the social media platforms. In separate letters to Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari, WhatsApp India head Abhijit Bose and Facebook India Vice President Ajit Mohan, Gautam said while the online world has emerged as an influential medium of information in the lockdown necessitated due to coronavirus, “social media is also being used in a damaging way”. “I have noticed that in recent times organised trends to ridicule and slander marginalised castes and women have increased exponentially,” he said. The minister said that Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter have become a place where “casteist slurs are being used against Dalit intellectuals to demean them”. The posts of Dalit intellectuals are being “countered by fanatics who have also defamed great leaders like B R Ambedkar”, he said. The minister asked the management of these social media platforms to take action in “one of the most strict measures against those who are trying to misuse these platforms by running venomous hate campaigns”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-min-asks-twitter-whatsapp-facebook-to-act-on-hate-campaigns-against-dalits-women-838001.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi court denies bail pleas of 2 ISIS suspects||A Delhi Court Friday dismissed the bail pleas of two suspected members of the terrorist outfit, Islamic State in Jammu and Kashmir (IS-JK), who have been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act both by the NIA and the Delhi police. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana refused to grant the relief to Parvaiz Rashid Lone and Jamshed Zahoor Paul arrested from near the Red Fort in Delhi in 2018. The court said that from a transcript of a private chat of the accused, it appeared that both of them were allegedly involved in procuring illegal weapons for dreaded terrorists organisations and also allegedly shared the information about movement of army to other terrorists. “From the conversation transcript available on record, it appears that the accused were not only involved in procuring illegal weapons for dreaded terrorists organisations but they also shared information about the movement of the army to other terrorists. Therefore, I cannot concur with the defence counsel that there is no incriminating piece of evidence against the accused,” the judge in the order. The court further said that since one investigating agency (NIA) has not been able to collect incriminating evidence against the accused, therefore the incriminating evidence collected by the other investigating agency (Special Cell of Delhi police) does not deserve to be discarded for failure of the former. The police had arrested Lone and Paul from near the Red Fort in Delhi in September 2018, allegedly for procuring illegal arms. NIA had registered a separate case based on this. During the hearing held through video conferencing, Additional Public Prosecutor opposed the bail applications and alleged that both the accused were active members of ISIS (Jammu and Kashmir Branch), a dreaded terrorist organization. He further alleged that Lone and Paul came to Amroha in Uttar Pradesh for procuring illegal arms to perpetuate the ideology of ISIS and four juveniles apprehended by the police have allegedly admitted to have sold off illegal weapons to them. The counsel submitted a copy of a private conversation transcript between one Omar Ibn Nazir, allegedly a terrorist killed in Jammu and Kashmir and another conversation between the accused persons and one Abu Duzana, allegedly a dreaded terrorist whom the security forces are looking for. Advocate Asghar Khan, appearing for both the accused, sought bail on the ground that despite elaborate investigation conducted not only by the NIA but even Special Cell of the Delhi police in the case, no incriminating piece of evidence could be collected against them under the UAPA. Khan said that after an elaborate investigation conducted by the NIA, no incriminating evidence could be collected against Lone and Paul and they have been granted bail in the NIA case. Khan told the court that Lone and Paul were falsely implicated in the case and they cannot be booked under the anti-terror law. The counsel said that they were initially arrested in September 2018 with the allegation of recovery of illegal arms and subsequently upon arrest of another alleged ISIS member Abdul Basit by the NIA in the case, sections of UAPA were imputed against them. He further said that two innocent men should not be castigated as terrorists. With respect to the offences under the Arms Act, Khan claimed that the alleged recovery of illegal weapons was from a public place but there is no public witness, no recovery of any video footage or any independent piece of evidence corroborating the case of the prosecution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-denies-bail-pleas-of-2-isis-suspects-838007.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Greater relaxations in coronavirus lockdown 4.0; States, UTs to be empowered to take decisions on curbs||Greater relaxations and flexibility will be seen in the lockdown 4.0, which will begin on Monday, with the gradual reopening of the railways and domestic airlines while powers will be given to States and UTs to define their hotspots, officials said on Friday. Schools, colleges, malls and cinema halls will not be allowed to open anywhere in the country but salons, barber shops and optical shops may be allowed in red zones, barring COVID-19 containment areas. There will be lots of relaxations and flexibility in the lockdown 4.0 with complete reopening of the green zones, very limited curb in orange zones and strict restrictions only in the containment areas of red zones, said an official privy to the deliberations in the central government. However, the final guidelines will be issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs only after going through the suggestions of state governments. The state governments and union territory administrations have been asked to submit their recommendations by Friday. According to officials, Punjab, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Assam and Telangana wanted the lockdown to be continued, some of them wanted the powers to decide the zoning of districts -- green, orange and red -- as per the COVID-19 situation. This request of the state governments may be accepted so that they can restrict or allow movement of people or economic activities in a particular place depending on the ground situation, the official told PTI. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation on Monday, had said that the lockdown 4.0 will have a "completely different form", with new rules. "No state wants complete withdrawal of lockdown but all want gradual resumption of economic activities," the official said. Gradual and need-based operations of the railways and domestic airlines are likely to be allowed from next week but full-fledged opening of the two sectors is unlikely to take place immediately. Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka were among some states which were not in favour of complete resumption of train and air services, at least till May-end, the official said. The railways have already started special trains to 15 destinations from Delhi and have been running several hundred 'Shramik Special' trains from different parts of the country to various places for transportation of migrant workers stranded due to the lockdown. The Air India is also engaged in evacuation of thousands of Indians stranded abroad during the lockdown under the 'Vande Bharat Mission'. Local trains, buses and metro services may start running with limited capacity in non-containment areas of red zones. Autos and taxis are also expected to be allowed in red zones with restrictions on the number of passengers. Most of these services will be allowed within the districts in non-containment areas and state governments may be authorised to take a call on their reopening, another official said. Powers to open markets in orange and red zones may be given to state governments, which may follow the odd-even policy while allowing shops of non-essential goods to open. E-commerce platforms may be allowed to deliver non-essential items even in red zones, barring the containment areas. Sale of non-essential items by e-commerce companies have already allowed in green and orange zones. Maharashtra, which the has highest number of COVID-19 cases and deaths from the virus, wants a strict lockdown measures in Mumbai, its suburbs and Pune, and complete stop of inter-state and inter-district transport of any kind. Whereas, Gujarat with second highest number of positive cases wants resumption of economic activities in major urban centres. States which are in favour of opening up of economic activities include Delhi, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala, the official said. Kerala is believed to have suggested reopening of restaurants and hotels to revive the tourism sector. Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, which have seen spike in the COVID-19 cases after arrival of migrant workers, want continuation of lockdown with strict curbs on movement of people. Lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to combat the coronavirus pandemic. It was first extended till May 3 and again till May 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/greater-relaxations-in-coronavirus-lockdown-40-states-uts-to-be-empowered-to-take-decisions-on-curbs-838009.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Maharashtra minister reviews Thane COVID-19 situation||Maharashtra Minister Eknath Shinde on Friday chaired a review meeting on the COVID-19 situation in Thane district and asked officials ensure the coronavirus outbreak is contained as soon as possible. Thane city and Navi Mumbai each have over 900 COVID-19 cases currently. He asked officials to take action against private hospitals if they overcharge COVID-19 patients, and directed TMC chief Vijay Singhal to arrange 10 private ambulances as there were complaints from people of their anon-availability. He asked police to use drone cameras to ensure the lockdown is enforced strictly. Shinde said senior citizens with comorbidities should be surveyed and medical camps organised for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maharashtra-minister-reviews-thane-covid-19-situation-838012.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Over 2,000 people detained for violating coronavirus lockdown in Delhi||Fifty-one cases were registered and over 2,000 people detained in the national capital on Friday for violating lockdown norms, police said here. According to the data shared by the police, 51 cases were registered under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5 pm. A total of 2,068 people were detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 100 vehicles impounded under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, it showed.  A total of 282 movement passes were issued during the day, the police said. Fourteen cases were registered against people for stepping out of their houses without wearing masks, they added. Since March 24, 1,65,635 people have been detained for violating government orders under section 65 of the Delhi Police Act in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-2000-people-detained-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-in-delhi-838017.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Srinagar administration starts preparation for opening up in Lockdown 4.0||In a step aimed at the graded opening of select sectors, authorities in Srinagar on Friday launched a two-week-long programme for the training of all service providers including drivers, barbers, vendors and bakers to make them aware about personal safety, production and distribution of essential items. The Srinagar administration plans to train more than 10,000 service providers in the next one month while keeping the focus on public health aspects of the coronavirus pandemic. "The existence of coronavirus is a reality the population has to adapt to. In this regard it is imperative that apart from preparing public, the key services providers are trained about precautions, hygiene, social distancing and several other notified protocols," Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar, Shahid Iqbal Choudhary said. Choudhary, who launched the first module designed for more than 500 workers of around 180 odd bakeries in the city, said similar training programmes are being organised for vegetable vendors, milk suppliers, hairdressers, laundry, public transport, telecommunications, housekeeping and other services. "Training certificates to participants, PPE kits, protective gear, COVID tests, specially designed service tokens, movement passes, IT apps and online facilitation are some of the components of training modules," he said. The Bakery sector has been picked up after 100 percent testing previously done in Parimpora Mandi which is now slated for the expansion of distribution network in the city, Choudhary said. The deputy commissioner called upon the stakeholders to adopt to the safety procedures and advisories issued in this regard. "The bakers will start with home delivery after training certificates and tests, to operate in a professional, safe and hygienic framework. Sale of loose bakery is being discouraged," he said. Choudhary also urged the public to adhere to social distancing norms and personal hygiene as a part of the routine to be adopted to survive the pandemic. He said the administration has roped in NGOs, universities, volunteers and other organisations as stakeholders in public awareness and training and capacity building for planning a safe exit from the lockdown without losing focus on the fight against the deadly virus. The president and spokesperson of the Bakers Association expressed gratitude to the district administration for this novel initiative keeping in view the public safety and economy as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-administration-starts-preparation-for-opening-up-in-lockdown-40-838051.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Delhi citizens gulp liquor worth about Rs 170 crore in 10 days||Delhiites consumed liquor worth around Rs 170 crore in 10 days since the city government reopened a handful of outlets on May 4 amid the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. An official said that the Delhi government has earned an additional Rs 70 crore from the sale on account of “Special Corona Fee". The government had allowed around 150 state-run liquor shops to reopen in the beginning of the third phase of the lockdown on May 4, and a day later, it had imposed "Special Corona Fee" of Rs 70 per cent of MRP.  According to official data, liquor sale started increasing since the government introduced “e-token system” under which people are given specific time to buy liquor from outlets. Sale of liquor on May 9 was recorded the highest at Rs 18.23 crore while on May 8, people bought liquor worth Rs 15.8 crore. On the first day of third phase of coronavirus-forced lockdown on May 4 when e-token was not introduced, the sale of liquor was Rs 5.19 crore and on May 5, it was Rs 4.49 crore. Although Delhiites gulped liquor worth Rs 9.72 crore on May 13, the sale of alcohol next day was Rs 7.92 crore. Under the e-token system, customers are given specific time for purchasing alcohol so that there is no violation of social distancing norms by people queuing up outside liquor stores.  The e-token is sent on mobile phones of registered people. The new system was introduced on Thursday in the wake of long queues outside liquor vends and people not following social distancing norms there. On online sale of liquor, an official said, "The government will wait for the Centre's guidelines for the fourth phase of lockdown coming into force from May 18. The Delhi government is not going to introduce online sale of liquor for now. We will take final decision the Centre' guidelines." The Delhi High Court had asked the government to take a decision regarding online sale of alcohol by May 15. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal bound the Delhi government to its assurance that it will take a decision regarding online sale and home delivery of alcohol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-delhi-citizens-gulp-liquor-worth-about-rs-170-crore-in-10-days-838088.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt launches online portal for construction workers||Amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Delhi Development Minister Gopal Rai on Friday launched an online portal where construction workers can register themselves with the government. At present, there are around 40,000 construction workers registered with the Construction Workers' Welfare Board headed by Rai.  In a statement, the minister said construction workers can register themselves at http://www.edistrict.delhigovt.nic.in/ There is also a facility of renewal of registration through the portal. Rai said there are many unregistered construction labourers in the national capital.  "In a bid to solve this registration and renewal-related issues, we have launched a portal. From Saturday, the construction labourers can register for a new application or renewal," he said. Earlier this week, the Delhi government had decided to provide financial assistance of Rs 5,000 again to the construction workers in the wake of the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-launches-online-portal-for-construction-workers-838089.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Allahabad High Court allows ‘azan’ in mosques by individuals without loudspeaker||The Allahabad High Court on Friday allowed the recitation of ‘azan’ by a single individual in Uttar Pradesh mosques without the use of any loudspeaker during the COVID-driven lockdown. A bench of justices Shashi Kant Guipta and Ajit Kumar granted the relief to the Muslim community saying “azan may be an essential and integral part of Islam” but its “recitation through loudspeakers or other sound amplifying devices cannot be said to be an integral part of the religion.” The bench gave its ruling on a bunch of pleas, including those of former Union Law Minister Salman Khurshid and Lok Sabha member from Ghazipur, Afzal Ansari, among others.  “We are of the considered opinion that azan can be recited by muezzin (mosque caretakers) from minarets of the mosques by human voice without using any amplifying device and the administration is directed not to cause hindrance in the same on the pretext of the guidelines to contain the pandemic Covid¬19,” the bench ruled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-high-court-allows-azan-in-mosques-by-individuals-without-loudspeaker-838093.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi government ready to resume transport services with safety precautions: Transport minister Kailash Gahlot||The Delhi government is ready to resume public transport services in the city, with safety precautions in place for COVID-19, if the Centre allows it, Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said on Friday. A standard operating procedure (SOP) for safe operation of metro trains and buses was discussed in a meeting attended by Gahlot and top officers of the Transport Department and the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). "Discussed SOPs for safe opening of Delhi metro & buses with officials of @TransportDelhi, @OfficialDMRC, @dtchq_delhi, @DimtsLtd @DDC_Delhi & experts from @WRIIndia. If central govt. allows, Delhi is confident of running public TPT under the leadership of @ArvindKejriwal," Gahlot said in a tweet. The minister said that public cooperation will be key to the successful resumption of transport services. "Social distancing, contactless ticketing and disinfection will be the three pillars of our strategy to run public transport safely. And all of this will be possible only if people of Delhi cooperate. Delhi will be back on its feet only if people and the govt work together," he said in another tweet. Gahlot said weekly passes and use of electronic ticketing machines to minimise contact, alternate seating arrangements to maintain social distancing and thermal screening devices will be ensured in DTC and cluster buses. He said the number of passengers on a bus will be kept to around 20 to ensure proper social distancing. Also, civil defence volunteers, marshals and enforcement personnel will be deployed at bus queue shelters to implement social distancing, the minister added. Gahlot said the decision to resume Delhi Metro services will be taken by the central government.  A senior officer present in the meeting said as per the Delhi Metro's standard operating procedure, main stations will be opened while some will be closed. Also, stations lying in containment zones will not be opened. The air conditioning at Metro stations will be regulated to allow maximum circulation of fresh air, he added. Plying of auto-rickshaws, taxis and other modes of transport will depend on the central government's guidelines after the extended lockdown due to the pandemic ends on May 17, a senior Transport Department officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-ready-to-resume-transport-services-with-safety-precautions-transport-minister-kailash-gahlot-838108.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: 3 migrant labourers dead, 14 hurt as truck hits two vehicles while going to Uttar Pradesh||Three migrant labourers going to Uttar Pradesh from Maharashtra were killed and 14 others injured after a truck rammed into two vehicles on Guna bypass on the Agra-Mumbai national highway on Friday evening, a senior police official said. The speeding truck first collided head-on with the pick-up van carrying 15 migrant labourers before hitting another truck that was behind the van, Guna district Superintendent of Police (SP) Tarun Nayak said. "Two labourers died on the spot, while the third one succumbed to his injuries on way to a hospital. Twelve others travelling in the van were left injured," he said. "Besides them, two persons sitting in the truck that was behind the van, also suffered injuries in the accident. All of them were admitted to the district hospital," the official said. Five of the injured are in a serious condition and were referred to Gwalior for treatment, he said.  Two of the deceased labourers belong to Ghazipur town in Uttar Pradesh and the third one is of Azamgarh town from the same state. They were identified as Mahesh Prajapati (35), Pramod Pal (24) and Deepak Prajapati (34), he added.  On Thursday, eight migrant labourers were killed when an empty bus hit a truck carrying them to Uttar Pradesh from Maharashtra. One more person had later succumbed to the injuries in the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-3-migrant-labourers-dead-14-hurt-as-truck-hits-two-vehicles-while-going-to-uttar-pradesh-838134.html
15-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 positive woman gives birth in Delhi hospital; baby tests negative for virus||A 28-year-old COVID-19 positive pregnant woman, who was allegedly refused admission by some hospitals after she went into labour, has delivered a baby at a healthcare facility here and the new-born tested negative for the infection, doctors said. The woman gave birth to a baby girl on Thursday in the 39th week of her pregnancy and the child has tested negative for coronavirus. It was a normal delivery, the Indraprastha Apollo Hospital said in a statement. All immediate family members of the woman have also tested positive for COVID-19 and the woman was refused admission by some hospitals before she was brought to the facility, the statement added. Pregnant women are at a higher risk of contracting COVID-19 as compared to other adults, Dr Ajay Sinha, senior consultant, Internal Medicine, said. “Though not all have serious complications if affected by coronavirus and only experience mild to moderate flu-like symptoms, it is important that extra care and precautions are taken for treatment and management of pregnant women who are COVID-19 positive, for the well-being of the mother and the unborn child,” he said. "In this case, she was tested positive after going through a compulsory COVID-19 test pertaining to the current situation, few days before her due delivery date," Sinha said.  Dr Kiranabala Dash, Consultant, Gynaecology, said the woman was COVID-19 positive and hence, the staff had to be extra cautious to ensure that no harm was caused to either the mother or the child. “All measures were taken to ensure the child does not contract any virus," Dash added. The mother and the child have been kept under observation in isolation and both of them are doing well, the doctors said.  "The patient and her kid is being looked after by the hospital staff as her entire family has tested positive for COVID-19. The patient initially had health complications post-delivery such as low BP but is doing fine now," the hospital said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-positive-woman-gives-birth-in-delhi-hospital-baby-tests-negative-for-virus-838156.html
15-05-2020||Opinion||Wrong to deny stranded workers right to choose their future||Gitesh (name changed) had set out from his lodging on the outskirts of Bengaluru. He was heading for the train home. Around 40 other migrant workers walked the 14 km journey with him. They had high hopes; they had managed to find a local, who registered them on the government portal, and the whole thing had cost only Rs 100 each. But Gitesh was walking into a dead end. When he arrived at the Majestic train station in the center of Bengaluru, he was shooed away. He had registered online but had not been allotted a place on the train. He had paid for the registration but did not know that he needed to find thousands of rupees more to pay for the ride home. Maybe he had believed the tale that the central government would pay 85 per cent and the local government would pay the rest for the journey. Gitesh and his fellow stranded workers had no choice but to start the long walk back to their lodgings. A broken system The harsh truth is Gitesh could not have known when and where the trains leave from, how to pay for a ticket, or any of the other essential details. Even though the government portal is finally available in multiple languages, making it more accessible to migrants, many challenges remain. Some workers may not be able to read or write or have a smartphone to access an online portal. Even if they visit a cyber cafe to do this, they might not have their documents in a format that meets the specifications, or they might not have the required identity documents at all.  Even if a worker manages to register themselves despite these obstacles, they would not know how to follow up on the status of applications, or be able to find out whether they have secured a ticket. The required information is not available on the portal, or anywhere else we can find.  Even after speaking to hundreds of migrant workers and officials as volunteers at the Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN), and tracking all the government orders we could find, we as tech-savvy educated people do not know what is needed. Officials do not give contradictory answers; they do not give us answers at all. We are not able to reach their numbers on the published helplines.  The situation on the ground is chaotic. While the portal did work for a few, some workers are able to get transport home without even registering first, just by going to the bus/train station, waiting for the next bus/train, and boarding. Some approached police station, while other workers arrived at the local police station only to be beaten by the cops. Some workers in desperation hired a private vehicle. In all the cases where they have reached home, they have had to bear the cost of travel themselves. Either the system is broken, or there is no system. The difference is immaterial. Gitesh’s story does not end here. Gitesh and his fellow workers faced more problems when they returned to their lodgings. Intimidation and violence Some days ago, a group of builders persuaded the government of Karnataka to stop the trains taking migrants home arguing that they needed these workers for their building projects. Since then, there has been a public outcry, and the trains have started again. It is a good sign that the government has responded. Yet, for many migrant workers, that welcome change has not freed them from the clutches of builders. The builders are in a much more powerful position than the workers. They interact with workers through hired contractors who terrorise these workers. Countless workers have told us that they are terrified of the contractors who hired them. We have been told that the contractors have threatened them, said that they must stay and work. We have also heard that the landlords of the lodgings, the contractors arranged for them, have threatened them too, saying that they cannot leave until all rent has been paid. In at least two cases we have heard, the workers have been physically beaten. They are scared to leave. They are kept in place by violence and intimidation.  People, who try to help these workers and go to their home states, also face the ire of the builders. In Bengaluru, builders filed a police complaint against two activists R Kaleemulla and Zia Nomani, who were helping workers, leading to them being booked. Workers’ choice should be heeded In all this, no one seems interested in what the workers want. Everyone presumes that they are better placed to decide what is in the best interests of the workers. It is tough to decide to leave the city and go home. This is not because of any fear of infection; none of the workers we have spoken to even mentioned the threat of catching the virus. Instead, they are concerned about whether they can feed their family. As one of them told us: “I came here because I had no employment. If I can be employed now then I will stay here. If not I would rather go back home. I would rather be unemployed there than here.” Various state governments and builders want workers to stay back to revive their economies once the lockdown eases. The workers’ agency is denied in this game of table tennis. Perhaps not a few are being spurred into returning by way the government and the contractors have treated them. We suspect that many of those we talked to want to escape whilst they can, fearing that the crackdown will become more severe in the days to come.  Gitesh and his fellow workers can decide for themselves. They know their own homes and their own hopes best. Others should not make the choice for them. (Abitha Chakrapani works at Azim Premji School, Yadgir and Nithya R works for a community development NGO in Chennai called Pudiyador. They are also volunteers with the Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN). The authors would like to thank Leah Verghese for her inputs on the article) The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/wrong-to-deny-workers-right-to-choose-their-future-837886.html
15-05-2020||Right in the Middle||Dinner was never so palatable||Whenever out of town, my priority is to meet relatives and friends there, and interact with local people, something my wife doesn’t relish in equal measure. For the compromise she makes, I accompany her to a couple of tourist spots though not full-heartedly. Recently, our visit to Lucknow meant spending some time with the once very close maternal uncle, now ageing and ailing. It could be the last time we would be able to see him. Next evening, we left our two kids behind with my brother’s family. “Will you not wait for dinner?” asked the brother’s wife. Not to tax the working couple, I told her that the affectionate will not let us go without meals. By the time we reached uncle’s home, it was dark. The octogenarian uncle was dependent on his son and his wife. Despite his faltering tongue and diminished hearing, we shared many sweet memories. It was almost dinner time but the table was being adorned with delicacies in array – dhokla, pakodas of various descriptions and sweets. Reading between the plates, I whispered to my wife, “forget the dinner now.”   As we were preparing to leave, uncle and aunty insisted that we bring both the children on our next visit for dinner, after informing them on the phone. The advice came as a jerk-- my sole uncle had displayed uncharacteristic formality. At this moment, offering us just plain daal and an order to come with children anytime would have gratified us far more. Their wording dampened our desire for a revisit.  On the way back, the few dhabas from Shahbad railway colony to Vikas Nagar were closed due to a wintry fog. There were no autorickshaws either, so we decided to traverse the three km distance afoot, not a burden in those green days. As we lost all hope for meals, and purchased packets of noodles as an alternative, a roadside dhaba without signboard beckoned to us. On query, the manager-cum-waiter with humane demeanour scratched the cooking pan and affirmed that he would manage two plates. Before receiving the payment, he asked with folded hands, “It wouldn’t be as delicious as one at home for sure, yet did it serve the purpose?” We thanked him as much for the nice food we had. With our bellies full, we now felt sorry for charging the poor uncle and aunt of depriving us of dinner. They might be helpless due to their age and living situation. We felt triumphant that the grudge against uncle did not hold us long.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/dinner-was-never-so-palatable-837975.html
15-05-2020||South||Onset of monsoon over Kerala likely to be delayed by four days: India Meteorological Department||The onset of southwest monsoon over Kerala this year is likely to be delayed by four days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. The monsoon is expected to hit the southern state by June 5, four days after its normal onset date. "This year, the onset of southwest monsoon over Kerala is likely to be slightly delayed as compared to the normal date of onset. The monsoon onset over Kerala this year is likely to be on 5th June with a model error of plus or minus 4 days," the IMD said. The onset of monsoon over Kerala marks the official commencement of the four-month rainfall season in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/onset-of-monsoon-over-kerala-likely-to-be-delayed-by-four-days-india-meteorological-department-837865.html
15-05-2020||South||102 fresh COVID-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh, tally rises to 2307||As many as 102 new COVID-19 cases have been recorded in Andhra Pradesh, where the total number of infections rose to 2,307, the health department said on Friday. With no fresh deaths, the toll in the state remained at 48. Out of the 102 new cases, 45 patients were from other states, it said, giving the update for the last 24 hours ending at 9 AM on Friday. Sixty people have been discharged from various hospitals after treatment, taking the cumulative recoveries to 1,252. Of the fresh cases, Nellore and Chitoor districts reported 14 each, Krishna nine, Kurnool eight, Ananthapur four, Vizianagaram three, Visakhapatnam and Kadapa two each and one East Godavari one. Out of the total cases reported, 28 were linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, which has become a hotspot, according to the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/102-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-rises-to-2307-837871.html
15-05-2020||South||Pramod Sawant against train halt in Goa as new coronavirus cases surface||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has suggested the Railways to cancel the halt at Madgaon for special trains being operated by it as the state records new cases of coronavirus after a gap of more than a month. He has also said people travelling to the state in special trains or flights will have to undergo home quarantine for 14 days even if they are non-Goans. Sawant on Thursday said the state government has suggested to the Railways that a special train from New Delhi to Thiruvananthapuram, which will run on May 15 (and arrive in Madgaon on May 16) should not halt at the station in Goa. He said "720 people have booked tickets on the train to get down at Madgaon. We have realised that hardly anyone of them is Goan. "We are concerned about what will happen once they get down. We will have to test them. We will advice them home quarantine, but we are not sure if they will do that. That is why we have suggested that the train skip the station." When contacted, a Konkan Railway official said on Friday "We have no intimation about cancellation of the stop till now." After a gap of more than a month, Goa reported eight fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. All the eight patients had arrived in the state from outside. On Wednesday, Sawant had said passengers, including non-Goans, who arrive in the state by special trains from May 15, will have to arrange for their own accommodation and the same applies to people who arrive by flights. "They will have to stay indoors at their respective hotels for 14 days. They cannot enter the beaches, which remain closed. They cannot come here to enjoy," he said. Those arriving by flights will be tested at the airport itself, he added. The Chief Minister said similar arrangements were made by Mormugao Port Trust (MPT), where people arriving by ships would be tested, before being allowed to move out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pramod-sawant-against-train-halt-in-goa-as-new-coronavirus-cases-surface-837901.html
15-05-2020||South||Kasargod again in COVID-19 grip as public workers and health workers tested positive||Kasargod district in North Kerala bordering Karnataka is again in the grip of COVID-19 as the active cases increased from zero to 14 in a few days time and there was a high risk of many more contracting the infection as a local body representative, a public worker and two health workers were tested positive. In the wake of reports of illegal entry of Keralites from Karnataka through inter-state byroads, the police enhanced vigil. The number of COVID-19 cases in Kasargod came down to nil from 178 on May 10. But from the next day onward fresh cases started reporting and it reached 14 in four days, with ten on Thursday alone. The freshly infected persons in the district included a local body representative of Manjeshwar and her husband who is a public worker who went to collect from Talapady border a Malayali who came from Maharashtra and later tested COVID-19 positive. They reportedly visited many places, including hospitals and community kitchens. Two health workers of the district were also tested positive.  Though there were reports that one person who recovered from COVID-19 in the district was again tested positive, Kasargod district medical officer A V Ramdas denied it. The person only suffered fever and coughing. In order to rule out suspicions, his throat swab was sent for a COVID-19 test. Kasargod district police chief P S Sabu said that police vigil was enhanced on all byroads from Karnataka to Kasargod after it came to notice that people were illegally making inter-state travel in autorickshaws. Local sources said that there were over 25 byroads between Dakshina Kannada and Kasargod. Earlier Karnataka authorities blocked these roads by making heaps of soil to prevent people from Kasargod to enter Karnataka as Kasargod was having a high number of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kasargod-again-in-covid-19-grip-as-public-workers-and-health-workers-tested-positive-837977.html
15-05-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Andhra Pradesh government releases Rs 2,800 crore towards assistance to 50 lakh farmers||The Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday released Rs 2,800 crore as investment incentive ahead of the Kharif season under the Rythu Bharosa-PM Kisan scheme, benefitting nearly 50 lakh farmers. Under the scheme, farmers will get financial assistance of Rs 13,500 per annum in three phases, the first being Rs 7,500, followed by Rs 4,000 as the second instalment to be released in October and the final instalment of Rs 2,000 will be credited on Sankranti in January, an official release said. The release said 49.44 lakh farmers would be benefitted. The amount to be credited in the first instalment is Rs 3,675 crore. A sum of Rs 2,000 was already credited into farmers accounts in April and the remaining Rs 5,500 would be given on May 15 for the current fiscal, an official release had earlier said. The scheme is extended to tenant farmers, endowment lands and assigned lands as well.  "Even in the times of corona (COVID-19), we have ensured that the Marketing Department could log a turnover of Rs 1,000 crore and farmers could get the MSP even for crops that do not come under MSP purview and perishable goods.. This was done because of the Market Stabilization Fund created to check such market fluctuations and ensure MSP to the farmers," the release quoted Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy as saying.  The Chief Minister said over 10,500 Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) would be set up which will serve as a one-stop-shop to all agriculture and allied fields immensely benefitting the farmers, by May end. From quality seeds to fertilizers and pesticides all the requirements of the farmer would be available in RBKs. The Agriculture Assistant will help the farmer in advising on soil testing, crop pattern and marketing while Market intelligence will play a big role from sowing to selling. Labs would be set up in a three-tier level. The facility of e-crop will be extended which will look after farm loans, MSP. All these facilities and more will be available at RBKs, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-andhra-pradesh-government-releases-rs-2800-crore-towards-assistance-to-50-lakh-farmers-837994.html
15-05-2020||South||Kerala lays down specific plans to tackle South West Monsoon||With the experience of having battled floods in the last two years, the Kerala government has laid out specific plans, keeping the COVID-19 situation in mind, to tackle the expected heavy rains of the coming South West Monsoon, likely to hit the state on June 5. The State Disaster Management Authority has instructed district administrations and the local self government institutions to get ready to deal with the monsoon this time while fighting COVID-19. SDMA has identified and begun the process of taking over buildings other than the 27,000 for COVID-19 patients, as those affected by an emergency cannot be housed along with them, a point stressed by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. SDMA has identified four types of buildings in case an evacuation is required due to floods. "We have the experience of two worst floods in previous two years. We devised a specific plan while keeping in mind the COVID-19 situation. This is because the COVID-19 patients, or the aged and those with serious illness will have to be accommodated separately," Fahad, in charge of hazard analysis with SDMA, told PTI. He said a high-level meeting chaired by the Chief Minister had on Thursday given directions to officials concerned to clean rivers, streams and canal paths, which is expected to be completed within a week. The Chief Minister had quoted climate experts as having said that the state may receive heavy rains this year. They had said that even if it is a normal monsoon, the state could receive heavy rains in August. "While fighting the pandemic, this was another big challenge," Vijayan had said. With the ever present COVID-19 threat, people could not be allowed to stay together if they needed to be relocated, he had said. The monsoon last year resulted in rampant landslides across north Kerala resulting in death of over 101 people. The state also witnessed the worst flood of the century in 2018 monsoon when at least 483 people lost their lives. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the southwest monsoon over Kerala this year is likely to set in on June 5, with a model error of plus or minus four days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-lays-down-specific-plans-to-tackle-south-west-monsoon-838032.html
15-05-2020||South||Tirupati temple mulling sale of devotee donated assets to tide over COVID-19 caused funds crunch||The Tirupati temple authorities are considering liquidation of assets like land parcels and buildings donated by devotees to Lord Venkateswara to tide over the COVID-19 caused the financial crisis and help provide salaries of its about 22,000 personnel – if the temple does not reopen by June. Though the value of the temple’s land tracts, edifices like cottages and other properties lying unused across the country, including cities like Chennai, Mumbai, is estimated to be several thousands of crore rupees, sources say, the estate identification for the present purpose is about Rs 500 crore worth. The famed Venkateswara temple has remained closed for pilgrims since 20 March because of the COVID-19 lockdown situation. Though the daily rituals inside are conducted, as usual, the public shutdown has severely affected the richest Hindu temple’s main income source – hundi donations. Rs 1351 crore is the proceeds the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams expected in 2020-21 from the pilgrim offerings to the almighty, dropped into a vessel inside the temple – averaging to over Rs 3.5 crore daily.  Income from laddu sales, special darshan and arjitha Seva tickets, accommodation etc., receipts accounting for over Rs 900 crore annually is also hit. At the same time, TTD has to pay about Rs 115 crore every month in salaries and pensions. TTD’s 22,000 workforce includes regular, contract-based and outsourced employees. The over 7000 regular employees are getting half salaries since March.     Various maintenance costs are in addition.   The temple has about Rs 14,000 crore bank fixed deposits, which earns Rs 706 crore interest this fiscal. It also has a gold reserve of eight-tonne. However, touching these two assets of sentimental value is not an option yet, officials say. Speaking to DH, TTD board chairman YV Subba Reddy expressed confidence that such a situation would not arise as the temple possibly would reopen within a month, “with God’s grace.” “As such, there is no crisis at present, but the fact is like everywhere else we are also facing financial issues since our main revenue from Hundi donations, laddu sales, special darshan etc., – over Rs 200 crore per month – has stopped. However, we paid March, April salaries and made provision for May payments. We will try to manage June too without touching the corpus, deposits or gold,” Reddy said.   “(In an unlikely situation of the temple remains closed for some more time,) we are exploring various revenue-generating options like liquidating some of TTD’s assets. We have a lot of valuable properties outside Tirupati lying unused – lands, choultries in even cities like Chennai and Mumbai, which were offered by the devotees. We are identifying them to help us in such times,” the chairman said. A decision is expected in the TTD board meeting on 28 May.  TTD’s budget this year mentions a monetization fund from unviable properties and vacant cottages, expecting Rs 100 crore. Officials say this income head could widen distinctly with auctioning more properties to ease the COVID-19 generated crisis.    TTD’s 2020-21 budget is Rs 3310 crore against previous fiscal’s Rs 3243 crore. A thinner pilgrim footfall anticipated this year, thereby a lower income, officials say, could force a rethink on several projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirupati-temple-mulling-sale-of-devotee-donated-assets-to-tide-over-covid-19-caused-funds-crunch-838038.html
15-05-2020||South||Madras HC notice to TN govt on petition by Nalini's mother||The Madras High Court on Friday issued notice to the Tamil Nadu government on a petition from the mother of Nalini Sriharan, a life convict in Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, to permit her daughter and husband to talk with his mother and sister through WhatsApp for 10 minutes daily. The division bench, comprising Justices N Kirubakaran and R Hemalatha gave the direction when the Habeas Corpus Petition filed by Nalini's mother came up before it today and posted the matter for further hearing to May 22. The petitioner, while referring to the demise of the father of Murugan in Sri Lanka on April 27 2020, said his request to watch the last rites of his father over WhatsApp video was not granted by the Tamil Nadu government. She further submitted that Nalini spoke to her over phone on April 28 and requested her to file an application to the prison authorities and the Home Department for permission to talk with Murugan's mother and his sister, who is in London, through WhatsApp for 10 minutes daily. As per her request, the petitioner said she filed an application to the prison authorities on May 4, but till date no decision was taken by the authorities, "which is violative of Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution." Hence the petitioner sought a direction to the authorities to grant permission. Besides Nalini, her husband Murugan, A G Perarivalan, Santhan, Jayakumar, Ravichandran and Robert Pyas are serving life imprisonment for their role in the assassination of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on May 21, 1991 by an LTTE suicide bomber at nearby Sriperumbudur. They were initially sentenced to death, but later it was commuted to life imprisonment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-notice-to-tn-govt-on-petition-by-nalinis-mother-838050.html
15-05-2020||South||Hear out plea for herbal mixture for COVID-19: HC tells Indian Medicine and Homeopathy director||The Madras High Court has ordered the director of Indian Medicine and Homeopathy to hear out some petitioners who have sought use of a herbal mixture (Siddha) for COVID-19. A Division Bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana, disposing of the PILs from K. Muthu Kumar Nayakar and Dr. K. M. Senthamilzh Selvan, said they can forward their representations to the Siddha Central Research Institute. The institute, in turn, may forward the representation with comments to the committee headed by the director of Indian Medicine and Homeopathy, the bench said. The director may consider the representations and pass appropriate orders in this regard, preferably within a period of one month, the court said. Nayakar claimed that the medicine contains nine herbal ingredients which should be mixed with the blood of a COVID- 19 patient and the mixture would kill the virus. Despite repeated representations to the Central and state authorities to try out Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha Homeopathy drugs on COVID-19 patients, there was no response and hence the public interest litigation (PIL), said Dr Senthamiz Selvan. Reacting to the pleas, government pleader Jayaprakash Narayan said the authorities have already considered these kinds of representations and issued a detailed government order on April 23 providing for various kinds of medicines in various systems, including allopathy, homoeopathy, Unani and Siddha. As the petitioners still insisted that their representations to be considered separately, the court said it was issuing the present directive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hear-out-plea-for-herbal-mixture-for-covid-19-hc-tells-indian-medicine-and-homeopathy-director-838057.html
15-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu govt all set to scale up workforce strength to 50%||Effective May 18, government offices in Tamil Nadu will function with an enhanced, half of its total workforce from the present 33 per cent and a six-day work week shall also kick in to offset lost work hours, authorities said on Friday. The strength of the government workforce, which was cut down to 33 per cent as part of lockdown measures will see 50 per cent employees working in batches including on Saturdays, a Government Order said. Norms including social distancing will be continued to be followed in state offices.  On May 18, when the fourth phase of the national lockdown becomes effective, apparently with more relaxations,the government offices also will scale up activities. "From 18.05.2020, all government offices shall function with half the work force on any given day," the GO said. To compensate the working hours already lost, the government has introduced six-day work week including Saturdays.  All heads of offices, irrespective of level in the pay matrix shall attend office on all working days, the order said. The employees will take turns to work in batches and the first batch shall be on job on Monday and Tuesday and the second on Wednesday and Thursday and so on. Staffers on off-duty must attend office if necessary at any point of time and "all officers / staff members shall always be available for official work and accessible through any electronic mode of communication."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-all-set-to-scale-up-workforce-strength-to-50-838125.html
15-05-2020||South||Nothing new in Centre's announcement of more money to states for migrant workers welfare: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Fridaysaid there was nothing new in the announcement of the Centre's allocation of more money to the states for the welfare of migrant workers and the amount allocated to the Disaster Relief Fund was just a share of the Centre. Vijayan said the 15th Finance Commission had allocated a central share of Rs 314 crore to Kerala but the State has only half of it, Rs 157 crores. "We have asked the Prime Minister to allow special grants to the states in the context of COVID-19 situation and make this an additional consideration for inclusion in the Second Report of the 15th Finance Commission. It is inappropriate to portray the central contribution to the Disaster Relief Fund as help for COVID-19 prevention," Vijayan said. He reiterated the demand of the state to increase its borrowing limit from the current 3 per cent to 5 per cent.  "There is nothing new in the announcement of the Union Finance Minister's allocation of more money to the states for the welfare of workers working in other states. The amount allocated to the Disaster Relief Fund is just a share of the Centre. The 15th Finance Commission had allocated a central share of Rs 314 crore to Kerala but the State has only half of it, Rs 157 crore," Vijayan said.  The chief minister said the state needs a hike in the borrowing limit to overcome the financial constraints as there has been a drastic fall in the revenue collection due to the COVID-19 induced lockdown. "The Centre has recently increased its borrowing limit to 5.5 per cent but the state's limit is still at 3 per cent.Despite repeated requests, the Centre has not bothered to increase the borrowing limit. It is not in line with the basic principles of a Federal system," Vijayan said. He also said that from the Disaster Relief Fund, the state has already given Rs 17 crore to District Collectors for relief work and Rs 15 crore to the Health Department for buying medical equipment. "As per the norms, only 25 per cent of the state's outlay can be spent on relief work and 10 per cent on purchasing equipment.Only this much can be used from SDRF amount. The state is using budgetary amounts to distribute welfare pensions," Vijayan said. The State Planning Board and the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT) have been tasked with conducting a study on the economic impact of the state following COVID-19. Vijayan said as per the GIFT report, it is estimated that there will be a revenue loss of Rs 35,455 crore and the revenue and fiscal deficit will increase if the expenditure, including social welfare expenditure, stays the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nothing-new-in-centres-announcement-of-more-money-to-states-for-migrant-workers-welfare-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-838145.html
15-05-2020||State||COVID-19 tally breaches 1,000 mark in Karnataka with 45 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka breached 1,000 mark, with 45 people testing positive, the state health department said on Friday. Total number of positive cases in the state stood at 1,032. With 35 deaths and 476 discharges, there were 520 active coronavirus cases, the department said in its mid-day situation update. The new cases include- 16 from Dakshina Kannada, 13 from Bengaluru Urban, five from Udapi, three each from Bidar and Hassan, two from Chitradurga, and one each from Kolar, Shivamogga and Bagalkote districts. Twenty of them are with travel history to Dubai, four to Mumbai and three returned from Chennai. One patient has a history of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and another was from containment zone in Bidar. Rest are all primary and secondary contacts of patients already tested positive, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-tally-breaches-1000-mark-in-karnataka-with-45-new-cases-837924.html
15-05-2020||State||COVID-19 lockdown: No liquor, not more than 50 guests at weddings and events in Karnataka||Marriages will have to shed decadence as the state government, in an advisory, has restricted the number of guests to 50 and barred consumption of liquor at such events.  The advisory was issued in anticipation that the COVID-19 lockdown will be eased in a phased manner.  The advisory, issued by the Department of Health & Family Welfare, states that events can be held in a “suitable public place with good natural ventilation (no air condition).” All guests must have the Arogya Setu app on their phones and the contact details all marriage attendees should be maintained.  No person from a containment zone will be allowed to attend the event, and persons aged above 65 years, pregnant women and children below 10 years are not permitted.  Sanitizers are to be provided at the entry and at “appropriate” places. Thermal screening is a must at the entry point of the venue. The scanner should be held 3-15 cm away from a person’s forehead. “Anyone found having a fever (37.5 degree centigrade or 99.5 farenheit), cold, cough, difficulty in breathing shall not be permitted to attend the event and immediately referred to seek medical advice,” the advisory said.   Besides prohibition on consumption of alcohol, the advisory said paan, gutka and tobacco will not be allowed.  Face masks are compulsory and all persons should maintain a physical distance of more than one metre. The venue shall be clean and hygienic, with a prohibition on spitting in public places. A nodal person should be identified to oversee the arrangements, the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-lockdown-no-liquor-not-more-than-50-guests-at-weddings-and-events-in-karnataka-838027.html
15-05-2020||State||MP to cops: Work properly or stay at home||MP S Muniswamy on Friday expressed displeasure that the police officials in the district had failed to implement the COVID-19 guidelines issued by the government strictly. “The steps taken by the government to contain the spread of novel coronavirus haven’t been implemented properly in the district by the police. Those policemen who can’t work may apply leave and stay at home,” the MP directed. Muniswamy chaired a meeting to create awareness about COVID-19. “People in the district aren’t following the guidelines. The district was under green zone. It has now been moved to saffron zone. Six people who came to the district from outside have tested positive for COVID-19. These things indicate that the police aren’t working properly,” he expressed anguish. The MP said that leaders and workers of his party worked effectively against the COVID-19. The officials would be held responsible if the number of COVID-19 cases in the district went up. “Business transactions take place between 6 am and 11 am in Malur and KGF towns. The same model should be followed in Kolar. There is unnecessary movement of people on roads in Kolar town. Licenses of shops should be cancelled if shop keepers fail to ensure social distancing in front of their shops. The police should impose fine on those moving without wearing masks,” Muniswamy directed. The MP said that owners of outlets in the APMCs should share details of trucks coming from outside states. The trucks should be prevented at the checkpoints. Drivers should be tested there itself. Owners of outlets at the APMCs should bear the expenses of medical tests. “The officials should collect details about the starting points of trucks. The trucks should be disinfected at the checkpoints. The drivers should be permitted inside the district only upon testing negative for COVID-19,” he directed. The MP said that the police did not permit movement of autorickshaws in Bengaluru and Chikkaballapur. The movement of autorickshaws should be banned in the district as the autorickshaws owners ferry a large number of passengers. Tahsildar Shobitha, inspectors Rangaswamy and Anjinappa were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mp-to-cops-work-properly-or-stay-at-home-838029.html
15-05-2020||State||RTPCR to be functional in four weeks||The Rapid Test Polymerase Chain Reaction (RTPCR) will be commissioned in the district in a month to test and determine COVID-19 cases. Once the RTPCR becomes a reality, doctors in the government hospitals in the district need not depend upon laboratories in Commando Hospital, Bangalore Medical College and Grandhi Krishi Vigyan Kendra in Bengaluru. At present, throat swabs and blood samples are sent to these places for reports. According to the health department officials, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar took special interest in getting the RTPCR for the district. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), New Delhi, has granted permission for the RTPCR. “There is a plan to renovate three sheds in the old building of the district hospital to house the RTPCR. We have already issued the work order in this regard,” in-charge district surgeon Dr Ramesh told DH. “Civil and technical works for the RTPCR will take about 20 days. In about 25 days, it would be functional. An order has been issued to procure equipment worth Rs 80 lakh,” he said. The proposed laboratory will have facility for multiple tests of samples. Hundreds of samples may be tested. This will help speedy completion of tests and issuance of reports, according to the officials. After the first COVID-19 case was reported in the district, the officials so far have conducted 6,029 tests including primary and secondary contacts of the novel coronavirus infected patients. The officials believe that the laboratory would help the upcoming medical college in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rtpcr-to-be-functional-in-four-weeks-838031.html
15-05-2020||State||Over 6,000 people return to Chikkaballapur district, to be quarantined||Deputy commissioner Y S Patil on Friday said that as many as 6,200 people from different states, including 5,000 from Maharastra and 2,348 from Goa had returned to the district. “About 25,000 people from various districts in the state have returned to the district,” he said. The deputy commissioner said that those from Goa would be quarantined at homes, while those from other districts would be quarantined at institutions. “All facilities would be provided from the district administration to those under quarantine at institutions. Such people have been banned from visiting houses and venturing outside. People should immediately inform the district administration if such people venture outside the quarantine centres,” he said. Patil said that all those coming from other districts and states might not be carrying the novel coronavirus. “They migrated to other districts and states seeking jobs. They are being quarantined for 14 days and the public should cooperate with the district administration,” he said. He requested people willing to leave the district for their native places in other districts and states to register their names on Seva Sindhu website. Public should immediately inform the district administration about the visits of people from other states and districts. “The district administration will initiate stringent action against people misusing the Seva Sindu app to issue passes,” Patil warned. TrueNat machines received Patil said that the district hospital would be able to increase the number of tests to determine COVID-19 as the hospital had received two new TrueNAT machines. “The CB Nat laboratory is functioning in the district hospital to test throat swabs. The laboratory has received two new TrueNat machines which will help increase the number of tests,” he said. Patil clarified that the testing process would start in a couple of days. The district would not send throat swabs to laboratories in Bengaluru and Kalaburagi. About 50 throat swabs could be tested daily. Health and family welfare officer Dr H P Manchegowda said that the tests using the new machines would be conducted at Maheshwari Institute of Management and Science (MIMS). High tech tools have been fixed to tests throats swabs and blood samples. Biological safety measures have been taken to destroy boxes used to collect the throat swabs. “The select staff from the MIMS have been trained at Nimhans, Bengaluru. They were thoroughly tested if they properly understood and followed procedures during the training,” he said. Necessary code and password had been received from the ICMR to use the machines. If all primary tests indicated presence of novel coronavirus, then such samples would be sent to the RTPCR laboratories for accuracy, said in-charge district surgeon Dr Ramesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-6000-people-return-to-chikkaballapur-district-to-be-quarantined-838033.html
15-05-2020||State||Monsoon to reach Kerala coast by June 5: IMD||The onset of the south-west monsoon over Kerala may be slightly delayed this year with the India Meteorological Department announcing June 5 as the date when the rain clouds will reach the Malabar coast. “The onset of southwest monsoon over Kerala is likely to be slightly delayed as compared to the normal onset date of June 1. The monsoon onset over Kerala this year is likely to be on June 5 with a model error of 4 days on either side,” the IMD said in a statement. This is the third time in the last six years (2016 and 2019 were the previous two years) when the weather bureau predicted an onset well into the first week of June. In three of the last six years, the monsoon actually entered Kerala in the first week of June – June 5 in 2015 and June 8 in 2016 as well as 2019. Last month IMD forecast that India would experience a normal monsoon in which it would receive 100% of its long-term average rainfall between June and September. The south-west monsoon remains the lifeblood of the Indian economy on the basis of which India hopes to record good agricultural productivity to alleviate some of the economic pain caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. At present, there is a well-marked low-pressure area lying over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region in the next 12 hours and further intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 16 evening. Associated with this event, conditions are likely to become favourable for the advance of southwest monsoon into the Andaman Sea, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and some parts of southeast Bay of Bengal, during next 48 hours. However, past data suggest that there is no association of the date of monsoon advance over the Andaman Sea either with the date of monsoon onset over Kerala or with the seasonal monsoon rainfall over the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/monsoon-to-reach-kerala-coast-by-june-5-imd-838039.html
15-05-2020||State||No new COVID-19 cases, Tumakuru heaves sigh of relief||Though many green and orange areas are turning into red zones in neighbouring districts like Hassan and Mandya due to the spread of COVID-19, the number of positive cases has been rather less and backtracking towards normal in Tumakuru district. This has come as a big relief to the people of the district.    The first Coronavirus positive case was reported in the district on March 26. Since then, 11 people have been infected with the pandemic. Among them, two died, two recovered. Now there are only seven active cases that are being treated.   There was some anxiety when nearly 50 people attended the funeral of the COVID-19 patient. But later their throat swabs and sputum samples tested negative. Which was a big relief because they had come into primary and secondary contact with the victim who succumbed. For many weeks now, with all the strict monitoring by the Health Department, no more cases have come to light. For this the people of the district are grateful.  People have however repeatedly urged the department to quarantine people who come from other districts like Hassan and Mandya and also other states. And the Health Department is doing so. Over 900 throat swab samples had been sent for tests three days ago and many have tested negative; 375 reports are awaited Health Department sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-new-covid-19-cases-tumakuru-heaves-sigh-of-relief-838081.html
15-05-2020||State||Uniform syllabus for all state universities being hotly debated||The state government's move to introduce a common syllabus for all degree and post-graduate courses offered in state-run universities is being debated intensely. The argument against the move is that if the uniform format is adopted, universities will lose their autonomy and diversity in the subjects they teach. Even BJP's student organ Akhila Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has opposed the move. Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan held a meeting on this topic recently. He was advised by Nasscom and certain other foreign entities that communalising the curriculum would be beneficial to students in getting jobs and building careers. The move to go ahead with the idea was endorsed at this meeting.  Nodal officers Tumkur University VC Prof Y S Siddegowda for Arts, Prof G Hemanth, VC of the University of Mysore for BCA and MCA, Prof Ramachandregowda, VC of Rani Chennamma University at Belagavi for Commerce and Management, Belagavi VTU VC Prof Karisiddappa for Engineering, Karnataka State Open University (KSOU-Mysore) VC Prof S Vidyashankar for all the courses offered by the University--have been appointed as nodal officers for the process to commanalising the syllabus for various streams. They have been asked to present the new common syllabus by June 10, so that it can be brought into effect from 2021-22.  'No compromise' The remark made by a well known academic was that the Higher Education Minister was trying to uproot a tree, place it on its head to water it. "If a common syllabus is introduced the Board of Studies in the universities will become redundant," the person added.  Reacting to this development, writer Bargur Ramachandrappa remarked that the move was detrimental to the autonomous growth of varieties in the state. He added that it would prevent universities in offering courses that have a local flavour. "There should be no compromise in the autonomy granted in the education sector," he added.  However, Prof Y S Siddegowda, VC of Tumkur University said a uniform syllabus would help students in acquiring knowledge and skills, getting jobs and building careers. "Theory and internals marks calculation is different in different universities as of now. If a uniform syllabus is adopted, this will provide students a level playing ground," he opined. He also pointed out that students can switch between universities mid-course-- for example, a first-year Gulbarga University student can continue with his second year in Bangalore University because the curriculum is uniform.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uniform-syllabus-for-all-state-universities-being-hotly-debated-838086.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: SWR runs 6 'Shramik Trains'||The South Western Railways ferried passengers in six Shramik Special trains, five from Bengaluru and one from Hubballi, to different parts of the country on Thursday. Two more such trains were scheduled to run late in night. SWR has so far run 46 Shramik Specials for migrant workers, students and families.  The train from Hubballi railway station left with 1,361 passengers to Jodhpur at 12.20 pm. The second Shramik train left from Chikkabanavara to Muzaffarpur (Bihar) Two more trains left from the same station to Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh). The fifth Shramik special from Malur to Katihar in Bihar left at 6.15 pm with 1,462 passengers. The sixth train from Chikkabanavara to Jiribam in Manipur carried 1450 passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-swr-runs-6-shramik-trains-837757.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka govt announces third economic package worth Rs 512 crore||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced a third economic package worth Rs 512 crore on Friday to assist maize farmers and give an incentive to ASHA workers. Maize farmers have been suffering because of low prices for their produce. As a result, the government has decided to give a compensation of Rs 5,000 each to around 10 lakh farmers and Rs 3,000 each as an incentive to 40,250 ASHA workers. While compensation to maize farmers will cost Rs 500 crore to state exchequer, the incentive for ASHA workers will be worth Rs 12.5 crore.  The government had initially announced an economic stimulus package of Rs 1,610 crore, followed by Rs 162 crore relief package announced on Thursday. "We have taken the decision to announce package despite financial constraints," he said. In the coming days, the government will initiate more measures to assist farmers, Yediyurappa said. The chief minister also defended the amendments to APMC Act, saying that it would ensure a competitive market to farmers. Private markets have been in existence since 2007, he said, adding that the government would not allow farmers to be cheated under his watch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-govt-announces-third-economic-package-worth-rs-512-crore-837860.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre may announce many relaxations after May 17: BS Yediyurappa||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday dropped enough hints that Lockdown 4.0 will come with fewer restrictions, saying the Centre will “relax everything”.  “After May 17, the Government of India is going to relax so many things. According to me, they (Centre) will relax everything, except maybe 5-star hotels...,” Yediyurappa told reporters. “Let’s wait up to May 17,” he added.  Karnataka has taken a rather liberal position on the lockdown and has shown willingness towards relaxing restrictions in favour of economic activities. Earlier this week, the government indicated that gyms, hotels and golf clubs can resume operations after May 17 subject to conditions and restrictions.  During the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 11, Yediyurappa pitched for doing away with red-orange-green zoning of districts and focus on COVID-19 containment specific to areas where cases are reported. He also said public transport must be allowed to resume in non-containment zones.   Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan said time had come for normalcy. “It’s been two months already in this fight against COVID-19,” he said. “Since it is imminent that we focus on economic activities, we must learn to live in an equilibrium that has the virus and people. We must learn to live with it.”  Narayan said the state government will ask the Centre to allow all those activities permitted in green and orange zones in the red zones as well. “We await guidelines from the Centre, but all areas except containment zones must be exempted from the lockdown restrictions. Our main demand is that economic activities must be allowed in red zones as well,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-may-announce-many-relaxations-after-may-17-bs-yediyurappa-837972.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||All Mysuru COVID-19 patients recover, discharged||Amid the coronavirus spread in the country, there is some news to cheer from Karnataka's Mysuru district, a hotspot, with all 90 patients having fully recovered and discharged. "All the 90 COVID-19 positive patients from Mysore District Hospital have been discharged without single mortality. Thank you for all the support," the Health Department said in a brief statement on Friday. Sharing the joy, medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted, "Glad to inform that all 90 COVID19 positive patients in Mysuru Dist Hospital have recovered. Thanks to doctors, nurses & all CoronaWarriors who worked tirelessly to make this possible.With people support, we can win this fight against Corona." District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr R Venkatesh told PTI there were 74 cases in Nanjangud, which were related to a pharmaceutical company Jubilant Life Sciences. Then there were 10 Tablighis who had not attended the Delhi event but were roaming in Bannur,he said. There were two international travellers and their primary and secondary contacts, all put together 90 cases, Venkatesh said. The sleepy town of Nanjangud in the district came into the limelight when one after another 74 cases of COVID-19 came to the fore. District In Charge Minister of Mysuru S T Somashekar, who holds the cooperation portfolio, cited three reasons for the infection spreading. Speaking to reporters recently, Somashekar had said, "There could be three reasons. First is that a 10-member team of foreigners had come to Jubilant(pharmaceutical company Jubilant Life Sciences) Second is that a team of auditors had come from Delhi and the third is that there was an employee of Jubilant who is learnt to have attended the Tablighi Jamat event in Delhi." According to Venkatesh, an extensive survey was done in the entire area making sure that every COVID-19 case was traced. "We conducted an extensive survey in Mysuru and Nanjangud.The containment was very good. The containment at the buffer zone is very important, which should be followed," he said. While it is believed that people above 50 years and those having medical history are the most vulnerable, the doctors made a point that all of them recovered completely. There were two patients having Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) while four patients were above 50, Venkatesh said. "The treatment method of young and old is different. Their response to treatment is very important," he pointed out. The district authorities have now taken up a task of second round of survey, focusing on patients with medical history. "This is our second phase of survey.If we succeed, then there will be no positive cases in the district," Venkatesh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-mysuru-covid-19-patients-recover-discharged-838026.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Shopping Centres Association seeks Karnataka CM's nod to reopen malls||The Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) has appealed to Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to allow reopening of malls in the state. In a statement, the SCAI said it had made a representation to Yediyurappa with a set of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and guidelines for reopening of malls. "SCAI has asserted and collectively with industry captains, endorsed the ability of shopping centres to enforce protocols in a far more efficient manner than many others who have benefited from the relaxation," it said.  While preparing the SOPs, SCAI has held several consultations with captains of the industry as well as adopted global best practices to ensure that the spread of COVID-19 is contained, the statement said. "The representation holds significance even as the country braces itself for Lockdown 4.0 from May 18. Shopping malls, unfortunately, have not found much favour from the government," the SCAI said. Malls in Karnataka were ordered to shut from March 15 to curb the spread of coronavirus and have since remained closed due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shopping-centres-association-seeks-karnataka-cms-nod-to-reopen-malls-838063.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 35,000 migrant labourers arrive in Vijayapura||Over 35,000 people from the district, who had migrated to different districts and states to eke out a living, have returned home after the coronavirus lockdown left them without livelihoods. Deputy Commissioner Y S Patil told DH, "About 25,000 labourers working in from different districts including Bengaluru, Mysuru, Chikkamagaluru and Mangaluru, have returned to the district. Also, about 10,000 labourers have returned home from Maharashtra and Goa. Another 10,000 to 15,000 migrant workers are likely to return home in a week or two." Apart from those, who returned home registering their names on Seva Sindhu portal, thousands have sneaked into the district through unauthorised routes, he said adding that a total of 2,485 labourers from different states working the district, have left to their homes. The migrant labourers, upon their arrival, are being sent to a compulsory 14-day quarantine at the schools, community halls or hostels. With the locals resisting the administration's move to quarantine the labourers, fearing the virus spread, the district administration is faced with a daunting task in ensuring the welfare of the families of the migrant labourers who returned home. Migrant labourers, who returned from Sindhudurg in Maharashtra, poured out their woes to DH, "We had migrated to Maharashtra two decades back. We took up masonry and odd jobs to eke out a living. With a decent earning, we settled down in Maharashtra. But the coronavirus-enforced lockdown left us without work and income. Also, many towns and cities there are turned into COVID-19 hostpots. Fearing infection, we decided to return to our native places."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-35000-migrant-labourers-arrive-in-vijayapura-838099.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 cases continue to soar in Bidar, Kalaburagi||Infections continued to swell in two virus hotspots of Kalyana Karnataka - Bidar and Kalaburagi - as both districts combined have reported 10 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday. Bidar recorded seven new cases, including a death. A 52-year-old man, with a travel history to Hyderabad, had died of COVID-19 at Bidar district hospital on Tuesday (May 12). However, his throat swab sample has returned positive on Friday. The deceased was a resident of Chitguppa town in the district.  A 14-year-old girl and a 40-year-old woman, both residents of Bidar, tested positive for virus. Both are said to be the contacts of previously diagnosed patients. A 36-year-old man, with a travel history to Mumbai, tested positive for virus. Throat swab samples of three others, in the age-group of 26 to 38 years, have returned positive for COVID-19. In Kalaburagi, a 80-year-old man from Afzalpur taluk, with an influenza-like illness, tested positive. A 30-year-old woman, with no travel history, and a Mumbai returnee, aged 24, contracted coronavirus. The district's COVID-19 tally has gone up to 86. Of which 33 cases are active while 46 patients have been discharged post-recovery. The fatalities remain at 7  Chitradurga on Friday saw its COVID-19 case count reach 9 with two new cases. A 39-year-old man (P-994) and his three-year-old daughter tested positive for COVID-19. Patient 994, a native of Kodihalli in Challakere taluk, along with his wife and two children, had returned to Chitradurga from Chennai on May 5. Throat swab sample of his wife has returned negative while the report of their newborn is awaited. The district administration has sealed Kodihalli and Chikkehalli villages and efforts are underway to trace the primary and secondary contacts of the infected. A 21-year-old woman from Mudhol in Bagalkot district, identified as Patient 1,000, is said to have contracted virus from Patient 865.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-cases-continue-to-soar-in-bidar-kalaburagi-838101.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision on SSLC exams on Monday: Minister||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar said that a decision on conducting SSLC examination will be taken on Monday. Speaking to reporters, Suresh Kumar said, “A meeting with the officials has been scheduled for Monday. A final decision will be taken in the meeting. The time table and date will be finalised on the same day, if possible.”  “While several people have favoured the conducting of the examination, a few educationalists have suggested not to conduct exams. I have discussed with educationalists like Baragur Ramachandrappa, B K Chandrashekar, B L Shankar, and L Hanumanthaiah. I will discuss the matter with MLCs elected from the teachers and graduates constituencies via video conference on Saturday,” Kumar said. Punar Manana, revision classes for SSLC students broadcast on DD Chandana TV channel, has received an overwhelming response, Suresh Kumar said. The minister said that the department is surveying government school students who have internet and smartphone facility at home. As of now, the authorities have surveyed 48 lakh students and 25 lakh of them have internet and smartphone, he said. The authorities of the Department of State Educational Research and Training (DSERT) are asked to conduct a study on reducing syllabus for the next academic year, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-on-sslc-exams-on-monday-minister-838110.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||31-year-old man in Kolar tests positive||A 31-year-old man tested positive for novel coronavirus in Kolar on Friday taking the tally of Covid-19 patients in the district to 7. Five people had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 12 in Mulbagal taluk. Two day later, a truck driver from Bainepalli in KGF taluk tested positive. The new patient is a resident of Gandhinagar and hails from Malavalli taluk in Mandya district. After lockdown was relaxed, he went to his native place and returned to Kolar on May 11. As he had returned from the red zone, he voluntarily went to the hospital for tests. Reports of his throat swabs and blood samples indicated the presence of the virus. Despite health department officials asking him to be under quarantine, he ventured out and visited his office and various localities in the town. He kept the health department officials in dark and went to Banashankari area in Bengaluru. The district administration has alerted the health officials in Bengaluru about his stay. The City Municipal Council declared the 100 metre radius area from his house as containment zone and sealed it down. “The district administration is trying to trace the people who came in contact with him,” deputy commissioner C Satyabhama said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/31-year-old-man-in-kolar-tests-positive-838127.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||From 90 to zero: Mysuru is now Covid-free district||At a time when most of the districts in the state are grappling with soaring Covid-19 cases, Mysuru district put up a concerted fight against the pandemic to claw its way back to zero active cases on Friday. The district fought its way to zero from 90 Covid-19 cases in 55 days. The first case (Patient-20) was reported on March 21, and the last case was recorded onApril 29. Among the 90 reported cases, Nanjangud cluster (Jubilant Generics) alone accounted for 74 while 10 cases were linked to  Nizamuddin congregation of Tablighi Jamaat. Two were severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases while two other cases belonged to Kerala. Of the 90 patients, 81 were men and nine women. Four persons were above 60 years of age and one a child aged 7. It has to be noted that the recovery rate was high and no death was reported in Mysuru. Though the number of active cases reduced to zero, and no fresh case is reported in the last 15 days, the district is not completely free from Covid-19 as nearly 600 inter-state people are under institutional quarantine. There are chances of fresh Covid-19 cases. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said, “We have to be more cautious as there are challenges ahead. The district administration and the Health department are ready to face any challenge.” The deputy commissioner urged the people to maintain social distancing in public places and also to give extra care to vulnerable groups, such as senior citizens, children and patients. He said, in order to mitigate the spread of Covid-19, all inter-state passengers have to undergo 14-day institutional quarantine. A few people are objecting to the quarantine, but quarantine is not to harass, but to protect the community, he said. He added, if not for the cooperation of the people, it would not have been possible to contain Covid-19. A large number of people joined hands with the administration to combat Covid-19. The DC thanked the staff of Health department, Police department and other government employees for their efforts in the ongoing fight against the virus. Meanwhile, District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar appreciated the officials, led by DC Abhiram G Sankar, for their sincere efforts in containing Covid-19. “Combating the spread of infection is not an easy task. The officials have successfully contained the spread of the virus. I thank Health and other department employees for their efforts,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/from-90-to-zero-mysuru-is-now-covid-free-district-838129.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Only 50 guests, no liquor: Govt advisory on marriages||Marriages will have to shed decadence as the state government, in an advisory, has restricted the number of guests to 50 and barred consumption of liquor at such events.  The advisory was issued in anticipation that the Covid-19 lockdown will be eased in a phased manner.  The advisory, issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, states that events can be held in a "suitable public place with good natural ventilation (no air condition)." All guests must have the Arogya Setu app on their phones and the contact details all marriage attendees should be maintained.  No person from a containment zone will be allowed to attend the event, and persons aged above 65 years, pregnant women and children below 10 years are not permitted.  Sanitisers are to be provided at the entry and at "appropriate" places. Thermal screening is a must at the entry point of the venue. The scanner should be held 3-15 cm away from a person’s forehead. “Anyone found having fever (37.5 degree centigrade or 99.5 Farenheit), cold, cough, difficulty in breathing shall not be permitted to attend the event and immediately referred to seek medical advice," the advisory said.  Besides prohibition on consumption of alcohol, the advisory said paan, gutka and tobacco will not be allowed.  Face masks are compulsory and all persons should maintain a physical distance of more than one metre. The venue shall be clean and hygienic, with a prohibition on spitting in public places. A nodal person should be identified to oversee the arrangements, the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-50-guests-no-liquor-govt-advisory-on-marriages-838131.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Reformed underworld don Muthappa Rai dies at 68||Reformed underworld don Muthappa Rai (68) died after a prolonged battle with brain cancer, at Manipal Hospital here in the early hours of Friday.  He is survived by his two sons Rikki Rai and Rakhi Rai. Rai’s final rites were conducted at Bidadi estate by his younger son Rikki on Friday evening. His elder son Rakhi, who’s staying in Canada, could not attend his dad’s funeral. Around 30 to 40 members, including relatives and close friends of Rai, took part in the funeral. He was diagnosed with cancer in 2018. At a press conference at his Bidadi residence recently, Rai had revealed that he was suffering from brain cancer and his days were numbered. Rai’s wife Rekha had also died of cancer at Mount Elizabeth Hospital in Singapore in 2013.  Born on May 2, 1952, to the late Narayan Rai and Susheela couple at Keyyur village near Puttur in Dakshina Kannada district, Rai completed his primary and secondary education in Puttru, Ujire and Sringeri. After completing BCom, he joined Vijaya Bank. Rai was acquitted in all the cases, including the sensational murder case of builder Subbaraj in 2001. After his acquittal, he turned to activism with his organisation Jaya Karnataka, a pro-Kannada organisation. Bollywood filmmaker Ram Gopal Varma had announced a biopic on Rai. Vivek Oberoi was roped in for the lead role. The film titled ‘Rai’ was shot at several locations including Rai’s Bidadi residence. But the movie was not released due to production delays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/reformed-underworld-don-muthappa-rai-dies-at-68-838133.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM announces third package worth Rs 512.5 crore||It’s raining packages as Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced on Friday a new one in which maize farmers and Asha workers will get a largesse worth Rs 512.5 crore. Each maize farmer will get Rs 5,000 and Asha worker Rs 3,000, the CM said.  This is the third package the state government has announced since May 6.  Yediyurappa said that it was a “historic decision” to compensate 10 lakh maize farmers who were affected as their produce could not be procured due to the lockdown. The government will compensate Rs 5,000 to all the 10 lakh farmers, which will cost the State Exchequer Rs 500 crore, he said. “Asha workers have toiled day and night,” Yediyurappa said, highlighting their role during the Covid-19 pandemic. With funds from the Co-operative department, the government will provide an incentive of Rs 3,000 to each of the 40,250 Asha workers in Karnataka. This will be a one-time assistance, the CM said.  The government will also continue the scheme of providing Rs 5,000 for farmers in the event of the death of a sheep or goat, Yediyurappa added. The total worth of all packages announced by the government now stands at Rs 2,284.5 crore. Direct cash transfers While the first stimulus package promised direct cash transfers to farmers, drivers, handloom weavers and barbers, the second package announced on Thursday worth Rs 162 crore was aimed at horticulturists and powerloom weavers. “In the coming days, once Covid-19 is tackled, the government will take more measures to assist farmers,” he said. The government cannot do anything beyond this, Yediyurappa said when asked about inclusion of several other communities such as priests, potters and tailors that have been left out. “Financially, we’re not in a position to include more. Everyday, different people are asking, but we can’t. I hope you’ll agree that we’ve done everything we can,” he said.  ‘Lacks transparency’ The Opposition Congress, however, criticised the package alleging that it lacked transparency.  “Though the package might appear attractive, the opaque package has hidden more (facts) than it has revealed,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said in a tweet. While 44 lakh metric tonnes of maize was grown, only around 22,000 tonnes were procured and the compensation announced is insufficient, the former CM said.  Siddaramaiah welcomed the assistance to Asha workers, but demanded that the government should provide Rs 3,000 incentive to the paramedical staff and the pourakarmikas also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-announces-third-package-worth-rs-5125-crore-838136.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Doctors booked for failing to notify COVID-19 cases||Two doctors and a contractor have been booked for not reporting COVID-19 cases to the health department. Two cases have been registered in this regard based on complaints by a BBMP officer and a resident. Ramakrishna, BBMP Joint Commissioner, Bommanahalli division, has filed a complaint against doctors Dr Altaf (43) and Dr Avinash Singh (46), and Iliyaz Pasha (38), a resident of Mangammanapalya and brother of COVID-19 patient P911. Ramakrishna said the two doctors had information about P911 in ward 190 (Mangammanapalya). But neither of them nor the patient’s brother brought it to the notice of the health officials or the authority concerned. The three accused have been held responsible for P911 infecting several other people. Ramakrishna told DH that the two doctors and Pasha have been quarantined. "People coming across COVID-19 patients or those with symptoms should inform the authorities. We will continue to file complaints against those who fail to notify the cases,” the joint commissioner said. An investigating official from the Bandepalya station said the police have taken up a case under IPC Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection or disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule). Once the doctors' quarantine period is over, action will be taken against them, he added. Bimesh, a 26-year-old car driver residing in Hongasandra, has filed a complaint against Sathya, a contractor. Bimesh told the police that Sathya, who lives in the same neighbourhood, had brought labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states to work at a construction site. He accused Sathya of ignoring social-distancing norms and cramming 10 to 12 workers into one room in a building where they had been accommodated. One of the labourers had contracted the disease and it had spread to a few others who were in primary contact with him, Bimesh said. An investigating official from the Begur police station said a case has been taken up against Sathya under IPC Section 269 on Thursday. “We have asked officials to give us a list of the COVID positive patients in the labour shed for further investigation,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/doctors-booked-for-failing-to-notify-covid-19-cases-838141.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Priyank Kharge moves HC seeking help to migrants from state||Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge on Friday moved the Karnataka High Court seeking directions to the state government to bring back people who have gone out of Karnataka for work and study. In his writ petition, Kharge stated that the government’s failure to help workers, students and other migrants has violated their rights guaranteed under Article 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution. The petitioner stated the imposition of the lockdown on March 24 and its extension on April 14 led to the suffering of countless number of workers from Karnataka who had gone to Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Goa in search of jobs. “During this time, I had written three letters to the chief minister requesting that they should be brought back. In subsequent letters, I sought arrangement of 50 bus services each to Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, and 25 buses to Telangana and Goa,” hestated. He stated that he had also assured that the Karnataka Congress would bear the cost of bus operations. He said thousands of migrant workers who had arrived at the border checkposts were being prohibited from entering Karnataka. Women, children and elderly persons had to suffer as the government failed to provide food, shelter and medical facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/priyank-kharge-moves-hc-seeking-help-to-migrants-from-state-838153.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Minister allays fears over community transmission of coornavirus||Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar has rubbished the reports of possible community transmission of COVID-19 in Karnataka and attributed the rising cases to increased testing. “People need not panic over the rising number of COVID-19 cases. All the positive cases are reported from either the containment areas or from those who recently returned from overseas and other states. The epidemic has not spread to the community in Karnataka,” the minister said in a statement.  He said that 64% of the total cases reported in the state were due to primary and secondary contacts and another 25% was due to infection from the travellers.  The minister said that the government is monitoring the situation in Bengaluru. “The spurt in the number of cases is due to scaling up of testing across Bengaluru. We have directed officials to conduct a swab test of all senior citizens in every house of the containment localities. Hopefully, by the end of May, Karnataka will have about 60 labs and the number of testing samples will be increased up to 15,000,” the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/minister-allays-fears-over-community-transmission-of-coornavirus-838163.html
15-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||South Western Railways ferries 7,477 passengers in five trains||South Western Railway (SWR) on Friday carried 7,477 migrant workers in five Shramik Special trains to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Tripura and Jharkhand.  Two trains left for Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh from Chikkabanavar and Malur stations carrying 2,960 passengers. Similarly, two trains to Bihar departed from Malur carrying 3,079 passengers. The fifth Shramik Special to Agartala (Tripura) departed from Chikkabanavara with 1,438 passengers on board. One more Shramik Special special was scheduled to leave from Bengaluru to Koderma in Jharkhand during late night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/south-western-railways-ferries-7477-passengers-in-five-trains-838166.html
15-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Massive augmentation of beds in Mumbai, MMR||With a big spike in COVID-19 cases expected by the end of May in Mumbai, a massive augmentation of hospital beds is underway in India's financial capital. The capacity is also being enhanced in the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Area (MMR). In Mumbai, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has been categorised in three parts  - Covid Care Centres (CCC), Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH). Three jumbo facilities -- MMRDA Ground at Bandra-Kurla Complex, NESCO Complex in Goregaon, and Global Impact Hub in Thane -- are expected to be commissioned in the next few days "With the number of positive cases and deaths increasing, we are constantly upgrading our facilities," BMC officials said. The CCC-1, where suspects and contacts are admitted, have been expanded to 22,941 beds. The CCC-2, where asymptomatic positive/mild cases are admitted has been enhanced to 34,329 beds in 241 facilities. Many CCC-2 facilities have been upgraded to have oxygen and ICU facilities including the National Sports Club of India (NSCI) at Worli.   The CCC-2 at MMRDA-BKC will have 1,000 beds, while the NESCO-Goregaon facility will have 1,240 beds. "With addition of oxygen facilities and ICU beds, the CCC-2 units would be able to treat moderate patients so that hospitals can be decongested," the officials said. In fact, Mumbai's Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has asked for enhanced contact tracing and quarantining people so that the curve starts flattening. Across the 24 wards of Mumbai, the Assistant Municipal Commissioners have taken over 180-plus institutional facilities like hotels, lodges, marriage halls and gymkhanas. These can accommodate 12,000 people. For moderate cases, BMC has added 25 hospitals which have 1,139 beds for severe cases and 2,000 beds have been created including in private hospitals. The BKC facility is located near the private residence of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Speaking about it, State Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray said: "The 1,000+ bed modular hospital being made in BKC... having seen it from it’s initial stages, the facility has come up in record time and will have almost 250 oxygen supply beds, 250 high dependence beds. Along with beds for oxygen, high dependency and lying in, phase 2 of this unit will be having a jumbo high dependency bed area purely for high symptom cases," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-massive-augmentation-of-beds-in-mumbai-mmr-837803.html
15-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Pune slum fights COVID-19 with self-discipline, awareness||Even as several congested areas in Maharashtra's Pune city turned into COVID-19 hotspots, slum pocket of Janata Vasahat has managed to fight the virus with coordinated efforts of its residents and authorities. Situated along Sinhgad Road, Janata Vasahat is spread over 2 to 3 km area and has a total population of 60,000. The locality has only reported two cases of COVID-19 so far, and the Pune Municipal Corporation plans to keep it that way. Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad attributed the success of controlling the spread to containment measures undertaken by the civic body and the geographical location of the slum. "Nestled between a hillock called Parvati and a water body off Sinhgad Road, Janata Vasahat only has one entry and exit point, restricting people's movement in the area," the senior official said. A couple of doctors from the civic body were active in the area and were working tirelessly to detect persons suffering from mild symptoms of COVID-19, he said. "So early detection and tracking are crucial to the success we have achieved in this locality," he added. The coordinated efforts of youth volunteers, corporators and the police in ensuring social distancing had also paid off, Gaikwad said. When coronavirus cases started emerging from slums in Pune, the local police in Janata Vasahat tightened vigilance and started creating awareness as well. Self-discipline exercised by residents of the locality along with coordination among the local groups, police and civic staff had kept the situation under control, said senior inspector Devidas Gheware of Datta Wadi police station in the locality. Zonal medical officer of the locality Dr Deepak Pakhale said door-to-door survey, tracing of symptomatic patients, monitoring senior citizens suffering from comorbid conditions, distributing masks and sanitisers had helped keep Janata Vasahat safe from the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-pune-slum-fights-covid-19-with-self-discipline-awareness-837825.html
15-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown sees significant drop in ACB trap cases in Maharashtra||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Maharashtra, registered just seven cases of trap in April and only five in the current month (till May 14) at its various units, an official said. Trap means nabbing a public servant for demanding and accepting illegal gratification like bribe. To prevent corruption, a trap is laid by anti-graft agencies to apprehend public servants (and their private collaborators) while demanding and accepting bribe.  Last year in April, there were 58 bribe cases in which 77 accused persons were involved, whereas in May there were 32 such cases involving 41 accused, he said. As compared to those two months in 2019, the drop in April 2020 was 88 per cent and in May around 84 per cent till date. The coronavirus-triggered lockdown came into force in Maharashtra in end-March. Since January this year, the ACB has laid 211 traps across the state in which more than 290 government officials and private persons were nabbed, the official said. Last year, there were 326 such cases in the state in which around 430 persons were apprehended, he said. Overall drop in these cases since January was more than 35 per cent compared to the same period in 2019, he said. There was only one trap case at Vadgaon in Pune, which related to the lockdown. A 31-year-old Assistant Police Inspector, Satyajit Adhatrao, posted with the state highway police, was caught while allegedly accepting bribe of Rs 15,000 from two persons on April 30 at Urse Toll Plaza to release their vehicles, he said. The officer had intercepted two vehicles during the lockdown and demanded bribe to release them, he said. As migrant workers move out of Maharashtra in private and hired vehicles in large numbers, the highway police has warned its staffers against collecting any money from them. According to an order, if any official is found collecting money from these vehicle operators, he or she will be dismissed from service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-sees-significant-drop-in-acb-trap-cases-in-maharashtra-837839.html
15-05-2020||West||Youth volunteers to enforce lockdown at containment zones in Aurangabad||The Aurangabad police has announced that teams of local youth will be formed to ensure proper enforcement of the COVID-19 lockdown in containment zones of the city. With COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district crossing the 800-mark, strict enforcement of lockdown becomes crucial in around 70 containment zones of the city. Speaking to reporters on Thursday, police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad said teams of five to 10 youth volunteers each will be formed to help people in containment zones. While small areas will have five volunteers, teams of 10 will help in larger settlements, he said. "These teams will supply essentials and ration to the needy, apart from monitoring people's movements in these areas," Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/youth-volunteers-to-enforce-lockdown-at-containment-zones-in-aurangabad-837847.html
15-05-2020||West||Two infants recover from COVID-19 in Kalyan in Maharashtra||Two infants were among 51 COVID-19 patients who recovered from the deadly infection at Kalyan taluka in Maharashtra's Thane district, an official said on Friday. As many as 51 COVID-19 patients, including a one-month-old baby girl and a two-month-old baby boy, were discharged from different hospitals, following their recovery, said Madhuri Phopale, public relations officer of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation. Meanwhile, Thane district witnessed its biggest spike in COVID-19 cases on Thursday, with 201 people testing positive for the virus. With this, the count in the district has reached 2,903, of which 899 patients had recovered, 87 had died and 1,917 were undergoing treatment, a report stated. According to the latest data, most of the new cases were reported from Thane city, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan and Mira Bhayander. The coronavirus toll also rose from 80 to 87, with five deaths being reported from Thane city and two in other parts of the district, it stated. Guardian Minister Eknath Shinde chaired a review meeting on Thursday, during which it was highlighted that 31 per cent of COVID-19 patients in the district had recovered from the infection. In a related development, Shahapur MLA Daulat Daroda of the NCP was under quarantine after he came in contact with a COVID-19 patient, a district official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-infants-recover-from-covid-19-in-kalyan-in-maharashtra-837856.html
15-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Sharad Pawar writes to PM Narendra Modi seeking bail out for sugar factories ||In a letter to PM Modi, the NCP President said even before the lockdown the government took a series of initiatives like MSP, the export of sugar,  buffer stock and interest subvention on Capex for ethanol production.   Pawar, a former Union Agriculture Minister, suggested increasing MSP on sugar ranging from Rs 3,450 to Rs 3,750 with grade-wise increment. He also requested for a one-time provision of Rs 650 per tonne on average cane crushed during the last two years. Pawar called for the conversion of outstanding working capital as short-term loans and rescheduling all term loans for 10 years with a moratorium of two years on the lines of Mitra committee recommendations.  The relief sought includes treating sugar mills’ distilleries as Strategic Business Units ( SBUs) and on a standalone basis, and banks financing the Ethanol projects sanctioned under the Interest Subvention Capex Scheme announced by the Central Government in 2018. He said that there should be a provision of funds for clearing export incentives and buffer stock expenses pending since 2018-19 and 2019-20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-30-sharad-pawar-writes-to-pm-narendra-modi-seeking-bail-out-for-sugar-factories-837872.html
15-05-2020||West||Maharashtra govt forms two coordination panels on COVID-19||The Maharashtra government has set up two committees at state and district level for better coordination between public and private hospitals in tackling the spread of COVID-19. The decision to constitute the coordination panels was taken on Thursday after a meeting between representatives of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Maharashtra Chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, according to the government. A Government Resolution (GR) issued on May 14 said the committees will ensure all government decisions regarding steps being taken to control the pandemic and medical protocols are made available to all concerned. The panels will see that PPE kits, gloves and masks are made available to medical workers in private hospitals. The committees will also work out steps to be taken to ensure medical workers have social security and are treated with respect and dignity, the GR said. The state-level committee will be headed by the chief secretary and comprise principal secretary (public health), principal secretary (urban development), secretary (medical education), Mumbai municipal commissioner and director of the Directorate of Medical Education. Director of health services will be member-secretary, while president of the IMA (Maharashtra) and a representative of the association will be an invitee on the panel. The district-level committee will have collector as chairman and members will include CEO of the Zilla Parishad, police commissioner, municipal commissioners and district police superintendent. District civil surgeon will be member-secretary, while district president of the IMA (Maharashtra) and a representative of the medical body will be an invitee. Coordination between government and medical fraternity will be worked out for state and district level implementation of all coronavirus-related guidelines issued by the WHO and Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the GR said. Till May 14, Maharashtra had recorded 27,524 cases of COVID-19. Meanwhile, a release issued by the IMA (Maharashtra) said a delegation led by its state unit president Avinash Bhondwe met Mehta and other senior officials on Thursday to discuss issues related to the coronavirus pandemic. Apart from setting up of the two committees for smooth functioning of the COVID 19 control campaign, the IMA suggested that there should be a uniform policy about fees and other charges for COVID and non-COVID patients treated by private hospitals all over the state. The IMA suggested that all acquired private hospitals should be included under the state's Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, the release said. The IMA said there should not be any medico-legal case against any doctor on ground that the treating doctor or hospital is cause of COVID-19 infection to a patient. The renewal date of registration of hospitals under the Bombay Nursing Home Act should be postponed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-forms-two-coordination-panels-on-covid-19-837880.html
15-05-2020||West||Migrant workers pelt stones at police in Gujarat's Bharuch||Desperate to return to their home states, a group of 150 migrant workers hurled stones at the police in Dahej industrial area of Gujarat's Bharuch district on Friday morning, a senior official said. The police lobbed two teargas shells to clear the mob that had gathered in the area to demand a return passage to their home states amid the COVID-19 lockdown, Bharuch district superintendent of police Rajendrasinh Chudasama said. Migrant workers, stranded in the district because of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, had staged several protests in the last two days in support of their demand that they be sent to their hometowns by Shramik Special trains, he said. "Even on Thursday, many of them took to the streets. But they went back after I personally appealed to them to be patient as their online registration was done and they only had to wait for confirmation from the authorities," Chudasama said. However, 150 of them once again came out on Friday, voicing the same demand and pelted stones on police vehicles, he said, adding two teargas shells had to be lobbed to disperse the crowd. Meanwhile, around 400 labourers from Bihar held a peaceful rally in Botad town of Botad district on Friday, demanding immediate arrangements for them to travel back to their ancestral homes. Before things could get out of hand, the police stopped the protesters at a market and convinced them to wait for confirmation of travel arrangements from the authorities, an official said. Botad district collector Vishal Gupta claimed that migrants are stuck because approvals for sending them back are pending from the Bihar government since May 10. "The district administration has made all arrangements to send the migrants back. We have done their medical check- ups and arranged for buses to ferry them to the railway station. "There is a delay because the Bihar government has not given approvals for trains," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/migrant-workers-pelt-stones-at-police-in-gujarats-bharuch-837887.html
15-05-2020||West||Maharashtra teacher creates COVID-19 nursery rhyme for kids in slums||In a bid to create awareness about the COVID-19 pandemic among children in slums, a teacher in Maharashtra's Aurangabad city created a nursery rhyme in Marathi to teach them the 20-second hand-washing routine. While frontline workers tackle COVID-19 on a war footing, teachers like Sunita Nagkirti are tasked with creating awareness about the pandemic in hotspot areas, especially slums. A video of Nagkirti teaching a group of children the 20-second hand-washing technique using a nursery rhyme was posted on Twitter by state sports commissioner Om Prakash Bakoriya. The teacher, who is associated with the state's scout and guide programme at Ravindra School here, has been travelling to slums to educate people about the pandemic and dos and don'ts they need to follow to prevent it.   "At least 30 people had tested positive in hotspot areas of Kailas Nagar and Rohidas Nagar when I was sent there 10 days ago," said Nagkirti. Initially, residents were wary of her, but she broke the ice by distributing essentials and masks, which she bought from her own pocket. "Children were worried when they saw bottles of sanitisers and handwash liquids. But I used some popular Marathi nursery rhymes and created a fun handwash song," she said. Even adults in slums need to know about the level of hygiene they need to maintain to fight coronavirus, she added. "Even after this health crisis abates, I will keep visiting these hotspots to teach children," said the enthusiastic educator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-teacher-creates-covid-19-nursery-rhyme-for-kids-in-slums-837898.html
15-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: 3 cops hurt as group attacks after argument on face mask rule in central Mumbai||A group of at least 15 people allegedly attacked a police sub-inspector and two constables with sharp weapons at Antop Hill in central Mumbai after the policemen asked why they were not wearing face masks for protection from coronavirus, an official said on Friday. The incident took place at Kokhri Agar, Garib Nawaz Nagar on Thursday afternoon, where a police team stopped these people for not wearing masks, the official said. "Those people entered into an argument with the police team over the issue and attacked the personnel. Over 15 people assaulted three policemen, including a PSI, with sharp weapons," he said. The three policemen suffered injuries in the incident, the official added. An offence has been registered against the members of the group on the charge of rioting and other sections of the IPC, including 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), and also under the COVID-19 rules, he said. The process to arrest the accused has been initiated, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-3-cops-hurt-as-group-attacks-after-argument-on-face-mask-rule-in-central-mumbai-837937.html
15-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Centre yet to respond on Maharashtra govt's request to resume local trains||The Centre is yet to respond to the request of the Maharashtra government to allow running on select suburban locals in Mumbai only for people engaged in the essential services. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has made the formal request when Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired the meeting of all CMs through video-conference. However,  as far as full-fledged restoration is concerned,  it would take time,  according to sources in Maharashtra government and BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation. More than 80 lakh people use Mumbai's suburban network daily,  that is spread across six lines of Central Railway and Western Railway covering 390-odd km and 157 stations in the Mumbai metropolitan region.    The CR and WR collectively run 3,029 services daily. During the lockdown period,  the two railway administrations have carried out extensive maintenance on the suburban network which is otherwise not possible during busy train schedules. The health of the tracks, railway over bridges too has been tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-centre-yet-to-respond-on-maharashtra-govts-request-to-resume-local-trains-837948.html
15-05-2020||West||Regulate fees of private hospitals treating coronavirus patients: Gujarat HC||The Gujarat High Court has asked the state government to take necessary steps to regulate the "exorbitant" fees charged by private hospitals which are authorised to treat coronavirus patients. The order was passed on Thursday by a division bench of Justices J B Pardiwala and Ilesh Vora which took suo motu (on its own) cognisance of news reports about various issues related to the coronavirus pandemic, including the high cost of treatment in private hospitals. The bench warned private hospitals against charging high amount for treatment of COVID-19 patients. The HC, in its ruling, noted that some private hospitals authorised by the government to treat coronavirus patients in Ahmedabad are charging fees "running in lakhs of rupees and an ordinary man will never be able to afford to avail adequate treatment from a private hospital". The bench directed the state government to ensure that private hospitals do not charge "exorbitant fees for the treatment of COVID-19 patients".  Since state-run hospitals are almost full with COVID- 19 patients, the bench stressed that the government should authorise more private medical facilities to treat such cases. The HC noted that fee structure of such private hospitals "should be regulated by the state government for the purpose of COVID-19 treatment". "These are difficult times and not the time to do business and earn profit. Medical services are the most essential service and private hospitals can not demand lakhs of rupees from a patient.  "Few private hospitals in Ahmedabad are demanding exorbitant fees running in lakhs of rupees. This is absolutely unjustified and deserves to be deprecated," said the high court. While asking the state to step in and "resolve the issue" immediately, the court even issued a warning to private hospitals. The bench said "If private hospitals do not budge and continue to demand exorbitant amount, then this court will have to take legal action, including cancellation of licence". Gujarat, which had recorded 9,592 coronavirus cases and 586 deaths till May 14, is one of the states worst-hit by the viral infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/regulate-fees-of-private-hospitals-treating-coronavirus-patients-gujarat-hc-837973.html
15-05-2020||West||Maharashtra opposes plea on essential service workers' accommodation||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Friday that it was "impossible" to provide accommodation in Mumbai for all such persons engaged in essential services who commute to the metropolis from neighbouring Palghar district every day amid the lockdown for the coronavirus outbreak. The state government pleader PP Kakade told the court that it was impractical to suggest that such essential service providers be given places to stay within the city. He made the submission before a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice A A Sayed. Kakde was responding on behalf of the state to public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a Palghar resident seeking temporary accommodation in Mumbai for essential service providers who travel from Palghar. The plea, filed earlier this week by Charan Ravindra Bhatt, claimed such commute to COVID-19 affected areas in Mumbai had resulted in several frontline workers testing positive for coronavirus. The plea claimed frontline workers catching the virus from Mumbai and travelling back to their homes in Vasai-Virar had become one of the primary causes for the spread of coronavirus in Palghar district. The situation is similar in areas such as Thane, Kalyan Dombivali, and Navi Mumbai too, the plea claimed. Each day, state transport department buses make 129 trips to ferry such frontline workers between Vasai-Virar and Mumbai, the petition claimed. "The PIL has sought that such frontline workers be provided temporary accommodation in Mumbai. Else, the state authorities be directed by HC to restrain those working in essential services to commute to Mumbai from nearby districts. However, this is an impractical demand," Kakade said. "We (state), therefore, told the court that it would be impossible to provide temporary accommodation to so many people from nearby districts," he said. The bench, however, said merely making such an oral statement was not adequate and directed the state to file an affidavit detailing reasons why it could not provide such accommodation, said the petitioner's lawyer Uday Warunjikar. Kakade said the state has been directed to file its affidavit by next week. As per the petition, as on May 1 this year, Palghar district had 136 COVID-19 cases, and 10 people have died of the infection. Currently there are 69 cases, of which 47 are health care workers, ward boys, nurses, paramedics and hotel staff and other frontline workers, who went to affected areas in Mumbai for their jobs, the plea claimed. Therefore, if preventive measures were not taken immediately, more residents in the district would be at risk, the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-opposes-plea-on-essential-service-workers-accommodation-838014.html
15-05-2020||West||Visakhapatnam espionage case suspect arrested||In a major swoop, the NIA has arrested a key conspirator in the Visakhapatnam espionage case from Mumbai. The suspect was identified as Mohammed Haroon Haji Abdul Rehman Lakdawala (49), and he had visited Pakistan several times in the past. The case relates to an international espionage racket involving individuals based in Pakistan and at different locations in India. "Pakistan-based spies recruited agents in India for collecting sensitive and classified information regarding locations/movements of Indian Navy ships and submarines, and other defence establishments," an NIA statement said. Investigation revealed that, few navy personnel came in contact with Pakistani nationals through various social media platforms such as Facebook, WhatsApp, and were involved in sharing classified information in lieu of monetary gains. The money was deposited into the bank accounts of the navy personnel through Indian associates having business interests in Pakistan. In the case so far, 14 accused have been arrested including 11 Navy personnel and one Pakistani born Indian national Shaista Qaiser. ​Investigation revealed that arrested accused Mohammed Haroon Lakdawala had visited Karachi, Pakistan on many occasions to meet his handlers under the guise of conducting cross -border trade. "During these visits, he came in contact with two Pakistani spies namely Akbar alias Ali and Rizwan, who directed him to deposit money into the bank accounts of navy personnel at regular intervals. The same was done through different means," the statement said. During searches at the house of Haroon, a number of digital devices and incriminating documents have been seized by NIA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/visakhapatnam-espionage-case-suspect-arrested-838015.html
15-05-2020||West||With 1,576 new COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra nears 30,000-mark||The spike in Maharashtra continued unabated on Friday with the total progressive COVID-19 cases a little away from the 30,000 marks.  On Friday, 49 deaths and 1,576 cases were reported across the state. This pushed the total deaths to 1,068 and positive cases to 29,100. As far as Mumbai was concerned, 34 deaths and 933 new cases were reported taking the tally to  655 and 17,671. A total of 505 patients discharged taking the total to 6, 564 who have The total cases in the state is 29,100, while the active cases stand at 21,467. The patient doubling rate in the state as per the COVID-19 portal is 11 days,  according to the Public Health and Family Welfare department. Of the fresh 49 COVID-related deaths in the state today,  34 deaths were recorded  in Mumbai, 6 in Pune, 2 in Akola city, 2 in Kalyan-Dombivali, 2 in Dhule, 1 was recorded in Panvel, 1 in Jalgaon and 1 in Aurangabad city. The deceased include 29  men and 20 women.22 of them aged over 60 years, 23 were from the age group 40 to 59 years and 4 were aged less than 40 years. 32 out of 49 patients (65%) had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, etc.   Out of 2,50,436 laboratory samples, 2,21,336 were negative and 29,100 have been tested positive for Coronavirus till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-1576-new-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-nears-30000-mark-838104.html
15-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: PM insurance plan for some contract staff too, Bombay HC told||The Union government told the Bombay High Court on Friday that the Rs 50 lakh insurance cover promised under the 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kamgar Package Insurance Scheme For Health Workers' can be extended to such contractual civic workers involved in essential services who come in direct contact with COVID-19 patients. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the Union, said in light of the above, the contractual frontline employees of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) could be given the benefits of the Central insurance scheme in case any of them came in direct contact with COVID- 19 patients. Singh made the submission before Justice SJ Kathawalla. The court was hearing a petition filed by sanitation and health workers of NMMC pointing out how thousands of them have been working each day in the lockdown without any protective gear or allowances and insurance benefits that were provided to the civic body's permanent frontline employees. On Thursday, HC had directed the Union government to clarify whether benefits of its mass health insurance scheme could be extended to the Corporation's contract employees providing essential services during the lockdown.  Singh told HC that, as per a Press Information Bureau release issued on March 29, the benefits of the insurance scheme are to be given to all frontline healthcare workers working in private or public establishments whether as permanent or contractual employees. The scheme is meant for those who come in direct contact with COVID-19 patients and get infected themselves, and also covers deaths of such workers due to the infection. the PIB release stated.  Therefore, eligible contract employees of NMMC can be provided benefits, Singh said. The petitioners, through Samaj Samata Kamgar Sangh, a trade union representing around 4000 contract workers employed as sanitation, health department and solid waste management workers, had filed the plea in HC earlier this month. They had said that since the workers are all essential service providers, they had been working through the lockdown, putting their own health at risk. The plea said the workers were cleaning roads and public areas, going door to door collecting garbage, clearing garbage, medical waste and sewage without adequate protective equipment. On Thursday, Justice Kathawalla had directed that the petitioner union meet with the Corporation and contractors each Monday and procure requisite protective gear for the week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-pm-insurance-plan-for-some-contract-staff-too-bombay-hc-told-838111.html
