16-05-2020||Comment||The myth of Tablighi||Although the Nizamuddin episode is past us, the Tablighi Jamaat continues to evoke complaints and revulsion. Mixed up in this is a longstanding and contentious issue at the heart of Hindutva nationalism – conversions. Much of the politics of anger is centred around the narrative of religious conversion. But how central is proselytisation to Islam? The words for preaching are Tabligh and Da’wah. The former means communication of a message, and the latter a call or an invitation. In contemporary usage, these Arabic words mean the preaching of Islam in order to make Muslims more devout, and to convince non-Muslims that Islam is the only true religion. The Quran frequently calls itself a Zikr, a remembrance (21:50, et al) (chapter 21, verse 50). The Prophet was the Muzakkir, the remembrancer (3:20, et al); a reminder of the pre-eternal truth of cosmic unity as reflected in the idea of monotheistic God, and the quest of human freewill to integrate into transcendent reality by right thought and conduct. In the Islamic tradition, 124,000 prophets are said to have come in all parts of the world. God doesn’t make distinction between any of the messengers (2:136, et al). They all gave the same message in their culture-specific idioms. The Quran celebrates this diversity, and calls itself the confirmation and protection of scriptures sent to other communities (2:41, et al). God does not want the anonymity of uniformity. Multiplicity of religions is divinely ordained. “Had your Lord willed, all those on earth would have believed altogether. Would you then compel people, so that they become believers?” (10:99). “For everyone, there is a direction to which he turns his face. Strive, then, to excel each other in good deeds” (2:148). The emphasis is on recognising one another by appreciating the differences so that they could excel each other in doing good (5:48, et al). The task of remembering the truth to the ever-forgetful humanity was specific to the office of the prophet. His mandate was only to convey the message (3:20, et al). He was not responsible for what was made of it since he wasn’t made a guardian over people (6:66, et al). And his mission did not devolve on his followers insofar as there was no spiritual succession to him. Verse 16:125 says, “Call unto the way of thy Lord with wisdom and fair exhortation, and reason with them in the better way.” “Call unto the way of thy Lord...” cannot be understood to mean calling someone to one’s own religion. Further, they are told to “... argue not with the People of the Book unless it be in (a way) that is better...and say: We believe in that which has been revealed unto us and revealed unto you; our God and your God is One, and unto Him we surrender (29:46). If these two verses are read with 2:62 and 5:69, wherein the followers of other religions are recognised as equally worthy of salvation, it becomes clear that a free exchange of views is envisaged to improve understanding. Conversion from one religion to another is not contemplated. Thus it was in the early history of Islam. Myths of forced conversion notwithstanding, the Rightly Guided Caliphate discouraged conversion in the conquered territories. Firstly, the idea that Islam was a religion for Arabs was fairly prevalent. Secondly, conversion of non-Arab masses would make them notionally equal to them, which the race conscious Arabs couldn’t countenance. Thirdly, it would affect revenue collection adversely as converts would be exempt from the levies which was their lot as a subject race. As they tried to gate-crash into Islam for the amelioration of their condition, the Omayyads banned conversion. It was eased briefly during the reign of Umar bin Abdul Aziz (717-720 CE). As a large number of non-Arabs entered Islam, the path was paved for revolt against the racist Omayyads. It led to the Abbasid revolution in 750 CE. The word Da’wah first came into vogue during this insurgency. Da’is, the callers, were sent to newly converted areas to give Da’wah, the call, to rise against the Omayyad tyranny. A couple of centuries later, the Ismailis revived Da’wah in a more efficient manner, leading to the establishment of the Fatimid caliphate of Egypt. It’s because of this lineage that Da’wah has a political connotation. In the last century, the revivalist movements gave new currency to this word. Its Indian versions, including Tablighi Jama’at, were in response to the ‘Shuddhi’ and ‘Sangathan’ campaigns of the 1920s, which aimed to reconvert Muslims to Hinduism. The Islamic counter was two pronged: further Islamise Muslims, and preach Islam to non-Muslims. This template outlived ‘Shuddhi’. The part which tried to make the Muslims more devout was based on Bid’at theology, which considered the presence of Indian cultural elements in social and religious customs a contamination. An Islam, thus eviscerated of Indianness, couldn’t have struck deep roots in the soil. A community is based on shared cultural values, of which religion may be one constituent. A community of faith is a misnomer. A deracinated and denationalised Islam would lead to separatism among its followers and invite antipathy from others. This attitude had neither a canonical basis nor a historical precedent in Islam. The second part, preaching Islam to non-Muslims, was even more problematic. Since all religions enjoin truth, justice, compassion and charity; and forbid indecency, abomination and wickedness (16:90), one cannot be regarded as better than the other on grounds of specious doctrinal and ritual differences. To preach one’s own religion as the only true one, on the basis of self-ascribed dogmatic superiority, is extreme ethnocentrism. It was not going to work with Hindus since they regarded all religions to be equally true, and different paths toward the same destination. A subscriber to “Ekam Sat Viprah Bahudha Vadanti”, i.e., “Truth is one, the wise perceive it differently” couldn’t countenance the binary of true and false religions and, therefore, would not switch from one to another only to adopt a different mode of worship. Thus, India never saw a mass conversion. The Muslim rulers, despite their theocratic rhetoric, did not build a proselytising State in India. They recognised that Hindus, being a people of the Book, had their own religion which was equally true. This Quranic wisdom (2:148, 5:48) was summed up in Amir Khusro’s, “Har qaum rāst rāhe, deene, wa qibla gāhe”, i.e., each community has a right path, religion and orientation. There is no gainsaying that Tabligh or Da’wah, to make people leave their religion and, along with it, their community, culture and history, has no basis in scriptural or historical Islam. (The writer is an IPS officer.)   The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-myth-of-tablighi-838259.html
16-05-2020||First Edit||Bold agri marketing reforms welcome||The best highlight of the package for agriculture announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is the decision to liberalise agricultural trade and marketing by creating a legal framework and mechanisms to give the farmer freedom and control over his produce. The existing restrictions on sale of agricultural commodities and the inter-state barriers in trade are to be done away with, and the idea of “one nation, one market’’ will in effect be extended to agriculture. Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) control the trade currently, and farmers have to sell their produce there. Once the new legal framework is in place, they will be free to sell their produce to anyone, anywhere in India, and not to just one licensee. That will empower the farmer and help him to get the best price for his produce on the best terms. The APMC system was originally meant to protect the farmer, but over time, it became a constraint. The licensed traders often formed a cartel and deprived the farmers of the right prices. These prices multiplied through the intermediaries in the trade before reaching the consumer. Reforming this system has been a longstanding demand and the government has done well to initiate it now. It might mean to agricultural trade what the Green Revolution meant to production and is an important liberalisation measure in the 1991 tradition.  An enabling central law will have to be made for this. The Essential Commodities Act, 1955, will be amended to enable farmers to realise better prices by removing the provisions for stock limit, except in rare circumstances. It is also intended to attract investments to farming and to make it more competitive. The Essential Commodities Act was enacted at a time of shortages. It is a constraint when production has expanded and the country is the leading producer of many agricultural commodities in the world.  The government has also announced packages ranging from Rs 1 lakh crore to build farm infrastructure to varied allocations for boosting local products, conducting vaccination of livestock, promoting herbal cultivation, etc. The proposals are intended to give relief to different segments of farming and to help many sections of farmers. But economic impulses take time to course through agriculture and many initiatives do not produce immediate results, mainly because of the nature of agriculture and the processes and activities associated with it. Inefficiency in implementation may be another factor. So, the government’s package does not offer any immediate relief to the farmer who is in distress now. The Centre will do well to offer some urgent relief measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bold-agri-marketing-reforms-welcome-838289.html
16-05-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Mango trader tests positive for COVID-19 in Dharwad||He is a resident of Gandhi Nagar in Dharwad city. After returning from Mumbai, he had SARI symptoms and his throat swab was sent for lab test. The report confirmed him testing positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday.  He has been shifted to KIMS for treatment. This is the 22nd case in Dharwad district. Seven persons have recovered and discharged so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/mango-trader-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-dharwad-838312.html
16-05-2020||In Perspective||A glimpse of the world we had left behind||To start with, the loudest message of this season is that human capabilities are nothing when faced with nature’s challenges. Man, who always conspired to dominate nature, finds himself in the stranglehold of nature, unable to break free of its vice-like grip. The virus has exposed man’s utter helplessness in times of crisis. The bravado of man is proved hollow. This is the one truth that the virus brought home in a wily fashion. The fierce independence of man, the feeling of invincibility, is being challenged by the virus.  Man, who prided himself in his possessions and wealth and as a corollary to this, his effortless indifference towards his fellow men, is now put to shame. Inter-dependence has now become a necessity, however disconcerting that might be to some. The truth that man is indeed a social animal is being whispered into his ears every step of the way. Everybody needs a good neighbour. The whole world has been thrown back by a few centuries at once, in unimaginable ways. No air travel, no trains, no cruises, no express buses for months. We are back to the pre-industrial times all at once. It’s back to basics, to the real world. The lost world has to be rebuilt all over again after this season. The longer it lasts, the harder it will be to start the process and rebuild.  Communication is the most vaunted achievement of the new millennium. The same millennium now witnesses the snapping of all communications. The first stage of communication is human interaction, face to face. The virus has cried a halt to this human interaction. Travel that was the very lifeblood of the modern man is reduced to its barest minimum. Man’s immobility is making him most restless.  He wants to be on the move all the time, but now he is asked to stay put wherever he is. The global village concept has become real. Sadly, however, it has become a string of villages conjoined and separated at once. Every city and town has become a closed village bound to its own boundaries. The pristine villages have come back into our lives. Isolation and silence were abhorrent to the modern man. He needed a crowd and a lot of noise to make his world. He thought that was the real world. Today, he has come to see meaning in isolation, and sweetness in silence. The world was too much with us.  We had no time to stand and stare into the distance. We could not  spare a moment to look at the azure skies, the green expanse of a paddy field, the blue waters of the sea and the snowy mountains. Nature never seemed to matter.  Now we realize that nature is all that matters. Civilisation has brought us to this pass. Shouldn’t we go back to nature? The inscrutability and profundity of nature looms large today, as against the littleness of man’s ingenuity and genius. We were very smart when seated in our ivory towers. We had an answer to every question. We were bursting at the seams with our treasury of knowledge and wisdom, until we were shaken by a tiny, invisible virus. The emptiness and nothingness of man is exposed in no uncertain terms in one stroke. Man toyed with the idea of evolution, and deserted God. Spirituality became a thing of the past, something meant for the common man. If at all, it was a social necessity. It was needed for certain rituals for the sake of the community. God was often a means to an end – for a living to the ones who ran the establishment and for social acceptance to its adherents. Religion became a commercial venture with all its veneer of solemnity and piety. The virus has startled the complacency of this lot, all scurrying to lisp a word of prayer to God. They all say, only God can save our country, or this world itself. God is back in the reckoning. Astrologers and quacks, too, have returned to make a killing, incidentally. Speed is what epitomised the new world. Everything was fast-paced. Supersonic jets to high-speed trains to fast cars – all of them gloated over their speed. Speed was all man wanted. Slowness meant lack of growth, inertia. But today, man wants to go slow. He is in no hurry. He has all the time in the world at his disposal, to do nothing. Doctors, nurses and paramedics whom we always criticised are the only ones who brave the onslaught of the virus, risking their own lives. The police on the roads were there to do the tough job of implementing the lockdown. Kudos to all those working tirelessly to keep us safe from the virus! Home, sweet home was seen only in greeting cards and romantic films. Today, we are forced to turn our homes into places where throbbing hearts and warm hearths co-exist silently. The value of home and its relative permanence have come home to roost. Today, we know that in fact there is no place like home. Home is where hearts beat for each other. All else is ephemeral, and are there and then not there. So here we are, bound home, sweet home. (The writer is Director, Little Rock Indian School, Udupi)   The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-glimpse-of-the-world-we-had-left-behind-838261.html
16-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Three more test coronavirus positive in Hassan||Three more fresh positive cases of COVID-19 has been reported from Hassan on Saturday. The total positive cases rose to 19 in Hassan. A man, native of Mandya district tested positive and isolated at a hospital in Bengaluru. All three patients of Hassan have a travel history to Mumbai. The patient isolated at Bengaluru has travelled to Kolar district. All the patients are isolated at a designated hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-more-test-coronavirus-positive-in-hassan-838305.html
16-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Woman tests positive for coronavirus in Davangere||A 65-year-old woman (p-1061) tested positive for COVID-19 in Davangere on Saturday.  She is the secondary contact of a staff nurse (p-533), resident of Baashanagar. With this, the number of positive cases rose to 89. Of it, two recovered, four died and 83 are active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-in-davangere-838316.html
16-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Udupi man dies of cardiac arrest||A man, who was in a quarantine centre at Kundapura after returning from Maharashtra, died of cardiac arrest on Saturday, at KMC, Manipal. According to sources, he was referred to the KMC hospital from Kundapur government hospital for heart related ailment two days ago.  As he was in quarantine centre after returning from Maharashtra, the hospital authorities had made arrangement to treat him in an isolation ward with all precautions.  As he had arrived from Maharashtra, his throat swab was collected and sent for testing. The result is awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-man-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-838318.html
16-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Rs 3,000 honorarium to 40K Asha workers’||District In-charge and Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar launched the programme to distribute Rs 3,000 honorarium to Asha workers in recognition of their efforts in combating Covid-19. The minister issued cheques to 180 workers at a programmes organised to honour the officials and workers for their efforts to contain Covid-19 in Mysuru. Covid-19 cases came to nil from 90 on Friday. The minister said, the Cooperation department took up the responsibility to give a honorarium of Rs 3,000 to each 40,275 Asha workers across the state. “When Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced the scheme, the Cooperative department took up the responsibility. District Cooperative Central banks and Milk Unions have joined hands to provide the honorarium,” he said. Mysuru-Chamarajanagar District Cooperative Central Bank (MCDCCB) president G D Harish Gowda said, The district has a total of 1,800 Asha workers. While MCDCCB provided Rs 47 lakh, Mysuru District Cooperative Milk Producers Societies Union Limited (MYMUL) decided to give Rs 30 lakh.” Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth, Deputy Commissioner of Police A N Prakash Gowda, Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde and District Health Officer Dr R Venkatesh were honoured. The minister handed over copies of the Indian Constitution to the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rs-3000-honorarium-to-40k-asha-workers-838459.html
16-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||1,200 migrant workers leave for Uttar Pradesh from Mysuru||After facing hardships for nearly two months, following the lockdown due to COVID-19, thousands of migrant workers left for their native in Uttar Pradesh from the city in a ‘Shramik Special’ train on Saturday. The train started its journey from Ashokapuram Railway Station in Mysuru to Gorakhpur with 1,200 workers. It was scheduled as per the request by the Karnataka state government. It has 18 sleeper and two general second class compartments. It will reach Gorakhpur at 6 am on May 18. The railways have made it mandatory for all registered passengers to be ferried in Shramik Special to wear face masks. For maintaining personal hygiene, adequate quantity of soap and sanitiser is provided in all the compartments, according to Priya Shetty, Divisional Commercial Manager and Public Relation Officer (PRO). The passengers were guided to the coaches by the railway staff after thermal temperature check, upon arrival at the station. As per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Railways, empty rakes underwent sanitisation, following standard protocols. A total of six Railway Protection Force personnel will escort the train. The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has made arrangements to supply food and water to passengers at the originating point as well as at other stations. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) had made transport arrangements to ferry the migrant workers to Ashokapuram Railways Station from different parts of the district. Though the workers were directed to maintain social distance, they failed to maintain the distance, while moving towards the railway station after alighting the bus. All workers were seen moving in groups, without bothering about the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/1200-migrant-workers-leave-for-uttar-pradesh-from-mysuru-838461.html
16-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘District is ready to tackle COVID-19 cases’||District In-charge Minister C T Ravi said that the district administration was ready to tackle any COVID-19 cases reported in the district. He was speaking after distributing grocery kits to assistant cooks and staff at a programme organised by Malabar Gold and Diamonds. "Chikkamagaluru is identified as green zone with no positive cases. However, one should be cautious. The district may report positive cases in the future. People should not come out of houses unnecessarily. Pregnant women, senior citizens, children and those who are suffering from health complications should remain at home. Wearing mask is mandatory in public places." Malabar Gold and Diamonds Chikkamagaluru showroom Manager Dayanand said that Malabar Gold and Diamonds had given Rs 1 crore to Chief Minister's Relief Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/district-is-ready-to-tackle-covid-19-cases-838496.html
16-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||C T Ravi interacts with stranded Kannadigas in Australia||District In-charge Minister C T Ravi said that stranded Kannadigas in Australia would be brought back through special flight. Interacting with stranded Kannadigas in Australia through Skype on Saturday, he said the issues of Kannadigas would be brought to the notice of state and Central governments. More than 1,500 Kannadigas have expressed their wish to return to their native places from Australia. Stranded Kannadigas said that the Indian Embassy in Australia was catering to the needs of the Indians. Kannada Sangha has been joining hands with the Embassy in various activities. The minister said that the post of vice chairman of NRI Forum was lying vacant, which will be brought to the notice of CM. Ravi said artistes from Karnataka should be invited for cultural programmes in Australia. Kannadigas have a responsibility to create a brand for Karnataka in Australia. Kannada and Culture department and Kannada Book Authority will supply old Kannada books for libraries in foreign countries.  The issue of extending the education loan repayment period will be brought to the notice of the government. Further, he said that the COVID-19 had cast a shadow on tourism sector. Measures will be taken to attract tourists in a phased manner in future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/c-t-ravi-interacts-with-stranded-kannadigas-in-australia-838497.html
16-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Debt-ridden farmer ends life at Kattariguppe||A farmer allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison due to debts at Kattariguppe in Kasaba hobli in the taluk on Saturday. Ramappa (55), the deceased, had borrowed Rs five lakh from Dibbur Grameen Bank, besides loans from private persons, said the police. He could not sell gladiolus flowers grown in three acres due to lockdown and subsequent restrictions. He was worried about repayment of loans, Narayanamma, the wife of the deceased, stated in a complaint. He was rushed to the district hospital soon after he consumed poison at his house. However, he failed to respond to the treatment and died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/debt-ridden-farmer-ends-life-at-kattariguppe-838413.html
16-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||State to test 10,000 samples daily by month end: Dr K Sudhakar||Minister of Medical Education Dr K Sudhakar on Saturday said that the government planned to set up 60 laboratories by May end to test 10,000 samples per day in the fight against COVID-19. He was speaking after launching two TrueNat machines at the district hospital to test COVID-19. At present, there are 40 laboratories across the state for testing purposes. “Chikkaballapur is the city with the highest tests per million population in the state. The new laboratory will enable us to detect and treat infected persons at the primary level. This is a significant step in Karnataka’s fight against novel coronavirus considering that state had just two laboratories in the beginning of February and had capability of testing a few hundreds,” he said. Sudhakar said,” We have greater strength in this fight against COVID-19. Increase in laboratories will help in the early diagnosis of COVID-19 cases. This will reduce the mortality rate and increase the number of recovered cases.” From the beginning, Karnataka followed 4T Strategy (testing, tracking, tracing and treatment) to effectively contain the COVID-19. The increase in number of laboratories and testing capacity was the part of that strategy for conducting large numbers of tests to help early detection and take precautions or treatment as necessary, he said. “We need to learn to live with the COVID-19 and fight against it as the World Health Organisation has stated that there seems to be no end from novel coronavirus in near future. The COVID-19 crisis has hit the world and the country’s economy hard. The lockdown phase-4 will be different as relaxations are inevitable,” he said. Deputy commissioner R Latha, Zilla Panchayat president M B Chikkanarasimhaiah, ZP Chief Executive Officer Fouzia B Taranum and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/state-to-test-10000-samples-daily-by-month-end-dr-k-sudhakar-838420.html
16-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Jalappa hospital refuses to treat COVID-19 patients||The district administration has decided to relocate COVID-19 patients from R L Jalappa Hospital and Research Centre (RLJHRC) to the SNR district hospital after the RLJHRC management refused to continue the treatment. The management has orally requested the district administration to relocate the patients as the number of patients suffering from other disease visiting the hospital has reduced due to the fear of the spread of the virus. Even doctors are also refusing to treat the novel coronavirus infected patients “The RLJHRC management has orally requested the district administration to relocate the patients from its hospital. We have directed the board of the management to submit the request in writing,” deputy commissioner C Satyabhama said. The management of RLJHRC and  Sambhram Institute of Medical Sciences & Research, in KGF had given consent for the treatment of COVID-19 patients to the district administration. It is said that the RLJHRC management is bringing political pressure on the district administration for the relocation of the patients despite the government order directing the managements of private hospitals to cooperate with the government in treating COVID-19 patients. The SNR district hospital is yet to be completely prepared for the treatment. The hospital at present has five beds in the Intensive Care Unit, while the number of COVID-19 patients is six in the district. The number of cases is likely to go up as the reports of throat swabs and blood samples of 220 persons who came in contact with the infected persons are likely to reach the district administration on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/jalappa-hospital-refuses-to-treat-covid-19-patients-838446.html
16-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Reelers protest, silk auction halted||Reelers boycotted the auction in Kolar and at Kyalanur Silk Cocoon Market on Saturday affecting farmers. Efforts of the sericulture department officials and the market authorities to persuade them to participate in the auction failed. The reelers wanted the government to help them as the prices of raw silk reels had dipped. Kolar District Reelers’ Union President Ansar Pasha said that the reelers purchased the silkworm cocoons from farmers for 50 days despite lockdown. The prices of reels had come down in the market. “The Karnataka Silk Marketing Board (KSMB) officials claim to buy 20 kg reels from every reeler a week. However, one reeler generates 100 kg reels. The decision to fix grades to the reels is improper,” he charged. The protesting reelers sought the government to completely buy the reels through the KSMB. The government should announce package to the silk reels, besides buying 50 kg reels and make payment. They threatened to boycott the auction till their demands were fulfilled. “The prices of silkworm cocoons have dipped after the lockdown. The special packages announced by the State and the Central government have ignored the welfare of farmers,” Narayanaswamy, the district sericulture farmers’ association president alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/reelers-protest-silk-auction-halted-838456.html
16-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Truck driver tests positive for coronavirus, was in touch with 200 workers||A 24-year-old truck driver of a pharmaceutical company at Kurandahalli industrial area in Malur tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. He is said to have come in contact with about 200 labourers at the unit. The labourers in the unit have been quarantined after he tested positive. “The driver has been shifted to the SNR district hospital. All workers in the industrial unit have been quarantined,” deputy commissioner C Satyabhama said. He had transported the medicine from his unit to Chennai in Tamil Nadu several times. He suffered from fever on May 15. His blood and throat swabs samples were sent to a laboratory in Bengaluru. The reports suggested that he was suffering from Covid-19. The district administration declared the area around his workplace as containment zone. Movement of people in the zone has been banned. The labourers in other industrial units have been directed not to venture into the containment zone. He hails from Mallur, Shidlaghatta taluk, Chikkaballapur district. He resides at Malur outskirts and reportedly came in contact with his neighbours. Meanwhile, a man from Gandhinagar in Kolar, who tested positive, has been traced in Banashankari area in Bengaluru. He has been shifted to Victoria Hospital. About 20 people from P C Layout, Palasandra Layout, Gandhinagar and Galpet have been kept under home quarantine for having come in contact with him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/truck-driver-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-was-in-touch-with-200-workers-838484.html
16-05-2020||Mysuru||At least 1,200 migrant workers leave for Uttar Pradesh from Mysuru||As many as 1,200 migrant workers left for Uttar Pradesh from Mysuru on Saturday. The government had made transport arrangements for them. The workers, who took a train to reach their native places in Uttar Pradesh, were screened before they left the city.  KSRTC had arranged buses to drop them to the railway station. Nearly 50 busses ferried the workers from parts of the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/at-least-1200-migrant-workers-leave-for-uttar-pradesh-from-mysuru-838299.html
16-05-2020||National||Health centre supervisor kills self over opposition in setting up COVID-19 testing facility||The supervisor of a health centre, which was supposed to be made a COVID-19 testing centre in Jalpaiguri district, died after allegedly consuming pesticide, police said on Friday. It is claimed by those close to the deceased that he was facing opposition from a section of the health centre employees after the district authorities asked him to set up a COVID-19 testing centre. Superintendent of Police Avisek Modi said a suicide note was found from the room of the deceased Debashis Chakraborty who was the supervisor of Ghughudanga Health Centre and a probe has been launched to ascertain the circumstances behind his death. Chakraborty had allegedly consumed pesticide on Thursday and then jumped into a well on the courtyard of his residence. He was taken to a nearby hospital where he died, the SP said. The Indian Medical Association, Jalpaiguri unit, demanded a probe into the death of Chakraborty. Asked about the claims that he was under stress due to opposition by a section of the staff over setting up of the COVID-19 testing centre, IMA (North Bengal) Coordinator Dr Susanto Roy said, "COVID testing centre is for diagnosis of the disease and not for spreading the virus. This must be clear to everyone."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-centre-supervisor-kills-self-over-opposition-in-setting-up-covid-19-testing-facility-838184.html
16-05-2020||National||Allahabad HC grants anticipatory bail to Siddharth Varadarajan||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to The Wire's founding editor Siddharth Varadarajan who was booked for making remarks against Chief Minister Yogi Adityananth. Two FIRs were registered at Kotwali Ayodhya police station against Varadarajan One of the FIRs was registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, IT Act, Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act. Pronouncing the order reserved on May 13,  Justice Chandra Dhari Singh directed the petitioner to immediately surrender his US passport and not to leave the country without permission of the trial court. The court held that anticipatory bail can be granted even after submission of charge sheet and after the judicial magistrate has congnisance. The high court also imposed many other riders before allowing his pleas of anticipatory bail. Senior lawyer IB Singh had submitted that the petitioner was being targeted for ulterior reason by the state government for the factual error which was corrected immediately before lodging of FIRs . He also argued that the maximum punishment against the offences registered against the petitioner stood up to three years and in such cases the Supreme Court has deprecated arrest. Even then Varadarajan was being harassed, Singh said. Opposing the plea, Additional Advocate General V K Sahi argued that the act of the petitioner amounted to disturbing communal harmony . He also strongly submitted that investigation was already complete and charge sheets were filed . Not only this, the chief judicial magistrate, Ayodhya, has taken cognisance of the offences and issued summons against the petitioner and as such at this stage the anticipatory bail plea was not maintainable, Sahi argued.  Considering the pleas of both the sides, the bench said that a person can apprehend arrest at the hands of the magistrate for the purpose of remanding him to custody, "while committing the sessions case to the Court of Session for trial with an accusation of non-bailable offence and this would certainly make that person to be entitled for approaching the court under Section 438 CrPC for obtaining anticipatory bail”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allahabad-hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-siddharth-varadarajan-838187.html
16-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 16, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-16-2020-edition-838206.html
16-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 16||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 89,460 as of May 16. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 2,867 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 23,910 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-16-838207.html
16-05-2020||National||DH Toon: Is it too late now, PM Modi?||The Centre on Thursday said it will provide free foodgrains to about eight crore migrant workers who do not have ration cards and subsequently make the document portable to enable them to buy foodgrains anywhere in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-is-it-too-late-now-pm-modi-838208.html
16-05-2020||National||25 migrant workers killed in road accident in Uttar Pradesh||Twenty five migrant workers, including women, were killed and over two dozen others injured in a collision between two trucks in Uttar Pradesh's Auraiya district, about 200 kilometres from here, in the wee hours on Saturday. According to the police sources here, the injured were admitted to the Saifai PG Medical College Hospital in the neighbouring Etawah district. The death toll could go up as the condition of many of the injured was stated to be ''very critical''. Sources said that the mishap occurred when a speeding truck rammed into another stationary mini truck, which was full of migrant workers on way to Gorakhpur from Rajasthan, from behind. While 23 workers died on the spot, one succumbed to his injuries on way to the hospital, sources added. The migrant workers, who included many women and children, were stated to be the residents of Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. Sources said that the local villagers were the first to reach the accident site and rescue the injured. They brought out many injured, who were trapped in the mangled debris of the truck, sources said. Senior district officials said that ambulances were rushed to the spot immediately to ferry the injured to the hospital.  UP government suspended two SHOs on charges of laxity and ordered a probe. It also announced an ex-gratia relief of rs. two lakh for each of the kin of the deceased. Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav it was a ''mass murder'' and not an accident. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also slammed the UP government for not arranging buses to ferry the migrant workers home. In another mishap, a migrant couple, who worked in Haryana, was killed in a road mishap in Unnao district on Saturday. More than 50 migrant workers had been killed in different road accidents across UP in the past few days. The highways of the state were full of migrants returning home in UP, Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha from different parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-migrant-workers-killed-in-road-accident-in-uttar-pradesh-838226.html
16-05-2020||National||Lessons from the coronavirus lockdown||Lockdown eased, the traffic is back with a bang. So is pollution, much of it triggered by vehicular exhaust. Indeed, the eco-relief has been short-lived but the restrictions offered some serious clues to help Bengaluru get back its once clean and green image. Did anyone care to learn? Beyond mobility, the visibly clear lake waters, the free-flowing Vrushabhavathi river and the storm water drains without their characteristic stink offered clues too. Independent comparative pre- and post-lockdown studies have surfaced with dramatic results. But where are the ones with an official stamp? To illustrate the lockdown’s positive impact on the environment, here’s a look at Whitefield, one of the city’s areas most affected by vehicular pollution. The Air Quality Index (AQI) in the IT hub dropped dramatically from 63 before the lockdown to 23 when vehicles disappeared from the roads. Air Quality indicators But as Ambee, a city-based eco-intelligence startup noted, the AQI began to soar on May 3 when the lockdown restrictions were eased. Within a week, it had hit 77, way beyond even the pre-lockdown AQI. It was clinching proof that hardly any lesson was learnt. Disturbingly, the study showed, it was getting worse. Similar trends from other areas such as Majestic, K R Puram and Sadashivanagar have reinforced the findings. The repeated pleas by mobility experts to stress on sustainability while reopening the roads had obviously fallen on deaf ears. As the succeeding weeks intensify the road congestion, the spectre of a lost opportunity looms large. An oft-ignored contributor to air pollution in the city is garbage-burning. In the near-absence of vehicular emissions during the lockdown, the waste burning came to the fore in many areas. “For instance, a lot of this was recorded from Garvebhavipalya on Hosur Road,” notes Madhusudhan Ambee, the startup cofounder.   Garbage-burning Garbage-burning is a big issue in Whitefield as well. The deadly mix of vehicular exhaust, poor traffic control, the Metro construction and garbage has kept the AQI high in the area. “In Sadashivanagar too, the AQI has gone up due to the rampant burning of waste inside Palace Grounds,” Ambee informs. This calls for a huge policy intervention, he notes. At least 50% of the violators should be heavily penalized. The regular defaulters who burn waste dumps on the roadside should be identified and made to pay. “Residents Welfare Association heads could be trained to help operationalise this.” Mobility policies From a city-wide perspective, the lockdown gave clear indications on how to reconfigure mobility policies. Since an estimated 80% of the private, personal traffic and cabs are contributed by office-goers, many experts suggest a long-term switch to sustainable Work from Home (WFH) options. Many corporate offices outsource commute to private operators, who run diesel vehicles. Emission norms should be tightened to rein in these players. Penalties should increase. But what about the vast majority of factory workers who cannot afford even a two-wheeler and end up depending on the city’s outstretched public transport? COVID-19 pandemic precautions mandate social-distancing, and this implies buses without crowds. But with only 6,300 buses, can the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) afford to decongest its vehicles? To avoid crowds and yet cater to the teeming thousands dependent only on public transport, innovations in strategy are critical. For years, mobility experts and the Bus Prayanikara Vedike have been demanding an enhancement of the fleet. The Corporation has often attributed the shortage to revenue crunch. Cashless, contact-less Nevertheless, BMTC has now decided to opt for cashless transactions post-lockdown. Its new standard operating protocol implies contactless, cashless tickets, where passengers could pay by e-wallets for single trips. To ensure social-distancing, the Corporation will operate only non-AC buses with only 50% capacity. On the way out are regular tickets and daily passes, to be replaced by weekly and monthly passes. BMTC will make these available at bus stations. Payments for single trips could be made through PayTm and Google Pay with QR codes displayed for scanning on all the buses. Reimagining infrastructure The infrastructure for public transport should be re-imagined with social-distancing in mind, notes urban mobility analyst Sanjeev Dyamannavar. “Foot overbridges and walkways should be wide enough to prevent overcrowding,” he says. Multiple modes of mass transport need to be tightly integrated, with easy access that avoids crowding. The City Railway Metro Station and the KSR Metro Station are now conveniently connected with bridges. But this is not the case with the Yeswanthpura Railway and Metro Stations. Walkability boost Before the lockdown, thousands of people had to walk up and down multiple staircases with heavy luggage. This inevitably would lead to crowding at the entrance and exit points of the two stations once the Metro reopens. Poor coordination between the South Western Railways and Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has left this basic bridge trapped in a bureaucratic web. To cater to the post-lockdown need for social-distancing, Dyamannavar says the Metro should accelerate its pace of work. Thirteen years after work commenced, the Namma Metro has only 42 kms operational so far. “We would not have been in this situation if they had opened even a few stretches under the second phase.” Bus priority lane The lockdown also offered an opportunity to take a relook at the Bus Priority Lane, started as a pilot on the Outer Ring Road. “The bottlenecks should be sorted out. They can learn lessons from the Hubli-Dharwad Hubli-Dharwad BRTS corridor project with 200 buses. There is no overcrowding there,” points out Dyamannavar. Beyond public transport, walking and cycling remain the most sustainable modes to get around short distances. The lockdown made the roads look eminently walkable and cycling. However, once the vehicles are back, pedestrians are forced to rely on the footpaths that are anything but walkable. Is it not time for a massive upgrade?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lessons-from-the-coronavirus-lockdown-838230.html
16-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: COVID-19 and fake news, is there any hope?||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation in India. In this episode, DH Journalist Akash Sriram speaks to Pratik Sinha, founder of fact-checking website AltNews about fake news, misinformation, disinformation and how these are dangerous in a pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-covid-19-and-fake-news-is-there-any-hope-838248.html
16-05-2020||National||Death toll due to COVID-19 rises to 2,752; cases climb to 85,940: Health Ministry||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,752 and the number of cases climbed to 85,940 on Saturday, registering an increase of 103 deaths and 3,970 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active cases stood at 53,035, while 30,152 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said. "Thus, around 35.08 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. The total confirmed cases include foreign nationals too. Of the 103 deaths reported since Friday morning, 49 were in Maharashtra, 20 in Gujarat, 10 in West Bengal, eight in Delhi, seven in Uttar Pradesh, five in Tamil Nadu, two in Madhya Pradesh, one each in Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh. Of the 2,752 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 1,068 deaths, Gujarat comes second with 606 deaths, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 239, West Bengal at 225, Rajasthan at 125, Delhi at 123, Uttar Pradesh at 95, Tamil Nadu at 71 and Andhra Pradesh at 48. The death toll reached 36 in Karnataka, 34 in Telangana and 32 in Punjab, the ministry said.  Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir have reported 11 fatalities each due to the disease, while Bihar has registered seven and Kerala has reported four deaths. Jharkhand, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Odisha have recorded three COVID-19 fatalities each, while Assam has reported two deaths. Meghalaya, Uttarakhand and Puducherry have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data. More than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities (existence of multiple disorders), the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-rises-to-2752-cases-climb-to-85940-health-ministry-838249.html
16-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: India's COVID-19 infections surpass China's, but contagion slowing||State leaders, businesses and working-class Indians have called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reopen the battered economy, but the government is expected to extend the lockdown, which would otherwise expire on Sunday, though with fewer restrictions.  So far the death rate in India appears far better, according to health ministry data, with 2,752 fatalities reported, compared with China's 4,600. The toll in the United States, United Kingdom and Italy is much higher. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan was also encouraged by the slowing rate of infection, as it now takes 11 days for the number of cases to double, whereas before the lockdown cases were doubling every 3.5 days. "Clearly the situation has improved due to lockdown. We have utilised this period of lockdown to accelerate public health measures such as case detection, contact tracing, isolation and management of cases," Vardhan said. Indian officials say the low death rate could be because a majority of people infected with the virus were either asymtomatic or had mild symptoms and that the vast shutdown imposed early on had helped avoid a major catastrophe. A third of the infections are from the western state of Maharashtra, with Mumbai the worst hit, followed by Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi. These are also the most important economic centres of the country, complicating the government's task as it tries to re-open without triggering a big spurt in infections.  "India is still in the growth phase, since total cases are still rising. Active cases are growing at 3.8% (daily) - and this needs to fall to 0% and decline subsequently for the country to recover overall," Shamika Ravi, a Brookings expert and former member of the Indian Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Council, said. One area of concern has been India's low testing in relation to its large population, public health officials say. The country has ramped up testing since the beginning of April to 100,000 this week, but with 1.3 billion people on a per capita basis it is trailing far behind other major countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom and Italy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-indias-covid-19-infections-surpass-chinas-but-contagion-slowing-838256.html
16-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Migrants prefer trucks, tempos to return home||Even as special Shramik trains and buses are being run by the government to ferry stranded migrant labourers from Maharashtra and other states, most of them still prefer to travel in vehicles like trucks and tempos to return home, flouting the social distancing norms. The migrants find trucks and tempos convenient, mostly because they drop them close to their home in their respective states, unlike the buses which carry them only till the state border, while the trains ferry them to their home state, from where they have to arrange for vehicles to reach their places.  Small tempos carry around 20 persons, while the medium-sized ones can accommodate 25 to 40 people. Small trucks can carry 40 to 60 people, while the larger ones are found carrying up to 100 or even more, with several of them sitting atop. Sources said that the truckers charge anywhere in the range of Rs 1,500 to Rs 4,500 per person for the journey to Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand depending upon the distance to their native places from Mumbai and adjoining places. Talking to PTI, several migrant labourers said that vehicle operators charge Rs 1,500-2,000 for MP, Rs 3,000-3,500 for UP and Rs 3,000-4,500 for Bihar. The migrants said that they prefer trucks and tempos to go back to their native places as the trucks drop them close to their villages, while buses drop them only till the state border, from where they have to find another mode of transport to reach home. Several of them said that they were forced to undertake a journey in vehicles like trucks, as their efforts in seeking permission for Shramik special trains did not get any response. Umesh Kumar Maurya, a worker from a sweet shop in Kalyan, who was heading to Lucknow, said, "For the train journey, I had first applied online and later on visited local police station in Kalyan three times. However, I did not get any response and hence decided to take road journey." After the Centre extended the lockdown, especially for the second time, a large number of migrants started returning home by whatever mode of transport available to them. A large number of them even started their journey back home on foot. According to the residents of villages located along the highways, until last week a large number of migrants could be seen walking in groups with their meagre belongings on their head and back. However, slowly the number of them going on foot started dwindling as most of them are now hiring trucks and tempos. Mumbai, which is one of the biggest COVID-19 hotspots in the country with over 17,500 cases so far, houses lakhs of migrants. During a surprise visit on Thursday evening, Maharashtra Transport Commissioner Shekhar Channe checked a few trucks and tempos on the Mumbai-Agra Highway. During the inspection at Bhiwandi Phata, he found over 55 migrants crammed inside a truck. He directed the RTO officials to impound the UP-registered truck that was without any number plate, and take necessary action against the operator. He also asked the authorities to arrange for free buses for the migrants found inside the truck.  Apart from Shramik special trains being run for the labourers from different cities in Maharashtra, including Mumbai, the state government has arranged free buses to drop them till the state border. Around 22 migrants are carried in each bus. According to the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), it has ferried over 1.34 lakh passengers in 10,000 buses till Friday. Channe said, "RTO officials have been asked to take action against the trucks and tempos illegally carrying migrants. They have also been asked to arrange free buses for the people found travelling in such vehicles." According to RTO officials, before travelling in trucks and tempos, the migrants do not apply for e-passes, issued for intra-state and inter-state travel. Even the truck operators do not have any permission to ferry them, and hence the entire exercise is illegal. Sources said that the trucks returning to UP, Bihar, MP and Jharkhand prefer to ferry the migrants instead of running empty and some agents do the booking for the labourers. From the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the truck operators pick up the migrants from Majiwade in Thane, Ghodbandar, Mira Bhayander, and many other locations on Mumbai-Agra highway, apart from Anjur phata and Bhiwandi phata. Small tempos charging Rs 100-500 per person drop the migrants outside Mumbai, from where trucks and tempos pick up these migrants. Many of them even to walk from Mumbai to these pick-up points. Sources said that most of the times, the authorities, turn a blind eye towards the trucks and tempos ferrying labourers illegally without following any social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-migrants-prefer-trucks-tempos-to-return-home-838262.html
16-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Three more test positive in Goa; tally rises to 11||At least three out of seven men, who had travelled to Gangapur in Kolkata to deliver barges and arrived in Goa on Friday, have contracted the infection, state Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said.  "Swab samples of the three patients have been sent for a confirmatory test at Goa Medical College and Hospital, while the remaining four are under institutional quarantine," he said. With the detection of fresh cases, Goa's COVID-19 count has risen to 11, he added. A group of seven locals from Vasco city in South Goa had travelled to Kolkata on April 21 to deliver barges at Gangapur, which is a green zone, Rane said. "The group arrived in Goa on Friday morning via Mollem check post (South Goa) and were immediately taken for testing, following which three of them were found positive," he said. Goa, which was earlier declared a green zone, has reported 11 positive cases since May 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-three-more-test-positive-in-goa-tally-rises-to-11-838265.html
16-05-2020||National||Delhi Police debunk BJP MP’s fake video||West Delhi MP Parvesh Verma, who raised hackles during Delhi Assembly elections by tweeting that anti-CAA supporters would enter homes and rape women, is at it again! This time, he has tweeted an old video of Muslims offering namaz in large numbers to claim that they were violating social distancing norm only to be called out by Delhi Police on Friday, which said he was using an old video with “malicious intent to spread rumour”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-debunk-bjp-mp-s-fake-video-838279.html
16-05-2020||National||Over 5.8 lakh surgeries in India may be cancelled due to coronavirus||More than 5,80,000 planned surgeries in India might be cancelled or delayed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to a study conducted by an international consortium. The study, published in the British Journal of Surgery, has projected that, based on a 12-week period of peak disruption to hospital services due to COVID-19, around 28.4 million elective surgeries worldwide will be cancelled or postponed in 2020. This will lead to patients facing a lengthy wait for their health issues to be resolved, according to the research conducted by the CovidSurg Collaborative, a research network of over 5,000 surgeons from 120 countries. The study was led by members based in the UK, Benin, Ghana, India, Italy, Mexico, Nigeria, Rwanda, Spain, South Africa and the US. The modelling study indicates that each additional week of disruption to hospital services will be associated with a further 2.4 million cancellations. The researchers, including those from the University of Birmingham in the UK, collected detailed information from surgeons across 359 hospitals and 71 countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-58-lakh-surgeries-in-india-may-be-cancelled-due-to-coronavirus-838285.html
16-05-2020||National||The father on the bridge and the son he wanted to see||PTI's photograph of a man on the phone, his face twisted in grief, was circulated widely on social and news media and resulted in help being provided to him to reach his home in Bihar. PTI photographer Atul Yadav recounts his meeting with Rampukar Pandit on a Delhi roadside and the powerful image that captured the tragedy of migrants across India: He was talking on the phone and sobbing uncontrollably on the Nizamuddin Bridge. And I just couldn’t drive on.  In the last few weeks, I have come across and photographed so many migrants, one more helpless than the other, and honestly I didn’t expect to feel surprised at the sight of a grown man crying. But I was.  Inured as we are, his naked grief shook me. It felt personal enough for me to not simply click a picture and move on. I just had to know what was bothering him. His son was unwell and might die, and he just wanted to go back home, the desperate father told me. I asked him where, and the 40-something man just managed to say “udhar” (there) in between sobs, pointing at the expanse of the road stretching across the Yamuna and meandering towards Delhi’s border some miles away.  It was only much later that I realised home was Bariarpur in Begusarai in Bihar, almost 1,200 km away. He said he worked as a labourer in Najafgarh and, in the absence of any public transport, had started walking home like thousands of other migrants across the country. His journey abruptly came to a halt after the police at the bridge refused to let him go further.  The man, broken and defeated, had been stuck at the Nizamuddin Bridge for three days.  I offered him biscuits and some water and tried to reassure him. But can any consolation be ever enough for a father scared he won't see his son ever again?  I desperately wanted to put this man out of his misery and reached out to police personnel in the vicinity requesting them to let him cross the border.  They were reluctant, but since the request came from a media person they said they would ensure he reaches home.   I reached home soon after, and realised I never did ask him his name or his phone number. I wanted to know if he managed to reach home, if he saw his son, if the child was well.  I didn’t have to wait much.  That was a Monday, 5.15 pm.  PTI put out the photograph I had taken and it was distributed widely across all media, the anguished father’s grief touching a chord in so many people.  Once his photograph that I clicked started doing the rounds, several newspapers followed up on his story.  And then I learnt. His name was Rampukar Pandit and his son lost the battle of life. It broke my heart.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-father-on-the-bridge-and-the-son-he-wanted-to-see-838323.html
16-05-2020||National||AIIMS Bhopal claims good results in drug trial in coronavirus treatment||The government-run All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bhopal has been conducting drug trials for the treatment of COVID-19, which have yielded some good results, a senior official claimed on Saturday. The trials of the drug Mycobacterium W (Mw) were conducted on COVID-19 patients at AIIMS Bhopal for the last few days, the official said. "So far, three COVID-19 patients have recovered after the clinical trial of Mycobacterium W (Mw) at AIIMS," director of the institute Dr Sarman Singh told PTI. The trials were being run for the last few days and the results were good, as out of four patients enrolled for the trial, three had fully recovered and discharged, he said. Singh also informed that soon Favipiravir, a drug used in Japan, will also be used for COVID-19 treatment here. If Mycobacterium W proves effective during the clinical trial, it will be used in the treatment of COVID-19, he said. Mycobacterium W was used in the treatment of leprosy and recently, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has tied up with Cadila Pharmaceuticals Ltd to evaluate the effect of this medicine for faster recovery of hospitalised COVID-19 patients, Singh said. Drug Controller of India has granted permission to conduct tests on critically ill COVID-19 patients at three major hospitals in the country including AIIMS Bhopal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-bhopal-claims-good-results-in-drug-trial-in-coronavirus-treatment-838324.html
16-05-2020||National||Action against four cops for seeking bribe from chemist in Maharashtra||Two policemen were suspended and two others transferred after they allegedly forcibly took away money from a medical shop owner and also demanded bribe from him at Navghar in Thane district, an official said on Saturday. The accused policemen questioned the medical shop owner why he was selling energy drinks when he was supposed to sell only medicines during the lockdown, the official said. The incident took place on May 6, he added. "After the four policemen went to the shop, they found some energy drink bottles kept on sale there. Objecting to it, they took away around Rs 18,300 from the shop and demanded Rs 1 lakh from the owner for not filing a case against him and his shop," the official said. "Police constables Kiran Ghughe and Amol Raul have been placed under suspension. Two others have been transferred to the control room from Navghar police station," he added. In neighbouring Palghar district, a policeman, accused of making some fishermen do sit-up for carrying fishing activities, was transferred. A video of the purported incident had gone viral on social media. "ASI Dyaneshwar Sawant, who was found involved in the incident, has been transferred out of Satpati police station based on a complaint by the fishermen and their unions," an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/action-against-four-cops-for-seeking-bribe-from-chemist-in-maharashtra-838327.html
16-05-2020||National||Low pressure over Bay of Bengal intensifies into depression: MeT||The well-marked low pressure area over southeast Bay of Bengal intensified into a depression on Saturday morning, laying centred around 1,100 km south of Paradip in Odisha, the MeT department said. The system, which is around 1,250 km south of Digha in West Bengal and 1,330 km south-southwest of Khepupara in Bangladesh, is likely to intensify rapidly into a cyclonic storm by Saturday evening and then into a severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours, Bhubaneswar Meteorological Centre Director H R Biswas said. Thereafter, it is likely to move north-northwestwards initially till May 17 and then re-curve north-northeastwards across northwest Bay of Bengal towards West Bengal coast between May 18 and 20, he said. Under its impact, coastal Odisha is likely to experience light to moderate rainfall with heavy rain in isolated places in the evening of May 18 and heavy to very heavy rain at a few places on May 19, Biswas said. He said isolated heavy rainfall is likely to occur over northern Odisha coast on May 20. Coastal districts of Gangetic West Bengal are likely to experience light to moderate rainfall with heavy rain at a few places on May 19 and heavy to very heavy rain in some parts of the region on May 20, Biswas said. Fishermen have been advised against venturing into deep seas due to very rough sea condition, he said. The Odisha government has geared up to deal with a possible calamity in the midst of its fight against COVID-19, a senior official said. In view of the IMD forecast, the state government has placed 12 coastal districts on alert and asked the collectors to arrange for alternative shelter for the people there, he said. Though the IMD is yet to give an exact forecast about the landfall of the cyclone, the administration has braced for the impending situation and accordingly, focused on the northern coastal districts of Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore, Special Relief Commissioner (SRC), P K Jena said. He said plans have been made for pre-positioning of the ODRAF, NDRF and fire service personnel if the situation arises. They will rescue people likely to be affected by the probable calamity and clear roads if they get blocked. The situation will be managed properly as Odisha has a vast experience in dealing with such situations in the past, Jena said. "We are well prepared to deal with any situation. However, the district administrations will have the double task to manage COVID-19 outbreak along with the possible cyclone," he said. As most of the cyclone and flood shelters and schools are now being used as temporary medical centres to quarantine returnees from different states, the collectors will keep ready other concrete buildings in their jurisdiction for housing people in their areas likely to be affected by the cyclone, the SRC said. The district collectors have been told to ensure that temporary medical centres located within three km from the sea be shifted if required, he said. "We have spoken to the collectors of the northern districts through video conference and apprised them of the situation. They were directed to keep the machinery ready for the impending situation," Jena said. "If required, evacuation of people will be undertaken in view of the situation," he said. To a query, the SRC said the collectors were told to conduct screening and tests of those lodged in the temporary medical centres in the coastal districts and allow the people testing negative for COVID-19 to be home quarantined. Jena said all line departments have been alerted. While the housing and urban development and panchayati raj departments have been told to ensure supply of drinking water, the energy department has been asked to be prepared for resuming power supply quickly if there is any damage due to the possible cyclone. The health department has also been asked to be ready, he said. The IMD has forecast squally winds with speed reaching 45 to 55 kmph and gusting to 65 kmph along and off Odisha coast from May 19 morning and along and off West Bengal coast from May 19 afternoon. The wind speed will gradually increase to 65-75 kmph from May 20 morning along and off north Odisha and West Bengal coast. It will gradually increase thereafter, it said. Squally winds gusting to 65 kmph are likely over the Andaman Sea during the next 48 hours. Winds gusting to 65 kmph are prevailing over southeast and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal. The wind speed is likely to increase to 110 kmph over east-central and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal by the morning of May 17, it said. The gusts are likely to increase to 145 kmph over southern parts of central Bay of Bengal by the morning of May 18 and to 180 kmph over northern parts of the central Bay of Bengal and adjoining north Bay of Bengal on May 19, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/low-pressure-over-bay-of-bengal-intensifies-into-depression-met-838328.html
16-05-2020||National||Stop acting like money lender, give cash rather than credit: Rahul Gandhi to Centre||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the Centre should stop acting like a "money lender" for its children by giving them credit instead of cash, and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reconsider the COVID-19 economic stimulus package. Interacting with journalists of regional media via video conferencing, he said he was trying to put pressure on the government for generating demand by putting money into the accounts of the poor and vulnerable sections of society. Gandhi said a 'storm' was brewing on the economic front that will cause damage and hurt many. "The storm has not come yet, it is coming and will cause big economic damage and hurt many," he said. The Congress leader asserted that if demand is not generated, the country will suffer a bigger loss economically than from the novel coronavirus. He also said that it is important to lift the lockdown intelligently without sacrificing the old and vulnerable population to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stop-acting-like-money-lender-give-cash-rather-than-credit-rahul-gandhi-to-centre-838329.html
16-05-2020||National||CSIR-CMERI scientists develop disinfectant sprayer units||Scientists at CSIR-CMERI in Durgapur have developed two sprayer units to disinfect indoor areas. The units can be used for the effective cleaning and disinfecting pathogenic micro-organism present in hospital wards, hospital beds, surfaces, rooms, halls and building corridors, a spokesperson of the institute said on Saturday. The two units -- Battery Powered Disinfectant Sprayer (BPDS) and Pneumatically Operated Mobile Indoor Disinfection Unit (POMID) -- are designed with two-stage spraying and separate storage tanks. Most of the disinfectant sprayers available in the market are based either on cleaning or disinfecting using single chamber storage but CSIR-CMERI developed sprayer systems consisting of dual-chamber storage, its director Harish Hirani said. The technology will have relevance even beyond the COVID-19 crisis, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csir-cmeri-scientists-develop-disinfectant-sprayer-units-838331.html
16-05-2020||National||COVID-19: OCI card holders vent frustration about travel restrictions imposed by Indian government||Indian-Americans holding OCI cards, mostly their parents, have voiced frustration over the Indian government's recent decision to temporarily put in abeyance their long term visa amidst the coronavirus-linked global travel restrictions. The OCI (Overseas Citizens of India) card is issued to the people of Indian-origin, allowing them a visa-free travel in most of the cases. It also gives them certain privileges like that of an Indian citizen except for buying agricultural land, voting, running for election and working in government. Of all the countries, the Indian diplomatic missions in the US issues the largest number of OCI cards. For instance, in 2019, Indian diplomatic missions in the US issued 90,000 OCI cards. Globally there are six million OCI card holders. According to the regulations issued by the Indian government last month and updated last week, visas of foreign nationals and OCI cards, which provide visa-free travel privileges to people of Indian origin, have been suspended as part of the new international travel restrictions following the COVID-19 pandemic. In many cases of minors with OCI cards in particular, it's created a difficult situation for their parents who are still Indian citizens. “Please allow infants (with OCI cards) to travel with their parents (Indians) to India from the USA. Indian parents' visas in the USA are going to expire, but due to the kid's USA citizenship with OCI card, we are not able to utilise flights scheduled by the government of India. Kindly allow minors to travel,” Fazale Sattar wrote on Twitter. Anitha Vankayala said that her daughter with an OCI card is waiting to return home. “We never thought this kind of discrimination from government because of our OCI status. Please help us to get back our daughter (sic),” she said. "Modiji, this is definitely not what we looked at when we came back to your call of Reversal of brain drain.. We loved your spirits and came back 9 yrs ago.. Please treat OCIs with aadhaar card same as Indians (sic),” T R Sreelakshmi tweeted. “Many OCI holders, all over the world are having a tough time. Forced to close their restaurants & other business. Economic loss is huge,” wrote a user with the handle Constant Gardner. “Please help our kids who are OCI card holders and stranded as students in the UK, US,” tweeted Madhavi Srihari.  “For no fault of mine I am stuck outside the country separated from my family for two months now- is there any sense in this madness? What exactly will you achieve by banning OCI card holders from entering India? Absolutely barn door ridiculous,” said Binayak Chanda on Twitter. Preethi Gorjala sought help for her son. “Please Help. My son, an OCI card holder who grew up in India and presently studying in the US is stranded and not able to get back home due to the ban. Please allow OCI card holders also to get back home,” she pleaded. Ravi Puvvala said that he is an OCI card holder and currently stuck in Paris on the employment front and waiting to travel India in priority. “I am desperate to join my family (newborn) in India, They are struggling back home in India without me in this pandemic situation,” he said. However, Indian American activist Sunanda Vashisht defended the Indian government. “OCI card holders are not Indian citizens. They are of Indian origin and OCI is a long term visa. GOI is rightly prioritising Indian citizens. If there are few urgent cases, embassies can look into that but OCI card holders en masse cannot and must not be included in evacuations,” she said on Twitter. “Sir we are residents of India with Indian passports please help us get back our stranded son in America who holds an OCI card,” pleaded Srithi Reddy. Simpi argued on Twitter that OCI is permanent residency. “No country has betrayed its permanent resident.. not even Indians who have Permanent residency of the USA (Green Card). We are only being made fools by our own Indian govt,” she said. Balakrishnan Shanmugam said that current restrictions for OCI card holders to travel to India is impacting parents whose children are OCI card holders. Mahendran Mahesh wrote on Twitter that his wife and six-month-old baby are stuck in Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-oci-card-holders-vent-frustration-about-travel-restrictions-imposed-by-indian-government-838334.html
16-05-2020||National||Hotels and restaurants seek relaxation||In the event of a Lockdown 4.0, the Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) appealed to the Government for relaxation for the hospitality sector at least in the Green and Orange Zones.  To mitigate hardships faced by the sector, the apex hospitality association has proposed that hotels and restaurants in the Green zones be allowed to operate to 100 per cent and in the Orange zones to 50 per cent capacities. Also since the lockdown has been eased out in several regions, the FHRAI anticipates the need for accommodation and food for those serving during this period. The Indian hospitality sector is one of the worst hit by the lockdown and is looking for any reasonable means to keep the industry alive. "Even today, containing the spread of the virus remains the country’s first priority. But we also have to take into account that the hospitality and tourism industry employs roughly over 43 million people. These people are relying on hotels and restaurants resuming operations for their survival. Every lockdown extension is making it more and more difficult for establishments to keep people employed as well as to sustain. Since the Government is relaxing operations for several industries to keep the wheels of economy moving, we are hoping that it allows our industry some relaxation too,” says Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, Vice President, FHRAI. The Hospitality and Tourism sector accounts for 12.75 per cent of employment, 5.56 per cent of it are direct and 7.19 per cent indirect. The Indian Hospitality and Tourism industry is staring at a potential job loss of around 38 million, which is 70 per cent of the total workforce, due to COVID-19. “According to the WTTC, as many as 75 million travel and tourism jobs are at risk worldwide, one in eight of them in India. We are surprised and also concerned that a sector which contributes nearly 10 per cent to the country's GDP and which provides employment to millions is not being spoken about. Till date neither any minister nor any department has made any comments on what plans they have for our industry. We want to know if the Government has any plan at all with any kind of stimulus for the industry or not. We pray that the Hon FM keeps the hospitality sector in mind in the next tranche of economic measures to be announced. We look forward to resuming operations and adhering to all the safety measures and follow the compliances strictly. We stand united with the Government for eradicating the virus and together we will show the way to the world in achieving this,” added Kohli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hotels-and-restaurants-seek-relaxation-838335.html
16-05-2020||National||Why govt not facilitating migrant labourers' journey?: Priyanka Gandhi on Auraiya accident||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday hit out at the government over the accident in Uttar Pradesh's Auraiya in which 24 migrant labourers were killed, saying it has again raised the question as to why the government is not facilitating the migrant labourers' journey to their home. At least 24 migrant labourers lost their lives and 36 people sustained injuries when a trailer truck carrying them collided with another truck in the early hours of Saturday in Auraiya district of Uttar Pradesh, police said. "Auraiya's heart-rending incident has once again raised the question that why is the government not making proper arrangements for the migrant labourers to go home? Why are buses not being run in the states to take labourers home?" Gandhi said in a tweet. Either the government is unable to see anything or it is seeing everything and is acting as if it does not know, the Congress general secretary in-charge of UP East said. Is the government's job only to make statements, she asked. "The dead bodies of all the deceased should be respectfully handed over to their family members. All the injured must get proper treatment," Gandhi said. All of them should be given financial support, she added. Earlier, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi expressed his deepest condolences to the families of the migrant labourers killed in the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-govt-not-facilitating-migrant-labourers-journey-priyanka-gandhi-on-auraiya-accident-838347.html
16-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: PIL in Delhi HC for bringing back 56 pregnant nurses stranded in Saudi Arabia||United Nurses Association has approached the Delhi High Court for a direction to the Union government to bring back 56 members who were pregnant and stranded in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. On May 7, 2020, India started 'Vande Bharat Mission', believed to be the biggest repatriation mission in the country's history, to bring home citizens stranded abroad amid the coronavirus pandemic. In a PIL, the organisation through its advocate Subhash Chandran K R contended 55 members in Saudi Arabia and one in Kuwait need immediate medical and psycho-socio support. "All of them are health care workers, who are frontline of Covid-19 outbreak response and as such were exposed to hazards that put them at risk of infection. Hazards include pathogen exposure, long working hours, psychological distress, fatigue, occupational burnout, stigma, and physical and psychological violence etc," it said.  The petitioner further said most of the nurses were in the third trimester of pregnancy and as per the airline policy, a pregnant woman cannot travel after 36 weeks of pregnancy. All of them are staying alone in Saudi Arabia as the country did not provide the family status visa to these staff nurses. The matter is likely to come up for consideration before the court on Monday, May 18. On May 12, 2020, the Embassy of India, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia announced the second phase of 'Vande Bharat Mission' whereby six flights will be operating in between May 19 and May 23. The petitioner asked the court to ensure strict implementation of the Standard Operating Protocol for movement of Indian Nationals stranded outside the country issued on May 5, saying 56 pregnant healthcare workers must be given the highest priority as all of them are in serious distress and need immediate medical and socio-psycho support.  As per the announcements on phased repatriation mission from May 7 to 13,  64 flights were operated bringing back approximately 14,800 citizens from 12 countries including UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Philippines, Singapore, UK, Bangladesh, Singapore, USA and Oman etc. But the members of the petitioner organisation could not be accommodated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-pil-in-delhi-hc-for-bringing-back-56-pregnant-nurses-stranded-in-saudi-arabia-838348.html
16-05-2020||National||Banks adopting different procedures while releasing pensions: Centre||Banks are adopting different procedures while releasing pension or seeking certificates from pensioners at different periodicity, the Personnel Ministry has said. The ministry has issued consolidated guidelines to the chairman and managing directors (CMDs) of the pension disbursing banks to create awareness among Central Pension Processing Centre (CPPC)/ bank branches on updated rules and instructions in this regard. The move comes after an analysis of the grievances received by the Department of Pension and Pensioners' Welfare under the Personnel Ministry. "It has been observed that updated and consolidated instructions will help improve the processing of pensioner's requests by banks and others," the department said in an order issued on Friday. Hence, an attempt has been made herein, to consolidate relevant instructions issued by the Department of Pension and Pensioners' Welfare from time to time with regard to disbursement of pension, it said. "These banks are adopting different procedures, while releasing pension/ family pension or seeking declarations/certificates from pensioners/family pensioners at different periodicity," the department said while issuing the consolidated guidelines. There are 65.26 lakh central government pensioners. These integrated guidelines are on different matters, including the banks insisting spouses to open separate bank accounts for getting family pension, submissions of life certificate and disability certificate and on requirement of family pensioner to submit 'form 14' on death of a pensioner, among others. All banks have been advised to comply with these consolidated guidelines and to give wide publicity by putting up these instructions on their websites and also on the notice boards of the branches of the bank, etc. "On death of a pensioner, the spouse is not required to submit form 14, if he/she was having a joint account with the pensioner and authorisation for payment of family pension exists in the Pension Payment Order (PPO) in his/her favour,” the guidelines said. "In such cases, a spouse will be required to provide only a copy of the death certificate to the pension paying branch in order to commence his/her family pension," they said. Pension disbursing bank will identify the family pensioners based on the information furnished in PPO and its own Know Your Customer procedure without insisting him/her to physically present himself/herself in the paying bank, the department said, citing its instructions issued in September 2013 in this regard. Banks will not insist on opening a new account when the spouse already has a joint account with the pensioner and authorisation for payment of family pension exists in the PPO in his/her favour, the consolidated guidelines said. Pension disbursing banks will also accept Aadhaar-enabled digital life certificate "Jeevan Pramaan", according to the guidelines. Pensioners who are 80 years and above can submit life certificates in the month of October also. Life certificate has to be submitted by every pensioner/family pensioners in the month of November every year. "No fresh certificate of disability would be required in the case of a child with permanent disability," the guidelines said. A disabled child will also be required to self-certify every year that he/she has not started earning his/her livelihood, according to the instructions. If family pension has been sanctioned to a disabled child and the disability is temporary, the guardian of such disabled child shall produce a disability certificate once in every five years to the effect that he/she continues to suffer from such disorder /disability in order to continue family pension, the guidelines said. "If the spouse is a recipient of family pension, no certificate of remarriage is required to be furnished by him/her,” the consolidated guidelines said. "At the time of commencement of family pension, an undertaking will be obtained from him/her to the effect that in the event of his/her remarriage, he/she will report the fact to the pension disbursing bank promptly,” they said. However, childless widow of deceased government servant and disabled child of a pensioner/government servant will continue to get family pension even if they get married/remarried, as per the guidelines. A family pensioner, other than spouse, has to submit a declaration of non-marriage/non-re-marriage every six months. The family pension is discontinued if she/he gets married/re-married. The Department of Pension and Pensioners' Welfare has issued directions to all the pension disbursing banks to send SMS/emails to all their pensioners on October 24, November 1, November 15 and November 25 every year reminding them to submit their annual life certificates by November 30. "The department directed all pension disbursing banks to make an exception list as on 15 December every year of those pensioners who fail to submit their life certificate and issue another SMS/email to them for submitting the life certificate," the guidelines said. "The bank in addition will also ask such pensioners through SMS/email whether they are interested in submission of life certificate through a chargeable door-step service, on a nominal charge not exceeding Rs 60," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/banks-adopting-different-procedures-while-releasing-pensions-centre-838351.html
16-05-2020||National||All eyes on FM's press conference, what's next in the 20 lakh crore economic package?||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will hold a press conference, on Thursday, at 4 pm, to detail the fourth part of the Atmanirbhar (Self-reliance) package. She will be speaking, from Delhi at the National Media Centre, sharing more details of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package. 📍: National Media Centre, New Delhi ⏲️: 4:00 PM The press meet will be screened live. You can watch the live stream on Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2LQb-DUszk0||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-eyes-on-fms-press-conference-whats-next-in-the-20-lakh-crore-economic-package-838353.html
16-05-2020||National||India can avoid 72% of projected COVID-19 cases by closing red light areas: Report||India can add 17 days of additional delay to reaching the peak of novel coronavirus cases, and prevent 72 per cent of projected new cases by closing down its red light areas till a COVID-19 vaccine is developed, scientists say. Based on modelling studies, the researchers including those from Yale School of Medicine in the US, said closing down these places of sex work may reduce projected COVID-19 death toll increase in India by 63 per cent post the easing of lockdown measures. They said Indians are at a much lower risk of getting COVID-19 if red light areas are kept closed after the lockdown until an effective treatment or vaccine for COVID-19 is developed. The scientists said the findings have been shared with the Government of India, and with various state governments. They have recommended a continued closure of red-light areas beyond full nation-wide reopening. They believe this can reduce the number of cases by 72 per cent in a period of 45-days, and delay the peak of COVID-19 cases by 17 days. This delay, according to the researchers, will provide the government more time and opportunities to plan and execute measures to protect public health and economy, as India moves in Lockdown 4.0. There could be a 63 per cent reduction in the number of deaths in the first 60 days after the lockdown ends, if red-light areas are kept closed, the report said. According to the National Aids Control Organization (NACO), India has close to 6,37,500 sex workers, and over 5 lakh customers visit the red-light areas on a daily basis, the scientists noted in a release. Their research said that if the red-light areas start operating, the disease will spread extremely quickly and infect a very high percentage of sex workers and customers. The scientists said the high transmission rate is because social distancing is not possible in sexual interactions. Infected customers could spread the disease to lakhs of other citizens, the scientists warned. Hence they believe that these red light areas have a combination of factors that can create a major hotspot. This hotspot can create a large percentage of the disease spread after lockdown ends, the researchers said. The report highlights the impact of red-light areas across India, and in five Indian cities which are currently in the red-zone. These cities, the scientists said, account for some of the largest red-light areas in the country with large numbers of sex workers. If the red-light areas are kept closed, they said there can be a delay in the peak of COVID-19 cases by up to 12 days in Mumbai, 17 days in New Delhi, and 29 days in Pune.  With the proposed intervention, Nagpur and Kolkata may also see a peak delay by 30 and 36 days respectively, the researchers said.   According to the scientists, the measure may also reduce COVID-19 cases by a fifth in Mumbai, by 27 per cent in Pune, and 31 per cent in New Delhi. In Nagpur they said there may be 56 per cent reduction in the number of projected cases, and by 66 per cent in Kolkata over a 45-day period. COVID-19 deaths may reduce by 28 per cent in Mumbai, 38 per cent in New Delhi, and by 43 per cent in Pune, the scientists said. In the first 60 days, the number of estimated deaths may reduce by more than 60 per cent for Nagpur and in Kolkata, they added. "Our study findings show that there is a strong effect of the red-light area closures, especially immediately following the lockdown," said study co-author, Jefferey Townsend, Professor of Biostatistics at the Yale School of Medicine. According to Townsend, the purpose of the modelling exercises was not to predict what will happen in the future, but to understand the effect of the intervention on the future. Citing examples of other countries where similar interventions were implemented, the scientists said, strip clubs and brothels were the only businesses that are delineated as indefinitely closed in Australia's reopening plan. They said Germany and the Netherlands have also closed their brothels to protect citizens from COVID-19. The scientists added that Japan did not close down red-light areas in time, and saw an "explosion" in cases because of a red light area which left local hospitals "overwhelmed". Speaking about the COVID-19 situation in India, co-author of the report, Sudhakar Nuti from the Harvard Medical School said, "The continued closure of red-light areas would build on the successes achieved by the government in lockdown." "Any effort in delaying the peak reduces the amount of stress on the medical system and potentially translates into lives saved," Nuti explained. "Preventing the potential surge in cases by red light areas reopening will protect gains made by the lockdown," he added. According to the scientists, the suggested intervention may help potentially save the lives of thousands of sex workers across India. They suggested measures to the government to address the health, safety, and well-being of sex workers in these areas. These include reliefs as part of the government’s financial relief scheme for the poor during COVID-19, and investment in reintegrating sex workers into other occupations given the closure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-can-avoid-72-of-projected-covid-19-cases-by-closing-red-light-areas-report-838354.html
16-05-2020||National||COVID-19: PIL filed in SC for allowing use of private hospitals for those who can afford||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court to direct the centre to frame guidelines to avail facilities of private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment and quarantine by those who can very well afford it. Kolkata resident, Avishek Goenka sought a direction to the Centre to immediately enroll more private hospitals, for COVID-19 post-infection treatment.  He raised a question of law whether a person who is willing and has means to afford quality healthcare could be forced to go to a government-owned or aided quarantine center or hospital, against his choice denying him quality of life in the name of a pandemic.  The petitioner contended that absence of policies or guidelines for availing facilities in private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment was violative of Article 14 (equality) and 21 (right to life and liberty) for being manifestly arbitrary.  It is submitted that COVID-19 patients who can afford the cost of private healthcare, should have the option of paying for it, his plea said. He sought a direction to the Centre to immediately frame and advertise the mechanism to avail private hospital facilities, in case of COVID-19 infection as per the choice and affordability of the patient.  Among other pleas, Goenka said the government should direct the insurance companies to immediately settle, full claims, which were raised as per government-specified rates. The petitioner also wanted constitution of a joint expert committee for examining and recommending best global practices for treatment of COVID-19 and making its recommendations binding on all states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pil-filed-in-sc-for-allowing-use-of-private-hospitals-for-those-who-can-afford-838359.html
16-05-2020||National||Chennai doctor becomes Corona warrior in Dubai||A well-known city-based surgeon is among the Indian medical professionals in Dubai to have joined the war against Covid-19 in the middle eastern country, following an appeal from the Indian High Commission there. Laparoscopic surgeon Dr J S Rajkumar was on a visit to Dubai when he decided to heed the Indian High Commission's call and volunteer himself. "It's 2 am in the morning, and a muggy humid night. We are at an undisclosed location just outside Dubai...we are in an isolation centre with close to 500 patients in our block," he told PTI over the phone. "The overall viral load in this area is absurdly high. Yet, we labour all, doing 12 hour flat out shifts in search of a larger good," Dr Rajkumar, chairman of Lifeline Institute of Minimal Access (LIMA) in the city, said. Rajkumar was joined by his wife as well. When a few hundred new cases were being reported every day in the Emirates, the Indian High Commission requested for volunteers to fight the battle against Coronavirus when the city-based doctor and his spouse decided to volunteer. Despite the air-conditioner, he says he sweats a lot because of the layers of masks on his face. His speech is barely intelligible. His wife, also a doctor, was "determined to be with me even in the face of this monster called the coronavirus," he added.  "We were caught on the wrong foot by the virus, and the ensuing lockdowns...unable to leave Dubai, and pop over, back-and-forth as we had been doing for the past couple of years," Rajkumar said. Quoting from Charles Dickens' "Tale of Two Cities," Dr Rajkumar said it was a "far, far better thing" he had ever done, on his decision to help the infected in Dubai. Since May 1, between 700 and 900 healthcare workers have been killed by coronavirus across the world, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chennai-doctor-becomes-corona-warrior-in-dubai-838360.html
16-05-2020||National||US working with India to develop COVID-19 vaccine||The United States is working with India to develop a vaccine to prevent COVID-19 infection. “Yeah, we’re working very closely also with India,” the US President Donald Trump told journalists at the Rose Garden of the White House, as he announced the “Operation Warp Speed” to develop a coronavirus vaccine by the end of the year. He also announced that the US would donate India “a lot of ventilators” to help cure people infected by the COVID-19 virus. Trump’s announcement prompted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to thank him, underlining that it was “important for nations” to work together to fight the pandemic.     “I am proud to announce that the United States will donate ventilators to our friends in India. We stand with India and @narendramodi during this pandemic,” Trump posted on Twitter early on Saturday (Indian Standard Time), tagging Modi. “We’re also cooperating on vaccine development. Together we will beat the invisible enemy!” He told journalists that many Indian-Americans, who were “great scientists and researchers”, were working on the coronavirus vaccine too. The ventilators are required in the hospitals for patients with severe COVID-19 infection to help them breathe. “We’re sending a lot of ventilators to India. I spoke to Prime Minister Modi, and we’re sending quite a few ventilators to India. We have a tremendous supply of ventilators,” Trump told journalists in White House. Sources said that the US was expected to send a consignment of 200 ventilators to India by the end of this month. It was being perceived in New Delhi as a thanksgiving gesture by Trump Administration in return of the Modi Government’s decision last month to lift the ban on the export of Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to allow the US to import the drug from India. “The US and India are working together to fight #COVID19 and find a vaccine. Thanks to @POTUS and @narendramodi, the US-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership has never been stronger,” Trump’s National Security Council (NSC) later tweeted.  The entities of India and the US are at present working together on at least three projects to develop a vaccine to prevent COVID-19 infections, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, New Delhi’s envoy to Washington D.C., said recently. The Bharat Biotech of India is collaborating with FluGen and the University of Wisconsin of the US in one project and with Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia in another. The Serum Institute of India is collaborating with US biotech company Codagenix, which is based in New York. Trump’s tweet came just two days after the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has pledged $3.6 million in assistance to India to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. The US Agency for International Development (USAID) earlier provided $ 5.9 million to India to help mitigate the outbreak.  Modi too replied to the US President and thanked him. “Thank you @POTUS @realDonaldTrump. This pandemic is being fought collectively by all of us. In such times, it’s always important for nations to work together and do as much as possible to make our world healthier and free from COVID-19. More power to India- US friendship!,” he tweeted on Saturday (May 16).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-working-with-india-to-develop-covid-19-vaccine-838366.html
16-05-2020||National||Labour Laws: Trade union leaders to sit on hunger strike at Rajghat on May 22||Leaders of ten central trade unions will sit on a day-long hunger strike at Mahatma Gandhi's memorial Rajghat on May 22 as part of its nationwide protest against the "anti-worker" move to suspend labour laws in several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan. The decision was taken at a meeting of the joint platform of the ten central trade unions -- INTUC,  AITUC, HMS, CITU, UTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF, UTUC -- on May 14. The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) has called a separate protest on May 20.  At Rajghat, the national leaders of trade unions will sit on hunger strike while simultaneous protest actions will be jointly organised in all states. The demands include immediate relief to stranded workers for safe reaching to their homes, food to be made available to all, universal coverage of ration distribution, ensure wages to all of the lockdown period, cash transfer to all unorganized labour force, withdraw DA freeze to central government employees and pensioners among others. The national leadership has also instructed its state units to intensify state-wise and sector-wise issue-based ongoing protests. They also decided to further strengthen the united struggle to halt the "retrograde policies of trampling the hard-won labour rights" through the nationwide strike in the days to come. The central trade unions have already decided to send a joint representation to the International Labour Organisation (ILO) on the suspension of labour laws that resulted in violation of international commitments on labour standards and human rights. "Taking shelter under the umbrella of COVID-19 pandemic, every day the government is taking one or other decisions to attack the working class and common people of the country who are already in deep distress and miseries in the midst of lockdown in the country," the trade unions said. The government's announcement on May 14 "did nothing for relieving the common people and workers from the miseries they are suffering except making tall claims and statements far away from the truth, displaying cruel insensitivity to the miseries and distress" of the majority of the populace, they said.    "The government at the Centre, in a most dubious manner, taking advantage of prolonged lockdown period, has been targeting the rights of the workers and the trade unions towards abrogation of labour rights. It has taken the strategy of letting loose their pliant state governments to take such anti-worker and anti-people autocratic measures and many other state governments are being made to follow the same path to the detriment of the rights and livelihood of workers," the trade unions alleged. They said BJP-ruled UP, MP and Gujarat suspended labour laws and it came after eight state government, including Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar and Punjab have enhanced the daily working hours from eight hours to 12 hours through an executive order in violation of the Factories Act. “All this means that the workers are to be used as bonded labour without any rights for sheer exploitation in the interest of capital without any guarantee of wages, safety and healthcare, social security and above all human dignity only to benefit those who maximize their profits on the blood and sweat of workers. This is against the basic tenets of human rights," they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labour-laws-trade-union-leaders-to-sit-on-hunger-strike-at-rajghat-on-may-22-838369.html
16-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Railways operates 1,074 Shramik trains; UP allows the most migrants to return||The Indian Railways has operated 1,074 Shramik Special trains since May 1, ferrying more than 14 lakh workers, it said Saturday. On Friday, the Railways said it had received more than 1,000 approvals from states in the last 15 days to ferry migrants home, with most workers being received by Uttar Pradesh, followed by Bihar. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal hailed the active participation of UP and Bihar in processing trains for their migrants, saying 80 per cent of the labour trains are terminating in these two states. During the last three days, more than 2 lakh persons have been transported per day. In days to come, it is expected to be scaled up to 3 lakh passengers per day, the Railways said. Out of the trains which have terminated so far, the maximum has been in Uttar Pradesh (387). Uttar Pradesh has given approval for 526 trains, followed by Bihar for 269 trains, and Madhya Pradesh for 81 trains. The number stands at 50 for Jharkhand, 52 for Odisha, 23 for Rajasthan and 9 for West Bengal, the data showed. The operation of these trains has, however, led to a political mudslinging with the Opposition accusing the Centre of charging fare from migrants. The Centre has clarified that the fare is being shared on a 85-15 ratio by the Railways and the state governments. It has said it has the capacity to run 300 Shramik Specials per day. Goyal had appealed to states like West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand to approve more trains. A Shramik Special train carries around 1,700 passengers, instead of the earlier 1,200, to ferry as many workers home as possible. Initially these trains had no scheduled stoppages during the journey, but the Railways now allows up to three stoppages in the destination states. While railways is yet to announce the cost incurred on these special services, officials indicated that the national transporter is spending around Rs 80 lakh per service. Since the Shramik Special service started, Gujarat has remained the top originating state, followed by Kerala. Earlier, the Railways drew a flak from opposition parties for charging for these services. In its guidelines, the national transporter has said the trains will ply only if they have 90 percent occupancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-railways-operates-1074-shramik-trains-up-allows-the-most-migrants-to-return-838373.html
16-05-2020||National||Atma Nirbhar Bharat: Key takeaways from Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's presser||Today’s announcement address structural reforms in various sectors of the economy. At the start of her address, the finance minister said that efforts have already started for upgradation of industrial infrastructure. "Public sector bank reforms infused equity and also ensured that they are professionally managed, also giving them independence. No cronyism has been developed through banks," said Sitharaman. "Many sectors need policy simplification, to make it simpler for people to understand what each sector can give, participate in activities & bring transparency. Once we decongest sectors, we can boost the sector, for growth and jobs," said the finance minister.  She further said incentive schemes for the promotion of new champion sectors will be established in sectors such as solar photovoltaic manufacturing; advanced cell battery storage and others. "Prime Minister has a very strong record in taking up deep systemic reforms. Direct Beneficiary Transfer enabled giving money directly to people, GST brought in One Nation One Market, IBC resolved insolvency issues, ease of doing business steps taken," said the finance minister. Policy reforms to fast-track investments Fast-track investment clearance through Empowered Group of secretaries will be done, said the finance minister. A project development cell will be set up in each ministry to prepare investible projects and coordinate with investors and central/state governments. States will be ranked on investment attractiveness to compete for new investments, she added. A new scheme will be implemented in states through challenge mode for Industrial cluster upgradation of common infrastructure facilities and connectivity. Availability of industrial land and land bank for promoting new investments and making information available on Industrial Information System (IIS) with GIS mapping. 3,376 industrial parks and SEZs in 5 lakh hectares will be mapped on IIS. The finance minister's reform announcements will affect the following sectors:  Coal sector The finance minister said that there is a need to reduce the import of substitutable coal and increase self-reliance in coal production. The government will introduce competition, transparency and private sector participation in the coal sector through a revenue-sharing mechanism instead of fixed rate. Entry norms will be liberalised, nearly 50 blocks will be offered immediately. Coal will be gasified in order to reduce environmental burden, said the finance minister. This is expected to produce diverse opportunities. Rs 50,000 crores being given to ensure evacuation infrastructure is provided. Exploration cum production regime for partially explored blocks, against earlier provision of auction of fully explored blocks.  Minerals sector Introduction of a seamless composite exploration-cum-mining-cum-production regime. 500 mining blocks will be offered through an open and transparent auction process. Introduction of joint auction of bauxite and coal mineral blocks is expected to enhance the aluminium industry’s competitiveness. This will help the aluminium industry reduce electricity costs. Removal of distinction between captive and non-captive mines to allow transfer of mining leases and sale of surplus unused minerals, leading to better efficiency in mining and production. Rationalisation of stamp duty payable at the time of award of mining leases will be undertaken. Defence Production 'Make in India' will be leveraged for self-reliance in defence production, said the finance minister. A list of weapons/platforms for ban on import with year-wise timelines will be notified. Imported spares will be indigenised. These reforms will help reduce the defence import bill. Another step that will be taken to improve autonomy, accountability and efficiency in ordnance supplies by Corporatisation of Ordnance Factory Board. This does not mean it will be privatised, emphasised the finance minister. FDI limits will be raised from 49% to 74% under automatic route. Time-bound defence procurement processes and faster decision making will be ushered in by setting up of a project management unit to support contract management. Realistic setting of general staff qualitative requirements of weapons and platforms will be done. Trial and testing procedures for defence will be overhauled. Civil aviation These reforms will bring in a reduction of flying costs by Rs 1,000 crores. Only 60% of Indian airspace is freely available, said the finance minister. Airspace will be rationalised to save fuel, travel time and pilots’ flying time. This will have a positive environmental effect. 6 more airports will be identified for 2nd round of auction. Bid process will start immediately. AAI has awarded 3 out of 6 airports for operation and maintenance on PPP basis. Additional investment by private players in 12 airports in first and second rounds expected around Rs 13,000 crores. Annual revenue of six airports in the first round is expected to be Rs 1,000 crores against a current profit of Rs 540 crores per year. Airports Authority of India will get Rs 2,300 crores in downpayment. Making India an MRO hub Tax regime for MRO ecosystem has been rationalised. Convergence between the defence sector and the civil MROs will be established to create economies of scale. Maintenance cost for airlines is expected to come down. Major engine manufacturers are expected to bring in their services to India. "India to become a global hub for Aircraft Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO). The tax regime for the MRO ecosystem has been rationalized. Aircraft component repairs and airframe maintenance to increase from Rs 800 crores to Rs 2000 crores in 3 years," said finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Power DISCOMS in Union Territories Power distribution companies in UTs will be privatised. A tariff policy laying out of the following reforms will be relaxed. DISCOMs will be penalised for load-shedding. DISCOM inefficiencies not to burden consumers. DBT for subsidy and smart prepaid meters will be installed. "In UTs, suboptimal performance and power distribution and supply are not in favour of consumers," said the finance minister. This will lead to better service to consumers and improvement in operational and financial efficiency in distribution. This would also provide a model for emulation across the country. Social infrastructure projects Rs 8,100 crores to given in the form of viability gap funding for social infrastructure. Government will enhance the quantum of viability gap funding to 30% each of total project cost as VGF by centre and state/statutory bodies. Social infrastructure projects will be proposed by central ministries, state govt and statutory entities. Other sectors will receive 20% of existing support from GOI and states and statutory bodies each will continue. Space "Indian private sector will be a co-traveller in India’s space sector journey," said the finance minister. These reforms will provide level playing field for private companies in satellite launches and space-based services and will provide predictable policy and regulatory environment to private players. Private sector entities will be allowed to use ISRO facilities and other relevant assets to improve their capacities. Future project for planetary exploration, outer space travel and others to be open for the private sector. Liberal geospatial data policy for providing remote-sensing data to tech entrepreneurs. Atomic energy Research reactor in PPP model for the production of medical isotopes will be established to promote welfare of humanity through affordable treatment for cancer and other diseases. "PPP mode will be used for irradiation technology for food preservation to compliment agri reforms and assist farmers," said the finance minister. This is will help link India’s robust startup ecosystem to the nuclear sector. Technology development cum incubation centres will be set up for fostering synergy between research facilities and tech entrepreneurs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atma-nirbhar-bharat-key-takeaways-from-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharamans-presser-838384.html
16-05-2020||National||Langur handler found COVID-19 positive, Rail Bhavan asks its staff to quarantine||A langur handler at  Rail Bhawan has been found COVID-19 positive and a few officials working in the building were asked to home quarantine for 14 days. The langur handler was hired by Railway Ministry to chase away monkeys in the building. After getting information about the langur handler found positive, the Railway Board has asked some of its staff mostly working in General Branch to go on self-quarantine. Though these staff may not have come to direct contact with handler, the railway Bhavan official suspect that few staff members may have indirect contact with him, said an official. The Rail Bhavan hired him to chase away monkey from the building and he frequently visits the inside the building as well.  Since the Rail Bhavan is in the Central Vista and adjacent to Parliament Complex, a large group of monkeys always roam in and around the building. His last visit to the building was May 4.  The Rail Bhavan already closed for two-day (May 14 and 15 ) for sanitisation after a Railway Protection Force (RPF) staff working on the fourth floor found COVID-19 positive. With simian menace in Lutyens Delhi is giving a big headache to its residents as they snatch bags, tiffin boxes and food packets. Instances of monkey bites are common in National Capital. To address the problem,  several government buildings hire contractors for deploying langur handlers. When the handler roams with his black-faced langur, monkeys run away with fear. These handlers mostly from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan are camping in Delhi with their trained langurs. Both government and private firms hire them to scare the monkeys.   The Rhesus macaques are protected species under the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 and killing them attracts punishment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/langur-handler-found-covid-19-positive-rail-bhavan-asks-its-staff-to-quarantine-838392.html
16-05-2020||National||Bengal Govt to bear travelling expenses of migrant workers: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said on Saturday that the state government will bear the entire cost of movement of migrant workers from the state by special trains from other states. Banerjee stated in a tweet that no migrant workers from Benga,l will be charged. “Saluting the toil faced by our migrant brethren, I am pleased to announce the decision of GoWB to bear the entire cost of movement for our migrant workers by special trains from other states to West Bengal. No migrant will be charged. Letter to Rly Board attached,” tweeted Banerjee. Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha in a letter to Railway Board Chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav stated that the “entire cost” of movement of migrant workers of the state by special trains will be borne by the state government.  “Instructions may accordingly be issued to the concerned Railway officials that no costs may be claimed from those boarding these Shramik Special Trains, destined for West Bengal, at the station origin,” stated Sinha. Later in the day, the state’s Home Department stated that it will provide compensation of Rs. 2 lakh per head to the next of kin of migrant workers’ from Bengal’s Purulia district who died in the road accident in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya district.  “GOWB offers its condolences over the unfortunate death of 3/4 persons today in Auraiya district in UP. They died in UP, on their way home in Purulia.Compensation@ Rs 2 lakh per head is reaching next of the kin here asap,” tweeted the Home Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-govt-to-bear-travelling-expenses-of-migrant-workers-mamata-838402.html
16-05-2020||National||CBSE datesheet for Class 10, 12 exams to be announced on Monday||The Central Board of Secondary Education will announce the date sheet for the examinations to the remaining papers for Class 10 and Class 12 on Monday, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said here on Saturday. “CBSE is taking into consideration some additional technical aspects before finalising the date sheet. Now, the date sheet will be announced on May 18, 2020, Monday,” the HRD Minister said. Nishank had earlier announced that the datesheet will be announced at 5:00 p.m. on Saturday amid reports of fake CBSE date sheets doing the rounds. Earlier, the CBSE had announced that it would hold the examinations for the pending subjects for Class 10 and 12 between July 1 and July 15. The CBSE Class 10 examinations were pending in parts of north-east Delhi, where exams had to be postponed on account of the riots that broke out in the last week of February. For Class 12, examination would be held for 12 subjects in the entire country and 11 subjects in north-east Delhi. Among the subjects for which exams for Class 12 are set to be conducted across India are Business Studies, Geography, Computer Science (old and new), Hindi (elective and core), Home Science, Sociology Information Practice (old and new), Information Technology and Biotechnology. In north-east Delhi, Class 12 examinations will be held for English Elective (N&C), English Core, Mathematics, Economics, Biology, Political Science, History, Physics, Accountancy, and Chemistry. Class 10 students in north-east Delhi will appear for six subjects – Hindi Course (A&B) English Comms, English Language and Literature, Science, Social Science.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-datesheet-for-class-10-12-exams-to-be-announced-on-monday-838406.html
16-05-2020||National||Eight home-bound migrants killed in road accidents in Madhya Pradesh||Eight migrants including four women were killed in three separate road accidents in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday, police said. At least 29 others were injured in these accidents which took place in Sagar, Guna and Barwani districts, police said. Six persons -- four women and two men -- were killed in an accident near Sagar, said Superintendent of Police (SP) Amit Sanghi. They were heading for Uttar Pradesh from Maharashtra when the truck carrying them overturned on Sagar-Kanpur Road, 70 km from Sagar district headquarters, at around 10 am, Additional SP Praveen Bhuria had informed earlier. Five of them were killed on the spot and 19 others injured. They were rushed to a government hospital at Banda, where one victim died later. The truck was carrying bundles of clothes on top of which migrant travelers were sitting, police said. A woman who was among survivors said they were three families returning from Nalasopara near Mumbai to UP. In another tragedy in Guna district, a person was killed when the tempo in which he was traveling overturned near Bhadora. Sub Divisional Magistrate Shivani Garg said that a family from Dharavi in Mumbai was returning from Pratapgarh in UP, where they had been stuck due to lockdown, when the tempo overturned while trying to avoid hitting a bike. Sharafat Ali (45), a Mumbai resident, died while 11 others were injured, two of them seriously, she said. In Barwani district, Aniket Thakur (22), resident of Azamgarh (UP), was killed when another vehicle rammed into the truck in which he was traveling from behind near Gavghati on Agra-Mumbai Road in the afternoon. Nagalwadi Police Station in-charge Majhar Khan said the truck was carrying 45 migrant labourers from Mumbai to Azamgarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eight-home-bound-migrants-killed-in-road-accidents-in-madhya-pradesh-838414.html
16-05-2020||National||Govt announces major reforms in mining, coal sectors||The Centre on Saturday (May 16) announced several reforms in the mining and coal sectors to boost the production and attract private investments. " 500 blocks of minerals will be auctioned in a composite exploration-cum-mining-cum-production regime," Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman told media persons in New Delhi.  Also, a joint auction of bauxite and coal blocks would be done to enhance the aluminium industry's competitiveness. This will help the aluminium industry reduce electricity costs. She said the distinction between captive and non-captive mines will be removed to allow the transfer of mining leases and sale of surplus unused minerals, leading to better efficiency and production. In the coal sector, she said the government will allow commercial mining and nearly 50 blocks to be offered immediately. There will be no eligibility conditions and anybody can bid. However, there will be only upfront payment with a ceiling.  This is against the earlier norm where only captive consumers with end-use ownership could bid. The FM allocated over Rs 50,000 crore for creating evacuation infrastructure for coal. Against the earlier provision of auctioning only the fully explored coal blocks, now the partially explored blocks can also be auctioned.  Apart from allowing private sector participation in exploration, this will be done via a revenue-sharing mechanism instead of the regime of a fixed rupee per tonnes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-announces-major-reforms-in-mining-coal-sectors-838416.html
16-05-2020||National||Bihar's COVID-19 tally reaches 1,079 with 46 fresh cases||Forty-six more people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Bihar, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,079, a senior health department official said here on Saturday. Principal Secretary (Health) Sanjay Kumar said these 46 samples tested positive for the virus on Friday. Among the fresh cases, five have been reported from Patna district where the tally has gone up to 105. While one is a 14-year-old girl from the rural Bakhtiyarpur area, the remaining four are male personnel of the Bihar Military Police's 14th battalion, he said. The number of BMP-14 personnel, stationed at Khajpura locality in the city, who have been found infected till date has now reached 25. The chain of infection in the area began with a 32-year-old woman from Bijli Gali by-lane testing positive last month upon being admitted to AIIMS, Patna with breathing trouble.  Within a few days, nearly 20 residents of the by-lane fell prey to the contagion which also spread to nearby localities like Raja Bazar and a slum located close to the Bihar Public Service Commission office on Bailey Road. At least five barracks of BMP-14, besides Bijli Gali, the slum close to BPSC and Machhli Gali by-lane in Raja Bazar have been declared as containment zones, Patna District Magistrate Kumar Ravi said, adding that the lockdown is being enforced in the strictest form in these localities.  Seven more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Jamui district, which reported its first case on May 12 and now has altogether 10 patients, the principal secretary said. A two-year-old boy tested positive for COVID-19 in Munger district which accounts for the maximum number of 123 confirmed cases. All the 38 districts in the state have been affected by the pandemic and those with a high incidence also include Rohtas (77), Kaimur (66) and Buxar (59). The number of cases in Bihar has risen sharply since the beginning of the month, mainly because of migrants returning to their native places in large numbers by special trains in addition to other modes of transport. According to the state health department, 427 migrants arriving since May 4 have tested positive for COVID-9. Most of them had come from Delhi (112), Gujarat (106) and Maharashtra (97). Close to three lakh migrants have returned to the state from other parts of the country in 'Shramik Special' trains while the total number, including those coming by buses, trucks, bicycles and on foot, is estimated to be in excess of a million. Till date, 44,398 samples have been tested in the state and efforts were on to enhance the testing capacity drastically to contain the infection. At present, testing of samples is held at four places in Patna and one each in Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga and Bhagalpur. The rate of testing was adversely affected because the testing facility at Bhagalpur ran short of cartridges on Friday, though the principal secretary said replenishment will be ensured at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihars-covid-19-tally-reaches-1079-with-46-fresh-cases-838419.html
16-05-2020||National||Vande Bharat Mission: A tale of chaos and calm for the stranded||“We were brought back and it was a major history that I will remember but…,” trailed off 32-year-old Sandeep (*name and age changed), who was on the first repatriation flight to Bengaluru from London that landed on May 11 with 323 stranded Indians under the Government of India’s Vande Bharat Mission. A Bengaluru resident, Sandeep had relocated to the UK after landing an engineer’s job in February this year. Little did he know what 2020 had in store for him. Two months into his job, he was laid off. With the novel coronavirus rearing its ugly head, he was stuck in a foreign country, desperate to return to his homeland. Sandeep registered with the High Commission of India in the UK as soon as they sent out a tweet with the registration form, which was a faint indication of the beginning of the repatriation process. Luckily, he got a mail confirming that he had been shortlisted to fly back on the May 10 flight to Bengaluru and asking him if he was willing to fly. This was supposed to be followed by a phone call from Air India to book the flight ticket. All he received one day before the flight was a payment link that was going to expire in 30 minutes. “I didn’t know if I was making the right payment or if the link was authentic. I mailed and called Air India to ask them if the payment link was legit. They never responded,” said Sandeep. He went ahead and decided to grab the best chance to get back home by completing the payment. After not receiving a confirmation mail or an e-ticket from Air India, he set out for the airport anyway and received the e-ticket one hour before the flight after standing in a queue for nearly four hours at the airport. “I don’t know if we should accept what we have or bring up whatever is missing as an issue in this situation," said Sandeep. "When I talk about this, I always think about the people who aren’t even getting food outside." Hyderabad’s Naveen Kumar and his six-month pregnant wife, however, weren’t as lucky as Sandeep. Kumar, an engineer who had been working in the UK since 2018, and his wife were eyeing the May 11 flight to Hyderabad from London’s Heathrow Airport. Kumar received a mail from the High Commission on May 10 stating that his wife had been shortlisted. When the High Commission called to confirm his wife’s willingness to travel, he put forth his apprehensions about her travelling alone and told them that she would travel if he was allowed to travel with her. “I was told that they would write down the comments and then someone else from the High Commission would contact me, which they did, about 20 minutes after the first call,” said Kumar. It was a slight breather for the couple when, on the second call, Kumar was assured that he would also get a confirmation mail and call from Air India. Kumar did get a call from Air India but this, to their surprise, was only to confirm his wife’s ticket and he was asked to contact the High Commission to resolve his request for a ticket. His name, he was told, wasn’t on the list. “I tried calling the Air India numbers listed in the email that I’d received, dropped multiple mails and tried calling the High Commission as well but didn’t get a proper response. I had cancelled my wife’s medical appointment, had spoken to my landlord about leaving for India after the High Commission’s assurance and had to request the hospital to not cancel it. This was the time she could travel without any complications. Even if we get to travel in the next two to three weeks, she’ll first have to wait for the doctor’s green signal,” a dejected Kumar said. Communication snags, payment woes haunt hopes Like Kumar, a handful of others faced communication snags, be it with the High Commission or with Air India. Tabish Ghafoor, a software engineer, who runs a Twitter handle called ‘Indians in UK’ and a Telegram channel by the same name with 1,000-odd members is trying to help out the ones looking to fly back by creating a one-stop source for information related to the repatriation process, flights and other details. He said the problem started right when the High Commission issued the Google Form for registration. “People didn’t know that the particular Google Form was for repatriation because it wasn’t made very clear since the Central Government in India had also not announced formally that the repatriation would happen (the announcement came on May 5)," said Ghafoor. "The forms were changed a couple of times to include additional fields and people were unsure about their entries being submitted correctly or if they’d missed anything because new fields like emergency/priority reasons (bereavement, pregnancy, visa expiration, stranded tourist, visa categories etc.) had been added later to the same form. So they feared that if they hadn’t filled in the latest form correctly, they might not get shortlisted.” The High Commission, Ghafoor said, would then reach out to the shortlisted/waitlisted passengers, sifting on the basis of priority – the most vulnerable ones first - through mails and/or calls to confirm their willingness to fly. Next comes the phone call from Air India to verify the passengers’ details and walk them through the ticket payment process. For the first flight from London to Mumbai on May 9, the payment happened over a phone call with an Air India representative, who would ask the passenger to provide their card details. Ghafoor said that many people weren’t sure about sharing card details over a call and it was coupled with the fear that not sharing the info would cause them to lose their seats. After the queries started pouring in, the High Commission sent out emails to the shortlisted passengers explaining the verification process along with a list of phone numbers that they would get a call from and other identifiers. The High Commission also put out a tweet with details on how to identify if the emails were genuine. The process was changed from the second flight onwards – the Bengaluru flight on May 10 – where people were sent a payment link that was active for 30 minutes after which it expired. This came with its own set of issues because many started reporting payment failures. Another issue was the timing of the payment link that was generally sent one day prior to the flight in the initial flights, and confirmed tickets were sent within an average of six hours after the payment with no prior payment confirmation, leaving very little room for clarifications when faced with errors. Prashant Mhatre, an IT professional, wanted to return to take care of his 75-year-old mother living alone in the heart of COVID-19-plagued Mumbai. Mhatre was one of those who had to go through the ordeal of multiple failed payments and communication lags as he didn’t even receive a call from Air India about the flight after the High Commission email indicating that he had been waitlisted. He directly received an email with the payment link, again, a day before the flight, which kept failing. “Some people in the group (Indians in UK) said that the payment might go through with an Indian card. I then asked some of my friends in India to try with their cards on the off chance that it might work but it didn’t,” said Mhatre.  One sleepless night and several failed attempts to get through to Air India later, Mhatre decided to pack and drive down to the airport anyway. It was only after the Air India airport manager got involved that he was able to make the payment and get on the flight to Mumbai. However, just like the payment method was updated to clear the air, the time given to passengers in terms of when the payment links were sent seemed to be improving with the later flights, even as the glitches on the technical and communication fronts persisted.  Vishal Ramakrishnan, a Chennai-based musician, received the payment link two days prior to the flight to Chennai on May 14 but still faced payment issues and raised doubts about the communication efficiency. “Most communication was through Twitter and the High Commission sent emails only after the passenger was shortlisted," said Ramakrishnan. "They could have instead sent emails to the ones who had registered as no registration confirmation made it confusing and not everyone is on Twitter. Even the Tamil Nadu government had a proper page. If it can be done at the state level, I’m pretty sure it can be done at the national level.” The payment gateway, he said, was terrible. "When I tried using my UK credit card, it wouldn’t work; there was no option to allow internet banking using the local UK banks," he said. "Then when I tried to use my UK debit card, they charged me 51,750 pounds instead of rupees, it couldn’t be converted! Then my transaction failed. I tried with my Indian debit and credit card and the transaction failed again.” With only one option – internet banking – left and almost done with the 30-minute window, Ramakrishnan gave it another shot and finally was able to book the ticket. On a normal day, from the embassy’s perspective, they run with limited staff because of fewer queries coming in but with the repatriation process, there are a lot of people trying to reach out to them, according to Ghafoor. “They must be flooded with the sheer volume of calls/emails handling one flight daily with no breathing space. I can imagine how understaffed and overwhelmed they must be feeling with the queries,” he said. Ghafoor added that the high commission is trying its best to streamline – first by shifting from call-based payment for the ticket to a payment link to moving away from the one email id that they had for everything and issuing different email ids for different locations. He also said that they had started asking people to use specific subject lines for specific issues, which might help them in categorising emails. For instance, if the passengers are willing to fly after getting shortlisted, they’ve been asked to append ‘yes’ at the end of the subject line, which could help in sorting the emails. Long-awaited whiff of home soil Shefali Rai, a 26-year-old Bengaluru resident who was pursuing her Master's in Environmental Design Architecture in the UK – was one of the 323 stranded Indians brought to Bengaluru by the national carrier on May 11. Rai said that there was an announcement made about no social distancing norms inside the flight before they boarded but before they got on and after landing at KIA airport, they tried to maintain it as much as possible. The passengers were provided with a face shield, mask, sanitiser pouches and a food packet.  “Until we got on the flight, the situation was a little tense but after getting off it, it was quite calm. I feel they’re doing an incredible job. Once we got off the flight, they had everything under control. Just the payment link and the communication was a bit off,” said Rai. Upon arrival, the passengers, Rai said, were divided into batches of 20 and were asked to proceed for the thermal screening and other health check-ups before heading for immigration and baggage collection. She said that there were three counters that were maintained – one for the 14-day quarantine hotels, another had a doctor who was guiding people with health apps like Aarogya Setu and the third with SIM cards for the ones who didn’t have an Indian SIM card. The hotel rooms - the budget rooms were Rs 1,200 a night, 3-star rooms were Rs 1,850 and 5-star rooms were Rs 4,100 (three meals a day included in 3-star and 5-star) - were assigned at the airport itself and BMTC buses were arranged to take passengers to their respective hotels. Everything was perfectly organised, said Rai. At the hotels, there were daily check-ups by a doctor who visited twice a day. Hygiene was maintained very well inside the 3-star hotel in Whitefield that Rai had chosen, with sanitisers readily available everywhere and staff wearing gloves and masks. On the flight ticket fare and the hotel prices, Rai said, “Since each person has his own personal burden of flight and quarantine facility and it's during an unanticipated burden to get home, that’s the only reason that I felt that the whole cost of coming back was turning out to be a little expensive as against a normal situation but we’re not in a normal situation.” The government had launched the 'Vande Bharat Mission' on May 7 to repatriate Indians from different parts of the world who were stranded due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Under phase one of the mission, between May 7 and May 14, the government evacuated a total of 12,000 Indians from the Gulf, the US, the UK, Philippines, Bangladesh, Malaysia and the Maldives by operating a total of 64 Air India and Air India Express flights. Phase two of the mega evacuation mission is expected to bring back over 32,000 stranded Indians from 31 countries on 149 flights between May 16 and May 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vande-bharat-mission-a-tale-of-chaos-and-calm-for-the-stranded-838422.html
16-05-2020||National||Wait for guidelines on as coronavirus lockdown 4.0 set to start on Monday||India is all set to enter COVID-19 lockdown 4.0 from Monday but with lesser restrictions, even as states stared at a new challenge with people from abroad as well as migrant workers travelling to their native places amid fear of a possible rise in number of cases. Almost all states have supported the idea of extended lockdown keeping in mind the influx of people from other states and abroad through special flights, trains and buses. Several migrants are also walking or taking a ride on trucks to their villages hundreds of kilometres, among them at least 100 lost lives in the past 10 days to accidents. While arguing for lockdown, states also want relaxation in economic activities, as their revenue has been hit besides reports of job loss in tens of thousands. Containment zones will continue to be in a strict regime where practically no activity is allowed at present. One of the contentious point on profiling of districts into red, orange and green zones may continue to be with the Centre though states want more say in it. However, the Centre may allow relaxations in red zones so that permitted activities do not continue to remain affected due to certain restrictions. A detailed guidelines on lockdown 4.0 is expected soon and it is likely to have a ‘negative’ list that details the barred activities rather than a list of what is prohibited. All those activities out of the negative list would be permitted. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is looking at various options on further opening up public transport to facilitate travel of office-goers and workers in manufacturing units, as the functioning of these facilities have been permitted already with restrictions. The MHA is looking at allowing plying of buses even in red zones, as states like Delhi has suggested. The lockdown 4.0 is also likely to allow plying autos, taxis and cab aggregators but with just two passengers even in red zones. Demands are also there for the re-opening of Metro but the Centre is of the view that it may not be feasible as the routes pass through containment zones. The CISF, which guards the Delhi Metro, has already prepared a Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). One of the suggestions is that Metro travel should be restricted to government officials in the initial period. The complete opening up of air and rail traffic may take some more time as some states are still reluctant to allow huge influx of passengers. States like Tamil Nadu had earlier urged the Centre not to sent special trains to their states. Their argument is that it would result in a spike in cases and they would not be able to arrange hospital beds in such a scenario.  (edited) Shopping malls, barber shops and salons would continue to remain shut though markets may be allowed to function in a staggered manner. Construction activities could also get an impetus by allowing workers to travel to sites. At present, construction activities are permitted only with workers already staying in the work site. It is also to be seen whether e-commerce firms will be allowed to operate in red zones to supply non-essential items. At present, e-commerce firms can deliver non-essential items in green and orange zones only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wait-for-guidelines-on-as-coronavirus-lockdown-40-set-to-start-on-monday-838423.html
16-05-2020||National||West Bengal sees 115 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours||With 115 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, the number of COVID-19 cases in West Bengal climbed to 2,575 on Saturday (May 16). Currently, there are 1452 active cases in the state. The death toll directly due to the virus also rose to 160 with seven deaths in the last 24 hours. So far 72 patients have died due to comorbidities in the state. As of now, 892 patients have been discharged after being cured of the infection out of which 63 were discharged in the last 24 hours. This has taken the discharge rate in the state to 34.63%.  Testing has been ramped up in the state. In the last 24 hours, 7745 samples were tested. Over-all, the government has conducted 77,288 COVID-19 sample tests in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-sees-115-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-838438.html
16-05-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll in Delhi rises to 129; 438 fresh cases take tally to 9,333||The death toll due to coronavirus in Delhi rose to 129 and the total number of cases in the national capital climbed to 9,333 on Saturday, authorities said. On Thursday, the city had recorded 472 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike. In a bulletin issued on Saturday, the Delhi Health Department said with six more fatalities reported, the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 129. It, however, said the cumulative death figures refers to fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals. On Friday, the total number of cases stood at 8,895, including 123 deaths.  With 438 fresh cases, the total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi has mounted to 9,333. Of the total number of deceased patients, 62 were aged 60 and above, accounting for over 50 per cent of the fatalities here. Thirty-five of them were aged between 50-59 years and 26 were less than 50 years, the bulletin said. Facing criticism for "under reporting" COVID-19 deaths, the Delhi government on Sunday issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for hospitals and other health facilities in the city on reporting fatalities due to coronavirus. A total of 3,518 patients have recovered so far, while there are 5,254 active cases, the Delhi health department said. Meanwhile, two more private hospitals have been declared as COVID hospitals for admitting positive or suspected cases of coronavirus infection on a payment basis, it said. The two hospitals are -- Batra Hospital and Research Centre, Tughlakabad (50 isolation beds) and Cygnus Orthocare Hospital, Safdarjung Development Area (40 isolation beds), according to an order issued on Saturday by the Delhi health department. A total of 1,30,845 COVID-19 tests have been conducted till date, it said. The total number of COVID-19 patients under home isolation stands at 1,983, it said. According to the Delhi Health Department bulletin, out of the total 9,333 cases recorded so far, at least 1,758 are admitted at various hospitals like LNJP Hospital, RML Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) and AIIMS Jhajjhar, adding 155 of them are in ICU and 26 on ventilators.  The number of containment zones in Delhi has been reduced to 76.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-in-delhi-rises-to-129-438-fresh-cases-take-tally-to-9333-838439.html
16-05-2020||National||Migrant couple returning home in auto killed in accident in Uttar Pradesh||A migrant couple on its way to Bihar from Haryana in their auto rickshaw was killed while their six-year-old son escaped unhurt when a loader hit them on the Lucknow-Agra Expressway on Saturday, police said. Ashok Chaudhari, 35, who earned his living driving an auto rickshaw in Jhajjar, Haryana, was returning home in Bihar's Darbhanga district with his wife Chhoti, 33, and son when the accident occurred, they said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the victims, and directed officials to make arrangements for sending the bodies home. Police said the auto rickshaw had run out of petrol and Chaudhari was filling the tank with the help his wife when a speeding loader hit them from the rear side in the Bangarmau Kotwali police station area here. The couple died on the spot, the police said, adding that they were identified with the help of the driving licence and Aadhar Card recovered from them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-couple-returning-home-in-auto-killed-in-accident-in-uttar-pradesh-838440.html
16-05-2020||National||Coronavirus fear prompts Assam to introduce new flood relief camp guidelines||The fear of coronavirus infection in relief camps during flood this Monsoon has prompted Assam government to introduce new guidelines in its disaster management manual. Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) has issued relief camp management guidelines to its district units and all stakeholders to take sufficient measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus among camp inmates during floods. The guidelines has prescribed to allot at least seven square meter space for each inmate against 3.5 sq meter space maintained in relief camp during floods that wreck havoc across Assam almost every year. This is aimed at ensuring at least one meter space between two inmates. "Identify additional relief camps in addition to the existing pre-identify camps as per population density of villages to earmark space for social distancing. Ensure sufficient hand-wash/soap, sanitizers, masks for the camp inmates. The Relief camp premises should be strictly notified as no-spitting, no tobacco zone," said the new guidelines included in the Assam Disaster Management Manual 2015. Over 90 people died in floods last year and more than 40 lakh people in 30 of Assam's 33 districts were affected by the flood last year. The new camp guidelines has made it mandatory that the medical teams to be deployed for healthcare of the flood-hit people should be armored with basic Personal Protective Equipments (PPE) for conducting screening during registration process. "Pre-identification of the medical facilities such as  ambulances for transportation of infected, isolation facilities nearby should be done. In case of sneezing, cough, fever and common cold, immediate medical supervision to be made and he/she may be kept separately as per COVID-19 norms and regulations. E-help desk should be facilitated in all operational relief camps with the help of Pratirodhi Bondhu (volunteera) as counselor/ facilitator. SoP should be prepared in collaboration with ASDMA for distribution of relief items/cooked food adhering precautionary measure as per COVID-19 norms and regulations," it said. It also asked the stakeholders to identify and operationalize child friendly spaces for integrated service delivery to women and children while maintaining social distance norms in all activities to be conducted in the relief camps. "As Monsoon is approaching, we are gearing up to tackle the floods. But this year the challenge to support those who might get affected due to flood will be even tougher due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, which has also affected Assam. Relief Camp Management Guidelines have been included in order to be better equipped to deal with flood situation vis-à-vis COVID-19," said an official in ASDMA. A total of 91 persons in Assam tested COVID-19 positive so far, of which two died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-fear-prompts-assam-to-introduce-new-flood-relief-camp-guidelines-838444.html
16-05-2020||National||Punjab extends coronavirus lockdown till May 31, but curfew restrictions to go||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday evening said the coronavirus lockdown in the state will continue till May 31, though his government will lift the curfew restrictions. “From May 18, there will be no curfew in the state. But the lockdown will be there till May 31,” said the chief minister. He further indicated the resumption of limited public transport services from May 18. He said the state government will announce more relaxations from May 18 but sought support of people in containing the COVID-19 spread in the state. “I will allow the opening of maximum shops and small businesses from May 18,” the CM said. The CM, however, said educational institutions will remain closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-may-31-but-curfew-restrictions-to-go-838451.html
16-05-2020||National||NDMA develops central repository dashboard for migrant workers||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Saturday asked states to upload data on migrant workers travelling on 'Shramik' special trains a central online repository developed by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) for better coordination, movement monitoring and contact tracing. In a letter to states, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said the dashboard National Migrant Information System (NMIS) will be on the existing NDMA-GIS portal. The portal will maintain a central repository and help the sending as well as receiving state to ask for and give their acceptance in an online format. This system will help in speedy communication between states without creating additional work at the level of the field officers. It has additional advantages like contact tracing, which may be useful in overall Covid-19 response work, Bhalla said. The portal will help states to visualise how many people are going out from where and how many are reaching destination states. The mobile numbers of people can be used for contact tracing and movement monitoring during COVID-19. Also, a unique ID is generated for each migrant, which can be used for all transactions. Bhalla said the portal will maintain a central repository and help the sending as well as receiving state and district to ask for and give their acceptance in an online format seamlessly. "This system will help in speedy communication between states without creating additional work at the level of the field officers. The states can upload batch file of individual data on the portal. As many states have already collected migrant data, this can be integrated through Application Programming Interface (API). The key data pertaining to the persons migrating has been standardised for uploading such as name, age, mobile no, originating and destination district, date of travel etc which states are already collecting. The letter said the states will be able to visualise how many people are going out from where and how many are reaching destination states. The mobile numbers of people can be used for contact tracing and movement monitoring during COVID- 19. The government of India nodal ministries can also monitor the movement of migrants though this portal. "I urge upon you to use the online portal NMIS for capturing the information on movement of migrants and for better inter-state co-ordination," Bhalla said. Movement of migrant workers during lockdown has become a humanitarian crisis with thousands of them were seen walking on roads and railways tracks ignoring government pleas to stay back at the place where they are. At least 16 such people were mowed down by a goods train in Maharashtra while at least 25 others were killed in road accidents in different parts of the country. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ndma-develops-central-repository-dashboard-for-migrant-workers-838452.html
16-05-2020||National||Courting death and injury, scores of migrants killed in accidents on way home||Hit-and-runs, collisions and even a train speeding down the tracks have killed scores of migrants since the lockdown began and injured many more making a perilous journey home along roads that are empty, winding and seemingly endless.   As vehicles careen down deserted roads and lakhs of migrants are on the move -- packed into trucks and tempos, riding rickety cycles or just walking towards their villages, hundreds, maybe thousands, of kilometres away – the death count from accidents rises inexorably with each day of the lockdown. The SaveLife Foundation, a non-profit organisation working towards curbing road accidents in the country, has recorded nearly 2,000 road crashes and 368 deaths from March 25 when the lockdown began to May 16 (11 am). Of these, 139 deaths are of migrants travelling back home, 27 of essential workers and 202 of others, it said. "Of the total 368 deaths reported, over 100 were recorded from Uttar Pradesh alone. The top five states in this tally include Madhya Pradesh (30), Telangana (22), Maharashtra (19) and Punjab (17). The most common factor for these road crashes was speeding," SaveLife Foundation CEO Piyush Tewari told PTI. As the numbers spiralled, slowly, steadily and then in what appeared to be a torrent, a pattern emerged. Many of the tragedies occurred in the dark, which is when it is cooler to walk, and many people were caught in their sleep. That’s what happened on Saturday too, when a trailer rammed into a stationary truck in the pre-dawn darkness around 3.30 am on a highway near Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh, killing at least 24 people and injuring 36. The vehicles, one headed from Delhi to Madhya Pradesh and the other to Rajasthan, were ferrying labourers to their homes, Some of the workers had stopped for tea and others were possibly sleeping by the roadside or in the vehicles when the crash occurred. Most of those killed were from Jharkhand and West Bengal, and some from Kushinagar in eastern Uttar Pradesh, officials said as reports suggested that some of the victims may have been crushed under cement bags loaded in one of the vehicles. A few hours later, tragedy unfolded in Sagar, Madhya Pradesh, when five migrant workers going from Maharashtra to Uttar Pradesh were killed when a truck carrying them overturned on the Sagar-Kanpur Road. The combination of no traffic and speeding vehicles has led to havoc, endangering the lives of those who found themselves without work or money in the coronavirus-induced lockdown and were frantic to get home, any which way.   Over this week alone, there have been multiple accidents reported from Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. In Guna, Madhya Pradesh, for instance, as many as 14 migrants were killed and around 60 injured in two different road accidents on Thursday and Friday. On Friday, six migrant workers were killed and 95 injured in separate road accidents across Uttar Pradesh. And the day before, six migrant workers walking from Punjab to Bihar were killed in Muzaffarnagar in the state when they were hit by a roadways bus on the Delhi-Saharanpur Highway, officials said. With no compass to guide them on their treacherous inter-state journey home and perhaps to escape the police, many people also walk along railway tracks. On May 8, it cost 16 lives. In perhaps the most gruesome of accidents, 16 migrant workers going to Madhya Pradesh were mowed down by freight train when they dozed off on the tracks near Aurangabad in Maharashtra. In a chilling reflection of the hunger and deprivation that led the group of 20 men working in a steel unit in Jalna – four of them survived – the ‘rotis’ they had packed to see them through the journey lay scattered on the tracks. The same morning, hundreds of kilometres away, a migrant labourer couple, Krishna Sahu (45) and his wife Pramila (40), were run over by an unidentified vehicle on their way from Lucknow to Chhattisgarh. The couple, on a bicycle, were with their two children, both under five years, who survived the crash. Reduced to statistics as they undertake their own personal odysseys, challenging the odds but not always triumphing them, there was a back story everywhere. Some lockdown induced road accidents were reported as early as March 28 when four migrants were run over by a truck on the Maharashtra-Gujarat border. According to Indian Express, the four, part of a group of seven which wanted to reach their villages in Rajasthan after crossing into Gujarat, had just begun walking after taking some rest when a truck came from behind and rammed into them.   v Two days later, 40-year-old labourer Sukh Lal Ahirwar died in Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh after a car hit him. Ahirwar and his wife had walked for two straight days from Delhi towards their home in Tikamgarh in Madhya Pradesh and were resting on a road divider when the accident took place, reported the Hindi daily Nayi Duniya. Those who survive have no option but continue the journey. Like the group of 20 labourers who left in a tempo from Mumbai to Lucknow on May 10.   The 1,400-km journey had barely begun when the tempo met with an accident, killing their driver. The driver had spoken to the news channel NDTV just hours earlier. "There are lots of problems. We don't have anything to eat. We had rations till now, so we were eating that. Now, we are heading out. We will travel somehow in this," one of those in the group told the channel. There were also reports of a woman and her six-year-old daughter who were part of a group travelling between Maharashtra and Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh in an autorickshaw.  They had travelled almost 1,300 km when the autorickshaw was hit by a truck just short of their destination in Fatehpur. The Railways has organised "Shramik Special trains" and ferried at least 12 lakh migrants to their homes since May 1. "To bring back the workers till date, the Railways has operated 1,034 Shramik Special trains. Out of which 106 were operated yesterday (Friday). Uttar Pradesh and Bihar has taken steps positively and 80 per cent of the total Shramik Special trains have been operated by these two states," Union minister Piyush Goyal tweeted on Saturday. But if the thousands of workers and their families still trudging their way home, however they can, is any indication, it might be too little too late. India accounts for one of the highest road crashes fatalities in the world with an estimated 1.5 lakh people killed in about five lakh accidents a year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/courting-death-and-injury-scores-of-migrants-killed-in-accidents-on-way-home-838453.html
16-05-2020||National||Railways to run Shramik Special trains to ferry migrants from districts: Piyush Goyal||To quick ferry stranded migrants to their home state, the Centre on Saturday said the Railways is ready to run ''Shramik Special'' trains from any district in the country, and asked district collectors to prepare a list of migrant workers stranded in their regions. "To provide relief to migrant labour, Indian Railways is ready to run "Shramik Special" trains from any District in the Country. District Collectors should prepare lists of stranded labour & destination and apply to Railways through the State nodal officer," the Railways Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. "Along with this, the District Collectors should give a list and destination to the State Nodal Officer of Railways," the Minister said. The Minister made amnouncement following a large number of migrants try to reach their home state through walk or travelling in trucks or autos. For past few days Goyal had been requesting state to take steps to receive more Shramik Special trains carrying migrant workers. The railways Transporting more than 2 lakh migrants per day for last 3 days. This will be ramped up to 3 lakh a day in coming days. More than 14 lakh brought back to their home states, the railway official said. So far railway operated 1074 trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-run-shramik-special-trains-to-ferry-migrants-from-districts-piyush-goyal-838454.html
16-05-2020||National||Step up vigil, engage community leaders, Centre tells 30 worst-hit areas||Centre on Saturday (May 16) asked officers from 30 municipal areas spread across 12 states to step up vigilance and monitoring in old cities, urban slums and high-density pockets as India’s COVID-19 count surpassed that of China with 85,940 confirmed cases. According to the Centre, five cities – Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Pune and Chennai – together account for 50% of the country’s coronavirus cases, while 13 other cities have 29% of the total patients with the infection. Health Secretary Preeti Sudan summoned a meeting of top officers from the 30 municipal areas that account for 79% of COVID-19 cases. She asked the officers to focus on effective risk communication in order to build trust and confidence and to engage with community leaders and local opinion leaders who could accompany the local surveillance teams to encourage cooperation from the local communities. Sudan underscored the need to consider challenges such as poor socio-economic conditions, limited health infrastructure, lack of social distancing and issues faced by women in the densely populated urban areas. Besides the five cities mentioned above, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad in Maharashtra, Indore and Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh, Surat and Vadodara in Gujarat, Jaipur and Jodhpur in Rajasthan, Kolkata in West Bengal, Hyderabad in Telangana, Agra in Uttar Pradesh and Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh are the high caseload districts identified by the Centre. Some of these 18 cities have multiple municipal areas.  The Health Ministry also issued separate guidelines for preparedness and response to COVID-19 in Urban Settlements that ask urban local bodies to appoint a special commander to specific settlements to plan and implement strategies to contain the spread of infection. On Saturday morning, India’s COVID-19 count spiked by 3,970 to touch 85,940, surpassing China’s confirmed cases 82,941. The death toll also increased by 103 to 2,752, according to the Health Ministry. A separate DH Covid-19 Tracker put the total number of confirmed cases at 88,530 and the death toll at 2,790 at 8:30 p.m. on Saturday. The Centre asked the officials from the 30 municipal areas to define the geographic area of containment zones based on factors like mapping of cases & contacts, geographical dispersion of cases and contacts with well-demarcated perimeter and enforceability.  For Municipal Corporations, residential colony/mohallas/municipal wards or police-station area/municipal zones/towns etc. can be designated as containment zones, as appropriate, an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/step-up-vigil-engage-community-leaders-centre-tells-30-worst-hit-areas-838455.html
16-05-2020||National||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announces reforms in Defence, Space and Atomic Energy||India on Saturday decided to ban the import of certain military items to boost indigenous defence production, hiked the FDI limit in defence and opened up space and atomic energy sectors to private companies in tune with the Centre’s recent push towards self-reliance. In one of the most significant reforms in the defence sector, the defence ministry for the first time would come out with a negative list of weapons for imports. The list will have a year-wise timeline so that the military would not face any inconvenience from the immediate need of any weapons.  The import ban would come with indigenization of the spares that are currently imported and a separate provision in the budget to buy military hardware from the domestic manufacturers, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said at a press conference. Sitharaman also announced hiking the FDI limit in defence manufacturing under automatic route up to 74% from the existing level of 49%. However, its immediate impact is not clear as currently there are provisions even for 100% FDI in the defence sector under special circumstances with approval from the government. Opening up big-ticket defence manufacturing was one of the aims of the Narendra Modi-led NDA government that wanted to ride on defence manufacturing for large scale job creation. But arms majors like Boeing, Airbus, Lockheed, Raytheon, Saab and Denel would have to examine the details of the proposal more closely to determine if they can invest more in the Indian market. In the past 19 years, India attracted only a measly FDI of $ 8.8 million (Rs 66 crore) in the defence sector, according to a Defence Ministry response to a query submitted in the Lok Sabha.  The defence procurement process would be made faster because of the establishment of a project management unit and realistic framing of general staff qualitative requirements (tender specifications). Besides, the trial and testing procedures would be overhauled. However, most of the announcements have barely any link to providing immediate relief to COVID-19 victims and some of the decisions like a private-public partnership in deep space missions are downright bizarre. “When migrants can’t reach home safely, the Finance Minister is talking of opening up planetary exploration and outer space travel to the private sector. It’s bizarre,” commented Congress leader Jairam Ramesh. Other announcements in the space sector are allowing private sectors to use ISRO facilities and other assets to improve their capacities besides providing a level playing field for private companies with predictable policy and regulatory environment. In the atomic energy, private players would now be allowed to partner with the Department of Atomic Energy to make research reactors for the production of medical isotopes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-announces-reforms-in-defence-space-and-atomic-energy-838466.html
16-05-2020||National||Chhattisgarh to give 5 kg free foodgrains to migrants for 2 months||Migrant labourers who have returned to Chhattisgarh from other states will get free food grains for the months of May and June from fair price shops as per a decision taken on Saturday by Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, said an official here. The move would help migrants who have returned amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown and do not have ration cards under any scheme of the state or Centre, the public relations department official said. "They will be provided 5 kg of free food grains per person each month in May and June. Under the scheme, about 10.38 thousand tonnes of food grains have been allocated. The state's civil supplies corporation and consumer protection department has issued a directive to all district collectors for its implementation," he said. In the circular, the district administration has been asked to make a list of beneficiaries taking the help of officials of panchayat and rural development, revenue and labour departments, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-to-give-5-kg-free-foodgrains-to-migrants-for-2-months-838480.html
16-05-2020||National||Every single request of states to facilitate transportation of migrants considered: Jitendra Singh||The Centre is seriously considering every single request of state governments to facilitate transportation of migrant workers, Union minister Jitendra Singh said on Saturday. During a video conference with chief secretaries and senior officials of the eight northeastern states, Singh said a mechanism has been put in place to receive the list of passengers from governments of the northeastern region while the Ministry for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) coordinates with resident commissioners and nodal officers for smooth transportation of migrant workers and other people. Every request from any state government is being seriously followed up, he said. Singh, the minister for DoNER, cited an example from Friday when a train from Gujarat going to Guwahati accommodated passengers of different states, including Meghalaya.   In response to a demand from certain states for the resumption of flight services to Guwahati, Singh said the  decision will be taken at an appropriate time by the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Civil Aviation. About the resumption of more trains, he said the matter has already been taken up with the Railway Ministry and they have started working on these lines.   During the video conference, the minister discussed COVID-19 follow up with chief secretaries and senior officers, a press release said. In the conference, representatives from governments of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura provided inputs regarding the current scenario about the movement of migrant labourers and others from different parts of the country, the impact of prime minister's Rs 20 lakh crore economic package and assessment about the relaxations to be given in the days to come.   Singh put on record his appreciation of the manner in which all the state governments had conducted judiciously and intelligently in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. As a result of this, he said, the northeast has been appreciated all over for the manner in which it managed to contain the spread of the virus. Singh said one of the priorities of the Ministry of DoNER in the coming days would be to resume the work of development projects which got held up. He said an attempt would be made to put it on fast track so that the scheduled timelines could be met. The chief secretaries also gave their assessment about the feasibility of bringing about relaxations in the respective states and different areas in the days to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/every-single-request-of-states-to-facilitate-transportation-of-migrants-considered-jitendra-singh-838481.html
16-05-2020||National||Fourth tranche of economic package will boost job opportunities: PM||The economic measures announced by his government on Saturday will create many business opportunities and contribute to economic transformation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said. Taking to Twitter, the prime minister said important sectors such as coal, minerals, defence, aviation, space and atomic energy have been covered in the announcements made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday. Sitharaman on Saturday announced the fourth tranche of an overall package of Rs 20 lakh crore to deal with the economic fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic. In bold reforms aimed at boosting sagging economy, the government announced an easing of limits on foreign direct investment in defence manufacturing, privatisation of six more airports, opening up of more air space and allowing private sector in commercial coal mining. "The measures and reforms announced will create many business opportunities and contribute to economic transformation," Modi said. Important sectors such as coal, minerals, defence, aviation, space and atomic energy have been covered in the announcements by the FM today. The measures and reforms announced will create many business opportunities and contribute to economic transformation. In his address to the nation on Tuesday, Prime Minister Modi had introduced massive new financial incentives on top of the previously announced packages for a combined stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore yo boost the economy hit by coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fourth-tranche-of-economic-package-will-boost-job-opportunities-pm-838488.html
16-05-2020||National||Police use ‘mild force’ to disperse migrant workers blocking national highway||Police on Saturday had to use ‘mild force’ to disperse a group of migrant labourers who blocked the national highway near here, demanding to be sent back to their native states. Some migrant workers reached Karera Khurd village near here after covering long distances on foot and bicycles from neighbouring Punjab. Some other migrants, who had already been accommodated in a relief shelter, also joined them and came out on the Yamunanagar-Panchkula National Highway. Police said these migrants blocked the highway from both sides, causing heavy disruptions in traffic. The police tried to convince them to lift the blockade, but migrants persisted with their demand to make immediate arrangements to send them to their native states UP, Bihar and elsewhere. The police then used “mild force” after which migrant labourers were seen running into the adjoining fields, leaving behind their luggage on roads and in fields. Officials said the migrant workers coming from Punjab and entering the district were accommodated in a relief shelter. The administration assured workers that arrangements were being made to send them home. Some migrants, however, claimed that it has been days and their patience had run out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-use-mild-force-to-disperse-migrant-workers-blocking-national-highway-838513.html
16-05-2020||National||Reform measures to boost defence production in India: Niti Aayog||Niti Aayog vice chairman Rajiv Kumar on Saturday said the reform measures announced by the finance minister will play a major role in paving the way for an Aatma Nirbhar Bharart in defence production, strengthen India's self-reliance and boost Make in India. Kumar further said that announcements will give a boost to the domestic aviation sector. Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant termed  reforms announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as pathbreaking. "Despite having massive resources of minerals and coal, we import (Rs) 5 lakh crore of minerals & (Rs) 1.7 lakh crore of Coal. We were totally import dependent. Commercial Coal mining & putting 500 mines for bidding is transformational," Kant said in a tweet. In bold reforms aimed at boosting sagging economy, the government on Saturday announced an easing of limits on foreign direct investment in defence manufacturing, privatisation of six more airports, opening up of more air space and allowing private sector in commercial coal mining. Also, the list of weapons that cannot be imported will be expanded to give Make-in-India a boost. The private sector will also be involved in the Indian space programme, including in future projects for planetary exploration and outer space travel as well as satellite launches. Announcing the fourth tranche of the economic stimulus package that largely dealt with reforms and almost negligible new investment, Sitharaman said foreign investors would be allowed to own up to a 74 per cent stake in defence manufacturing ventures under the automatic route, up from the current 49 per cent limit. This would be subject to security clearance norms, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reform-measures-to-boost-defence-production-in-india-niti-aayog-838514.html
16-05-2020||National||2 Delhi Police officers test COVID-19 positive||An assistant commissioner of police and a station house officer have tested positive for coronavirus in southeast Delhi, officials said on Saturday. Seventeen policemen who were in contact with the ACP and the SHO have been quarantined, a senior police officer said, adding that further contact tracing is underway. Nearly 180 Delhi Police personnel have tested positive for coronavirus so far, of them 78 have recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-delhi-police-officers-test-covid-19-positive-838524.html
16-05-2020||National||Delhi: Driver of OSD to President Ram Nath Kovind dies after tree falls on him||A 36-year-old driver of an officer on special duty (OSD) to President Ram Nath Kovind died after a tree fell on him due to the heavy rainfall here, police said on Saturday. The incident took place near Rashtrapati Bhawan on Thursday. Arshad was on his way to his residential quarters when it started raining heavily... He took shelter under a tree which eventually fell on him. He sustained injuries on his face and abdomen, a senior police officer said. An ambulance from Rashtrapati Bhawan took Arshad to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital where he died during treatment, police said. The body is being preserved at the mortuary and his samples have been sent for a coronavirus test. His funeral will take place according to the COVID-19 test report, the officer said. Arshad is survived by his wife and two children aged 6 and 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-driver-of-osd-to-president-ram-nath-kovind-dies-after-tree-falls-on-him-838526.html
16-05-2020||National||Find out novel ways for revival of economy, not the failed ideas: BMS||RSS-backed Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) on Saturday asked the government to "find novel ways to revive the economy and not failed ideas". The comments came after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled the fourth edition of the revival package for the economy facing the impact of lockdown to combat COVID-19. "The fourth day of announcements of FM is a sad day for the nation and its people, who were on a euphoria hearing the first three days’ announcements," a BMS statement said. Eight Sectors (Coal, Minerals, Defence Production, Airspace management, airports, Power distribution, Space, Atomic Energy) are in focus but the government saying that it has no option except privatization is a show of dearth of ideas on economic revival in times of crisis, it said. The impact of every change first falls adversely on employees. For employees, privatisation means massive job loss, below quality jobs will be generated, profit-making and exploitation will be the rule in the sector, it said. The government becoming shy of consultation and dialogue with trade unions, social representatives and stakeholders shows lack of confidence in their own ideas and is highly condemnable, it said. "For our policymakers structural reforms and competition mean privatisation. But we have recently experienced, in time of crisis private players and market were paralysed and public sector played the crucial role," it opined. Coal privatisation and for that purpose allotting Rs 50,000 crore is highly objectionable, it said. Seamless mining, auctioning 500 mining blocks including bauxite and coal blocks, rationalising stamp duty for that purpose is against national interest, it added. Raising the FDI limit for the defence from 49 per cent to 74 per cent in the name of reducing huge defence bill and corporatisation of ordinance factory board is objectionable, it pointed out. "Privatisation of space, ISRO, space exploration also will have serious consequences to our security. We depend on space for many security and surveillance measures which are dangerous to be privatised. Indian start-ups are not so much equipped to take up space challenges," it said. Even atomic energy is being converted to PPP mode which is a major step towards privatisation, it opined. Corporatisation and PPP are the routes for privatisation, and privatisation is the route for "foreignization", it held.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/find-out-novel-ways-for-revival-of-economy-not-the-failed-ideas-bms-838530.html
16-05-2020||National||Raising FDI cap to 74 pc in defence manufacturing will be "game changer": Rajnath Singh||The government's decision to raise the FDI limit in defence manufacturing to 74 per cent from 49 per cent under the automatic route will prove to be a "game changer" as it will help in realising India's true potential in production of weapons and military hardware, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday. His reaction came after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled a series of long-pending reforms for the defence sector which included making provisions for separate budgetary outlay to procure Indian-made military hardware, increasing the FDI limit and generating a year-wise negative list of weapons which can't be imported. Sitharaman, a former defence minister, also announced corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board, a nearly 200-year-old organisation that operates 41 ammunition production facilities across the country. The decision is aimed at enhancing efficiency in functioning of the organisation. "The FDI limit in the defence manufacturing under automatic route has now been raised from 49 per cent to 74 per cent. This decision will unleash the true potential of Indian defence production capabilities through ‘Make in India’. The announcements made today will prove to be a Game Changer," the defence minister tweeted. It is expected that increasing the FDI cap will encourage global defence majors like Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Airbus and Dassault Aviation to set up manufacturing hubs in India and bring niche technology without hesitation as the firms will have majority stakes in their Indian subsidiaries. At present, up to 100 per cent FDI is allowed in the defence manufacturing on a case-to-case basis. In February, Prime Minister Narendra Modi set a target of USD 5 billion worth of military exports in the next five years and invited global defence majors to set up manufacturing hubs in India. In another initiative, the government has also decided to encourage domestic production of spare parts of military systems procured from defence majors abroad. It has been a long-standing grievance of armed forces that supply of critical spares and equipment from several countries including Russia takes a long time affecting maintenance of military systems procured from those countries. The government has been taking a series of measures in the last four years to promote the domestic defence industry. In 2017, the government came up with an ambitious policy under which select private firms were to be roped in to build key military platforms like submarines and fighter jets in India in partnership with global defence majors. Singh said that Saturday's announcements for the defence sector will go a long way in "unshackling" the economy in many ways. He said corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Boards (OFB) has been the topmost priority of the government. "The corporatisation will improve the efficiency of our ordnance supplies and factories," he added. Sitharaman also said that a list of weapons and platforms will be notified which will not be allowed to be imported, adding the move is aimed at promoting Make in India in the defence sector. "In defence, we need to be self reliant where we can be. Of course, armed forces required best of equipment, they need some of the latest technology-driven equipment which can be imported," she said. In her announcement, Sitharaman also said the process for General Staff Qualitative Requirements (GSQRs) will be made realistic. In GSQRs, the armed forces define criteria to procure platforms and hardware. India was among the world’s three top importers of military hardware in the last eight years. According to a latest report by Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), a leading think-tank on military spending, India's defence expenditure stood at USD 71.1 billion in 2019, which is third highest after the US and China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raising-fdi-cap-to-74-pc-in-defence-manufacturing-will-be-game-changer-rajnath-singh-838536.html
16-05-2020||National||Close red-light areas, prevent 72% COVID-19 cases: Yale, Harvard study||India can avoid 72% of COVID-19 cases and 63% of COVID-19 deaths after lockdown by closing red-light areas of major cities, according to a new report by academicians from two of the world’s top medical schools. Such a step could also delay the peak of the epidemic by another 17 days. With India beginning to ease the lockdown, redlight areas, where commercial sex workers reside and work, could emerge as hotspots due to a combination of factors. Carried out by the researchers at Yale School of Medicine and Harvard Medical School, the study shows if the red-light areas start operating, the disease will spread extremely quickly and infect a very high percentage of sex workers and customers. The high transmission rate is due to the fact that social distancing is not possible in this business. Japan experienced a similar problem. According to National Aids Control Organisation (NACO) estimates, there are close to 6,37,500 sex workers in India and nearly five lakh customers visit red-light areas on a daily basis. The yet-to-be-peer reviewed study looks at the problems at red-light areas in five Indian cities four of which are in the COVID-19 red-zone and account for some of the largest red-light areas in the country with a large numbers of sex workers. According to the study, if red-light areas remain closed even after lifting of the lockdown, there can be a delay in the peak of COVID-19 cases by up to 12 days in Mumbai, 17 days in New Delhi, 29 days in Pune, 30 days in Nagpur, and 36 days in Kolkata. Further, it can reduce the cases by 21% in Mumbai, 27% in Pune, 31% in New Delhi, 56% in Nagpur, and 66% in Kolkata in a 45-day period. For the country, the figure stands at 72% “We shared the findings with five state governments as well as Karnataka,” Sudhakar Nuti, co-author of the report from the Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/close-red-light-areas-prevent-72-covid-19-cases-yale-harvard-study-838539.html
16-05-2020||National Politics||Stop being moneylender, reconsider financial package: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday asked the Modi government to reconsider the Rs 20 lakh crore financial package contending that thousands of people in distress need money in the bank accounts and not bank loans. Addressing a press conference through a video link, Rahul also asked the government not to behave like a ‘sahukar’ (money lender) but consider implementing the minimum income support scheme NYAY mooted by the Congress in its Lok Sabha election manifesto. “When a child is hurt, the mother doesn’t offer a loan...today, when migrant workers are walking on the roads, money needs to be put in their pockets. Bharat Mata (Mother India) should not act as a ‘moneylender’ (sahukar) to her children. Bharat Mata should give money to her children because they are in need,” Rahul said. The former Congress President said he had serious reservation about the nature of the financial package given by the government. “I would like the government to reconsider,” he said and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to start putting money into the bank accounts of farmers, migrant workers, small businesses. “...because, if we do not, we will have a catastrophic effect… it is going to be much worse than what we have seen and overshadow the Covid disease,” Rahul, who represents Wayanad in the Lok Sabha said. He said being the leader of an opposition party, it was his duty to put pressure on the government, but refused to indulge in blame game. “We will put pressure on the government with love to make them accept our proposals,” Rahul said. The former Congress President said a ‘storm’ was brewing on the economic front that will cause damage and hurt many. “The storm has not come yet, it is coming and will cause big economic damage and hurt many,” he said, making a strong case for coming out of the lockdown intelligently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/stop-being-moneylender-reconsider-financial-package-rahul-gandhi-838370.html
16-05-2020||National Politics||Centre's 'botched up lockdown' responsible for deaths of migrant workers: TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday slammed the Centre over the death of 24 migrant workers in an accident in Uttar Pradesh and blamed its "botched up lockdown" and "arrogant" approach for the suffering of lakhs of them across the country. The migrant workers were killed and 36 injured when a trailer rammed into a stationary truck, both carrying passengers, on a highway near Uttar Pradesh's Auraiya district early this morning, police said. The impact of the collision, the latest in a series of road tragedies involving migrant workers returning to their villages, was so huge that both vehicles overturned and fell into a ditch. The Centre should have ensured that the migrant workers return home safely but instead, it is busy blaming the state governments, TMC MP Sougata Roy said. The Centre's sudden decision to announce the lockdown has led to such a mess and every day there are reports of migrants getting killed in accidents or committing suicide, Roy said. The TMC-led West Bengal dispensation, which has been under fire from the Centre for not doing enough to bring back its migrant workers, blamed the central government's "lack of farsightedness" for the migrant crisis in the country. Senior party leader and MP Abhishek Banerjee said in a tweet, "The painful loss of lives of #MigrantWorkers forced to take desperate measures to return to their native places is a result of a botched up lockdown led by an arrogant and insensitive Govt that fails even to take cognisance of the existence & suffering of millions."  Rendered jobless due to the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25, and desperate to get home, migrant workers across the country are undertaking long and arduous journeys to their native places on foot, on bicycles or packed into trucks. Over the past few days, many have been killed in accidents in different parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centres-botched-up-lockdown-responsible-for-deaths-of-migrant-workers-tmc-838400.html
16-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus lockdown: Rahul Gandhi interacts with home-bound migrant workers amid lockdown||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday interacted with a group of migrant labourers near the Sukhdev Vihar flyover here and asked them about their problems as they walk home amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Gandhi, dressed in a black pant and white Kurta, was seen sitting on the footpath and talking to migrant labourers near the Sukhdev Vihar flyover about their ordeal. The Congress claimed that the police detained the labourers later in preventive custody saying they have "direction from top to do so". There was no immediate reaction from the police to the Congress party's claim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-rahul-gandhi-interacts-with-home-bound-migrant-workers-amid-lockdown-838426.html
16-05-2020||National Politics||Govt using coronavirus pandemic to privatise assets, say Left parties||The Left parties on Saturday hit out at the government over its latest economic package, accusing it of using the COVID-19 pandemic to “impose the agenda of the rich” and trying to privatise the country’s public assets. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday announced various economic stimulus for eight sectors of coal, minerals, defence production, air space management, airports, MRO, distribution companies in UTs, space sector and atomic energy. “Using this Pandemic lockdown to unilaterally impose the agenda of the rich, Foreign & Domestic Capital for more super-profits is inhuman. Looting national assets destroys Self Reliance,” said CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury in a tweet. “The central govt must clearly state how it has used the lockdown (which at least cost India 140 million jobs and so many lives) to bolster public health. The Centre had projected zero deaths for today!,” he added in his tweet. He also said more than 30 migrants were killed on roads on Saturday due to the “gross mismanagement by Modi government”. “Its ministers didn't have the basic decency and humanity to remember those unfortunate ones, while going on to dish out their daily litany of old jumlas,” he said. CPI general secretary D Raja said the announcement by the finance minister was nothing but a push for privatisation and corporatisation. “Having failed to address the coronavirus crisis, this government is trying to push through its agenda of neo-liberal economic structure. It is meant to encourage and strengthen privatisation and corporatisation. It is very deceitful. It is ironical that on one side, they speak of ‘aatmanirbhar bharat’, but they are handing over the entire economy to the private sector,” he said. The CPI has also announced a nationwide protest on May 19, demanding measures to address grievances of the migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-using-coronavirus-pandemic-to-privatise-assets-say-left-parties-838435.html
16-05-2020||National Politics||Shah praises Modi, Sitharaman for 'landmark' reform initiatives||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday complimented Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharamam for the "landmark" reform initiatives in defence, aviation, coal and some other sectors, saying these were unprecedented steps to make India self-reliant. In a series of tweets, Shah said the prime minister's 'mantra' of 'reform, perform and transform' is the key of India's phenomenal growth in the last six years. "I thank PM @narendramodi & FM @nsitharaman for today's landmark decisions which will surely boost our economy and further our efforts towards Atmanirbhar Bharat," he said. PM Modi‘s mantra of Reform, Perform & Transform is the key of India’s phenomenal growth in the last 6 years. The home minister said Rs 50,000 crore for infrastructure development in coal sector and introduction of commercial mining is a welcome policy reform which will bring more competition and transparency. "I congratulate PM Modi for this unprecedented step to make India self-reliant in coal production. A strong, secure and empowered India is PM @narendramodi's top most priority," he said. Shah said raising the FDI limit in defence manufacturing to 74 per cent and banning import of selected weapons and platforms with year-wise timelines will surely boost 'Make in India' and reduce the country's import burden. He thanked the prime minister for the "futuristic decisions" to push aviation sector. "By easing out restrictions on utilisation of air space, our aviation sector will be benefited by about Rs 1000 crore/year. Tax regime for MRO has been rationalised to make India a global hub for aircraft MRO," he said. The home minister also applaud Modi for decisions like providing Rs 8,100 crore revamped viability gap funding to boost private sector investment in social infrastructure and encouraging private participation in space activities so that they can become a co-traveller in India's space journey. Sitharamam on Saturday announced the fourth tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package under the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' campaign covering eight sectors including coal, minerals, defence production, space, airspace management, airports and power distribution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shah-praises-modi-sitharaman-for-landmark-reform-initiatives-838465.html
16-05-2020||National Politics||FM's announcements signal major economic reforms to realise goal of self-reliant India: J P Nadda||The BJP on Saturday said the structural reforms announced by the government in various sectors will attract investment and help India in realising its aim of becoming a USD 5-trillion economy. "I congratulate Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji for translating self-reliant India vision into reality with emphasis on procurement of indigenously produced notified weapons/platforms for armed forces,” BJP president J P Nadda said. In series of tweets, Nadda said that the indigenisation of imported spares will give a fillip to 'Make in India' and lower imports. Welcoming the announcements related to Rs 20-lakh crore economic package made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday, Nadda said, “These policy reform announcements will attract huge investments into defence, coal, mining, power, social infrastructure, aviation, space, atomic energy sectors and help in realising India's aim of a USD 5 trillion economy. Structural reforms will bring a new horizon of growth.” Nadda said that the announcements made by Sitharaman signal major economic reforms to realise the goal of self-reliant India envisioned by Prime Minister Modi. These announcements will have direct impact on 10 key sectors of the economy and will significantly contribute to a stronger, self-reliant India, he said. Terming the announcements as landmark reform initiatives, Union Home Minister and senior party leader Amit Shah suggested that this package is in line with the Modi government’s mantra of “reform, perform and transform”, which has been key to phenomenal growth of the country in the last six years. Sitharaman on Saturday announced the fourth tranche of an overall package of Rs 20 lakh crore to deal with the economic fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fms-announcements-signal-major-economic-reforms-to-realise-goal-of-self-reliant-india-j-p-nadda-838483.html
16-05-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi knows how to handle 'storms': BJP responds to Rahul Gandhi||Hitting back at Rahul Gandhi, the BJP on Saturday said the government has transferred cash into accounts of the poor and the needy during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown through various channels and asserted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi knows how to handle "storms". Interacting with journalists of regional media, the Congress leader on Saturday pitched for direct cash transfer to the poor saying the government shouldn't act like “money lender”, and cautioned that “a storm is brewing” on the economic front that will cause damage and hurt many. Taking on the Congress leader, BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra said it is easy to “forecast storm while standing under a light house on a beach”, but it is a different thing to face it. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has the quality to face storms and take them head on. He sailed out the country smoothly when there was tsunami of corruption and policy-paralysis in 2014 due to misrule of the Congress-led UPA. So, Rahul Gandhi should be rest assured,” Patra said. Underlining that the Modi government has achieved in the last six years what the Congress could not in its 70 years of rule, Patra said, “Those who were opposing AADHAAR and JAM (Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-mobile) trinity are today talking in favour of it. And to provide immediate relief, cash has been transferred in account of crores of poor through various channels.” Besides providing immediate help, the government has initiated various reforms which will ensure growth and employment to the poor, the BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-knows-how-to-handle-storms-bjp-responds-to-rahul-gandhi-838525.html
16-05-2020||National Politics||Government's economic package an exercise in futility: Congress||The Congress on Saturday said the fourth tranche of the economic package announced by the government was an "exercise in absolute futility" and asked what has it given to those most-affected by the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. Congress spokesman Gaurav Vallabh asked whether the government has anything to offer to the migrant labour or farmer who has suffered the most due to the pandemic. "My one line comment on FM's fourth tranche: No fiscal measure, ZILCH," former Finance Minister P Chidambaram said. Vallabh, meanwhile, said his party also opposes the government proposal to increase FDI in defence from 49 to 74 per cent, saying it has "serious national security ramifications", and add that the UPA government had specifically rejected a proposal to increase FDI in defence manufacturing. "We strongly object to privatization of Ordnance Factories. In fact, these factories require modernization and not privatisation in the name of corporatization. For modernizing ordnance factories, they require new technology, more investment and best practices. We strongly object to handing over of these factories of strategic importance to the private sector," he told reporters. Vallabh, accompanied by party leader Praveen Chakravarty, said they were "bewildered and saddened" after hearing Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. It was an exercise in absolute futility, he added. "The nation is watching millions of our fellow Indians struggling and walking hundreds of kilometers to their home states without food, water, footwear and transport, (but) there was not a single word or help offered to them by the finance minister today," he said. "Instead, she announced measures to make it easier for Indians to travel to space. People want to travel to their states, not space," he said. The Congress leader said many announcements today were positioned and packaged as some major, new announcements. "Does the finance minister believe the nation is in a crisis or not? We have these daily press conferences because the nation is under a severe humanitarian and economic crisis of proportions, not seen since Independence. Does the finance minister not believe so? What is this game of packaging old announcements and policies as new schemes aimed for Covid19 relief," Vallabh said. The Congress leader posed a set of six questions to the prime minister, asking, "Has any migrant worker got a single paisa as relief? Has any farmer got any benefit in any form? Is there anything specific for our 7 crore shopkeepers or the middle-class income-tax payers, who have lost their jobs during this pandemic."  "When people are asking for buses and trains for safe travel to their respective hometowns, you are indulging in freeing-up air space, why? While people are trying to safeguard their spaces in their jobs, you are trying to push for space technology, why?". Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel tweeted, "Our poor are on streets, starving & in pain. Walking back in great agony. They need help, they need support, they need empathy. In pursuance to PM's promise for Corona relief to them, the govt opens up inter planetary space travel for private players. The joke is on our nation."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/governments-economic-package-an-exercise-in-futility-congress-838527.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Ensure directives on safety of migrants returning home being implemented: Mayawati to UP CM||On a day 24 migrant labourers died in a collision between two trucks in Uttar Pradesh's Auraiya, BSP president Mayawati asked Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday to ensure that his directives on the safety of stranded labourers returning home were being implemented by the officials. She asked parties in power at the Centre and different states to rise above petty politics in this hour of crisis and ensure the safety of the migrants trying to make their way home amid the coronavirus-forced lockdown.   "It was only yesterday that I saw the Uttar Pradesh chief minister announcing on TV that all necessary arrangements for migrants are being made. But it seems that officials are not implementing those at ground level which led to a major accident in the state and this is most unfortunate," Mayawati said in a statement. The collision of the truck, both carrying migrant labourers, occurred in Auraiya early in the morning. While one of the truck was coming from Rajasthan, the other was from Delhi. When some of the labourers halted on the Auraiya-Kanpur Dehat Road to have tea at a local shop, the trailer truck hit the stationary vehicle. "Had the officials made arrangements for their food and other things they would not have got down at a tea stall in Auraiya," she said demanding strict action against the officials who have failed to fulfil their responsibility. The BSP supremo also asked the Central and state governments and the Railways to be serious over the issue of sending migrants home safely. "The BJP and Congress are levelling charges against each other. Politics in the name of migrant labourers is not right. Congress governments in states should take care of this issue in their states. Labourers of Punjab and Haryana crossing the river in Saharanpur to reach home. Be it the Congress or BJP government they should send migrants home safely. But they are not paying attention to it," Mayawati said.  She also appealed to migrant labourers not to try to reach home on foot, instead wait for buses and trains. "Instead of walking home, they should go to the nearest railway station. Then the government will be forced to make arrangements for them," she said. The BSP chief asked the government to make proper arrangement for the injured and financial assistance for the victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-directives-on-safety-of-migrants-returning-home-being-implemented-mayawati-to-up-cm-838263.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Shahid Afridi buys Mushfiqur's bat for $ 20,000||Former Pakistan all-rounder Shahid Afridi has bought the bat put up for auction by Bangladesh wicketkeeper-batsman Mushfiqur Rahim for USD 20,000. Last month, Mushfiqur had announced he was auctioning the willow, with which he scored a double hundred against Sri Lanka in 2013, to raise funds for the COVID-19 relief work in his country. Afridi bought the memorabilia for his foundation for USD 20,000. "Shahid Afridi bought my bat on behalf of his foundation. I feel privileged and honoured that someone like him has joined our great cause," Rahim was quoted as saying by ESPNCricinfo. Last week, several fraud bidders had flooded the auction, leading to the suspension of the process. However, Afridi contacted Mushfiqur to buy the bat. "We had to suspend the auction due to some fraud bidders, which was unexpected. Shahid Bhai personally contacted me after seeing the news (of my bat put on auction). He sent an offer letter on May 13 that he was interested to buy for USD 20,000, which is almost BDT 16.8 lakh," Mushfiqur said. Mushfiqur also posted a video message by the former Pakistan skipper on his Twitter handle. "The work you are doing is great. Only real-life heroes do this. We are going through a tough phase in such times we need the love and support of each other," Afridi said in the video. "I want to buy your bat on behalf of all of Pakistan. Our prayers are with you. Hopefully, we will again meet on the cricket ground once this is over," he added. Cricketers have been doing their bit to help the needy in the ongoing global health crisis. India skipper Virat Kohli and former South African batsman AB De Villiers put up their kits from the 2016 Indian Premier League match against Gujarat Lions for auction. England wicketkeeper Jos Buttler raised 65,000 pounds by auctioning his World Cup final shirt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shahid-afridi-buys-mushfiqurs-bat-for-20000-838267.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||MP govt declares nine districts coronavirus-free||The Madhya Pradesh government has declared that nine districts in the state, which had earlier reported COVID-19 cases, were now coronavirus-free. Additional chief secretary (Health) Mohammed Suleman said that the nine districts- Barwani, Agar-Malwa, Shajapur, Sheopur, Alirajpur, Harda, Shahdol, Tikamgarh and Betul- were now free from the infection. It was declared during a review meeting held on Friday. Apart from this, no COVID-19 case has been detected in eight districts of the state so far, Suleman said. Testing has been increased in the state, he said, adding that at least 5,822 swab samples were collected on Friday alone, while 93,849 samples have been tested so far.  Of the 4,595 coronavirus positive cases reported in the state till Friday, 45 per cent were active ones, he added. According to the health department's latest data, COVID-19 cases were reported in 32 districts till May 1 and as of May 15, its footprints extended to 44 out of 52 districts in the state. In some districts, fresh cases were reported following the arrival of migrant workers, an official said. Damoh district recorded its first case on Friday, when a migrant worker, who arrived from Mumbai, tested positive for the infection, he said. Till Friday evening, 239 patients have succumbed to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-govt-declares-nine-districts-coronavirus-free-838268.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||CRPF jawan kills wife, 2 children in Prayagraj||A CRPF jawan posted at Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh allegedly shot dead his wife and two children on Saturday, officials said. They said the incident was reported from the Group Centre of the force in Allahabad early morning. Constable V K Yadav has shot dead his wife, a daughter and son using a pistol, they said. Senior officials of the paramilitary and police have rushed to his house in the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) camp. The jawan is understood to have locked himself up after committing the act, they said. Yadav is posted as a driver with the 224th battalion of the force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-jawan-kills-wife-2-children-in-prayagraj-838270.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi condoles death of migrant labourers in accident in UP||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday expressed his deepest condolences to the families of the migrant labourers killed in the truck collision in Uttar Pradesh's Auraiya district. At least 24 migrant labourers lost their lives and 36 people sustained injuries when a trailer truck carrying them collided with another truck in the early hours of Saturday, police said. "Pained by the news of the death of 24 labourers and injuries to many people in the accident in Uttar Pradesh's Auraiya. I express my deepest condolences to the families of the deceased and wish speedy recovery for those injured," Gandhi said in a tweet. Both the trucks involved in the accident were carrying the labourers. The incident took place between 3 am and 3.30 am. Auraiya, which falls under the Kanpur division, is in south-west Uttar Pradesh. It is on the National Highway-19 and is 400 km away from Delhi and 200 km from Lucknow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-condoles-death-of-migrant-labourers-in-accident-in-up-838277.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Indore's COVID-19 cases go up by 79 to 2,378; death toll at 99||The virus claimed one more life in the district during this period, which took the death toll to 99, the official said. Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Praveen Jadia said that 79 fresh cases and one death were reported in the last 24 hours in Indore, which is one of the worst-affected districts in the country in terms of the coronavirus outbreak.  "A 57-year-old COVID-19 patient died on Friday while undergoing treatment at a private hospital here. This took the death toll in the district to 99," he said. As per the latest data, the district's mortality rate of COVID-19 patients as on Saturday morning was 4.16 per cent. Another state government official said that more than 1,100 patients in the district have recovered from the infection so far. The first COVID-19 cases in Indore were reported on March 24, when four persons tested positive for the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-indores-covid-19-cases-go-up-by-79-to-2378-death-toll-at-99-838278.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, PM Narendra Modi condoles death of 24 migrant workers in UP road accident||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday condoled the death of migrant workers in a road accident in Uttar Pradesh, saying the government is carrying out relief work in full swing. At least 24 migrant labourers lost their lives and 36 people sustained injuries when two trucks collided in Auraiya in the early hours of Saturday. "The accident in Auraiya of Uttar Pradesh is very tragic. The government is carrying out relief work in full swing," the prime minister tweeted. "I express my condolences to the families of those killed and wish the injured recover at the earliest," he said. In his message, Naidu said he was "deeply anguished" by the loss of lives. "My heartfelt condolences to bereaved families & wishes for speedy recovery of the injured," he said. The collision of the trucks, both carrying migrant labourers, occurred in Auraiya early in the morning. While one of the truck was coming from Rajasthan, the other was from Delhi. When some of the labourers halted on the Auraiya-Kanpur Dehat Road to have tea at a local shop, the trailer truck hit the stationary vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-pm-narendra-modi-condoles-death-of-24-migrant-workers-in-up-road-accident-838284.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||JP Nadda condoles death of migrant labourers in road accident in UP||Condoling the death of 24 migrant labourers in a road accident in Uttar Pradesh, BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday asked his party's workers to help the local administration in the relief work.  In a tweet, Nadda said the news of the untimely death of these labourers in the accident has left him very disturbed.  He said that his sympathies are with the victim families and that he prays for the speedy recovery of the injured. At least 24 migrant labourers lost their lives and 36 people sustained injuries when two trucks collided in Auraiya in the early hours of Saturday. The collision of the trucks, both carrying migrant labourers, occurred in Auraiya early in the morning. While one of the truck was coming from Rajasthan, the other was from Delhi. When some of the labourers halted on the Auraiya-Kanpur Dehat Road to have tea at a local shop, the trailer truck hit the stationary vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jp-nadda-condoles-death-of-migrant-labourers-in-road-accident-in-up-838298.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||5 migrants dead, 19 hurt as UP-bound truck overturns in MP||Five migrant workers going to Uttar Pradesh from Maharashtra were killed and 19 others injured when a truck carrying them overturned on Sagar-Kanpur Road, about 70-kms from the district headquarters, on Saturday morning, police said. The incident occurred around 10 am near Semra on NH-86 under Chhanbila Police Station limits, said Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Praveen Bhuria. "Five migrant labourers were killed and 19 others injured, who were rushed to a government hospital in Banda," he said. Bhuria said that the deceased, including three women, were going to Basti district in Uttar Pradesh from Maharashtra along with others. The truck was carrying bundles of clothes, on which these migrants were sitting, he said. Further investigation is underway, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-migrants-dead-19-hurt-as-up-bound-truck-overturns-in-mp-838300.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Cop dies of COVID-19 in Mumbai; 9th death in city police force||An assistant police inspector, who tested positive for COVID-19, succumbed to the infection at a civic-run hospital here on Saturday, an official said. The 33-year-old officer attached to Shahu Nagar police station in Dharavi was found unconscious at his home in the early hours of the day and was rushed to civic-run Lokmanya Tilak Hospital in Sion, where he died, the official said. A resident of Pratiksha Nagar in Sion, the officer had been on sick leave, as he suffered from cold and fever, he said. The deceased had undergone a swab test on Wednesday and his reports came out positive on Saturday, the official said. This is the ninth COVID-19 death to be reported in the Mumbai police force||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cop-dies-of-covid-19-in-mumbai-9th-death-in-city-police-force-838307.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Akhilesh Yadav calls Auraiya accident 'indescribable sadness'; offers financial aid||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday termed the death of 24 migrant labourers in Auraiya as "indescribable" sadness, saying such accidents are "not deaths, but murders". At least 24 migrant labourers lost their lives and 36 people sustained injuries when a trailer truck carrying them collided with another truck in the early hours of Saturday in Auraiya, police said. Both the trucks were carrying the labourers. The incident took place between 3 am and 3.30 am, they said. "Indescribable sadness on the death of over 24 poor migrant labourers in UP's Auraiya. Prayers for the injured persons. Let's see till when the silence maintained by heartless people and their supporters justify this negligence... despite knowing everything, and seeing everything. Such accidents are not deaths, but murder," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. In another tweet, the SP chief said his party will give Rs 1 lakh to the family of each of the deceased. "The news of the death of migrant labourers returning to their homes is heart-wrenching. These are those people who run their homes. Hence, the Samajwadi Party will give Rs 1 lakh to the family of each of the deceased," he said. Yadav also accused the BJP-led state government of being "ruthless" and urged it to take moral responsibility of the incident. "The ruthless BJP government must take moral responsibility, and provide Rs 10 lakh to each of the family of the deceased," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-yadav-calls-auraiya-accident-indescribable-sadness-offers-financial-aid-838308.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||One dies of coronavirus as infection count rises to 4,960 in Rajasthan||One person died of coronavirus in Rajasthan on Saturday as the number of those testing positive for it rose to 4,960 with 213 fresh cases, 119 of which were inmates of the Jaipur district jail. The fresh death was reported from Jaipur, taking the fatality toll to 126 in the state, officials said.   Of the 213 cases reported on Saturday, the maximum of 131 were from Jaipur, including 119 from the district jail.   Twenty-seven cases were reported from Dungarpur; 10 from Sirohi; nine from Udaipur; seven each from Jodhpur, Ajmer and Bhilwara; three each from Nagaur and Tonk; and one each from Barmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Chittorgarh, Jhunjhunu, Kota, Pali and Sikar.   One person from other state also tested positive, according to an official.   In the Jaipur district jail, the infection spread from a prisoner who was brought there in early April. DG (Prisons) NRK Reddy said the prisoner was taken ill and shifted to a hospital where he tested positive for coronavirus.   He said all prisoners and the staff at the jail have been tested. After coronavirus cases surfaced in the jail, the authorities decided to send new prisoners of Jaipur, Alwar and Sawaimadhopur jails to that of Dausa as a temporary measure. “Now, we are not taking new prisoners to the Jaipur, Alwar and Sawaimadhopur jails. They are being sent to the Dausa jail,” he said. The occupants of Dausa jail have been shifted to the Shyalawas jail. In Rajasthan, 2,944 patients have recovered from the infection, leaving 1,890 active cases in the state as of now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-dies-of-coronavirus-as-infection-count-rises-to-4960-in-rajasthan-838317.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Militant hideout busted in Jammu and Kashmir, five arrested||Security forces on Saturday busted a terrorist hideout and arrested five militant associates of Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) in Jammu and Kashmir's Budgam district, police said. Acting on a credible input, security forces arrested a militant associate identified as Zahoor Wani from village Arizal of the district. On his disclosure, the militant hideout was busted, an official said. During the course of the investigation, four more militant associates identified as Younis Mir, Aslam Sheikh, Parvaiz Sheikh and Rehman Lone were arrested. They all are residents of Khansahib area of the district, he said. Incriminating material, including arms and ammunition, was recovered from the hideout, he added. As per police records, they were involved in providing logistic support and shelter to active LeT militants in the area, the official said. He said a case has been registered and further investigation is in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-hideout-busted-in-jammu-and-kashmir-five-arrested-838320.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt suspends 2 SHOs, announces Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia for kin of migrant workers killed in road accident||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday directed suspension SHOs of two police stations and said that stern warning be issued to the circle officers concerned after 24 migrant workers were killed in a road accident near Auraiya. According to a statement issued here, the state government has decided to give Rs 2 lakh to the kin of each deceased and Rs 50,000 to those seriously injured in the accident. The chief minister has also condoled the death of the migrant labourers. "Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday directed that SHOs of two police stations located in state's border area be suspended and stern warning be issued to the circle officers concerned. One of the border districts is Agra," UP Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi was quoted as saying in a statement.  Orders have also been issued to register a case under relevant sections of the IPC against both the truck owners and the vehicles be seized, he said. Besides this, clarification has been sought from the Senior Superintendents of Police and Additional Superintendents of Police of Mathura and Agra. Also, clarification has been sought from ADG and IG of Agra. "The chief minister has said that directions have been given to all the border areas to ensure that no person travels by unsafe means such as trucks. Directions have already been issued to keep 200 buses under the disposal of district magistrates in every district of border areas. Funds have also been approved to send the labourers by buses. The district magistrates must strictly comply with these orders," the statement said. At least 24 migrant workers were killed and 36 injured when a trailer rammed into a stationary truck, both carrying passengers, on a highway near Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh in the early hours of Saturday. Some of the workers coming from Delhi had stopped for tea when the accident occurred between 3 am and 3.30 am on the Auraiya-Kanpur Dehat stretch of National Highway 19, police said. The impact of the collision, the latest in a series of road tragedies involving migrant workers returning to their villages, was so huge that both vehicles overturned and fell into a ditch. Most of those killed were from Jharkhand and West Bengal, and some from Kushinagar in eastern Uttar Pradesh, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-suspends-2-shos-announces-rs-2-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-migrant-workers-killed-in-road-accident-838330.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Centre approves modified DPR of Ujh Multipurpose Project in Jammu and Kashmir||The Centre has given approval to a modified detailed project report (DPR) of the Ujh Multipurpose Project (MPP) in Jammu and Kashmir at an estimated cost of Rs 9,167 crore, an official spokesman said on Saturday. The Central Advisory Committee for consideration of techno-economic viability of major and medium irrigation, flood control and multipurpose project proposals accepted the project proposal subject to certain conditions, keeping in view its strategic importance from Indus Waters Treaty angle for utilisation and regulation of waters flowing across the border, the spokesman said. The modified Ujh MPP is located on river Ujh, one of the main tributaries of river Ravi, in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir. A 116.00 m high dam is proposed at the river with full reservoir level (FRL) at 608 m. The proposed dam site is Barbari village about 1.6 km downstream of Panchtirthi. The powerhouse site is approximately 9.5 km downstream of the dam site near Deoli village. The spokesman said the advisory committee of Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation (DoWR, RD&GR) accorded approval to the modified DPR of the MPP project at a meeting chaired by Union Secretary U P Singh recently. The DPR of Ujh project, which was declared as a national project in 2008, was initially prepared by Indus Basin Organisation of the Central Water Commission in 2013.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-approves-modified-dpr-of-ujh-multipurpose-project-in-jammu-and-kashmir-838336.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 death toll in Delhi rises to 129; 438 fresh cases take tally to 9,333||The city had recorded 472 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike, on Thursday. In a bulletin issued on Saturday, the Delhi health department said, with six more fatalities reported, the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 129.  It, however, said the cumulative death figures refer to fatalities where primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals. On Friday, the total number of cases stood at 8,895, including 123 deaths.  With 438 fresh cases, the total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi has mounted to 9,333.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-death-toll-in-delhi-rises-to-129-438-fresh-cases-take-tally-to-9333-838337.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus cases on the rise in Uttarakhand with return of migrants||All those who tested positive for the disease since the migrants began returning to the hill state are those returning from either Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana or Delhi, a health department official here said.                 Over the last 10 days, 17 new positive cases have been reported in Uttarakhand, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 82.          "All the new cases are of people who have returned to the state from outside," state health department spokesman J C Pandey said.              The increased threat of coronavirus caused by the influx of migrants from different parts of the country, including highly-infected zones, is posing a new challenge to the state government.             "Ever since the migrants began to return to the state, COVID-19 cases have shot up. In the last 10 days, 17 new coronavirus positive cases have surfaced," DG (law and order) Ashok Kumar said.           "In view of the increased threat caused by the migrants returning from worst-hit states like Maharashtra and Gujarat, people need to be extra careful during the next fortnight and strictly follow the guidelines to protect themselves from the deadly disease," he said.            According to an official data, 82,834 out of more than 2 lakh migrants, have returned from outside so far and the process is going to continue for the next 10-15 days.         "People cannot afford to lower their guard as the real threat begins now with the influx of migrants from highly infected states to the rural areas. The influx is going to continue for at least a fortnight," Pandey said.            Asking people to be careful, he urged them to avoid going out unless very necessary and wear masks and maintain social distancing.          Those returning from outside are being mandatorily quarantined for 14 days either at home or a facility and have been warned of action under the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act if they violate quarantine rules and run away to mingle with locals, the DG Law and Order said.            All this is being done for the safety of people by keeping the increased threat at bay, he said.           A random sampling of migrants is being carried out under four different categories, including those above 65 years of age, those returning from hospitals outside the state and those who have returned during the third phase of the lockdown, Health Secretary Nitesh Jha said.         The random sampling of migrants returning by road is being carried out on the border check posts set up in Udhamsingh Nagar, Pauri, Nainital, Haridwar and Dehradun districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cases-on-the-rise-in-uttarakhand-with-return-of-migrants-838340.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Congress, SP term migrants' death in UP 'murder'; BSP asks all to rise above petty politics||Hitting out at the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, the Congress and Samajwadi Party termed the death of 24 migrant workers in a road accident in Auraiya on Saturday "murders", while the BSP asked parties in power to rise above petty politics and ensure the safety of migrants trying to return home amid the lockdown. The Uttar Pradesh unit of the Congress accused the state government of being insensitive towards the plight of migrant workers and demanded Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's resignation over the incident. At least 24 migrant workers were killed and 36 injured when a trailer rammed into a stationary truck, both carrying passengers, on a highway near Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh in the early hours of Saturday. Some of the workers coming from Delhi had stopped for tea when the accident occurred between 3 am and 3.30 am on the Auraiya-Kanpur Dehat stretch of National Highway 19, police said. Most of those killed were from Jharkhand and West Bengal, and some from Kushinagar in eastern Uttar Pradesh, officials said. In a tweet, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav expressed sorrow over the deaths and prayed for the injured, and said, "Let's see for how long those heartless people and their supporters would justify this negligence despite knowing everything. These are not deaths but murders."     He also announced that his party would give Rs 1 lakh to the family of each of the deceased. "The news of the death of migrant labourers while returning homes is heart-wrenching. These are the people who run their homes. Hence, the Samajwadi Party will give Rs 1 lakh to the family of each of the deceased," Yadav said. He accused the BJP-led state government of being "pitiless" and urged it to take moral responsibility for the incident. "The pitiless BJP government must take moral responsibility, and provide Rs 10 lakh to each of the family of the deceased," Yadav said. Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati asked Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to ensure that his directives on the safety of stranded labourers returning home were being implemented by the officials. She asked parties in power at the Centre and different states to rise above petty politics in this hour of crisis and ensure the safety of the migrants trying to make their way home amid the coronavirus-forced lockdown.   "It was only yesterday that I saw the Uttar Pradesh chief minister announcing on TV that all necessary arrangements for migrants are being made. But it seems that officials are not implementing those at ground level which led to a major accident in the state and this is most unfortunate," Mayawati said in a statement. Had the officials made arrangements for their food and other things they would not have got down at a tea stall in Auraiya, she said demanding strict action against the officials who have failed to fulfil their responsibility. The BSP supremo also asked the Central and state governments and the Railways to be serious over the issue of sending migrants home safely. "The BJP and Congress are levelling charges against each other. Politics in the name of migrant labourers is not right. Congress governments in states should take care of this issue in their states. Labourers of Punjab and Haryana crossing the river in Saharanpur to reach home. Be it the Congress or BJP government they should send migrants home safely. But they are not paying attention to it," Mayawati said. She also appealed to migrant labourers not to try to reach home on foot, instead wait for buses and trains. "Instead of walking home, they should go to the nearest railway station. Then the government will be forced to make arrangements for them," she said. UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu too said that it was "not an accident, but murder." "The chief minister should resign. This government is insensitive towards the (plight of) migrant labourers. Where have all the buses gone, which the UP Government claims have been pressed into service to send the migrant labourers home? The entire country is seeing this," he told PTI. "The accident is very unfortunate and saddening. I express condolence for the loss of lives, and pray for the speedy recovery of the injured persons," the state Congress chief said. Lallu also said, "Yesterday, the UP chief minister had said that buses have been pressed into service so that migrant labourers can reach their homes. He has been saying this for some time, but then who is responsible for this accident. The chief minister is responsible for the accident." The UP government meted out inhuman treatment to the migrant labourers by compelling them to walk home, he said and demanded Rs 20 lakh ex gratia for the kin of the deceased and Rs 5 lakh to the injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-sp-term-migrants-death-in-up-murder-bsp-asks-all-to-rise-above-petty-politics-838352.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||64 foreign Tablighis arrested in Bhopal||Over 60 foreign nationals, who are members of Tablighi Jamaat, have been arrested by police here for participating in various religious programmes of the organisation in violation of Foreigners Act and under the Indian Penal Code, a senior officer said on Saturday. Earlier, seven cases were registered against them under visa norms at various police stations in Bhopal. Tablighi Jamaat had hit headlines earlier over a religious congregation held at Nizamuddin in Delhi in March this year amidst coronavirus pandemic. Many COVID-19 cases were reported when some Tablighis travelled back to their respective home states. However, it is not yet clear whether these foreigners had attended the Delhi event, an official said. "Cases were registered against the foreigner Jamaatis for the violation of visa conditions under the Foreigners Act. They had arrived in India on tourist visas under which they can't participate in religious activities," Bhopal Police Range Inspector General (IG) Upendra Jain told PTI. Jain said the police arrested the Jamaatis on Friday after their bail application was rejected by a local court. They hailed from countries like Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, Tanzania, South Africa, Myanmar and others. Another official said a total of 64 foreigners were arrested under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and provisions of the Disaster Management Act and Foreigners' Act. He said some of the arrested persons had earlier tested positive for coronavirus and all of them were placed under quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/64-foreign-tablighis-arrested-in-bhopal-838356.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Kejriwal condoles death of migrants in accident in UP||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said that he was deeply disturbed by the death of labourers in an accident in Uttar Pradesh's Auraiya and called for urgent steps to mitigate the plights of migrant workers travelling to their native states during the lockdown. His deputy Manish Sisodia said courage should be shown in opening up cities that were turning into "graves" for labourers. At least 24 migrant labourers lost their lives and 36 people sustained injuries when two trucks collided in Auraiya in the early hours of Saturday. "Extremely disturbed by the loss of lives in the accident in Auraiya. The tragedy of migrant labourers keeps getting worse. Something needs to be done urgently," Kejriwal said in a tweet. Extremely disturbed by the loss of lives in the accident in Auraiya. The tragedy of migrant labour keeps getting worse. Something needs to be done urgently. The collision of the trucks, both carrying migrant labourers, occurred in Auraiya early in the morning. While one of the truck was coming from Rajasthan, the other was from Delhi. When some of the labourers halted on the Auraiya-Kanpur Dehat Road to have tea at a local shop, the trailer truck hit the stationary vehicle. Police said most of the migrant labourers in both the vehicles were from Jharkhand and West Bengal. Delhi's Deputy Chief Minister Sisodia, while advocating opening up of cities said no matter how many Shramik Special trains are run and night shelters set up, they cannot bear the "flood of displacement". "The closed cities are turning into graves for hardworking labourers. We need to accept coronavirus and show courage in opening up cities. No matter how many Shramik Special trains and night shelters are there, they can not bear the flood of displacement," he tweeted. A large number of migrant workers from major urban industrial centres in the country have been moving with their families towards their home states, often walking and also in cramped trucks and other vehicles, during the nearly two-month long lockdown due to COVID-19. The Delhi government has suggested to the centre that construction activities and movement of labourers within Delhi be allowed post May 17 when the third phase of the lockdown is to end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-condoles-death-of-migrants-in-accident-in-up-838365.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus cases cross 9,000 mark in Delhi||Covid-19 cases crossed the 9,000-mark in the national capital on Saturday with the addition of 438 cases while six more deaths were reported taking the total toll to 129. The total number of cases in Delhi has now touched 9,333, with 5818 or 62.33% of the total reporting in May alone.  The latest medical bulletin described the toll as "cumulative deaths where primary cause of death is found to be Covid-19, as per the report of Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from hospitals". According to the bulletin, 408 people have been discharged in the past 24 hours, taking the total to  3,926. There are 5,278 people still under treatment, including 1,983 in home isolation.  A total of 1.30 lakh samples have been tested so far, including 5,656 fresh samples.  On May 14, Delhi had reported 472 cases, the highest for a single day while on May 15, 425 cases were recorded.  Two more private hospitals -- Batra Hospital and Research Centre, Tughlaqabad and Cygnus Orthocare Hospital, Safdarjung Enclave -- have been declared as COVID hospitals for admitting confirmed or suspected cases of Covid-19 on payment basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cases-cross-9000-mark-in-delhi-838371.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||15 inmates, staffer test positive for COVID-19 at Delhi's Rohini jail||Days after a 28-year-old inmate of Rohini jail tested positive for coronavirus, 15 others who shared a barrack with him and one head warden have also tested positive for the infection, officials said. The Delhi Prison Department had tested for coronavirus 19 inmates from the barrack of the prisoner whose reports came back positive for the infection on Wednesday, they said. All inmates and the staffer are asymptomatic so far. "We had conducted COVID-19 tests for 19 inmates of Rohini jail who were sharing the barrack with one inmate Kuldeep who had tested positive earlier at DDU Hospital where he had gone for (treatment of) some other ailment," Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said. Their test results have come and 15 out of these 19 inmates have tested positive. Five staff members were also tested. Among them, one head warden has tested positive for COVID-19, he said. So far, Goel said, all these people are asymptomatic. The inmates who have tested positive have been separated from others. They have been kept in isolation in quarantine barrack. The head warden has been sent to home quarantine. Some other staff members have also been sent to home quarantine, he added.  "Regular medical screening of all inmates is already being done and it will continue. The sanitisation process is also being carried out and all necessary action as per medical protocol is being taken," the DG said. The 28-year-old inmate's case was the first coronavirus infection to be reported from a Delhi prison.  He underwent intestine surgery at Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital on Sunday. Doctors took his samples for a COVID-19 test the next day. The inmate did not show any coronavirus symptoms.   He was later admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-inmates-staffer-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-delhis-rohini-jail-838374.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Muslims perform last rites of Sikh in J-K's Ganderbal amid coronavirus lockdown||Amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Muslims performed last rites of a Sikh who passed away in Ganderbal district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Saturday. Ranveer Singh, a resident of Punjab, who was working as a carpenter in Wakura area of Ganderbal district of central Kashmir died a few days ago, the officials said. Singh was living in the village – about 35 kms from here – along with a few colleagues at a rented accommodation. Soon after the news of his death spread, locals informed the police and made arrangements for performing his last rites, the officials said. Singh was cremated in the presence of officials of the civil and police administration, Wakura Tehsildar Ghulam Mohammad Bhat told PTI. "The locals showed huge support and arranged everything for the cremation of the deceased. The expenses related to the cremation were made by the locals. They also deposited some money in the account of Singh's wife," he said. "It is our duty to help neighbours irrespective of their religion," Abdul Rehman, a local resident, said. He said many people from outside have been working in the area for the past several years and live there for the most part of the year. "Most of them leave the valley when winter approaches, but return in a few months. They become a part of society. We try to help them in whichever way we can when they face any difficulty. So, when we heard about Singh's death, we came forward to arrange for his last rites," Rehman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslims-perform-last-rites-of-sikh-in-j-ks-ganderbal-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-838375.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Brother-sister duo booked for threatening to 'spread' coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh||Police have registered a case against a 27-year-old woman and her younger brother, both COVID-19 patients, for allegedly threatening to "spread" the deadly infection in Khargone district of Madhya Pradesh, an official said on Saturday. The case was registered at Kotwali Police Station at Khargone on Friday, after a video in which the woman purportedly gave the threat went viral on social media. The video was shot by her brother, the official said. However, after the case was registered against them, the woman posted a fresh video in which she said that the previous video was shot out of "frustration and anger" as some reporters were creating trouble for her father, who has also tested coronavirus positive. Kotwali Police Station in-charge, Lalit Singh Dagur, said that the woman and her a 21-year old brother, who have returned from China after studying medicine there, were booked for posting the video, in which she threatened to spread coronavirus in Khargone. According to police, the parents of the brother-sister duo have also tested coronavirus positive and undergoing treatment. According to police, the video was shot when the brother-sister duo was being taken to an isolation centre in an ambulance on Wednesday. The case was registered against the duo under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and provisions of the Disaster Management Act, Dagur said. In the second video, the woman said that she and her brother were doctors and they had no intention of spreading coronavirus. "We went for the tests on our own when saw the symptoms. We are doctors and know what to do. It was not our intention...I was frustrated due to reporters...you have seen what they have reported. They are publishing useless news since my father tested positive. My father is critical..., the woman said in the new video. In the video, she is also heard urged people not to circulate her previous video.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/brother-sister-duo-booked-for-threatening-to-spread-coronavirus-in-madhya-pradesh-838379.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh accident underlines states receiving migrants should allow limited air, road, rail travel: Hardeep Singh Puri||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said he was deeply pained by the death of 24 labourers in a road accident in Uttar Pradesh's Auraiya district on Saturday morning, and stressed that the incident underlines the necessity for states receiving migrants to allow limited air, road and rail travel. At least 24 migrant workers were killed and 36 injured when a trailer rammed into a stationary truck, both carrying passengers, on a highway near Auraiya. "Deeply pained to hear about the unfortunate deaths of migrant workers in the Auraiya accident," Puri said on Twitter. "This underlines the necessity for stakeholders, including receiving states, to ease restrictions for all affected people, particularly migrants and allow limited air, road and rail connections," the minister added. Some of the workers coming from Delhi had stopped for tea when the accident occurred between 3 am and 3.30 am on the Auraiya-Kanpur Dehat stretch of National Highway 19, police said. The impact of the collision, the latest in a series of road tragedies involving migrant workers returning to their villages, was so huge that both vehicles overturned and fell into a ditch. Most of those killed were from Jharkhand and West Bengal, and some from Kushinagar in eastern Uttar Pradesh, officials said. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of coronavirus, which has infected around 86,000 people and killed more than 2,700 people in the country till now. A large number of migrant workers from major urban industrial centres in the country have been moving with their families towards their home states, often walking and also in cramped trucks and other vehicles, during the nearly two-month-long lockdown due to COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-accident-underlines-states-receiving-migrants-should-allow-limited-air-road-rail-travel-hardeep-singh-puri-838389.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Policeman shot dead in Kashmir’s Kulgam||Unidentified militants shot dead a policeman in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Saturday. Reports said militants first lobbed a grenade and then opened firing indiscriminately at a police checkpoint at Frisal area of Yaripora in Kulgam, 60 kms from here, in which a head constable was grievously injured. The injured policeman was rushed to hospital, but died on the way. Soon after the incident, security forces launched a manhunt in the area to nab the assailants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/policeman-shot-dead-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-838391.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: J&K chief secretary writes to foreign secy for evacuation of residents from Oman, Dubai, Iran||Jammu and Kashmir government on Saturday approached the Centre with the request to bring back the Union Territory (UT) residents stranded in Oman, Dubai and Iran under its ‘Vande Bharat Mission’.   In a communication to Union Foreign Secretary, Harsh Vardhan Shringla, J&K, Chief Secretary, B V R Subrahmanyam sought his personal intervention in prioritising the evacuation of the stranded UT residents.  “The Government of Jammu and Kashmir has received requests from its residents stranded in Oman, Dubai and Iran for their early evacuation. Their prolonged stay abroad during the COVID-19 pandemic has made them restless and fearful of catching the disease in a foreign country,” the letter reads. In the letter Subrahmanyam said as part of the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’, students of Jammu and Kashmir stranded in Bangladesh are being evacuated to Srinagar.In the letter Subrahmanyam said as part of the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’, students of Jammu and Kashmir stranded in Bangladesh are being evacuated to Srinagar. “This step has been greatly appreciated by the people of Jammu and Kashmir,” he added.  Last week the J&K government had sought early return of all the students of the UT studying in Bangladesh under ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ launched by the government of India to facilitate the return of the Indian citizens stranded abroad amid COVID- 19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-jk-chief-secretary-writes-to-foreign-secy-for-evacuation-of-residents-from-oman-dubai-iran-838396.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus an 'asur', can only be killed by divine forces, says priests' body; seeks temple reopening||An all-India organisation of priests has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reopen temples and pilgrimage centres to help combat the COVID-19 outbreak, saying the novel coronavirus is an “asur (demon)” and can only be killed by divine forces. “If all temples, shrines and pilgrimage centres are reopened, the coronavirus cannot do any harm (kuch nahi bigad sakta hay),” Akhil Bhartiya Tirth Purohit Mahasabha national president Mahesh Pathak said in a letter to the prime minister on Saturday. He said the closure of temples has also adversely impacted the economic condition of priests and demanded special financial package for them. In his letter to the prime minister, Pathak said the religious sites can be reopened with some restrictions under the present circumstances. The government has banned congregations and closed temples and other religious sites, besides schools, colleges, malls and factories, to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected more than 85,000 people and killed over 2,750 in the country so far. Pathak said India is perhaps facing the “wrath of deities” as they have been treated “at par with factories” during the ongoing lockdown. “Coronavirus is an asur (demon) and it can only be killed by divine forces. I am quite sure divinity would rescue devotees from the coronavirus after joint prayers,” he told reporters here. He said the closure of temples and shrines has widened the distance between gods and devotees, and the separation cannot be erased through prayers at home.  He said though the portals of ‘Char Dham’ temples have been opened in Uttarakhand, entry of devotees has been banned. “The deities provide solace to a disturbed mind,” he said and demanded that devotees be allowed there. The opening of the temples under a guideline would also provide some financial support to priests who have been badly hit by the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. The organisation has requested the prime minister to bring priests and ‘pandas’ (religious guides) under the umbrella of an economic package being provided by the government to different categories of people. A copy of the letter has been sent to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Pathak said. The lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to combat the coronavirus pandemic. It was first extended till May 3 and again till May 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-an-asur-can-only-be-killed-by-divine-forces-says-priests-body-seeks-temple-reopening-838404.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Priyanka writes to UP CM, seeks nod to run buses for migrant workers||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Saturday sought permission from Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to run 1,000 buses for the migrant workers wanting to return home. In a letter to the chief minister, the Congress leader said the party will bear expenses of their homeward journey. A delegation led by UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu and legislature party leader Aradhana Mishra handed over the letter by Priyanka at the chief minister's office here, a Uttar Pradesh Congress spokesman said. The Congress leader pointed out that till now 65 workers have been killed in various accidents while returning home from parts of the country. They are nation builders, who cannot be left like this, she said, adding that lakhs of migrant labourers belonging to Uttar Pradesh are returning from different corners of the country. "Despite continued announcements by the government, no proper arrangement has been made for their safe return," Priyanka claimed. The Congress Party wants to run 500 buses each from the Gazipur (Ghaziabad) and Noida borders for them, she said, adding that the All-India Congress Committee will bear the entire expenses. "We are seeking your permission to run 1,000 buses to help the migrant labourers," she said. "The Congress Party is committed to help them. We hope that you will help us in this," Priyanka added. PTI SAB RDK RDK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-priyanka-writes-to-up-cm-seeks-nod-to-run-buses-for-migrant-workers-838412.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 death toll crosses 100-mark in UP, cases rise to 4,258||COVID-19 patients died and 203 more people tested positive for the disease in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 4,258 in the state, officials said. Amid a spurt in cases, the state government on Saturday issued a fresh order making it mandatory to wear face masks in public places. Those violating the order will be fined Rs 100 to Rs 500. Spitting in public is also made a punishable offense. Of the total 4,258 patients, 2,441 have recovered and 104 died, a health bulletin said. The number of active cases in the state stands at 1,713.  On Saturday, Agra reported three deaths, Jhansi two, Meerut, Gautambudh Nagar, Moradabad  and Azamgarh one each. Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said officials have been directed to ensure migrants returning from other states are kept under home quarantine. He said, "From now on, moving out in public places without face mask or cover will be punishable." First and second time offenders will be fined Rs 100, while a fine of Rs 500 will be levied for violating the order third time.  Similarly, for violating lockdown rules, a fine ranging between Rs 100 and Rs 500 will be levied on first time violaters, Rs 500-Rs 1,000 on second timers, while third timers and habitual offenders will be fined Rs 1,000 every time they defy the rule. Only one person is allowed to ride a two-wheeler during this period. If anyone is found defying the order, he will be fined Rs 250-Rs 1,000. An exception is being made to people who do not know how to drive two-wheeler but have to attend office or necessary work. In that case, they will have to take permission from an executive magistrate. Wearing helmets and masks is compulsory for both the driver and the pillion. Those who spit in public places will also be fined. A fine of Rs 100 will be imposed on first and second time offenders, while Rs 500 will be fined for third time and habitual offenders. Similar fines would be imposed on those violating other lockdown restrictions, he added. The principal secretary said coronavirus patients are now recovering fast in Uttar Pradesh as compared to other states. Giving details of the number of tests done, he said 5,612 samples were tested on Friday. He said Asha workers are preparing a report of coronavirus patients by visiting their homes. If migrant workers have no symptoms, then a 21-day home quarantine is being arranged and in case where symptoms are found, they are examined and are being treated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-death-toll-crosses-100-mark-in-up-cases-rise-to-4258-838424.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||J&K sees highest single-day COVID-19 spike; Cases jump by 108 to 1121||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases, with 108 fresh infections, including 12 pregnant women, taking its tally to 1121 and the death toll in the Union Territory rose to 12. J&K’s previous highest spike of 65 cases was recorded on May 14. Among the new 108 positive patients, 12 are pregnant women from south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, officials said. The neighboring Kulgam district had the highest number of cases as 47 patients tested positive. Officials said most of them were travelers, who had recently returned from outside J&K.  According to the daily media bulletin out of 1121 positive cases, 567 are active positive, 542 have recovered and 12 have died. Providing district-wise breakup, the bulletin said that Anantnag has 162 positive cases, Srinagar 156, Bandipora 135, Kulgam 119, Baramulla 118, Shopian 107, Kupwara 97, Budgam 57, Ganderbal 23, Pulwama 15. Similarly, Jammu has 39 positive cases, Udhampur 24, Kathua 31, Ramban 18, Samba 11, Rajouri five, Reasi three, and Kishtwar one.  From 500 cases on 28 April to 1000 cases on 15 May, it took J&K 17 days to double its COVID-19 cases. Although, prior to that, case doubling was much faster, five days in the first and second week of April, slowing down to a week and finally 15 days by the end of April. Earlier in the day, a 70-year-old man from central Kashmir’s Budgam district died due to novel coronavirus taking the total toll in J&K to 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-sees-highest-single-day-covid-19-spike-cases-jump-by-108-to-1121-838442.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Punjab recommends resumption of air, railways, public transport||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said his government has suggested the Centre to resume air, railways and inter-state bus services with reduced capacity. However, the state is not in favour of resumption of teaching in educational institutions till May 31, the chief minister said. Other suggestions of the state government, listed by the chief minister, include allowing shops to open in all market and market complexes in a staggered manner, resumption of industry and construction activities in urban areas without any restriction, as well as permitting e-commerce for all commodities.  "The state government, in its recommendations to the Centre, has pitched for resumption of air, railways and inter-state bus services with reduced capacity, as well as starting of intra-district and inter-district buses, taxis, cabs, rickshaws, auto-rickshaws with adequate preparedness in terms of reduced capacity and a screen between passengers and driver," Singh said in a statement here. Offices, both private and government, may be allowed to open for the entire week during normal office hours with staggered timings to avoid over-crowding, the state government suggested.   The chief minister said the state government wanted no restrictions on movement of individuals from 5 am to 7 pm, and had suggested that restrictions, if any, may be imposed between 7 pm and 5 am.  The Punjab government is in favour of continued prohibition of activities where there would be a sizeable crowd under one roof, as in the case of shopping malls, cinemas, marriage and banquet halls, social, political and cultural gatherings and religious places. Singh said all effort would be made to ensure that maximum number of shops and businesses open up after May 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-recommends-resumption-of-air-railways-public-transport-838531.html
16-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi court allows police to probe alleged threat calls to Zee News' Sudhir Chaudhary||A court here on Saturday granted permission to Delhi Police to investigate a case related to alleged threat calls received by editor-in-chief of Zee News Sudhir Chaudhary. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sudhir Kumar Sirohi said the investigation is to be carried out in the matter as the complainant cannot get details of calls from different international numbers. The investigating officer of Delhi Police had moved the court seeking permission for probe into the case as under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, no police officer can investigate a non-cognisable case without the order of a magistrate having power to try such case or commit the case for trial. The police has lodged a non-cognisable report under sections 506 (criminal intimidation) and 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In the application moved before the court, the police said that complainant Chaudhary was allegedly receiving threat calls on WhatsApp from different international numbers. The court said in its order, "The threat has been received from international numbers, therefore, in view of the freedom of the press and in view of the fact that the complainant cannot get the details of international numbers, therefore undersigned (Judge) deems fit that the investigation is to be carried in this matter. Accordingly, the permission is granted to the Investigating Officer to investigate the matter." On May 12, Chaudhary had alleged that he received threats on WhatsApp allegedly from Pakistan threatening him for his reporting on various kinds of jihad. On May 7, an FIR was filed in Kerala against him after he had reported on various kinds of jihad, alleging he made incendiary remarks about the Muslim community in his show.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-allows-police-to-probe-alleged-threat-calls-to-zee-news-sudhir-chaudhary-838534.html
16-05-2020||Opinion||Now farmers can finally breathe||A couple of decades back, a telecom czar said to me about the 1991 reforms: “Suddenly we could breathe.” If the three proposed agriculture reforms announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman actually go through, a farmer could well be saying that soon. The three reforms are: Amending the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (ECA); a new central law on agricultural marketing and a legal framework to facilitate contract farming. All three are long overdue. It is a pity that it required a pandemic induced economic crisis to move on these, but that’s India – reform comes only when the back is against the wall. Sure, these will not transform agriculture overnight or bring immediate gains to farmers. But these will lay a strong foundation for the growth of the most regulated private sector. How? Amending the ECA The ECA, a scarcity-era law, enabled the central government to control the production, supply and distribution of specific essential commodities. The list of items is decided by the Centre in consultation with the states and individual state governments decide the stockholding limits after consulting the Centre.   But the stock limits (with extremely stiff penalties) not only hampered operations of private trade as well as food processing units (which need to buy in bulk and store) but also disincentivised agriculture infrastructure companies which need to deal in large volumes in order to be viable. This is one of the reasons agriculture infrastructure is so woefully lacking despite numerous fiscal concessions over at least a couple of decades. Incidentally, the Rs 1 lakh crore Agri Infrastructure Fund also announced on Wednesday would have had zero effect on the ground if ECA had continued in its present form. The proposed amendments will remove cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses onions and potatoes from the ECA and stock limits will be imposed only during times of national calamity and famines and not whenever their seasonal price spikes hurt urban consumers as has been happening far too often. This invariably hurt farmers. Freeing up agri marketing   A new agricultural marketing law giving farmers choice to sell, barrier-free inter-state trade and e-trading of agricultural produce will be a huge deal. The current state-level Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) laws limited farmers to state-run mandis in their area; they could not even sell to a mandi elsewhere in a state. A model APMC law giving farmers choice about whom to sell their produce to was being pushed by central governments since 2003. Some states enacted it (albeit with dilutions) but did not frame the relevant rules, rendering them ineffective. Some states de-listed items from their respective Acts but quickly rolled back the decision. As a result, large private companies could not buy directly from the farmer, even if they agreed to pay the mandi fee (even though this would be an unnecessary extra cost). Those that ventured into this space – ITC, Tatas, Mahindras, DCM – all had a uniformly bad experience. Private markets were actively discouraged. Farmers could not avail the benefit of price discovery in competing markets or sell to those who offered a better price. The APMC law also hampered the e-NAM (electronic National Agricultural Market) initiative launched with much fanfare in 2015. By confining the farmer to the assigned mandi, it was never more than electronic trading replacing physical trading; the farmer was again denied the benefit of competition even within a state. If the new law, as promised, allows inter-mandi and inter-state trade, then e-NAM will also become more effective. Since agricultural trade and commerce is a concurrent list subject, successive central governments (including the first Narendra Modi one) had been loath to do anything barring coaxing states regularly to adopt the model APMC law. Now, with a new central law that will give farmers choice and allow inter-state trading, states may have little option other than to amend their legislations to conform. Facilitating contract farming The proposed “legal framework on agriculture produce price and quality assurance” is really about facilitating contract farming. Currently, barring Punjab, no state has a separate law on contract farming. Contract farming is part of the amended APMC legislations in 20 states, but only 14 have notified the rules to allow it and of these only seven have registered companies to undertake contract farming, according to the report of the committee on doubling farmers’ income. In the past, there have been contract farming experiments which have singed farmers and if the proposed legal framework balances the interests of both farmers and procurers (with a slight skew towards farmers to make it politically saleable), then it should give a fillip to agri-commerce. But let’s not consider this a done deal right now. Laws have to be passed by Parliament and a resentful Opposition will certainly try its best to stall this (if only by not allowing Parliament to function). Opposition ruled states may use whatever little elbow room they have to prevent these reforms taking off at the ground level (though they will not be able to stop inter-state trade). Lobbying by pressure groups may result in provisions that limit the proposed freedoms (the e-NAM initiative is a prime example). Contract farming may not help tenant farmers unless states bring in/amend land leasing laws (a state subject). If Narendra Modi really wants to usher in a new deal for farmers he needs to stay firm on this path and push BJP-ruled states to move on the land leasing laws. This is what the late Sharad Joshi had been pressing for over decades. He died a disappointed man. He must be smiling from up there. (The writer is a senior journalist and author. She tweets at @soorpanakha) The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/now-farmers-can-finally-breathe-838303.html
16-05-2020||Right in the Middle||A lockdown dilemma||In the Shakespearian play Hamlet, the Prince of Denmark on the horns of a dilemma poses a question to himself-- to be or not to be? Lesser mortals like us battling deadly pandemics like coronavirus, enduring lockdowns can hardly afford to ask ourselves such questions anymore. With lockdown 2.0 yielding place to lockdown 3.0 human traffic was allowed. For me, the joy was short-lived. On the wrong side of sixty with a co-morbidity as a bonus, I have been advised (nay ordered) to continue my lockdown sentence as the coronavirus has a special affinity towards senior citizens. But there is a loophole in every law and this diktat has a provision which says that you could step out for health reasons or for medical emergencies. So the question that I posed myself is whether I should stay in or step out. Ever since I hung up my boots I have made it a habit to take a brisk morning walk in a neighbouring park for health reasons. With the  relaxations, I felt that there was no reason to stay cocooned in my matchbox of a flat. But before making such earth-shattering decisions I generally consult my good friend Anand. "Anand where are you? Let me guess, you are cooped up at home, right?" There was a chuckle from the other end. "I am walking in a park," came the reply. I saw red. "What do you mean you are walking in a park? Aren’t all the parks including large ones like Cubbon and Lalbagh under lock and key?" I asked. "No, my park is wide open," he said. As we continued our conversation I learnt that the nomenclature ‘park’ was for a large patch of green with a few swings and seesaws to simulate a park and a stretch for the walking fraternity all situated within his apartment complex. And it was not locked because it had no gates. Summoning all the wisdom at his command, Anand advised me to resume my morning walks once the dusk to dawn curfew ended at seven in the morning, donning full protective gear. Life is no longer a walk in these difficult times, my friends. But this story has an unhappy ending. My decision to step out into the glorious sunshine was vetoed by two women, who matter more to me than all the Anands in the world put together, my wife and daughter. The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-lockdown-dilemma-838264.html
16-05-2020||Second Edit||Adapting to a new normal||The resumption of train services between Delhi and 15 other cities by the Railways is an attempt a meet a demand that has been rising since the lockdown was imposed in March. It does not mean that the country is anywhere near normalcy and the Railways are set to resume passenger traffic operations. When the lockdown was imposed, large numbers of people were stranded in many places and were unable to go back to their homes. With the COVID-19 situation aggravating in most parts of the country, there is increasing demand from the stranded persons for facilities for long or medium distance travel which only the Railways can provide. The Railways had provided special trains for migrant workers to go home, and these services are continuing, though there is some avoidable controversy about them. The Railways have cancelled some passenger services which it had planned to resume, but the special services will continue. The services from Delhi are the premium grade and the passengers are charged Rajdhani fares. The Railways have also indicated that more special trains may be started if necessary. Movement of people, on a limited scale, marks a change from the situation where people were confined to their homes. Though the lockdown rules have been widely violated by some people in many places, the norm has generally held. But the idea is gaining ground that normal economic activities should be allowed to resume gradually and selectively. Union Minister for Road Transport Nitin Gadkari has indicated that the government is considering resumption of public transport in some form and that guidelines are being formulated for that. It is argued that the airline services also cannot be suspended for a long time. The Maharashtra government wants the Mumbai suburban rail services to start even though the state and the city are the most affected by COVID-19. Many also think that an easing of the lockout in some places, which is likely in many areas from next week, will not be effective without a limited opening of public transport facilities.  But it is important that the rules to be observed in the fight against COVID-19, like the need for social distancing, wearing masks and other measures, are not diluted in the process. There are guidelines to be followed by the Railways and other public transport authorities and by passengers. But the question is whether these will be observed sincerely and effectively and whether following them is possible in trains and buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/adapting-to-a-new-normal-838292.html
16-05-2020||South||Ship from Maldives with 588 Indians to arrive in Kochi on May 17||Nearly 590 Indian nationals stranded in the Maldives due to COVID-19-induced international travel restrictions were evacuated on Saturday from the island nation on an Indian Navy warship. In its Phase 2 of Operation Samudra Setu, INS Jalashwa left Male for Kochi with 588 Indian citizens including 70 women, 21 children and 497 on board on Saturday morning, a Defence source said here. The ship is expected to arrive here on Sunday morning, he said. A source said the inclement weather prevailing in the area had delayed the process of embarkation of people and departure of the ship. On May 12, the vessel had successfully brought home 698 Indian nationals from Maldives to Kochi. Another Navy Ship INS Magar under "Operation Samudra Setu" had evacuated 202 Indian citizens from Maldives to Kochi on Tuesday. In a tweet, the High Commission of India in Maldives has expressed its gratitude to the government of the island nation for ensuring safe repatriation of stranded Indian citizens. "We are extremely grateful to the Govt. of #Maldives and all concerned agencies in ensuring safe and secure repatriation of nearly 1500 Indian nationals from the Maldives under Op. #SamudraSetu," the Indian High Commission tweeted. The Indian nationals were screened medically, allotted IDs and their baggage sanitised before boarding the ship.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ship-from-maldives-with-588-indians-to-arrive-in-kochi-on-may-17-838306.html
16-05-2020||South||COVID-19 spike in Wayanad through Koyambedu raises concern||Kerala's Wayanad district received much attention for its fight against COVID-19 as only three cases were reported in the district till two weeks back even as the state's tally crossed the 500-mark. However, now Wayanad tops the tally, after neigbouring Malappuram district with regard to active cases, with 18 cases. Of this, 16 are linked to Koyambedu market in Tamil Nadu. The spike in COVID-19 cases, mainly through local contacts, is a major cause for concern for the district as it has Kerala's highest tribal population of over 1.5 lakh, spread across hundreds of hamlets in the forest areas of the hilly district. Wayanad witnessed the COVID-19 spike after a truck driver who came from Koyambedu was tested positive on May 2. Till date 15 others, including his family members and co-workers, got infected. Two police personnel also got infected and the source was suspected to be a person held for ganja smuggling. District Medical Officer Dr. R. Renuka said that steps like reverse quarantine and restriction of movement were being initiated in the tribal areas with the help of police, health workers and tribal promoters. A person who runs a shop at Panavally tribal near Thirunelly in the district was in the primary contact list of the infected. Many from the nearby tribal areas used to visit the shop. But so far no COVID-19 suspects were reported from the tribal areas.   The district, that shares borders with both Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, initially managed to prevent a local spread of COVID-19 mainly by strict police surveillance. It was also compared to the Bilwara model. The district was highly prone to COVID-19 owing to its weak health care system, large tribal population and several access from neighbouring two states. Wayanad, which is represented by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in the Lok Sabha, was also under the grip of Kyasanur Forest Disease, popularly known as monkey fever, recently with 28 cases being reported so far this year and three persons died. Last year the confirmed cases were only seven and deaths two. Dr. Renuka said that now the KFD spread is under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-spike-in-wayanad-through-koyambedu-raises-concern-838313.html
16-05-2020||South||COVID-19: One dies in Andhra, 48 new cases reported||Forty eight fresh COVID-19 cases were confirmed in Andhra Pradesh, where the total number of infections climbed to 2,355 while one death due to the virus was reported, taking the toll in the state to 49, health department said on Saturday. Out of the total cases reported, 31 were linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, a health bulletin said. Of the fresh cases in the past 24 hours ending 9 AM on Saturday, Nellore, Guntur and Kurnool districts reported nine each, Chitoor eight, Krishna seven, Visakhapatnam four and Kadapa and West Godavari one each. The lone death was reported in Kurnool, it said. Samples of 9,628 people were tested and 101 have been discharged from various hospitals after treatment, taking the cumulative recoveries to 1,353. The state government is in the process of recruiting 835 medical specialists- General Medicine, Pulmonology and Anesthesiologists and 550 doctors to work in COVID-19 designated hospitals across the state, another bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-one-dies-in-andhra-48-new-cases-reported-838314.html
16-05-2020||South||After a week, booze sale resumes in Tamil Nadu amid security||After a week's hiatus, sale of alcoholic beverages resumed in non-containment zones of Tamil Nadu on Saturday amid police security except in State capital Chennai and neighbouring Tiruvallur. As part of measures to avoid crowding and ensuresocial distancing, authorities implemented colour-codedtoken system that specified the date and time allotted for the buyers at a designated outlet. To prevent unmanageable crowds witnessed in several places when the shops reopened on May 7 after a 43-day dry spell, the authorities limited the number of tokens per day to 500 and 70 for an hour. The shops are open from 10 am to 5 pm. Adequate police personnel were deployed to regulate crowd and tokens were distributed at separate locations away from the liquor shops and only those who had the coloured slips were allowed to buy beverages at the outlets. Across the state, booze sale is on at a brisk pace as men sporting masks stood in serpentine queues maintaining individual distance in most places. The crowds were moderate as well in several locations in districts including Coimbatore. Several men could be seen standing with umbrellas in districts like Erode, Tirupur and at Madurantakam in Kancheepuram district. The liquor sale is open across the state in non- containment zones and except Chennai and nearby Tiruvallur district which saw huge number of people converging in several outlets when shops reopened on May 7.  The shops functioned only for two days (barring Chennai and a string of neighbourhoods under city police control though they fell under Chengelpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts) and were shut since May 9 following Madras High Court directives which ordered closure of shops over flouting of guidelines likesocial distancing. At least 34 outlets in nearby Chengelpet district including those in Mamallapuram, Tiruporur, Tirukazhukundram and Vadanemelli that sawhuge crowds on May7 and 8 were also closed today. Additional police personnel were deployed at the exit/entry points to Chennai to prevent people from venturing out of here to neighbouring Kancheepuram district to buy booze.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-a-week-booze-sale-resumes-in-tamil-nadu-amid-security-838332.html
16-05-2020||South||Agricultural experts suggest cultivation of paddy in 60-65 lakh acres per year in Telangana||With the Telangana government having decided to promote 'regulatory farming' for the benefit of farmers in the state, agriculture experts have suggested to the state government and farmers that paddy should be cultivated in only 60 to 65 lakh acres per year during monsoon and Rabi crops so that they can get a better price. The experts, who attended a meeting with Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, made it clear that cultivation of maize in the rainy season is not at all profitable. Instead, cotton, which is in high demand in the market, should be cultivated, an official release said on Friday night. "Agriculture experts suggested to the state government and farmers that in order to get a support price for the crops, in the state for Monsoon and Rabi crops, paddy should be cultivated in 60 to 65 Lakhs acres per year only," it said. The experts also suggested that Redgram should be cultivated in 10 to 15 lakh acres during the rainy season. In the meeting with Rao, the agriculture experts made several suggestions and presented their views after studying Telanganas cultivable lands, cultivation methods and markets, both within the country and internationally, the release said. The suggestions made by them include farmers cultivating crops that have demand in the market. They pointed out that, though the "state government has procured all the crops" in view of the prevailing coronavirus pandemic, it is not possible for the government to procure all the crops every year. The experts opined that there is a chance of farmers incurring losses if they produce paddy in large quantities. "If we take into account the needs of the people in the state, demand in the markets, for two crops in a year, paddy should be cultivated in 60 to 65 Lakh acres. If the extent of paddy cultivation is more than this, farmers will not get the right price," the release said. They suggested that, compared to paddy, cotton cultivation is profitable. Observing that cotton used to be cultivated in the state in the past on the basis of rainfall, they felt that yield would be more and quality would also be better if cotton is cultivated with canal water as irrigation water facility is now available in the state. Cotton would get a better profit compared to paddy, they said. They also suggested that it is better not to go in for the cultivation of Maize during the rainy season. "The state government will discuss these suggestions for two days. It will also finalise the regulatory farming policy. Later, the CM will interact with the field level officials, Rythu Bandhu Samithis (farmers coordination committees formed by the state govt) on the Comprehensive Agriculture Policy through videoconference," it said. Rao has said a decision to have regulatory agriculture cultivation in the state has been taken with the sole aim of benefitting the farmers. He wanted farmers to cultivate the crops as suggested by the government. He also said regulatory cultivation of paddy would begin from the coming monsoon season. The decision to have regulatory agriculture cultivation was taken in the interest of farmers as there are no buyers for crops which have no demand in the market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/agricultural-experts-suggest-cultivation-of-paddy-in-60-65-lakh-acres-per-year-in-telangana-838342.html
16-05-2020||South||Vande Bharat: 121 passengers from US land in Hyderabad||As part of the repatriation exercise to airlift stranded Indian citizens abroad under the Vande Bharat Mission, an Air India flight from Newark (USA) via Delhi landed at the HyderabadInternational Airport on Saturday with 121 passengers, airport sources said. Air India AI 1839 flight landed at the airport at 03:14 AM, they said. All arriving passengers were serviced through the fully sanitized International Arrivals of the Main Passenger Terminal of GMR Hyderabad International Airport, they said. The airport also enforced social distancing among passengers right from the aerobridge to across the terminal. The passengers and aircraft crew were brought out from the aircraft in a batch of 20-25 people each. Each passenger or crew member was screened by the thermal cameras positioned at the aerobridge exit under supervision of the Airport Health officials (APHO) prior to Immigration formalities. After the health screening, CISF personnel in their protective gears escorted the group of passengers to immigration clearance, the sources said.  Every baggage was sanitized by the disinfection tunnel integrated to the baggage belt as arranged by the airport. The baggage trolleys were kept fully sanitized for passengers' use, they said. As per the government's norms, the passengers were taken for mandatory 14 day quarantine at the designated locations in the city, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vande-bharat-121-passengers-from-us-land-in-hyderabad-838357.html
16-05-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Migrant workers a neglected lot, says Madras HC||The Madras High Court has said it is not only the duty of the native states of migrant workers but also the duty of the states where they work to take care of them, but this was not the case. The court, while observing that the migrant workers and agricultural workforce are a neglected lotin the COVID-19 crisis, asked the Central and state governments to file a report on such workers by May 22. The bench observed though the governments have taken care of every section of the society to the maximum extent possible, the guest workers and agricultural workforce were neglected. This was evident from the reports of the print and visual media in the past one month. While referring to the sufferings of the migrant workers, the court said "One cannot control his/her tears after seeing the pathetic condition of migrant labourers shown in the media for the past one month. It is nothing but a human tragedy...." A Division Bench of Justice N. Kirubakaran and Justice R. Hemalatha made these observations while passing an interim order on a habeas corpus petition from advocate Suryaprakasam seeking a direction to produce Ilayaraja and 400 others who have allegedly been illegally detained by the Superintendent of Police, Sangli district, Maharashtra.  Most of the workers lost their jobs, no shelter is said to have been provided apart from lack of supply of adequate food. After waiting for long, they started migrating to their native states by foot with their children carrying all the belongings and surviving on food provided by good Samaritans. As if these were not enough, there were reports of starvation deaths, the bench said while referring to the death of 16 workers caused by a train when they were sleeping on the tracks.  The bench then directed the Central and state governments to file a detailed report by May 22 as to whether any data on such guest workers is being maintained, if so, what is the number of migrant workers in each state/union territory, and whether assistance was provided to those migrant workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-workers-a-neglected-lot-says-madras-hc-838398.html
16-05-2020||South||Pathetic that states failed to provide basic amenities to migrants: Madras HC||“One cannot control his/her tears after seeing the pathetic condition of migrant labourers shown in the media for the past one month. It is nothing but a human tragedy.” These are the words of a division bench of the Madras High Court on migrants who have walked hundreds of kilometres to reach their native villages and towns braving the hot sun. It also rued “nothing happened for the past one month as there was no coordinated effort between the States” in sending back the migrants who were stranded due to the lockdown. Justices N Kirubakaran and R Hemalatha passed the orders over a petition that sought to bring home several hundred migrants from Tamil Nadu who are stranded in Maharashtra. They also posed several uncomfortable questions to state governments while observing that it was “very pathetic” to note that neither the native states nor the states through which the migrants were walking failed to provide even the basic amenities during the COVID-19 lockdown. Even if it was provided, it was negligible, the bench noted. While sympathising with the migrant labourers, the division bench observed that these people were neglected by all authorities and they started migrating “by foot” after waiting for a “considerable time.” “Even after the sorrow and sufferings of the migrant workers were reported in the media, nothing happened for the past one month as there was no coordinated effort between the States,” the bench observed. The division bench said it is not only the duty of the native state of the migrant workers but also the duty of the states where they were working to care for their safety and wellbeing. “…it is a pity to see the migrant labourers walking for days together to reach their native places and in the process, some of them had lost their lives due to accidents,” the bench said, observing that Government authorities of all the states should have extended their human services to those migrant labourers. It also sought to know whether the Centre was maintaining any details of migrant workers working in each State/UT, the number of migrant workers stranded in each state, the assistance provided to them and how many migrant workers died on their way to the native states among several questions. The bench also referred to 16 labourers, who were sleeping on rail tracks in Maharashtra on their way to Madhya Pradesh, being crushed to death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pathetic-that-states-failed-to-provide-basic-amenities-to-migrants-madras-hc-838399.html
16-05-2020||South||11 more from abroad and other states test COVID-19 positive in Kerala||Eleven more persons who came from other states and abroad were tested COVID-19 positive in Kerala on Saturday, while four recovered. Among the eleven tested positive, seven were from abroad while two came from Tamilnadu and two from Maharashtra. So far 35 persons evacuated from abroad and 28 Malayalis who returned from other states were tested COVID positive. At present 87 of the 587 persons infected so far were COVID-19 active.  Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that if the number of active cases increase alarmingly, patients may not receive the medical attention the COVID-19 patients were receiving so far. Hence the state has remained very cautious against the spread of the infection from those coming from other states and abroad. The state aims at avoiding COVID-19 deaths. Those coming from other states and countries, especially from hot spots, should strictly follow quarantine, she urged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/11-more-from-abroad-and-other-states-test-covid-19-positive-in-kerala-838409.html
16-05-2020||South||Cadets' self chores module helps Telangana police academy avoid COVID-19 infections||A novel training module introduced six months back at the Telangana state police academy has become a savior in the coronavirus time. Under the new hostel management/picnic on the job progamme, 1300 cadet Sub Inspectors and 650 women police constables were asked to do their own chores in the hostels – cook, wash utensils, mop floors, sanitize washrooms and even clean the common toilets. While the module was intended to break stereotypes of man-woman work distinction and inculcate a sense of gender equality and dignity of labor, it was also to serve as a stress buster - especially cooking – from the various rigorous drills trainees undergo every-day. All support staff like cooks, dishwashers, cleaners were withdrawn. The police academy officials now say that they could curtail the movement from outside of staff like cooks, cleaners etc., during this COVID-19 lockdown thus helping avoid spread of the virus in the vast campus on Hyderabad outskirts. “We are a community of about 2500 people but not even a single case was registered,” VK Singh, director of the academy tells DH. Telangana has recorded 1454 cases till Friday, majority of them from Hyderabad area. “As a safety measure, we rested all staff and assistants. This was also to show our gratitude to the workers operating round the clock helping the academy run,” TSPA director said. The current 1950 cadets, officials say, is the biggest batch till now at the academy, thanks to a special police recruitment drive by the Telangana government last year. “There were apprehensions expressed by some people, but the trainees welcomed the idea. With its successful run and trainees’ feedback wanting continuation of the module, we have decided to make it part of our induction course from now on.” “We have been experimenting for the last six months with different approaches to training to bring about transformation in police training. Hostel management was one such component intended for attitudinal change, making policemen become more sympathetic towards the common people,” said Singh. “One has to be a gentleman first to become a fine police officer,” says the senior IPS officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cadets-self-chores-module-helps-telangana-police-academy-avoid-covid-19-infections-838418.html
16-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu discharges 939 patients on Saturday, adds 477 fresh cases||Tamil Nadu on Saturday said a record 939 COVID-19 patients were discharged “after treatment” from various hospitals across the state in the past 24 hours, even as it reported 477 fresh cases, including 93 persons who returned from abroad and other states in the country. The state reported three deaths on Saturday, taking the death toll to 74, while the tally went up to 10,585. The Health Bulletin said as many as 939 patients who were receiving treatment at hospitals left home on Saturday, taking the recoveries to 3,538. Chennai reported 332 cases on Saturday, pushing the tally to 6,271.  This is the highest number of recoveries reported so far in a single day even as the Health Minister said the state was facing a huge challenge in handling those who return from abroad and other states – 93 people who returned from Bangladesh and states like, Maharashtra and Gujarat were found positive on Friday alone. “20 per cent of Saturday’s cases are from people who came from other states and this is proving to be a challenge for us. This is a concern for us, but we are tackling this,” Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar told reporters here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-discharges-939-patients-on-saturday-adds-477-fresh-cases-838434.html
16-05-2020||South||Flight carrying 181 Indians from Dubai lands in Kochi||An Air India Express flight carrying 181 stranded Indians from Dubai landed at the Cochin International Airport here on Saturday as part of the second phase of the Central government's ambitious Vande Bharat Mission. This is the first evacuation of people of Kerala stranded in foreign soil in the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission, an airport spokesman said here. Air India along with its subsidiary Air India Express operated a total of 64 flights (42 by Air India and 24 by AI Express) to 12 countries including the US, the UK, Bangladesh, Singapore, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the Philippines, UAE and Malaysia to repatriate over thousands of Indians in the first phase. The Civil Aviation Ministry has said each and every function in this massive air evacuation mission strictly adheres to the safety and hygiene protocol laid down by the government and DGCA. Extensive and meticulous safety arrangements are in place in accordance to government guidelines for safe evacuation of Indians stranded in foreign soil due to COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/flight-carrying-181-indians-from-dubai-lands-in-kochi-838506.html
16-05-2020||State||Shivamogga records three more COVID-19 cases including a child||Shivamogga recorded three more  COVID-19 cases including a four-year-old girl child on Saturday. With this, the number of cases rose to 12. Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar said of three, two belong to single-family from Ripponet in Hosanagar taluk and the woman is from Sagar taluk. They had returned from Mumbai to their native places recently.  The man is 42 years (P1089) and his daughter. (1090) and the woman aged 38 years (P1088) were tested positive for COVID-19. They are undergoing treatment in McGann hospital.  It may be mentioned here that many people returned to Shivamogga district from other states including Maharashtra. The throat swabs of all those who came from high-risk states had been sent to a laboratory for tests. The number of COVID-19 cases may rise in the coming days as the test reports are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shivamogga-records-three-more-covid-19-cases-including-a-child-838411.html
16-05-2020||State||Shramik Special returns stranded Kannadigas from North India||As many as 293 people, who were stranded in Delhi and other North India States, arrived in Hubballi on Saturday by a special train organised by State government. The Shramik Express between Delhi and Bengaluru, via Hubballi and Kalaburagi, was the first passenger train to arrive at Hubballi railway station. More than 960 Kannadigas, the majority of whom were students, tourists, pilgrims, and others are part of the train. Of the 293 passengers, 32 are from Dharwad (32 passengers), Gadag (1), Haveri (14), Belagavi (51), Davanagere (8), Shivamogga (67), Uttara Kannada (9), Dakshina Kannada (42), Chikkamagaluru (4), Bagalkot (13), Vijayapura (32), Chitradurga (12), Koppal (10), and Hassan (5). The train is expected to reach Bengaluru on Sunday after completing a 60-hour journey from the national capital. The Dharwad district administration had set up 14 sections for each district, where the passengers for respective districts were screened, marked with indelible ink, and allowed to board 10 NWKRTC buses for their destinations. The passengers were provided with a food packet and water bottle for the further journey.  Could have planned better, say some returnees While the majority of the passengers thanked the State government for arranging the special train for them, a few complained that the journey could have been planned better. “I am a resident of Belagavi, and this train came via Belagavi. It also stopped there for a few minutes. However, we were not allowed to get down. We were forced to come to Hubballi, get ourselves checked at the railway station, board a bus back to Belagavi and get quarantined at a government facility in Belagavi,” a passenger said and added that this defies any logic. “We ended up wasting seven hours in train and bus. The train had reached Belagavi at 8:30 am, but by the time we were sent to quarantine, it was 3:30 pm,” he said. Similarly, the 13 passengers from Bagalkot, and 32 passengers of Vijaypur could have reached their home district earlier if they were allowed to alight at Belagavi. Lesser passengers would have meant better management and social distancing at the railway station, which was missing at Hubballi railway station. The train later went to Gadag, and then to Kalaburagi. However, passengers from Gadag were not allowed to alight the train there but were made to alight in Hubballi itself. We only run trains: SWR Speaking to DH, SWR Central Public Relations Officer E Vijaya said, the Indian Railways was only running the trains. The decision to stop the train at a particular station, number of passengers to carry, and all other decision were taken by the State government, and SWR had no role to play in this. The swab test of all the 32 passengers of Dhawrad was conducted at the University of Agriculture Sciences, Dharwad, before being sent to quarantine. All the passengers were quarantined at a government facility or at designated private hotels the cost to be paid by the passengers. Dharwad DC Deepa Cholan said the train was made to stop only at two places so as to keep a tab on the number of passengers arriving to Karnataka, and to ensure that none of the passengers escapes the quarantine of 14-days. Failed attempt to escape A civil service aspirant and a resident of Belagavi to evade from 14-days of institutional quarantine tried to escape from the train by getting down at Ghataprabha station. However, the alert railway officials caught him and brought him back to the train. He was later sent to government-quarantine in Belagavi. Of the 960 passengers aboard the Sharmik express 300 of them were civil service aspirants, many of whom have been studying in Delhi for more than one year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shramik-special-returns-stranded-kannadigas-from-north-india-838441.html
16-05-2020||State||Coronavirus lockdown: Karnataka ready for relaxation but awaits Centre’s diktat||Left to itself, Karnataka will look to spring back towards normalcy under Lockdown 4.0 as the state government is on standby to resume public transport services from May 18, if the Centre allows it.  Though KSRTC and BMTC have been preparing for resumption of services, officials in the two corporations told DH that they cannot make a move till the government makes a decision. Transport Commissioner N Shivakumar said the department will take a decision based on the state government's orders. "The government will take a call on buses as well as taxi and other transport services," he said.  Senior officials in the state government said Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi has written to Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari seeking a nod for resumption of the services.  Transport Secretary Gaurav Gupta has written a separate letter to his counterpart in the Union government requesting permission to operate public transport. "The state government wants the services to open. The official has listed out the steps the corporations will take to ensure social distancing other steps that will be taken to check spread of Coronavirus," a source said. The B S Yediyurappa administration has been bullish on easing lockdown restrictions.  If the Centre empowers the states to define Lockdown 4.0, Karnataka is likely to do away with the red-orange-green zoning of districts and allow public services to resume, except in COVID-19 containment zones. The government is also likely to redefine its containment strategy by micromanaging localities where COVID-19 cases are reported, without letting life in an entire district get affected.  The government has already shown willingness to allow hotels and gyms to open after May 17 subject to social distancing norms and restrictions. In fact, the government has proposed to allow the resumption of all economic activities in standalone establishments. The government, however, is not keen on opening malls, theatres, diners and establishments that have centralized air conditioning.  “Everything depends on the Centre,” Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan said. “Our only stand is that the red zone should be treated at par with the other zone when it comes to relaxation.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-ready-for-relaxation-but-awaits-centre-s-diktat-838458.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to decide on conducting SSLC exam on May 18||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar said there was a possibility that the state government may come out with a timetable on Monday. "We are holding a meeting regarding the SSLC examination," he told reporters here. He also said there would be discussions on how to conduct the exams and precautionary measures to be taken in view of COVID-19. "We have to make arrangements for masks, sanitisers and thermal scanners. We will set up a thermal scanner for a health check-up. We have to make separate seating arrangements for those having health issues. All these issues will be discussed on Monday," Kumar said. The SSLC exams were supposed to commence from May 27 but due to the lockdown, it was postponed for an indefinite period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-decide-on-conducting-sslc-exam-on-may-18-838325.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||23 new cases of COVID-19 in Karnataka, tally touches 1,079||As many as 23 new coronavirus cases were confirmed in Karnataka on Saturday, taking the number of affected in the state to 1,079, the health department said. The total cases include 494 discharges, 548 active cases, 36 coronavirus deaths and that of a coronavirus patient due to non-COVID cause, the department said in its daily bulletin. Of the fresh cases, 14 were from Bengaluru urban district alone, followed by three in Hassan and one each in Mandya, Udupi, Dharwad, Davangere, Ballari and Davangere. The 23 cases include two women and a one-year-old baby girl from Udupi. The biggest contributor of Saturday's tally was Bengaluru, where 14 people tested positive for the disease. They were secondary contacts of a housekeeper in a hotel in the capital city, the health department sources said. The three positive cases from Haasan and one from Dharwad had a travel history to Mumbai, whereas the Udupi girl had an international travel history. She had returned from Dubai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/23-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-karnataka-tally-touches-1079-838350.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Kannadigas in Dhaka worried, desperate for Bengaluru flight||In February, Mohamed Samiulla left Bengaluru for a new job in Dhaka, Bangladesh as the general manager in charge of operations at a garments factory. The move came with the prospect of a better career and the promise of more money.  Just into his new job, Bangladesh enforced a lockdown to tackle Covid-19 and has remained so for two months. Now, Shamiulla neither has a job nor a way to get back to Bengaluru.  Shamiulla is one among more than 60 Kannadigas stranded in Dhaka, desperate to return to Karnataka.  “I feel helpless, literally, because I’m neither here nor there,” Shamiulla told DH over the phone. “I was staying in an apartment, but I have now moved in with a friend because I had problems paying rent.”  Shamiulla’s restlessness is not confined to his inability to return. “Bangladesh has no preparation to face Covid-19. If you look at the way people are moving about here, the lockdown is just for namesake. In India, the police are at least enforcing the lockdown. Here, it’s a bomb waiting to explode. And I fear a civil unrest due to non-payment of wages coinciding with the Ramzan festival,” he said.  Adding to the heartburn is the news Shamiulla received that some 800 Sri Lankans will be airlifted soon. “There’s not a single flight to Bengaluru. We’re really worried.”  These Kannadigas came close to returning home when an Air India flight to Chennai was scheduled for May 14 under the Vande Bharat repatriation mission. A total of 63 people from Karnataka registered to board this flight. “But something happened and we were told that only Tamil Nadu people can board the Chennai flight,” said Srujan Reddy, a process consultant from Bengaluru who went to Dhaka on work in March.  According to Reddy, the first phase of the Vande Bharat Mission had six flights from Dhaka to Delhi, Mumbai and Jammu & Kashmir. In the second phase, there is one flight from Dhaka that is meant for Jammu & Kashmir students, he said.   “We’ve been repeatedly asking the Indian High Commission here for an update,” he said. “We are 70-80 people from Karnataka here. Some of us have lost jobs, struggling to pay rents and some like me who came on business.” Running out of money to pay Rs 7,000 per day at a hotel, Reddy has moved into the house of an Andhra Pradesh friend. He was to leave Dhaka on March 24, the last day for domestic flights to operate. “My ticket to Bengaluru was booked from Agartala, which is about six hours away from Dhaka. I was sent back by the authorities, saying it’ll only be a week before they can allow him to pass,” Reddy said.  For medical student Safiya Nihaal, heartbreak is unfolding slowly at her hostel. “I live with some Kolkata students who will fly back home in a week or so. I’ll be left alone and I’m really worried,” she said.  Nihaal went to Dhaka in December last. “The Indian High Commission here has no update for us. I want to return to my grandparents in Bengaluru. My parents are in Kuwait and I can’t go there because I won’t be allowed.” Besides the deluge of emails they have been sending to the authorities, these Kannadigas have also reached out to the Prime Minister’s Office and Chief Minister’s Office seeking help.  Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan said he was contacted on May 10. “I got the chief secretary to talk to the Ministry of External Affairs. I was told there’ll be a direct flight to Bengaluru and then I was assured that they will get on the Chennai flight. I will follow it up again and we’ll try to help them come back soon,” Narayan told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-kannadigas-in-dhaka-worried-desperate-for-bengaluru-flight-838372.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||36 new coronavirus cases in Karnataka, tally touches 1,092||As many as 36 new coronavirus cases were confirmed in Karnataka on Saturday, taking the infection tally to 1,092, a Karnataka Minister said. The total cases include 496 discharges, 559 active cases and 36 coronavirus deaths, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar, who is spokesperson for COVID-19 in the State, told reporters. He added that 13 coronavirus patients are in the Intensive Care Units (ICU). According to the health department bulletin, 14 COVID-19 cases were reported in Bengaluru urban district alone, followed by eight in Kalaburagi, three in Shivamogga, three in Hassan and one case each in Mandya, Udupi, Dharwad, Vijayapura, Bagalkote, Ballari and Davangere. The cases include two women and a one-year-old girl from Udupi. The biggest contributor of today's tally was Bengaluru with the cases being the secondary contact of a house-keeper of a hotel in the city, health department sources said. The three positive cases from Hassan and one from Dharwad had travel history to Mumbai whereas the Udupi girl had returned from Dubai. The Minister said the health department has issued a circular regarding those who returned from foreign countries that they will have to quarantine twice for a total of 28 days -- one at the quarantine centre and second as home quarantine after reaching their respective districts. "Even if they test negative for COVID-19 at the quarantine centre, they will have to undergo home quarantine for 14 days," the minister explained. According to the circular, the travellers will have to arrange for their travel and the police will issue passes for them. These passengers will have to coordinate with the COVID-19 nodal officer.  Kumar said the Union Home Ministry has issued a circular on the migrant labourers that they should not be allowed to walk on the railway track or road. Instead, arrangements should be made to send them by special trains and special buses, he said. The minister said a patient, who had committed an offence by escaping from a containment zone here, would be booked for violating the COVID-19 guidelines. Regarding the alleged substandard food to those quarantined in hotels, Suresh Kumar said the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (city civic body) will make sure to take the case to the logical end. "Those quarantined in the hotels are our guests and we cannot allow such incidents to happen," the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/36-new-coronavirus-cases-in-karnataka-tally-touches-1092-838443.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre clears P Krishna Bhat's name as Karnataka HC judge||After years of dithering, the Centre is learnt to have cleared the file on the elevation of judicial officer P Krishna Bhat as a judge of the Karnataka High Court. The notification on his appointment may come within two-three days, sources said. Bhat, who was born in 1960, would have a tenure of just two years as a judge of the High Court. The Centre has been sitting over the file on Bhat for quite some time. The Supreme Court Collegium had on October 15, 2019, rejected its request for reconsideration. The Collegium had then asked the Centre to process “most expeditiously” the recommendation, made twice earlier for the elevation of Bhat as a judge of the Karnataka High Court. The Collegium had first recommended his name way back in August 2016. It was reiterated on April 6, 2017. However, the Union government still sought reconsideration of the proposal, which was seen as "interference into the appointment of judges". In a hard-hitting letter to the then CJI and all judges, Justice J Chelameswar (since retired) had in March, 2018 questioned the government's act of writing a letter directly to the Karnataka High Court's then chief justice Dinesh Maheshwari, now a Supreme Court judge, who had ordered an inquiry on some “old allegations” against Bhat by a woman judge. He had asked the CJI to convene a full court to discuss “government's interference” in the appointment of judges to the high courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-clears-p-krishna-bhats-name-as-karnataka-hc-judge-838447.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't relax labour laws, senior BJP leader tells CM B S Yediyurappa||At a time when the issue of relaxing labour laws in favour of industries is being hotly debated, it appears that not everyone within the ruling BJP is happy with such a proposal.  Senior BJP MLC Ayanur Manjunath has written to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa asking the government to drop the proposal of relaxing labour laws in the state. Manjunath is seen as a Yediyurappa loyalist.  In his letter, Manjunath pointed out the relaxing laws at this point would put the job security of workers under peril and go against their rights. Moreover, such a move was not in sync with Yediyurappa's political legacy, Manjunath said.  "Your personality and image cannot be compared with other chief ministers. You are known more as a crusader of the rights of the vulnerable than as a politician," he wrote, urging the government to protect the rights of workers in this time of crisis.  An ordinance relaxing labour laws was expected to come up before the Cabinet earlier this week and it was widely believed that Karnataka will follow the footsteps of a few other BJP-ruled states. But the ordinance did not come up for approval, indicating that the government may have gone slow on this. The Karnataka Employers' Association (KEA) has sought relaxation of labour laws. "The COVID-19 situation has brought a sense of urgency in amending the labour laws to make it responsive to the emerging opportunities. Our existing labour laws being archaic are found to be woefully wanting," KEA president BC Prabhakar stated in a May 14 petition to the CM. "We're anxiously waiting," Prabhakar told DH.  The KEA has sought amendments to the Industrial Disputes Act, Factories Act, Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, Sexual Harassment of Women At Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition And Redressal) Act and Karnataka Shops and Commercial Establishments Act.  The amendments sought include doing away with the requirement for industrial establishments employing 100 or more workmen to seek permission of the government for layoffs, retrenchment or closing down. Also, the body has asked the government to permit 12-hour work in a day with four hours of overtime on a single wage, exclusion of the IT/ITeS/BPO knowledge-based industry from the purview of the Contract Labour Act and so on.   Officials in the Labour department told DH that the issue was still under consideration by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-relax-labour-laws-senior-bjp-leader-tells-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-838457.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mining reforms will benefit Karnataka, says BSY||The Centre’s fourth tranche of the economic stimulus package that focuses on the mining of minerals through a seamless composite exploration-cum-production regime will benefit Karnataka, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said Saturday. “The policy changes in mineral sectors will complement the state’s mineral policy,” Yediyurappa said in a statement. “Our state has several mineral deposits and mining is thereby allowed. The present laws related to mining were cumbersome. Now, mining activities can be carried out without many hurdles. This will help in creating more employment opportunities in the state,” he said.  According to CM, Karnataka has abundant mineral deposits (iron, copper, gold, quartz, and uranium). “Mining these minerals will help the state’s economic growth. Private participation in mining will prove profitable to the state,” he said. Investment in India’s defence, space, and civil aviation sectors will also benefit the state, Yediyurappa pointed out. “As the state has many manufacturing units in these sectors, other concerned units complementing these sectors will be established,” he said, adding that private participation in the atomic science sector will also benefit  Karnataka.  “During the (World Economic Forum) Davos tour, many space and defence sector companies had expressed their interest in investing in the state. Now, the projects of these companies can be realized,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mining-reforms-will-benefit-karnataka-says-bsy-838471.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Clear RTE dues to pvt schools: MLCs to CM||A delegation of MLCs from teachers and graduates constituencies on Saturday called on Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to discuss various issues pertaining to education. The MLCs, including Puttanna and Arun Shahapur, requested the chief minister to release pending RTE dues to private schools for the last few years. They also requested to address salary issues of guest teachers and teachers working with aided schools. Following the request, the chief minister directed the officials to look into the issues raised by MLCs. Meanwhile, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar held a video conference with MLCs seeking their suggestions on SSLC exams and reopening of schools. During the video conference, all the MLCs unanimously suggested to conduct SSLC exams. The council members even suggested not to cut down PUC syllabus as students have to compete at national level. “Instead of trimming the syllabus we can conduct classes on Saturdays and even during Dasara and summer vacations,” suggested members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/clear-rte-dues-to-pvt-schools-mlcs-to-cm-838479.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Six of med rep's family contract coronavirus in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi district saw eight fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday as its total case count swelled to 94.  Six members of a medical representative's (P-848) family, including three girls in the age-group of 10 to 15, tested positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday. The medical representative had tested positive on May 10. Two days back, an ENT specialist from the city, who came in contact with the medical representative, also tested positive for COVID-19.  A 30-year-old woman (P-1084), who'd returned to Kalaburagi from Mumbai by a Shramik Seva train on May 12, also tested positive on Saturday. Upon arrival, she was quarantined, along with 40 others, at a residential school at Chittapur. The district has 40 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/six-of-med-reps-family-contract-coronavirus-in-kalaburagi-838482.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Eight Mumbai returnees test positive for COVID-19||COVID-19 cases linked to Mumbai continue to haunt several districts in the state. On Saturday, seven Mumbai returnees, including four from Hassan district, have tested positive for novel coronavirus. A 28-year-old woman (P-1079) among four from Hassan, with a travel history to Mumbai, contracted thevirus. Superintendent of Police R Girish told reporters, “Patient 1079, a native of Chikkamagaluru district, along with six others had travelled from Kurla to the district in a Tempo Traveller on May 11. The police stopped the vehicle at Banavar check-post and sent all seven to quarantine at Kittur Rani Chennamma Residential School. Among the seven, the woman tested positive for COVID-19.” The remaining six, including a driver from Hunasur, have been sent to institutional quarantine. Likewise, two among a group of 20 people, which had returned to Hassan from Koliwada in Mumbai in a private bus on May 12, tested positive for virus. The infected men, aged 50 and 63, have been admitted to the district hospital, the SP said. An 18-year-old boy also tested positive for COVID-19. He is believed to have travelled from Mumbai to the district along with 26 others, Girish added. Meanwhile, a 33-year-old man from Bagalkot district, a staff nurse at a private hospital in Mumbai, has contracted virus. He had returned to his native Kulageri in Badami taluk on May 12 and was staying at a farmhouse at Narasapur. He was quarantined after the villagers informed the taluk administration about his return from Mumbai. His throat swab samples has returned positive on Saturday. His primary and secondary contacts have been placed under quarantine. As on May 16, Bagalkot district has 43 active cases. A 34-year-old man from Om Nagar on the outskirts of Dharwad city, has tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. The patient P-1060 is the second mango trader-cum-driver from Dharwad city to have tested positive. P-1060 has the history of travelling frequently to Mumbai and Pune to sell mangoes during the 2.0 and 3.0 lockdown. With this, the district’s COVID-19 tally has gone up to 22. Tablighi man  One among three Tablighi men from Harapanahalli in Ballari district, with a travel history to Ahmedabad in Gujarat, has contracted virus. All three had entered the district from Ahmedabad via Gadag. They were stopped at Madalagatti check-post in Hadagali taluk and were sent to a quarantine facility at Toranagallu. Davangere reported yet another COVID-19 case on Saturday. A 65-year-old woman (P-1061), a secondary contact of a CHC staff nurse (P-533), tested positive for virus. The district has 83 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/eight-mumbai-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-19-838485.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt under fire for stopping women’s welfare schemes||The state government has decided to roll back two flagship programmes of the Women & Child Welfare Department - Santhwana and Mathrushree - inviting flak from various quarters, including the Opposition.  A government note in this regard (dated May 11) issued by the finance department stated that the Mathrushree programme, meant for pregnant women, would be stopped from the current financial year. The department has cited that a similar programme of the Centre, Mathru Vandana, was simultaneously being implemented. Under Mathru Vandana, pregnant women get financial aid of Rs 5,000, with a 60:40 share between the central and state governments. "The state government is also fulfilling the nutrition requirement of pregnant women under Mathrupoorna scheme. Hence, Mathrushree programme will be stopped..." the note read. While Mathrushree was announced in 2018 under the H D Kumaraswamy-led coalition government, the Pradhan Mantri Mathru Vandana scheme was announced in 2017. The allowance under Mathrushree given to pregnant women was planned by the then government in addition to the central government's scheme.  As for the Santhwana scheme meant for women in distress, the government was already implementing centrally-sponsored One Stop Centres. Hence, this too would be stopped, according to the note. The scheme was first rolled out in 2001-02 during the SM Krishna regime. The Santhwana centres worked as rehabilitation centres for women in distress including those suffering domestic violence. However, the One Stop Centres are more recent, introduced in 2017-18 by the union government.  Kumaraswamy decried the move to stop the Santhwana scheme during the pandemic, when domestic violence cases had increased. "How ironic! The government has opened takeaway alcohol shops, but shuts down Santhwana centres. Giving the bottle to the man while shutting down care centres for victims of domestic violence. So very thoughtful!," he mocked in a tweet.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah also criticised the move. "The Santhwana centres were meant for protection of women in distress. The government now wants to shut them. Likewise, Mathrushree scheme was to cater to pregnant women. The scheme contributed to reducing maternal mortality in the state. By rolling these back, the government has done injustice to women. If the government cares about women, it must immediately withdraw the order," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-under-fire-for-stopping-women-s-welfare-schemes-838486.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannadigas in Dhaka desperate to return to Karnataka||In February, Mohamed Samiulla left Bengaluru for a new job in Dhaka, Bangladesh as the general manager in charge of operations at a garments factory. The move came with the prospect of a better career and the promise of more money.  Bangladesh enforced a lockdown to tackle Covid-19 and has remained so for two months. Now, Shamiulla neither has a job nor a way to get back to Bengaluru.  Shamiulla is one among more than 60 Kannadigas stranded in Dhaka, desperate to return to Karnataka.  “I feel helpless, literally, because I’m neither here nor there,” Shamiulla told DH over the phone. “I was staying in an apartment, but I have now moved in with a friend because I had problems paying rent.”  Shamiulla’s restlessness is not confined to his inability to return. “Bangladesh has no preparation to face Covid-19. If you look at the way people are moving about here, the lockdown is just for namesake. In India, the police are at least enforcing the lockdown,” he said.  These Kannadigas came close to returning home when an Air India flight to Chennai was scheduled for May 14 under the Vande Bharat repatriation mission. A total of 63 people from Karnataka registered to board this flight. “But something happened and we were told that only Tamil Nadu people can board the Chennai flight,” said Srujan Reddy, a process consultant from Bengaluru who went to Dhaka on work in March.  According to Reddy, the first phase of the Vande Bharat had six flights from Dhaka to Delhi, Mumbai and Jammu & Kashmir. In the second phase, there is one flight from Dhaka that is meant for Jammu & Kashmir students, he said. “We are 70-80 people from Karnataka here. Some of us have lost jobs, struggling to pay rents and some like me who came on business.” Besides the deluge of emails they have been sending to the authorities, these Kannadigas have also reached out to the Prime Minister’s Office and Chief Minister’s Office seeking help.  Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said he was contacted on May 10. “I got the chief secretary to talk to the Ministry of External Affairs. I was told there’ll be a direct flight to Bengaluru and then I was assured that they will get on the Chennai flight. I will follow it up again and we’ll try to help them come back soon,” Narayan told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannadigas-in-dhaka-desperate-to-return-to-karnataka-838491.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 36 new cases, tally goes up to 1,092||As many as 36 new cases were reported from Karnataka on Saturday, of which 12 are those who have returned from Mumbai, Ahmedabad and also inter district travel. One patient has returned from Dubai. The rest are primary and secondary contacts of previously diagnosed patients. Shivajinagar in Bengaluru reported all 14 of the city’s cases, and all the new cases are secondary contacts of Patient 653. The state has reported 1,092 cases in total, nearly half of which are active cases and 13 are in the ICU. The state has tested more than 6,000 samples in the last 24 hours. There is still a yawning gap between the number of active cases, 559, and the number of discharged, 496. Citing an example of people not following quarantine rules, Minister S Suresh Kumar, in-charge of COVID-19 briefings said P764, a a cook in Padarayanapura containment zone managed to go to Sira taluk in Tumakuru district and test positive there as the district administration tested all who were arriving from a red zone. Bengaluru is a red zone. Asked how he went all the way to Sira as people in containment zones weren't allowed to venture out of their houses much less cross the district, he said, "There are people who are even scaling walls in containment zones to escape quarantine. We are doing our best to educate people."  The government has decided to withhold patient numbers - of those admitted in the ICU and discharged patients - making them public was intruding their privacy, said outgoing special officer for COVID-19 operations Manjunath J. "The P number and age is enough in districts to discriminate and ostracise people. People would know that they have recovered from the disease and come back home. So henceforth, we are not divulging P numbers for those in the ICU and those who have been discharged," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-36-new-cases-tally-goes-up-to-1092-838494.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 lockdown effect: Automobile company downs shutters in Belagavi||An automobile company located at Kakati industrial estate in Belagavi taluk shut their business citing losses that led to more than 165 labourers losing their daily bread. Balu India, which has making automobile spares for over two decades had to down the shutters. In the notice, posted on the gate said that that the decision has been taken due to insurmountable loss. Union leader Balappa Dholapgol said their efforts to reach the management did not yield results hence they filed a complaint with the Deputy Commissioner and Labour Commissioner. After being contacted by Labour Commissioner, local management representative informed the official that decision to close the company has been taken due to lockdown as they cannot face losses, he said. Labour Commissioner has organised a meeting of employees' union with the management representatives on May 19, and we are expecting justice. All employees will be present for the meeting, he said.  Sidrai Lohar working in the company for over 17 years said, the company was closed since March 24 lockdown announcement and had opened on May 3, with work in one shift. After they had returned home last Saturday, but when they returned the next working day, there was a notice on the company's gate, stating the complete closure. We have not been paid wages for two months and the company suddenly closing has made us jobless. We have explained our grievances along with memorandum to Deputy Commissioner on Saturday (May 16), Lohar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-lockdown-effect-automobile-company-downs-shutters-in-belagavi-838498.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||State will benefit from economic stimulus package: CM||The Centre’s fourth tranche of the economic stimulus package that focusses on mining of minerals through a seamless composite exploration-cum-production regime will benefit Karnataka, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Saturday.  “The policy changes in mineral sectors will complement the state’s mineral policy,” Yediyurappa said in a statement.  “Our state has several mineral deposits and mining is thereby allowed. The present laws related to mining were cumbersome. Now, mining activities can be carried out without much hurdles. This will help in creating more employment opportunities in the state,” he said.  According to the CM, Karnataka has abundant mineral deposits (iron, copper, gold, quartz and uranium). “Mining these minerals will help the state’s economic growth. Private participation in mining will prove profitable to the state,” he said.  Investment in India’s defence, space and civil aviation sectors will also benefit the state, Yediyurappa pointed out. “As the state has many manufacturing units in these sectors, other concerned units complementing these sectors will be established,” he said, adding that private participation in the atomic science sector will also benefit Karnataka.  “During the (World Economic Forum) Davos tour, many space and defence sector companies had expressed their interest in investing in the state. Now, the projects of these companies can be realized,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/state-will-benefit-from-economic-stimulus-package-cm-838501.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Reelers boycott cocoon auction, farmers protest  ||Abrupt halting of the auctioning of cocoons prompted silk farmers dump the produce in front of the cocoon market on Bengaluru-Mysuru highway here on Saturday. Reelers boycotted the auctioning alleging that the state government had not fulfilled their demands halting the process. However, farmers resorted to protest as the e-auctioning did not begin by noon. They alleged that they would not have brought the cocoons to the market had the reelers announced their decision in advance. They sought the government to buy the cocoons through Karnataka Silk Marketing Board (KSMB) and Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation Limited (KSIC). The reelers claimed that about 2,500 tonnes silk reels were in stock across the state due to lockdown. They wanted the KSMB to purchase a minimum of 30 kg reels a week and make 60% payment during procurement. The government should ensure passes to reelers to sell the reels in other states, they demanded. They said that they would not buy the cocoons till their demands were fulfilled. Deputy Commissioner M S Archana and Magadi legislator A Manjunath held an emergency meeting with the reelers. Though the DC clarified that the government had orally promised to fulfill the demands, the reelers did not come to the market. Karnataka State Reelers Association President Mohammad Muheeb Pasha said that the office-bearers would take a decision on participating in the auctioning only after the Association received the government’s communication in writing. “The auction was suspended as the reelers did not participate and it will resume on Sunday,” deputy director of the market said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/reelers-boycott-cocoon-auction-farmers-protest-838503.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ruling party MLC against relaxation of labour laws||At a time when the issue of relaxing labour laws in favour of industries is being hotly debated, it appears that not everyone within the ruling BJP is happy with such a proposal.  Senior BJP MLC Ayanur Manjunath has written to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa asking the government to drop the proposal of relaxing labour laws in the state. Manjunath is seen as a Yediyurappa loyalist.  In his letter, Manjunath pointed out the relaxing laws at this point would put the job security of workers under peril and go against their rights. Moreover, such a move was not in sync with Yediyurappa's political legacy, Manjunath said. "Your personality and image cannot be compared with other chief ministers. You are known more as a crusader of the rights of the vulnerable than as a politician," he wrote, urging the government to protect the rights of workers in this time of crisis.  An ordinance relaxing labour laws was expected to come up before the Cabinet earlier this week and it was widely believed that Karnataka will follow the footsteps of a few other BJP-ruled states. But the ordinance did not come up for approval, indicating that the government may have gone slow on this. Meanwhile, the Karnataka Employers' Association (KEA) has sought relaxation of labour laws. "The Covid-19 situation has brought a sense of urgency in amending the labour laws to make it responsive to the emerging opportunities. Our existing labour laws being archaic are found to be woefully wanting," KEA president B C Prabhakar stated in a petition to the CM. The amendments sought include doing away with the requirement for industrial establishments employing 100 or more workmen to seek permission of the government for layoffs, retrenchment or closing down. Also, the body has asked the government to permit 12-hour work in a day with four hours of overtime on a single wage. Officials in the Labour department told DH that the issue was still under consideration by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ruling-party-mlc-against-relaxation-of-labour-laws-838504.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: State to test 10k samples daily by month end||Minister of Medical Education Dr K Sudhakar on Saturday said that the government planned to setup 60 laboratories by May end to test 10,000 samples per day in the fight against Covid-19. He was speaking after launching two TrueNat machines at the district hospital to test Covid-19. At present, there are 40 laboratories across the state for the testing purposes. “Chikkaballapur is the city with the highest tests per million population in the state. The new laboratory will enable us to detect and treat the infected persons at the primary level. This is a significant step in Karnataka’s fight against novel coronavirus considering that state had just two laboratories in the beginning of February and had capability of testing a few hundreds,” he said. Sudhakar said,”We have more strength in this fight against Covid-19. Increase in laboratories will help in the early diagnosis of Covid-19 cases. This will reduce the mortality rate and increase the number of recovered cases.” From the beginning, Karnataka followed 4T Strategy (testing, tracking, tracing and treatment) to effectively contain the Covid-19. The increase in number of laboratories and testing capacity was the part of that strategy for conducting large numbers of tests to help early detection and take precautions or treatment as necessary, he said. “We need to learn to live with the Covid-19 and fight against it as the World Health Organisation has stated that there seems to be no end from novel coronavirus in near future. The Covid-19 crisis has hit the world and the country’s economy hard. The lockdown phase-4 will be different as relaxations are inevitable,” he said. Deputy commissioner R Latha, Zilla Panchayat president M B Chikkanarasimhaiah, ZP Chief Executive Officer Fouzia B Taranum and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-state-to-test-10k-samples-daily-by-month-end-838507.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Delhi won't quarantine asymptomatic passengers||There is relief for passengers embarking on a journey to New Delhi from Karnataka.  The Delhi National Capital Territory (NCT) government has decided not to put passengers without Covid-19 symptoms in institutional quarantine. A day after over 100 passengers arriving from New Delhi held a flash protest over the abrupt change in quarantine rules, the railways shared the NCT government notification to clarify the rules for those leaving Bengaluru to Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/delhi-wont-quarantine-asymptomatic-passengers-838510.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Debt-ridden farmer ends life||A farmer allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison due to debts at Kathriguppe in Kasaba hobli in the taluk on Saturday. Ramappa (55), the deceased, had borrowed Rs five lakh from a bank, besides loans from private persons, said the police. He could not sell gladiolus flowers grown in three acres due to lockdown and was worried about repayment of loans, Narayanamma, the wife of the deceased, stated in a complaint.  He was rushed to the district hospital soon after he consumed poison at his house. But, he did not respond to treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/debt-ridden-farmer-ends-life-838511.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NREGS comes to rescue of workers under lockdown distress||The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme has come to the rescue of rural workers who have been in distress owing to nationwide lockdown. As many as 3,88,903 people had registered their names seeking jobs under NREGA while 1,61,459 have been provided with employment. A total sum of Rs 9.69 crore had been credited to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries towards wages. The wages are being paid every week without fail thus providing succour to labourers facing hardship. “We have laid thrust on projects under NREGA on a priority basis given the loss of jobs due to lockdown. So far 3,34,421 human days of employment have been generated under the scheme,” said Zilla Panchayat Executive Officer Subha Kalyan. The CEO said that some people, who had registered themselves for jobs under the scheme, had migrated to cities in search of jobs. “However, they too have returned due to lockdown. We activated their job cards and provided employment for them. A total of 1,490 people have enrolled themselves under the scheme since March this year,” the officer said. Shubha said that Madhugiri taluk has the highest number of people seeking jobs under NREGA and therefore, more projects are underway in the taluk. The taluk has 39 gram panchayats and the topography - with more hills and hillocks - is appropriate for taking up works. The workers have been told to maintain social distance. At present, 2,433 individual projects and 601 community projects are in progress in the district under NREGA. Construction of farm ponds, ridges, desilting of waterbodies have been accorded priority. Rainwater harvesting projects, construction of school buildings, afforestation, wormicompost units etc, have also been taken up under the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nregs-comes-to-rescue-of-workers-under-lockdown-distress-838515.html
16-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sriramulu seeks Home dept aid to curb sex work||Health Minister B Sriramulu has sought the aid of Home department for curbing sex work in certain parts of the state - which continues unabated despite lockdown. “It poses health risks to those involved. I request the department to ensure that the business is prohibited at such a time of crisis,” he stated in a letter to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai.   At the same time, in order to ensure the safety of these workers, Sriramulu has asked both the Health department and the Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society (KSAPS) to come up with a detailed report on rehabilitation of sex workers and transgenders. The Health minister’s order was prompted by a letter by writer and activist Roopa Hassan. The writer, who was earlier member of a panel (led by actor-turned-politician Jayamala) on the study of issues faced by sex workers, had sought government’s intervention to stop condom distribution to registered sex workers and transgenders, as continuing work during pandemic was posing health risks to the community. Speaking to DH, the writer said there was an immediate need for creating awareness among members of the community. The government also needed to pay attention to providing them with financial aid and ration to cope with this crisis, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sriramulu-seeks-home-dept-aid-to-curb-sex-work-838516.html
16-05-2020||West||BMC wants to use Wankhede Stadium as coronavirus quarantine centre||Reeling under the wave of COVID-19 outbreak, the Mumbai civic administration wants to use some of the facilities of the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai.  Among other things, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) wants to create a quarantine facility. The BMC has already started correspondence with the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA). According to the letter of Assistant Municipal Commissioner Chanda Jadhav, who heads the A Ward,  the stadium complex will be used for emergency staff of A Ward and quarantine of asymptomatic patients.  The Wankhende Stadium complex on the Marine Drive comprises of the stadium, the BCCI office,  MCA office,  MCA lounge and the Garware Club House.  As COVID-19 cases continue to rise,  the BMC is acquiring hotels, marriage halls,  exhibition centres,  banquet halls,  club facilities under Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act,  1897. The MCA has decided to extend support to the BMC. The ground has hosted several international matches including the 2011 World Cup finals between India and Sri Lanka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-wants-to-use-wankhede-stadium-as-coronavirus-quarantine-centre-838210.html
16-05-2020||West||Form medical board to decide minor's pregnancy termination: Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court has directed the city-based J J Hospital to form a medical board and assess whether a 24-week pregnant minor victim of sexual assault can undergo medical termination of the pregnancy without any health risks. Justice S J Kathawalla passed the direction on Friday after the minor told the court that she was in mental trauma and that she wished to terminate her pregnancy in order to be able to concentrate on her studies. The court was hearing a petition filed by the minor's mother, seeking that the girl be permitted to terminate the pregnancy since it was the result of a sexual assault that she had endured last year. The mother also told the high court that the police had already filed a case of sexual assault against the minor's perpetrator. As per the plea, the girl, who is 17 years of age currently, had run away from her parents' home in the city in November last year. She returned in January 2020 and in May this year, following an episode of stomach ache, she realised that she was pregnant. According to the girl, she left her parents' house and got a job at a factory near Navi Mumbai. The accused worked at the same factory, she said. Responding to the court's query on how she secured a job at a factory despite being a minor, the girl told Justice Kathawalla through video-conferencing that she was not asked for any documents at the unit. She also told the court that she was undergoing much mental trauma due to the pregnancy and hence, wanted to terminate it. "A query raised by the court whether 'Y' (the minor girl) wants the child to be aborted, 'Y' informed the Court that she is wanting to have her pregnancy terminated because she is undergoing severe mental trauma, and wants to go back to her studies and start a new normal life for herself which will ensure a bright future," the court said while directing the board to be formed. Justice Kathawalla directed the girl to go before the board for a medical assessment on Saturday. "The board shall place their report before this court, setting out whether in its view it will be advisable to terminate the pregnancy. The board will also mention in the report if any risk is involved with regard to the life of 'Y'," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/form-medical-board-to-decide-minors-pregnancy-termination-bombay-hc-838257.html
16-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown 3.0: Liquor delivery only within municipal limits in Thane district||Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar on Friday evening issued an order regarding home delivery and online sale of liquor in the district.  Onlinesale and home delivery of liquor will only be permitted within the limits of various municipalities in the district, with the exception of containment zones in these areas, the order states. Narvekar also clarified that country-made liquor was not covered in the order. Orders for home delivery can be placed through social media portals and retailers should follow all norms and any violation will attract penalty, the collector said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-30-liquor-delivery-only-within-municipal-limits-in-thane-district-838275.html
16-05-2020||West||IPRS announces additional relief fund to 3500 members||The Indian Performing Right Society (IPRS) has announced the release of an additional tranche of an emergency relief fund for its members facing a financial crisis during the nationwide lockdown amid coronavirus pandemic. The fund will support around 3500 writers and composers in the music fraternity, across the country, whose livelihoods have been deeply impacted by COVID-19, a press release issued by IPRS said. Soon after the lockdown was announced to combat COVID-19 situation in the country on March 24, IPRS, a copyright society mandated by the government of India, as a custodian of its creator members, had declared an emergency relief package. "When the lockdown was announced IPRS (Indian performing rights society) had funded more than 3000 members who are not in a comfortable position by putting money directly in their accounts since the lockdown has continued IPRS is again funding those 30000 composers/ writers," veteran lyricist-writer and chairman of IPRS, Javed Akhtar wrote on Twitter. In a statement, Akhtar said IPRS was established with the objective of helping the creative music fraternity grow and flourish and now the community is in dire need because of these unprecedented times. "Our initial financial assistance package in April 2020 brought much-needed relief to the community and we hope the additional money that is being released now will help again to provide necessary respite at this moment," he added. Akhtar urged everyone to come forward and help others in this time of distress. Renowned lyricist and director of IPRS, Sameer Anjaan said he is glad that the organisation has taken this initiative to support the members and help those who have been deeply impacted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/iprs-announces-additional-relief-fund-to-3500-members-838286.html
16-05-2020||West||Three test positive after returning from West Bengal; Goa's COVID-19 tally reaches 11||Three more persons, who had returned from West Bengal, have tested positive in preliminary tests after returning to Goa, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said on Saturday. Their samples are being tested once again for reconfirmation. Four other persons who had accompanied the three COVID-19 positive persons, have tested negative, the Minister said. "During pool testing carried out at the Mollem border checkpost, out of seven, three tested positive. All seven had been kept in institutional quarantine," the Health Minister told reporters on Saturday. The three who tested positive have been shifted to a designated COVID-19 facility for treatment and isolation, while the four other persons continue to be admitted to an institutional quarantine facility. The seven persons had headed from Goa to West Bengal on May 3 to deliver a consignment of river barges to the eastern state's Ganga Sagar area and had returned via road. With the latest three cases, which are yet to be reconfirmed, Goa's tally of COVID-19 cases has reached 11. Until earlier this week, Goa was a COVID-19-free 'green zone' after not a single case was reported from April 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-test-positive-after-returning-from-west-bengal-goas-covid-19-tally-reaches-11-838288.html
16-05-2020||West||No beds, packed morgues: Mumbai hospitals near collapse amidst coronavirus pandemic||Packed morgues, bodies in wards, patients forced to share beds and medical workers run ragged: Mumbai's war against coronavirus has pushed the Indian city's hospitals to breaking point. Ravi, 26, had to change his mother's diapers himself as she lay dying from the disease in the huge Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, better known as Sion. "They would just give us medicines and leave," Ravi (not his real name) told AFP. Staff in the 1,300-bed facility were "overworked and tired", he said, with sometimes three patients per bed.  The state-run Sion hospital has become a byword for the stunning failure of Mumbai -- home to billionaires, Bollywood and slums -- to cope with the pandemic. A video widely shared on social media and shown on Indian TV showed corpses wrapped in black plastic left on beds in a ward where patients are being treated. Authorities said they were investigating the footage. With space at a premium, and relatives too afraid or unable to claim their dead because they are themselves in quarantine, disposal of coronavirus corpses is not easy, doctors say. But dealing with the sick is much harder. "We don't have enough beds to manage so many cases. The emergency area gets full in a matter of hours," Aditya Burje, a junior doctor working night shifts at Sion hospital, told AFP. The hospital's proximity to India's biggest slum Dharavi makes it a key battleground in the fight against the pandemic. "In March there were just one or two suspected cases a day. It all seemed to be under control. Then the situation drastically changed," the 25-year-old said. By the end of April, Burje and his colleagues were overwhelmed. "We were seeing 50-100 patients a day, 80 percent of whom would turn out to be positive and many would need to be on oxygen," he said. Like many doctors at state-run hospitals, Burje, who gets a $700 monthly stipend, has not been paid since India went into lockdown in late March. He has not had a night off in two months. With nearly a third of his medical school cohort at the hospital diagnosed with coronavirus, he admitted he was scared to go to work. "If something happens, who will take care of me?" Sion hospital is not alone in India's financial capital. And everyone -- from medical students to doctors with decades of experience -- is struggling. Intensive care specialist Deepak Baid, who runs a private hospital in north Mumbai, volunteered to help at a state-run medical facility, Rajawadi Hospital.  But though it is only equipped to handle patients with moderate symptoms, doctors there routinely end up treating critically ill people, Baid said. Even clinicians specialising in fields like dermatology or orthopaedics are being hit with caseloads of patients they are not qualified to treat. "We can't send (patients) to other better-equipped hospitals because they have no beds and so we do what we can," he told AFP. "The system is under a lot of pressure, it's exploding," he said. Flimsy protective equipment has made sanitation workers fearful of tackling tasks such as changing sheets used by coronavirus patients, Nilima Vaidya-Bhamare, another doctor, told AFP. Mumbai has 4,500 beds for coronavirus patients, according to Daksha Shah, a senior health official with the city authority. "We are expanding capacity all the time," she told AFP, pointing to efforts to build a 1,000-bed field hospital in a commercial hub. Authorities are also setting up intensive care units inside schools. But with Mumbai so far registering around 18,000 cases, a fraction of its 18-million-strong population, fears are growing that India's worst-hit city is unprepared for a potential surge. India spends less than two percent of its GDP on healthcare. As of 2017, India had 0.8 doctors per 1,000 people, around the same level as Iraq, according to the World Bank. China has 1.8 per 1,000, and the United States 2.6. Many of the problems highlighted by the pandemic have been festering for a long time, Vaidya-Bhamare said, from a lack of basic supplies such as soap to overburdened staff. "I graduated in 1994 and government hospitals were utterly neglected then," she said. "Why does it take a pandemic to wake people up?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-beds-packed-morgues-mumbai-hospitals-near-collapse-amidst-coronavirus-pandemic-838309.html
16-05-2020||West||At 42%, water stock in Maharashtra dams 3-times more than last year||Even as the coronavirus situation in Maharashtra is grim, there is some solace for the state as far as the water stock is concerned as it has reported nearly three times more useful storage as compared to the corresponding period last year. The state had faced successive years of drought over the past few years. However, most parts of the state had received good rainfall last year. According to a Maharashtra government report of May 15, the 3,267 major, medium and minor projects across the state collectively reported live (useful) storage of 17,066.71 million cubic metre, which is 41.73 per cent of their total capacity of holding 40,897.95 million cubic metres live stock. On May 15 last year, the collective stock available across these dams was 14.92 per cent. Some major dams, including Manjara (in Beed) in the Marathwada region, which witnesses parched swathes during the summer, however, have run out of their useful content this year as they had in the last season too. The nine major dams in the Aurangabad division of Marathwada have 1,798.89 million cubic metre stock till now, which is 43.9 per cent of 4,097.77 million cubic metre collective storage capacity of live storage. Last year, the stock available across these dams in Aurangabad, Beed, Hingoli, Nanded, Osmanabad and Parbhani districts was just 0.44 per cent. The Jayakwadi dam at Paithan in Aurangabad district, a key project in the region, had dried (in terms of live stock) last year. However, this year, it has reported a big leap of 1,017.91 million cubic metre live stock, that is 46.89 per cent of its capacity of holding 2,170.93 million cubic metre useful storage. Similarly, the dams in Majalgaon (Beed), Yeldari and Siddeshwar (Hingoli) and Lower Terna (Osmanabad) recorded relatively better stock this year. The dams like Manjara, Sina Kolegaon (Osmanabad) and Lower Dudhana dams, however, have run out of their useful stock as they had last year. The 10 major dams in the Amravati division of Vidarbha, which too witnessed dry stretches when the temperature soared, have at present 1,190.48 million cubic metre live stock, that is 47.95 per cent of their collective useful storage of 2,482.65 million cubic metre. On the same day last year, the total useful stock available at these dams in the division- which covers districts such as Akola, Amravati, Buldhana and Yavatmal- was 16 per cent. The Khadakpurna and Pentakali dams, which ran into dead storage last year, have reported 29.35 per cent and 81.83 per cent of their respective total useful stock holding capacity now. In the Nagpur division of the region, the live stock available in the 15 major dams was 1,755.41 million cubic metre, that is, 51.34 per cent of their collective 3,418.87 million cubic metre live stock. In 2019, the live stock available on the corresponding day in the dams in the division that covers districts like Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli and Gondia, besides Nagpur was 6.95 per cent. The Gosikhurd (Bhandara) and Nand (Nagpur) dams, which had no live stock left last year, have reported availability of 15.62 per cent and 22.7 per cent of their respective useful storage holding capacity. The Dina dam in Gadchiroli has no live water stock left in it this year too. The six dams in the Konkan region- comprising Palghar, Sindhudurg and Thane- have 49.28 per cent (892.44 million cubic metre) of their collective 1,683.65 million cubic metre capacity live stock as against 31.02 per cent last year. Nashik division's 24 dams together haveavailable 1,591.86 million cubic metre (42.58 per cent) of their 3,738.75 million cubic metre collective live stock holding capacity. In the previous year, the stock available in the region that covers districts like Ahmednagar, Jalgaon and Nashik, was 11.71 per cent. The Pune region with 29 dams has 4,528.3 million cubic metre (40.14 per cent) live stock available at present of the total live stock holding capacity of 11,281.44 million cubic metre. Last year, the live stock available across these dams in Kolhapur, Pune, Sangli, Satara and Solapur was 13.57 per cent. The Dimbhe, Ghod (Chinchani), Pimpalgaon Joge and Wadaj dams in Pune and Bhima (Ujjani) project in Solapur, which had recorded 0 per cent live stock, are all better placed this year, according to the data. The Temghar dam in Pune, which also reported 0 per cent stock last year, has 2.12 per cent live stock available this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-42-water-stock-in-maharashtra-dams-3-times-more-than-last-year-838322.html
16-05-2020||West||IPS officer who gave travel nod to Wadhawans resumes work||An IPS officer, who was sent on compulsory leave by Maharashtra government for allowing tainted businessmen brothers Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan to travel during the lockdown, has resumed work after a panel probing the matter exonerated him, a senior official said. The government had last month sent Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary (special) home department, on compulsory leave for allowing DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan to travel from Khandala near Pune to Mahabaleshwar in Satara district despite the lockdown. The bureaucrat had issued a letter exempting the Wadhawans and some others from the lockdown norms citing a family emergency. Additional chief secretary, finance Manoj Saunik had probed the matter. "Gupta has joined the office again. He was exonerated by the panel probing his role and a decision was taken accordingly," a senior official said on Saturday. The permission for travel by cars, in the form of "To Whomsoever It May Concern" letter, was issued on April 8. It stated that the Wadhawan family was known to Gupta and they were traveling for "family emergency". Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan are under the scanner in Yes Bank and Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank scams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ips-officer-who-gave-travel-nod-to-wadhawans-resumes-work-838326.html
16-05-2020||West||Man dies of COVID-19 in Nagpur, death toll rises to 5||The patient was suffering from a kidney ailment and diabetes. He tested positive for coronavirus on May 15 at a state-run hospital and was put on ventilator, he said.  Nagpur has so far reported 336 COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-dies-of-covid-19-in-nagpur-death-toll-rises-to-5-838343.html
16-05-2020||West||Ensure essentials reach tribals: HC to Maha govt||The Bombay High Court directed the Maharashtra government and civic authorities to ensure that food and basic necessities reach the tribal community across the state amid the COVID-19 lockdown. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Amjad Sayed was hearing a petition filed by one Vivek Pandit highlighting the plight of tribals in the state during the lockdown, which was enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus. The petitioner sought a direction to the government and civic authorities to provide essentials to tribals in Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Nashik, Dhule, Nandurbar, Jalgaon, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Bhandara, Gondia, Nagpur, Yavatmal and Amravati districts. Additional government pleader B V Samant told the court on Friday that several measures had been adopted by the government to supply food grains to the tribal community across the state. "A circular was also issued by the government on April 27, directing all collectors to provide benefits of the Public Distribution System to vulnerable households, especially migrant labourers and others," Samant told the court. He further submitted that the process of issuing ration cards to tribals was also underway. However, the petitioner's advocate Vaibhav Bhure argued that this process was delayed as authorities were asking for various documents, which tribals were unable to furnish.  He urged the government to ensure that food grains and other essentials were provided to the community, keeping the process of issuance of ration cards in abeyance. Samant assured the court that all essential items were reaching each and every member of the tribal community across the state. "We have no doubt in our mind that the testing times notwithstanding, the government would leave no stone unturned to reach out to the members of the tribal community, who are marginalised people, and to ensure that not a single member is left without food and the basic necessities in these dark hours," the court said and disposed of the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ensure-essentials-reach-tribals-hc-to-maha-govt-838344.html
16-05-2020||West||Goa's COVID-19 cases come down to 10 after man tests negative||Eight COVID-19 cases were detected in Goa earlier this week, while three more persons had tested positive during the rapid tests conducted on Friday evening, he said. "During the final test conducted on the trio, two were found infected with coronavirus. However, the third one tested negative. The test was conducted at the virology lab of Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) near here," Rane said.  The minister said that seven residents of Vasco city in South Goa had left on April 21 to deliver barges at Gangapur near Kolkata, a green zone. After reaching Gangapur on May 3, they were taken to some other place in a boat there. "They reached Goa at 10.30 am on Friday from Mollem check post (South Goa) in one vehicle," he said, adding that they were taken for testing at a district hospital in South Goa.  "Three tested positive during the rapid testing, while other four were taken for institutional quarantine," Rane had said this morning. Goa was declared green zone on May 1. However, the fresh cases began surfacing in the state after May 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goas-covid-19-cases-come-down-to-10-after-man-tests-negative-838345.html
16-05-2020||West||Ensure treatment to non-COVID-19 patients: Bombay High Court to Maharashtra govt||The Bombay High Court has directed the Maharashtra government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to consider suggestions made by some petitioners for ensuring treatment to non-COVID-19 patients. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and A A Sayed on Friday said the authorities would accept such suggestions only if they were "realistic" and "within medical protocols". The court was hearing petitions filed by a lawyer and few social activists, which stated that people suffering from several chronic or serious ailments were being turned away from clinics and hospitals. The petitioners also highlighted issues such as lack of adequate facilities and medical infrastructure in state, civic-run, and private hospitals amid the COVID-19 pandemic. In the previous hearings, senior advocate Gayatri Singh, the counsel for one of the petitioners, had said that the state and municipal authorities did not have a detailed action plan for patients suffering from ailments other than COVID-19. Singh and other petitioners had suggested that the authorities must come up with a helpline for non-COVID-19 patients to assist them with ambulance, mobile medical aid, list of hospitals and clinics providing treatment. The petitioners also said mobile clinics and paramedical services can be provided at different locations to help patients who did not require hospitalisation, but were in need of preliminary check-ups, dialysis etc. Opposing these petitions, BMC counsel Anil Sakhre on Friday said the civic and state authorities had made adequate arrangements for the treatment of non-COVID-19 patients. The bench, however, said some of the suggestions made by the petitioners were of value and since "every possible option needed to be explored" to counter the problems arising out of the pandemic, the authorities must consider implementing these suggestions. The court has now directed the petitioners to consult experts and private institutions and submit a list of realistic suggestions for the authorities. The state and the BMC can consider these suggestions and inform the court of the same on May 22, the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ensure-treatment-to-non-covid-19-patients-bombay-high-court-to-maharashtra-govt-838346.html
16-05-2020||West||Goa COVID-19 cases down to 10 after man tests negative||The number of coronavirus cases in Goa came down to 10 on Saturday, after one of the COVID-19 patients tested negative in the final test, state Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said. Eight COVID-19 cases were detected in Goa earlier this week, while three more persons had tested positive during the rapid tests conducted on Friday evening, he said. "During the final test conducted on the trio, two were found infected with coronavirus. However, the third one tested negative. The test was conducted at the virology lab of Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) near here," Rane said. The minister said that seven residents of Vasco city in South Goa had left on April 21 to deliver barges at Gangapur near Kolkata, a green zone. After reaching Gangapur on May 3, they were taken to some other place in a boat there. "They reached Goa at 10.30 am on Friday from Mollem check post (South Goa) in one vehicle," he said, adding that they were taken for testing at a district hospital in South Goa. "Three tested positive during the rapid testing, while other four were taken for institutional quarantine," Rane had said this morning. Goa was declared green zone on May 1. However, the fresh cases began surfacing in the state after May 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-covid-19-cases-down-to-10-after-man-tests-negative-838362.html
16-05-2020||West||Centre, state govt failed to deal with migrant crisis: Prithviraj Chavan||Senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan on Saturday said both the Centre and the state government had failed in their responsibility to send migrant labourers back to their home states. The former Maharashtra Chief Minister expressed his disappointment over the announcements made by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman regarding the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package. If the economy needs to be brought back on track, the government has to increase people's spending capacity, but unfortunately, in the package, there was little emphasis on spending, he said in an online press conference. Speaking about the exodus of migrant labourers from the state, Chavan said, "I think both the Centre and the state government have made a big mistake by treating migrants this way. It was our human responsibility to send them back to their states and we have failed it completely." Money should have been spent in making arrangements for these migrants to be sent home, he added. Since the country was receiving aid from global financial institutions, these funds should be spent on strengthening the health sector, the senior Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-state-govt-failed-to-deal-with-migrant-crisis-prithviraj-chavan-838363.html
16-05-2020||West||Man tests positive, claims he was not screened at border||A 46-year-old man from Sangli in Maharashtra who claims to have entered Goa without being checked for COVID-19 symptoms at the border has tested positive for novel coronavirus after being admitted in GMCH here for fever, a senior health official said on Saturday. The man had come in a car along with two others to supply goods to a firm in Panaji, he said. "The 46-year-old man who tested positive for novel coronavirus at Goa Medical College and Hospital has said he was not tested or medically screened at the checkpost before entering the state. As per rule, all those entering the state have to be tested at the border, and be quarantined till the reports are out," the Directorate of Health Services official said. He said the health department had informed the district collector about this case in order to look into the issue of unchecked entry at the state border. Meanwhile, a truck cleaner from Agra in Uttar Pradesh who traveled to Goa's Kundaim industrial estate near Ponda has also tested positive during a rapid test for coronavirus on Saturday. State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said the Truenat test returned positive for the cleaner but negative for the driver of the truck. "They were admitted to the district hospital in Margao in south Goa for fever. The cleaner, a native of Agra, had come from Haridwar in Uttarakhand to deliver pharmaceutical goods. He entered the state on May 14 from the Patradevi border and then got admitted for fever," Rane said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-tests-positive-claims-he-was-not-screened-at-border-838376.html
16-05-2020||West||CM's election: Shiv Sena slams state BJP but compliments Modi, Shah||The Shiv Sena on Saturday accused the state BJP of trying to block Uddhav Thackeray's election to Legislative Council, but credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah with avoiding political instability in Maharashtra. The Sena-NCP-Congress government in the state was "Atmanirbhar" (self-reliant), said the Shiv Sena mouthpiece `Saamana' in its editorial. "Despite attempts to create hurdles in the functioning of the state government in the last six months, (chief minister) Uddhav Thackeray has been elected unopposed to the Legislative Council," the editorial said. In a veiled attack on Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, the editorial said attempts were made to put the government in a fix by blocking Thackeray's nomination to the Council through the governor's quota. "Some people thought Thackeray (who had to get elected before the end of May) will have to resign, there would be President's rule and they could return by having an early morning swearing-in," it said. After the Assembly election results last year, Fadnvavis was sworn in as chief minister for a second time with NCP's Ajit Pawar as his deputy at an early morning ceremony, but the BJP leader had to resign for lack of numbers. The editorial, interestingly, gave credit to the top BJP leadership for avoiding a political crisis in the state. "Modi and (Union Home Minister) Amit Shah did not allow instability in the state. Not allowing the CM to get elected is good as political strategy. But to think of such politics when the state is fighting coronavirus is not good," it said. "Modi and Shah had to inject vaccine to tackle this virus and the governor had to recommend holding of Council elections," it said. Biennial elections to the Council -- postponed due to coronavirus -- were announced after Thackeray spoke to Modi over phone. The Sena chief and eight others were elected unopposed. The coalition government in Maharashtra had had some anxious moments earlier as governor took no decision on the state cabinet's recommendation to nominate Thackeray to the upper house through the governor's quota. The editorial also took a swipe at state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil for predicting a "political earthquake" in the state unit of the Congress, a ruling coalition partner. "When the state is fighting coronavirus, Patil can do whatever it takes to bring down the government. Earlier they took Ajit Pawar (with them) but now Pawar is giving strength to the government. If the opposition is also `Atmanirbhar' like the MVA (the ruling coalition), the fight against coronavirus will be stronger," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cms-election-shiv-sena-slams-state-bjp-but-compliments-modi-shah-838408.html
16-05-2020||West||Goa COVID-19 count reaches 11; trucker, WB returnees test positive||One out of the three persons who had returned from West Bengal and had tested positive in the preliminary tests for COVID-19 on Saturday morning, tested negative during a confirmatory test later, even as a trucker's assistant also tested positve for COVID-19 in Goa on Saturday, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said. Earlier today, three more persons who had returned from West Bengal had tested positive in preliminary tests after returning to Goa. After their samples were being tested for the second time for reconfirmation, one out of the three tested samples returned negative. "All three persons are currently in our designated COVID hospital and would be re-tested against after 72 hours. The three West Bengal returnees, were a part of a group of seven marine engineering professionals who had travelled to South 24 Parghana district to deliver a consignment of river barges last month. After being stranded due to the lockdown in West Bengal for weeks, they had returned to Goa by road late on Friday and were tested at the Goa-Karnataka border at Mollem on Saturday. In another incident, a truck driver's assistant who had accompanied a consignment of pharmaceutical raw material from Haridwar in Uttarakhand to Goa, tested positive and has been put on treatment at the state's only COVID facility in South Goa. The driver of the truck however tested negative. With Saturday's development's the state's headcount of active COVID-19 cases has reached 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-covid-19-count-reaches-11-trucker-wb-returnees-test-positive-838436.html
16-05-2020||West||Gujarat's COVID-19 tally crosses 10,000: CM, Congress MP spar over testing numbers||Gujarat's tally of coronavirus cases breached 10,000-mark on Saturday with 348 persons testing positive for the disease. The death toll also rose to 625 after 19 patients passed away in the last 24 hours, health department said. Meanwhile, a war of words erupted between Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Congress' Rajya Sabha MP and senior leader Ahmed Patel after the latter alleged the state government of reducing the number of testing.  However, total number of positive cases spiked to 10,989 after state added 709 positive cases only on Saturday which had been found during its week-long exercise to check "super spreaders" such as vegetable vendors and grocery shop owners, among others. During the exercise, a total of 6589 tests had been conducted. However, instead of daily reporting of results, the government chose to report the numbers on Saturday in the press release which raised eyebrows. As a matter of fact, additional chief secretary, forests and environment department, Rajiv Kumar Gupta, who has been given the overall charge of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) for tackling the pandemic, had on Friday said that 700 such "super spreaders" had been found positive in the last one week drive. Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi also didn't announce this particular number in her press briefing but as confusion arose and reports started trickling that "government is fudging the data", Ravi made another briefing on Facebook live to clear the doubts.  Incidentally, the "confusion" came on the day following a "Twitter war" between CM Rupani and Congress MP Patel after the latter alleged the state government of reducing the number of testing.  Patel twitted, "Why is Gujarat government reducing testing? This is very disturbing & is contrary to national policy of increasing tests. In a pandemic it is important to be honest about the problem rather than trying to conceal it." The tweet had a picture of a graph that showed 1,420 samples were tested in Ahmedabad district on May 14 as against 2,522 samples on May 1.  Chief Minister Vijay Rupani hit back on the social media to say "Mr. AHMED PATEL, Gujarat has not at all decreased number of tests. Kindly recheck your information sources which are far away from facts and ground realities." Rupani's tweet also had a photo showing that the state had tested 1,27,858 samples (May 15), at the rate of 1,943.3 samples per million people, which is higher than the country's per million average of 1,478 tests." Patel reverted on Twitter and said, "Stop hiding behind no of cumulative tests, how many tests have been conducted per day in last 15 days? My source is ur govt data: http://gujcovid19.gujarat.gov.in Either u or ur govt is wrong, someone must resign?" His tweet had another picture of data that said on May 2, Gujarat had conducted 5,944 tests which was reduced to 2411 on May 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-covid-19-tally-crosses-10000-cm-congress-mp-spar-over-testing-numbers-838469.html
16-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra, Mumbai record highest figures ||The spike of cases worsened in Maharashtra and India's financial capital of Mumbai with the highest number of casualties and positive COVID-19 cases being reported on Saturday.  The total progressive cases of the deadly pandemic has now crossed 30,000. The western Indian state recorded 67 deaths which include 41 in Mumbai alone.  This pushed the progressive death toll to 1,135 and 696, respectively. The total positive cases in Maharashtra and Mumbai has shot up to 30,706 and 18,555, respectively.   So far 7,088 patients have been discharged including 525 on Saturday. There were 67 COVID-19 related deaths 41 deaths were recorded in Mumbai, 7 in Pune, 7 in Thane city, 5 in Aurangabad city, 3 in Jalgaon, 2 in Mira-Bhayandar, 1  was recorded in Nashik city and 1 in Solapur city.  Out of the 67 deaths today, 47 were men and 20 women. 38 of them aged over 60 years, 25 were from the age group 40 to 59 years and 4 were aged less than 40 years. 44 out of 67 patients (66%) had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, etc. The death toll in COVID-19 patients has now gone up to 1135 in the state.  Out of the total deaths reported on Saturday, 22 occurred in the last 24 hours and rest are from the period 14 April to 14 May, those were validated and added on Saturday. Out of 2,61,783 laboratory samples, 2,31,071 were negative and 30,706 have been tested positive for coronavirus till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-mumbai-record-highest-figures-838489.html
16-05-2020||West||Gujarat: Ex CM, nearly 70k netizens demand consuming liquor be decriminalised||While nearly 67,000 people have already signed an online petition on wetgujarat2021.com demanding lifting of anti liquor law in the state, former Gujarat Chief Minister Shankarsinh Vaghela, too, has come out in open supporting end of the law that penalizes consuming or selling alcohol in the state. He has said that "liquor is so freely available across the state that continuing with prohibition policy is nothing but an illusion which is being carried in the name of Gandhi (Mahatma)." Incidentally, the debate rises in wake of Gujarat completing 60 years of statehood as well as prohibition policy which has been part of it ever since it was carved out of State of Bombay on May 1, 1960. Although over the last decade, the state government eased liquor policy by giving permits to tourists and increased liquor shops to over 60, it also brought stringent law that can jail a tippler upto ten years for violation. "The central government allowed people to buy liquor to fight coronavirus last week, therefore, I am asking the Gujarat government that why it is depriving Gujaratis of such benefits," Vaghela told DH. He said that "The government should not interfere in what people want to eat and drink. Liquor is banned in the name of Gandhiji but only on paper. It is found everywhere in the state," Vaghela said. "What is happening in Gujarat in Gandhi's name is a big lie. It is an illusion which should be broken and people who want to drink should be allowed to do so freely," he said while adding that "everyone should have the rights to buy and drink liquor after the age of 21." Fondly called as "Bapu", Vaghela also rubbished the claims that due to prohibition Gujarat is peaceful. "There is no rationality behind this argument. Look at Goa or Mumbai and compared the crime rate with Gujarat. The government should adopt a scientific approach and reconsider the policy." He also also cited instances in which large number of people died due to drinking spurious liquor in the state. "Because of the prohibition, people get adulterated alcohol despite paying higher price. They go to Abu (Mount Abu) in Rajasthan, Goa and Daman (union territory) only to drink. And, there is so much of liquor that is being smuggled from Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh into Gujarat." Vaghela also alleged in his official statement that "money earned from bootlegging circulates among bootleggers, administration and ministers which is wrong. If prohibition goes, the money will come to government's coffer that can be utilised for public education and free medical services." Meanwhile, the online petition on wetgujarat2021.com, which has been signed by 66,977 people by Saturday evening, has demanded to "Allow every adult (21 years) to purchase alcohol from shops that currently sell alcohol to only permit holders. Consumption of alcohol in private be decriminalized and allow entertainment related businesses just like any other state to thrive unhindered."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-ex-cm-nearly-70k-netizens-demand-consuming-liquor-be-decriminalised-838493.html
16-05-2020||West||5 positive cases take Goa COVID-19 count to 13||The number of COVID-19 cases in Goa reached 13 after five people tested positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday, a health official said. The five included a man who was part of a group of 1,000 workers brought to the state by the Goa State Industries Association to resume economic activities hereafter easing of lockdown restrictions, he added. "They were quarantined in a hotel in north Goa. All the workers were tested and the report of one returned positive. He has been hospitalised," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5-positive-cases-take-goa-covid-19-count-to-13-838509.html
16-05-2020||West||Out of work due to lockdown, 32-year-old TV actor hangs self||A 32-year-old television actor struggling with debts and lack of assignments due to the coronavirus lockdown allegedly committed suicide at his residence in Kharghar in neighbouring Navi Mumbai, police said on Saturday. Manjot Singh, a resident of Swapnapoorti Complex in Kharghar, hanged himself on Friday night, an official said. "His wife spotted him hanging and tried to call for help but nobody turned up, possibly due to the coronavirus scare. When police reached the home, she was still holding onto his legs. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival," the official said. Singh's last rites were held in Panvel, and his parents, who were informed of the death, could not make it here from Punjab due to the lockdown, but witnessed the funeral through video call, he added. "Preliminary probe has found he was in debt and was not getting work due to the lockdown. An accidental death case has been registered," the Kharghar police station official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/out-of-work-due-to-lockdown-32-year-old-tv-actor-hangs-self-838532.html
