17-05-2020||In Perspective||Deciding on fiscal devolution||The report of the Fourth State Finance Commission (FSFC) of Karnataka is now in the public domain.  There was a delay in delivering the award by three years, two years ‘under the extension of the Commission’ and one year ‘under silencing of the report’ without placing it in the public domain. The Commission has designed a ‘scheme of fiscal devolution’ having four levels. The first level shares the non-loan net own revenue receipts (NLNORR) between the state and local governments in the ratio of 52:48. In the second level, BBMP gets 1% of NLNORR under the share of local government as additional devolution.   Sharing of funds among the Panchayat Raj institutions (PRIs) and urban local governments is made in the third level. The remaining per cent has been allotted among the three-tier panchayats and urban governments in the ratio of 75:25. The fourth level considers horizontal distribution of resources among the individual units of each tier of PRIs and each class of urban local governments.  The Commission has strongly recommended that grants from the Central Finance Commission should not be treated as part of NLNORR as it is not part of state’s net own revenue. The major recommendations may be classified into two categories, grants and measures to strengthen local governments. Under ‘grants’ there are four heads such as untied grants, performance grants, establishment grants and assigned grants. The criteria for allocation of performance grants to PRIs are (i) 100% expenditure of the total receipts for zilla panchayats (ZPs) and taluk panchayats (TPs) and minimum 95% of the collection of tax revenue for GPs and (ii) submission of audited accounts. The criteria for urban local governments are (i) collection of tax revenue of minimum 95% and (ii) submission of audited accounts. As a one-time measure, establishment grants are recommended to the newly formed PRIs and urban local governments. As part of state budget exercise, the Karnataka ‘link document’, a unique model for allocating funds to ZP and TP and is highly appreciated. The Commission recommends the extension of the ‘link document’ to gram panchayats (GPs) also. It opines that there is a need to assess the issue of taxation by an independent authority.  It is suggested that the Karnataka Property Tax Board (KPTB) value properties separately for PRIs and ULBs.  The FSFC concurs that 50% of the revenue realised by lease/auction from the natural resource should be assigned to the concerned GPs/urban local governments. The Commission has requested the government to revisit the exemption given to private educational institutions and hospitals which are operating on commercial lines, from payment of taxes. There is a suggestion for introducing pollution tax, parking fees and congestion tax.  Installation of metering of individual households and commercial water connections are recommended for the supply of drinking water. The Commission recommends for a thorough examination of the pros and cons of installing of Reverse Osmosis plant in all the villages and towns.  The Commission favours rainwater harvesting, conservation of surface and groundwater and protection of water bodies. “Reduce, Reuse and Recycle” - the three ‘R’s are recommended by the Commission. The Commission also recommends compliance with the Minimum Wages Act at the local self-government level for casual workers.  Package of measures It proposes a package of measures to ensure transparency and accountability in all the activities of the local government. In addition to the double-entry accounting system, the panel demands disclosure of budgets, audited annual accounts, details of civic works, capital expenditure on all works in the public domain. The response of the state government to the recommendations of the Commission is not very encouraging. The major recommendations which have a direct bearing on financial implications have not been accepted by the state government.  The recommendation to share the NLNORR with the local governments has not been accepted fully. The suggestion to exclude the grants from the Central Finance Commission in the basket of NLNORR has been rejected by the government.  Another major recommendation which was not accepted has wider implications in the context of GST regime. The Commission recommends that the GST compensation should be factored into the tax receipt of the state. However, it stands rejected. Karnataka has a good record of decentralisation. Even before the constitutional amendments, Karnataka had provisions for the constitution of Finance Commission for ZPs. It was a trend setter for dealing with the state finance corporations (SFCs) in the Constitution. However, the record of the SFCs in Karnataka does not give a linear progression.  Moreover, it has a poor record in the constitution of mandatory number of SFCs, accepting the recommendations of the earlier SFCs and placing the action taken reports in the legislature. Karnataka, which had a status as a forerunner in the domain of decentralisation, may be reminded of the convention established at the national level of accepting the principal recommendations of the union finance commission without modification. Let us hope that the state government will take its cue from the central government. (The writer is Professor, Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/deciding-on-fiscal-devolution-838863.html
17-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Mumbai returnees: Kalaburagi stares at second wave of coronavirus infections||After Tabhligi Jamaat returnees, it is now the turn of Mumbai returnees who are keeping the district administration on tenderhooks in Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts of Kalyana Karnataka region. Out of 10 COVID-19 positive cases reported from Kalaburagi on Sunday, six including three minor boys are Mumbai returnees. In Yadgir district, three men from Shahapur town with a travel history to Mumbai found to be positive.  Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts which witness a large number of exodus to Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and other parts of the country in search of jobs every year, are seeing the second wave of COVID-19 infections with migrant workers being sent back home after the lockdown.  Five people returned from Maharashtra had tested positive for COVID-19 in Kalaburagi district recently and the test result of a woman returned from the same state came back positive on Saturday.  According to official sources, about 12,000 migrant workers, approximately 90 per cent from Maharashtra, have returned to Kalaburagi district after the lockdown relaxation. As many as 50,000 migrants are expected to travel back to the district in the coming days. The lockdown returnees have been kept under the institutional quarantine in their respective taluks and their health is being monitored on a daily basis. Kalaburagi district administration has a big challenge now as it has to cope with the influx of migrants from neighbouring Maharashtra, with which the district share the border. The migrant workers sharing common toilet and bathrooms at quarantine centres has caused great concern as it is one of the sources for the infection.  Deputy Commissioner B Sharat had told DH recently that a total of 294 quarantine centres have been set up in the district so far to house the migrant workers travelling back to the district. The district administration is leaving no stone unturned to ensure that the migrants maintain social distancing at the quarantine centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/mumbai-returnees-kalaburagi-stares-at-second-wave-of-coronavirus-infections-838634.html
17-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi crosses 100-mark in coronavirus cases||COVID-19 positive cases in Kalaburagi crossed 100-mark on Sunday with 10 fresh cases being reported from the district, taking cumulative tally to 104. Out of 10, six including three minor boys, are Mumbai returnees.  Contact tracing of a 35-year-old male who found to be positive for the virus is under progress. The test result of a 55-year-old man came back positive. while two people including a 50-year-old woman caught the infection from Patient 927. Death toll due to COVID-19 infection in the district remained at seven.  In Yadgir district, three men from Shahapur, who have travel history to Mumbai, tested positive for the virus, taking the total tally to five in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/kalaburagi-crosses-100-mark-in-coronavirus-cases-838638.html
17-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two more Mumbai returnees test positive for coronavirus in Shivamogga||Shivamogga continues to record COVID-19 positive cases after people from other states returned to the district. Two more cases were recorded on Sunday. Both are male and had returned to Shivamogga from Mumbai. They are undergoing treatment in McGann hospital. With this, the number of cases rose to 14. Of them, eight are Gujarat returnees and the remaining six are Mumbai returnees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-more-mumbai-returnees-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-shivamogga-838650.html
17-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||3 Mumbai returnees in Dharwad test COVID-19 positive||Three persons, including a woman who recently arrived in  Dharwad district from Mumbai, have tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. A minor who is said to be grandson of P 589 too has tested positive. With this the total positive cases in district rose to 26. All four were in government quarantine and have been shifted to KIMS for treatment. Of the total 26 cases, seven have recovered and discharged from hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-mumbai-returnees-in-dharwad-test-covid-19-positive-838652.html
17-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19: Twenty-two fresh cases in Mandya||There has been a spike in the number of coronavirus positive cases in Mandya. In all, 22 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Mandya on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 61 cases and has sent shockwaves among the people of the district. While four patients – P 1125, P 112, P 1113 and P 1114 – have a contact history with P 869, all the other 18 patients have a travel history to Mumbai. This includes 10 women, four children and eight men. All 22 patients are being treated at the designated COVID-19 hospital in Mandya. Meanwhile, six fresh cases have been reported in Hassan, including one child and two women. All cases have a travel history to Mumbai. All are being treated at the Hassan COVID-19 hospital. The total number of cases has increased to 26 as on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-twenty-two-fresh-cases-in-mandya-838658.html
17-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19 toll increases to 37 in Karnataka; 54 new cases||A 54-year-old man from Udupi became the 37th COVID-19 fatality in Karnataka, where 54 new cases were added, taking the total number of infections in the state to 1,146, the health department said on Sunday. The man with cardiac issues was admitted to a private hospital in Udupi district and died due to cardiac arrest on May 14. His samples tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, the department said in its mid-day situation report. With 37 deaths and 497 discharges, there are 611 active corona cases in the state, it said. Out of 54 new cases, twenty-two are from Mandya, ten from Kalaburagi, six from Hassan, four from Dharwad, three each from Yadgir and Kolar, two each from Dakshina Kannada and Shivamogga, and one each from Udupi and Vijayapura. Among them, 40 are those with inter-state travel history from neighbouring Maharashtra, mostly from Mumbai and eight are contacts of patients already tested positive. Contact tracing was underway for three patients. At least 10 out of these fifty four cases are children. A report from Mangaluru said the man who died in Udupi had returned from Mumbai to his native Kundapur. He was under institutional quarantine at Kundapur and admitted to the Kasturba Hospital in Manipal with chest pain on May 13 and underwent a surgery. He died on Thursday due to a massive heart attack. Three staff members at the hospital who were in contact with the patient during treatment have been put under quarantine, hospital medical superintendent Dr Avinash Shetty said in a release. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha said five persons who travelled with him from Mumbai have been quarantined. A total of 57 people are identified as his primary contacts who were quarantined with him at Kundapur inside a hall. As many as 38 others listed as his secondary contacts have also been quarantined. With this, Udupi district has recorded the first COVID-19 death, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-toll-increases-to-37-in-karnataka-54-new-cases-838682.html
17-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Man arrested for sexual assault attempt||A 34 year-old man who attempted to rape a woman on the pretext of dropping her home in Santhekatte area was arrested by Brahmavara police. The accused Honnappa, who hails from Kadur taluk in Chikkamagaluru district, was residing in Mabukala near Brahmavar for past 20 years and was working in a bakery in Santhekatte.On May 2, on the pretext of dropping a 42 year-old woman at her home, Honnappa allegedly took her in his bike to a secluded area and attempted to rape her. However, the woman succeeded in escaping from his clutches and rushed to Brahmavara police station. The Brahmavara police tracked the movement of bike, which was recorded at four different places. But the registration number of the bike was not visible in CCTV footages. The police based on the company, model, colour and other specifications of the bike sought the help of RTO, Udupi. Based on RTO's findings the bike’s owner Honnappa was arrested.The accused was remanded to judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-arrested-for-sexual-assault-attempt-838776.html
17-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar to chair meetings with party leaders, workers||Ahead of his official takeover as Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), D K Shivakumar will hold a series of meetings with senior party leaders and workers to deliberate on party strategies in the coming days. The consultation will be over a period of five days in which all defeated candidates of 2019 Lok Sabha and 2018 Assembly elections, district congress committee presidents, election observers and office bearers of various Congress units will take part. Shivakumar, who was appointed Congress president in March, is expected to officially take charge of the state unit by the end of May. Apart from discussing measures to strengthen the party, measures to highlight the shortcomings of the state government in tackling the pandemic will also be charted out during the meeting, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-to-chair-meetings-with-party-leaders-workers-838824.html
17-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||COVID-19 crisis: Cong in K'taka to hold legislature party meet on May 19||He claimed that the stimulus announced by Union Finance Minister in the name of coronavirus shall definitely not address the fallout from the pandemic, and termed it a "hideous route" to fulfill BJP and crony capitalists' agenda during the health crisis. "History will remember @PMOIndia @narendramodi as a 'Failed Prime Minister who betrayed poor & middle class people by creating fools' paradise' The actual spending by the govt out of 20 lakh Cr claimed is not even 25%," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/covid-19-crisis-cong-in-ktaka-to-hold-legislature-party-meet-on-may-19-838854.html
17-05-2020||Main Article||Welcome initiatives for helping farmers||A couple of decades ago, a telecom czar told me about the 1991 reforms: “Suddenly we could breathe.” If the three proposed agriculture reforms announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman actually go through, a farmer could well be saying that soon. The three reforms are: Amending the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (ECA); a new Central law on agricultural marketing; and, a legal framework to facilitate contract farming. All three are long overdue. It is a pity that it required a pandemic-induced economic crisis to push these, but that’s India – reform comes only when the back is against the wall. Sure, these will not transform agriculture overnight or bring immediate gains to farmers. But these will lay a strong foundation for the growth of the most regulated private sector. How? Amending the ECA: The ECA, a scarcity-era law, enabled the central government to control the production, supply and distribution of specific essential commodities. The list of items is decided by the Centre in consultation with the states, and individual state governments decide the stockholding limits after consulting the Centre.   But the stock limits (with extremely stiff penalties) not only hampered operations of private trade as well as food processing units (which need to buy in bulk and store) but also disincentivised agriculture infrastructure companies which need to deal in large volumes in order to be viable.  This is one of the reasons why agriculture infrastructure is so woefully lacking despite numerous fiscal concessions over the last couple of decades. Incidentally, the Rs 1 lakh crore Agri Infrastructure Fund also announced on Wednesday would have had zero effect on the ground if ECA had continued in its present form. The proposed amendments will remove cereals, edible oils, oilseeds, pulses, onions and potatoes from the ECA and stock limits will be imposed only during times of national calamity and famines and not whenever their seasonal price spikes hurt urban consumers as has been happening far too often. This invariably hurt farmers. Freeing up agri marketing: A new agricultural marketing law giving farmers choice to sell, barrier-free inter-state trade and e-trading of agricultural produce will be a huge deal. The current state-level Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) laws limited farmers to state-run mandis in their area; they could not even sell to a mandi elsewhere in a state.  A model APMC law giving farmers choice about whom to sell their produce to was being pushed by central governments since 2003. Some states enacted it (albeit with dilutions) but did not frame the relevant rules, rendering them ineffective. Some states de-listed items from their respective Acts but quickly rolled back the decision. As a result, large private companies could not buy directly from the farmer even if they agreed to pay the mandi fee (even though this would be an unnecessary extra cost). Those that ventured into this space – ITC, Tatas, Mahindras, DCM – all had a uniformly bad experience. Private markets were actively discouraged. Farmers could not avail the benefit of price discovery in competing markets or sell to those who offered a better price. The APMC law also hampered the e-NAM (electronic National Agricultural Market) initiative launched with much fanfare in 2015. By confining the farmer to the assigned mandi, it was never more than electronic trading replacing physical trading; the farmer was again denied the benefit of competition even within a state. If the new law, as promised, allows inter-mandi and inter-state trade, then e-NAM will also become more effective. Since agricultural trade and commerce is a concurrent list subject, successive Central governments (including the first Narendra Modi one) had been loath to do anything barring coaxing states regularly to adopt the model APMC law. Now, with a new Central law that will give farmers choice and allow inter-state trading, states may have little option other than to amend their legislations to conform. Facilitating contract farming: The proposed “legal framework on agriculture produce price and quality assurance” is really about facilitating contract farming. Currently, barring Punjab, no state has a separate law on contract farming. Contract farming is part of the amended APMC legislations in 20 states, but only 14 have notified the rules to allow it and of these only seven have registered companies to undertake contract farming, according to the report of the committee on doubling farmers’ income.  In the past, there have been contract farming experiments which have singed farmers and if the proposed legal framework balances the interests of both farmers and procurers (with a slight skew towards farmers to make it politically saleable), then it should give a fillip to agri-commerce. But let’s not consider this a done deal right now. Laws have to be passed by Parliament and a resentful Opposition will certainly try its best to stall this (if only by not allowing Parliament to function). Opposition-ruled states may use whatever little elbow room they have to prevent these reforms taking off at the ground level (though they will not be able to stop inter-state trade).  Lobbying by pressure groups may result in provisions that limit the proposed freedoms (the e-NAM initiative is a prime example). Contract farming may not help tenant farmers unless states bring in/amend land leasing laws (a state subject). If Narendra Modi really wants to usher in a new deal for farmers he needs to stay firm on this path and push BJP-ruled states to move on the land leasing laws. This is what the late Sharad Joshi had been pressing for over decades. He died a disappointed man. He must be smiling from up there. (The writer is a senior journalist and author)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/welcome-initiatives-for-helping-farmers-838864.html
17-05-2020||Mysuru||Rains lash Mysuru, surrounding areas||Heavy rains accompanied by thunder and lightning lashed Mysuru and surrounding areas for more than an hour on Sunday evening.  The rains that started at around 8.30 pm poured for an hour, bringing respite from the heat for the people of Mysuru. While Nanjangud received moderate rains, Jayapura and Varuna received a good spell of rains.  Srirangapatna in Mandya district also received heavy rains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/rains-lash-mysuru-surrounding-areas-838812.html
17-05-2020||National||Geographical quarantine applicable to large outbreak areas, variables determine success: Health Ministry||A geographic quarantine or near absolute interruption of movement of people shall be applicable to such areas reporting a large outbreak of COVID-19 spread and strict perimeter control in containment zones be applied with active search for cases through physical house-to-house surveillance by special teams, the health ministry said on Saturday. The ministry's "updated containment plan for large outbreaks COVID-19" said a large outbreak is defined as a localised increase in the incidence of a coronavirus case occurring within a defined geographic area, for example, in a village, town, or city. This could also imply progression of a small cluster, earlier noticed for which cluster management action is under implementation, into multiple clusters, the health ministry document said, noting that the cases may or may not be epidemiologically linked. "For operational purposes, as a working definition a large outbreak is deemed to be present when there are 15 or more cases," it said. Geographic quarantine (cordon sanitaire) strategy calls for near absolute interruption of movement of people to and from a relatively large defined geographic area where there is single large outbreak or multiple foci of local transmission of COVID-19, the health ministry document said. In simple terms, it is a barrier erected around the focus of infection. "Geographic quarantine shall be applicable to such areas reporting large outbreak and/or multiple clusters of COVID-19 spread over multiple blocks of one or more districts that are contiguous based on the distribution of cases and contacts," the ministry document said. Noting that the current geographic distribution of COVID-19 mimics the distribution of H1N1 pandemic influenza, the document said this suggests that while the spread of COVID-19 in India's population could be high, it's unlikely that it will be uniformly affecting all parts of the country. This calls for differential approach to different regions of the country, while mounting a strong containment effort in hotspots, it said. "Large scale measures to contain COVID-19 over large territories have been tried in China. Mathematical modelling studies have suggested that containment might be possible, especially when other public health interventions are combined with an effective social distancing strategy," it said. The document, however, said a number of variables determine the success of the containment operations through geographic quarantine such as number and size of clusters, effectiveness of geographic quarantine, how efficiently the virus is transmitting in Indian population, taking into account environmental factors like temperature and humidity, public health response in terms of active case finding, testing of large number of cases, immediate isolation of suspect and confirmed cases and quarantine of contacts. Geographical characteristics of the area, population density and their movement, ability to ensure basic infrastructure and essential services, action plan for geographic quarantine for large outbreak also determine the success of geographic quarantine. The states should review the existing legal instruments to implement the containment plan, it said. Boundary for geographic quarantine will be defined based on mapping of cases and contacts, geographical dispersion of cases and contacts, area having well demarcated perimeter and enforceability of perimeter control. Once the containment zone is delineated, the perimeter will be defined and there would be strict perimeter control with establishment of clear entry and exit points, no movement to be allowed except for medical emergencies and essential goods and services, no unchecked influx of population to be allowed and people transiting to be recorded and followed through Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). Activities in the containment zones would include active search for cases through physical house to house surveillance by special teams formed for the purpose. Also, there should be testing of all cases as per sampling guidelines, contact tracing, identification of local community volunteers to help in surveillance, contact tracing and risk communication, the document said. Extensive inter-personal and community based communication, strict enforcement of social distancing, advocacy on hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene, environmental sanitation and wearing of masks or face covers and clinical management of all confirmed cases shall be carried out, the document said. The residential areas will be divided into sectors for ASHAs/anganwadi workers/ANMs each covering 100 households (50 households in difficult areas), it said. Additional workforce would be mobilised from neighbouring districts (except buffer zone) to cover all the households in the containment zone, the document on containment plan for large outbreaks said. The health ministry document also talks about the discharge policy for suspected cases of COVID-19 tested negative will be based on the clinical assessment of the treating physician. On dead body management, the document said the dead body of a COVID-19 patient does not spread infection. "The healthcare worker,however, handling the body immediately after death is at risk incase there is exposure to bodily fluids and shall be protected," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/geographical-quarantine-applicable-to-large-outbreak-areas-variables-determine-success-health-ministry-838540.html
17-05-2020||National||4 DU professors write to President Ram Nath Kovind against varsity's open book online exam decision||Four Delhi University (DU) professors have written to President Ram Nath Kovind against the varsity’s “arbitrary decision” to hold exams through open-book mode online if the COVID-19 situation doesn't normalise. In the letter, the professors said open book examinations will push students belonging to scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, other backward classes, economically weaker section, and those with disabilities on the wrong side of the digital divide. The four professors are include Kaushal Panwar, Premchand, D R Anil Kumar and Deepankar. The open-book examination mode would allow students to refer to books, notes and other study material to answer questions. Students will download question papers for their respective course from the web portal sitting at home and upload the answers within two hours. "Our appeal to your good office has acquired urgency as the university administration unilaterally decided and wrote a letter on 13th May 2020 to all the Head of the Departments for preparing three sets of question papers for the open book examination,” the letter said. “This move to organise remote open book examination will push the higher education towards privatisation," it added. Open book and close book systems are completely different things. The requirements of question papers are also different for these two systems, they said. Claiming that open book examination "will promote a type of discrimination among the students at different levels", the professors said only students who have resources can benefit. They also said that the provision of consulting matters with the academic and executive councils was flouted by the varsity administration as they urged the president to "stop this social discriminatory examination method in the university". Meanwhile, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP)-led Delhi University Students' Union organised a general body meeting (GBM) of DU Student Representatives, eight DUSU executive council members and 41 elected college union representatives of the respective colleges. The DUSU also held a meeting with the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) to discuss the present situation on academics and exams. The purpose of the GBM was to discuss and deliberate upon the present situation of academics and examinations, a statement said. A comprehensive and integral discussion was held in the meeting to come up with the best solution centric approach for academics as well as examinations keeping in mind the interests of the students, it said. Several options for holding examinations including carry forward scheme, in-house examination scheme and provision of resource material for students were thoroughly discussed in a bid to arrive on a conclusion and to give a memorandum regarding the same to the university administration and Vice Chancellor in coming days, it said. The students’ representatives gave the suggestions, opinions as well as views to hold the examinations in a manner that it benefits all students, it said. "We have to look for multiple options to conduct the examinations rather than emphasising on only a single one so that the drawbacks of the single option are overcome by the alternative one,” DUSU president Akshit Dahiya said. The options for the mode of examination should be such that not even a single student is left out in the process, he added. DUSU will compile and integrate the suggestions and views which will then be submitted in the form of a memorandum to the DU Vice Chancellor and other senior university officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-du-professors-write-to-president-ram-nath-kovind-against-varsitys-open-book-online-exam-decision-838543.html
17-05-2020||National||HC directs Delhi government to ensure uninterrupted working of helpline numbers for migrants||The Delhi High Court has directed the AAP government to ensure uninterrupted working of their helpline numbers for migrant workers so that they can approach nodal officers who shall be easily available to labourers. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar, which conducted the hearing through video conferencing, noted that the Delhi government is ready and willing to accept the registration of the workers who want to migrate. The bench noted in its order that as and when these workers will approach the concerned nodal officer, all care will be taken by the state government for their migration in accordance with the law and the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Centre on April 29. "So far, as restoration of helpline number is concerned, we direct respondent no.1 (Delhi government) to ensure the uninterrupted working of their helpline number so that people may approach nodal officers through the helpline numbers. "The very purpose of the helpline number is to help people and, therefore, the same must be functional," the bench said, in its order passed on Friday and made available on Saturday late evening. "We also expect from respondent no.1 (Delhi government) that nodal officers shall remain easily available to migrant workers so that after the online registration follow-up action in accordance with the SOP for their movement to native places be taken," it added. The court's order came on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking direction to authorities to register and repatriate migrant workers to their native places and also to appoint a nodal officer in each district who would facilitate the entire process. Petitioner NGO National Campaign Committee for Eradication of Bonded Labour claimed that the official website of the government meant for registration of migrant workers for transit to their respective native places and the helpline numbers provided in this regard were not working properly. Central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia submitted that the Centre has issued an order on April 29, detailing SOP regarding movement of stranded migrant workers. He said detailed instructions have been issued to all the states and UT Delhi, and the procedure for appointment of nodal officers and the standard protocol required to be followed have also been mentioned in that order. Delhi government's counsel Rishikesh told the court that Principal Secretary of Social Welfare Department P K Gupta has been appointed state nodal officer and all the district magistrates in Delhi are the nodal officers of their respective districts and their names and contact details have been given on the Delhi government's website. Railways counsel Jagjit Singh said as and when requests will be received from any state, they are ready to provide the necessary trains and till now more than 800 trains have already departed, taking around 10 lakh migrant workers to their native places. The Delhi government's advocate also said they are already looking into the difficulties being faced by the public at large and all possible actions are being taken by them to send the migrant workers to their native places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-directs-delhi-government-to-ensure-uninterrupted-working-of-helpline-numbers-for-migrants-838553.html
17-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 17, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-17-2020-edition-838562.html
17-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 17||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly).  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 95,312 as of May 17. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 3,009 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 34,109 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-17-838563.html
17-05-2020||National||Fang Fang's Wuhan Diary accounts experience of Chinese people||The coronavirus outbreak has allowed us to get a clear picture of  our society’s level in terms of how we humanely deal with a catastrophe, writes well-known Chinese literary writer Fang Fang.  "Once this outbreak has finally passed, I think there will be people making all kinds of appeals about how important it is for the public to improve on their humanistic moral education. But this should have been a fundamental part of our basic education from the get-go," says Fang Fang in Wuhan Diary: Dispatches from a Quarantined City, published by HarperNonFiction.  On January 25, after the central government imposed a lockdown in Wuhan, Fang Fang began publishing an online diary.  In the days and weeks that followed, Fang Fang’s nightly postings gave voice to the fears, frustrations, anger, and hope of millions of her fellow citizens, reflecting on the psychological impact of forced isolation, the role of the internet as both community lifeline and source of misinformation, and most tragically, the lives of neighbours and friends taken by the deadly virus. The e-book of her diaries have been published on May 15.  "We often see scenes in war movies where medical personnel are treating wounded soldiers on the battlefield, and they never play favorites based on someone’s race or where they are from, often providing the same care to both enemy soldiers and their own troops. As long as they are human, they are deserving of salvation,"  she writes.  This comes out of the most basic fundamentals of what the humanistic spirit is all about. But  now we find ourselves amid an outbreak that is akin to a battlefield, and yet the level of humanism that we have displayed is so low, so low. I’m simply at a loss for words as to how to describe it, she states.  People often have reasons that they use to describe their actions, such as “we were just carrying out written directives.”  But reality is filled with all kinds of unpredictable changes,  whereas written directives are often prepared hastily with only broad guidelines. "Moreover, those  written directives are mostly composed with common sense in mind, so they are usually not in direct contradiction with the basic principles of humanitarianism. All we need is for the people  assigned to enforce these principles to have just a little more humanistic spirit; just enough so that a driver who had been stuck out on the highways for more than 20 days wouldn’t end up with his life in danger; just enough so that when someone is infected with coronavirus, a crowd of people doesn’t end up sealing their front door with a steel rod so that everyone is locked inside; just enough so that when an adult is forced into mandatory quarantine, their children  don’t end up starving to death alone at home." "That is all I am asking for. If our humanistic spirit had been broad and embracing enough, we wouldn’t have to abandon  our sick and weak as we battle this terrible virus. If our humanistic spirit had been more fully formed, it would have told us that we must do everything within our power to ensure that  these other patients who are also suffering are able to continue receiving the care they need. There has to be a way forward that no one has come up with yet. After all, that’s what people do;  we find new ways forward. Our social resources are strong, and this is not a weak nation by any  means; there must be a way to resolve this issue. The problem is that your so-called humanistic spirit hasn’t allowed you to think about things from someone else’s perspective, the chilling Wuhan account states.  The book is a compilation of the author’s diary entries and social media posts that document 60 days of lockdown during the COVID-19 epidemic. A fascinating eyewitness account of events as they unfolded, Wuhan Diary captures the challenges of daily life and the changing moods and emotions of being quarantined without reliable information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fang-fangs-wuhan-diary-accounts-experience-of-chinese-people-838565.html
17-05-2020||National||DH Toon | Self reliance mantra for migrant workers, a livelihood conundrum||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman held a press conference on Thursday at 4 pm, to detail the second part of the Atmanirbhar (Self-reliance) package. She unveiled 9 measures today - 3 for migrants, 1 loan within mudra, 1 for street vendors, 1 for housing, 1 for employment generation for tribal pockets, 2 for small farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-self-reliance-mantra-for-migrant-workers-a-livelihood-conundrum-838567.html
17-05-2020||National||DH Toon | The weight on migrant workers' shoulders||The fight against the coronavirus pandemic seems to have robbed us of our humanity. The heart-wrenching ghastly incident of 16 migrants being mowed down under a goods train in Maharashtra on May 8 raises several questions on the mobility of migrants. The next day, five migrants from a group of 11, were crushed to death under a truck in Madhya Pradesh. And this weekend (May 16), two trucks collided and killed at least 24 migrant workers and injured 37 in Uttar Pradesh. The spate of accidents tells us not only about the callous conditions but also of overcrowding, lack of safety and the desperation that is driving people to flee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-the-weight-on-migrant-workers-shoulders-838569.html
17-05-2020||National||Big reforms in coal, defence, space, aviation||The Centre on Saturday rolled out the biggest reform in coal sector by allowing private players to start commercial mining. It also enhanced foreign direct investment cap in defence production, freed up more air space for civilian flights and encouraged further private participation in the space sector, including satellites and launches -- all aimed at making post-Covid economy more self-reliant. At present, private sector firms in India are only allowed to mine coal for their own use in cement, steel, power and aluminum plants. Coal India is the sole commercial miner in the country with 80% market share. In her fourth consecutive announcement on reform and relief measures amid the pandemic, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the foreign direct investment limit in defence manufacturing under automatic route will be raised from 49% to 74%. India will also stop importing weapons that can be manufactured indigenously. The government will notify a list of weapons for ban on import with year-wise timelines. Every year this list will be increased. "The move will improve self-reliance in defence manufacturing and reduce a huge defence import bill," she said. She also proposed easing of restrictions on Indian airspace, of which only 60% is freely available for commercial use, to reduce travel time and save fuel. The easing of airspace translates to benefits of about Rs 1,000 crore a year for the aviation sector, the minister said and gave details of six airports to be auctioned to private players. Aviation experts, however, questioned her move, wondering who would invest when the future of airlines was uncertain in these times. Prominent carriers also demanded a stimulus package for grounded airlines to start flying. Seeking to end the monopoly of Coal India, the minister said mining of coal will be commercialised and nearly 50 blocks will be offered immediately. Any party could bid for coal blocks and sell in the open market as opposed to the prevailing norm where only captive consumers with end-use ownership can bid. She also announced an investment of Rs 50,000 crore for developing infrastructure to evacuate mined coal. In order to encourage private participation in space exploration and related activities, the minister said Indian private sector will be a co-traveller in India’s space sector journey. The private sector will be allowed to use Isro's facilities and other relevant assets to improve their capacities. The future projects for planetary exploration, outer space travel will be open for private sector.  To boost growth and job prospects, the government will enhance private investments in the mineral sector. It will also introduce joint auction of bauxite and coal mineral blocks to enhance the aluminum industry’s competitiveness. The move will help the aluminium industry reduce electricity costs. Sitharaman said the structural reforms announced on Saturday will impact those sectors which are new horizons of growth, unleashing new investment, boosting production and creating jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/big-reforms-in-coal-defence-space-aviation-838570.html
17-05-2020||National||'Inability to learn from SARS, Ebola led to coronavirus situation'||Though the world now has enough experience of pandemics and epidemics like SARS, Ebola, Swine Flu, Zika, our inability or unwillingness to learn from past experience caused the delay in handling the COVID-19 situation, said Dr Swapneil Parikh.  Nothing of this scale has been experienced in living memory, he said at the launch of a book on COVID-19.  The e-book ‘The Coronavirus: What you Need to Know about the Global Pandemic’ is written by Dr Parikh, co-founder DIY Health, Maherra Desai, clinical psychologist and medical researcher and Dr Rajesh Parikh, Director of Medical Research and Neuropsychiatry, Jaslok Hospital. Published by Penguin, the book takes the reader through the history of pandemics while giving some serious advice on how to keep oneself safe from the deadly virus. "We started writing the book in early February when the problem was perceived as Chinese and largely confined to Wuhan and Hubei province. WHO called it infodemic before calling it pandemic. By the end of February, the virus has spread globally, and the effect was enormous. Nothing on this scale has been experienced in living memory. One of the key learnings is that with any new pandemic we should assume that we have to deal with worst case scenario then only we can prepare ourselves," he said.  Prabha Khaitan Foundation, an organisation that is dedicated to the socio-cultural welfare and humanitarian cause had through its platform Kitaab, organised a virtual book launch. Manisha Jain, Communications & Branding Chief, Prabha Khaitan Foundation stated, “Through this interactive session, our discerning viewers and listeners were able to know credible and comprehensive information from professionals that helped us understand what this deadly virus is, and how we can prepare and protect ourselves against it, for the future of humankind.” "A vast majority of Indians can’t access quality healthcare, and I hope when we come out of this danger, people start caring for those who have constantly suffered due to lack of basic medical facilities,” said Desai.  She has researched the effects of social media as the medium which is both a strength and weakness for public-at-large.  Desai added, “While the Chinese whistle blowed about the disease on the medium, social media also propagated misinformation, xenophobia, racism among other social evils which played onto people’s minds. Due to this pandemic, there will be long term psychological effect, half of the population is sequestered, over 1.2 billion children are not going to school. There will be a global food crisis at the end of this pandemic.” During the launch, the experts explained in detail the virus’s mechanism of action, and how it manages to dive deep into the lower respiratory tract, multiplies silently until its ‘discovery’ by the immune system.  "It is in the degree of the response, when the immune system itself hits panic mode that it launches a frenzied attack which, in more ways than one, can result in overkill. This severe respiratory disease can end up being detrimental to the aged, those with diabetes or cardiovascular disease, or have a history of smoking."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inability-to-learn-from-sars-ebola-led-to-coronavirus-situation-838577.html
17-05-2020||National||At least 116 migrant workers killed in road, train accidents since May 1||At least 116 migrant workers, who tried to reach their native villages by walk or by riding trucks amid COVID-19 lockdown, have been killed and over 150 injured in road or train accidents since May 1 when the government started running 'Shramik' special trains. The latest in the series of accidents, which is at least 27 in the last count, was in Uttar Pradesh's Auriya where over two-dozen people were killed when the truck they were travelling in collided with another in the wee hours of Saturday. They had hitched a ride on the truck from Rajasthan where they were working and headed to their villages in Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal when the tragedy struck them. This was not the lone accident that took place on Saturday. A couple, who were on their way from Haryana to Bihar were killed when the tempo they were travelling in collided with a truck in Agra while six workers lost their lives and 15 others, including their family members, injured when the truck they were in over turned in Madhya Pradesh's Sagar. The accidents happened even as Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to states on Friday saying they would be responsible if migrant workers are seen walking through roads and rail tracks. He put it on the states to counsel migrant workers to ensure that they take the special trains.  "More than 30 Indians have been killed on the roads just on Saturday due to gross mismanagement by Modi government. Its ministers didn't have the basic decency and humanity to remember those unfortunate ones, while going on to dish out their daily litany of old jumlas...Event-management is not governance," CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said. "When migrants can't reach home safely, Finance Minister is talking of opening up planetary exploration and outer space travel to private sector. Bizarre!" senior Congress MP Jairam Ramesh tweeted. An analysis of newspaper reports and data collected by three researchers Kanika, Aman and Thejesh GN showed that 116 people died and 159 injured in 27 road and train accidents between May 1 and May 16. A note prepared by the Ministry of Home Affairs on National Migrant Information System on May 16 said 3.5 lakh migrant workers have been moved in 350 special trains so far and more such journeys are being planned. However, the number of migrant workers are much more and runs into millions. A second wave of movement of migrant workers have started towards the end of lockdown 2.0 in early May as the news of extension of restrictions emerged. The government's announcement of running 'Shramik' labour special trains appeared to have not had an effect on migrant workers heading home. Migrant workers had been moving to their villages throughout in April but the intensity increased towards the month-end. One of the tragic incidents this month was the killing of 16 migrant workers in Aurangabad on May 7 when the migrant workers who were sleeping on rail tracks were run over by a train. The migrant workers, who were on way to Madhya Pradesh, had slept on the tracks after they felt tired. On May 13, six migrant labourers, who set on foot for Gopalganj in Bihar from their workplace in Punjab, were hit by a bus while four others were injured. Five workers, who were going from Hyderabad to Uttar Pradesh's Etah, were killed when the truck filled with mangoes in which they were travelling in overturned Madhya Pradesh's Narsinghpur on May 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-least-116-migrant-workers-killed-in-road-train-accidents-since-may-1-838582.html
17-05-2020||National||India's COVID-19 death count rises by 120, record jump of nearly 5,000 new cases||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,872 and the number of total positive cases climbed to 90,927 Sunday morning, registering an increase of 120 fatalities and a record jump of 4,987 new cases in 24 hours, since 8 AM Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stands at 53,946, while 34,108 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said.  "Thus, around 37.51 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. Three states have reported over 10,000 cases so far with Maharashtra being the worst hit at 30,706 infections, followed by Gujarat (10,988) and Tamil Nadu 10,585. The total confirmed cases include foreign nationals too who were tested in India. Of the 120 new deaths reported since Saturday morning, 67 were in Maharashtra, 19 in Gujarat, nine in Uttar Pradesh, seven in West Bengal,  six in Delhi, four in Madhya Pradesh, three in Tamil Nadu and two in Haryana and one each from Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Rajasthan. Of the total 2,872 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 1,135 fatalities, Gujarat comes second with 625 deaths, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 243, West Bengal at 232, Delhi at 129, Rajasthan at 126, Uttar Pradesh at 104,Tamil Nadu at 74 and  Andhra Pradesh at 49. The death toll reached 36 in Karnataka, 34 Telangana and 32 in Punjab. Haryana has reported 13 fatalities due to the disease, Jammu and Kashmir has 12 deaths while Bihar has registered seven and Kerala has reported four deaths. Jharkhand, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Odisha have recorded three COVID-19 fatalities each, while Assam has reported two deaths. Meghalaya, Uttarakhand and Puducherry have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data.  The ministry's website says more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities. According to the health ministry data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 30,706, followed by Gujarat at 10,988, Tamil Nadu at 10,585, Delhi at 9,333, Rajasthan at 4,960, Madhya Pradesh at 4,789 and Uttar Pradesh at 4,258. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 2,576 in West Bengal, 2,355 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,946 in Punjab.  It has risen to 1,509 in Telangana, 1,179 in Bihar, 1,121 in Jammu and Kashmir, 1,092 in Karnataka and 887 in Haryana. Odisha has reported 737 coronavirus infection cases so far, while Kerala has 587 cases. A total of 217 people have been infected with the virus in Jharkhand and 191 in Chandigarh. Tripura has reported 167 cases, Assam has 92 cases, Uttarakhand has 88, Himachal Pradesh has 78 cases, Chhattisgarh has 67 and Ladakh has registered 43 cases, so far. Thirty-three COVID-19 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Goa have reported 17 COVID-19 cases, while Meghalaya and Puducherry have registered 13 cases each. Manipur has seven cases. Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Dadar and Nagar Haveli have reported a case each till how. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research)," the ministry said on its website. The state-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-death-count-rises-by-120-record-jump-of-nearly-5000-new-cases-838589.html
17-05-2020||National||Disability keeps poor railway worker from reaching home||Rakesh Ram fractured his left leg a year and half ago in an accident at his village in Bihar's Chhapra district. The doctors implanted a 12-inch rod in his leg for proper alignment during healing. "The rod will be taken out after two years. I cannot walk long distances. It pains a lot," the 24-year-old says as he pops in a pain-killer and goes about his work – cleaning trains at the New Delhi Railway Station's maintenance yard. Back at his home in Sheetalpur village, his wife is due to give birth in a few days. Last month, he had sent Rs 6,000 to her from the Rs 12,000 he earned working for a private contractor. He hasn't got any salary for April so far. "We usually get our salary by the 12th day of the month. This time, there is nothing so far...maybe because there is lesser work due to the lockdown," Ram says. A part of his last month's salary also went to his two brothers who are stuck on the Delhi-Haryana border due to the travel restrictions. The brothers worked in a footwear manufacturing unit in Bahadurgarh, but the coronavirus lockdown rendered them jobless. They set out for home when the government started 'Shramik Special’ trains, but were caught on the border by police, Ram says. He says he filled a form a few days ago to board a special train being run to take migrant workers home. "But nothing has happened. Now the thanewala says take Rajdhani (Express) to go home". "They have started Rajdhani, but I don't have Rs 3,500 for a ticket. Many of us who want to go home cannot afford the cost of travel in a Rajdhani train," Ram rues. "I cannot even borrow money from my friends working here. They too are in a similar situation," he says. What Ram cannot understand is why the people who work for the railways itself cannot be sent home on Rajdhani. "Itna to madad milna hi chahiye. (They help us with this at least)," he says, adjusting his loosened yellow mask. He is worried what will happen if his wife goes into labour without him or any of his brothers present at home. "My parents are old and my wife needs care. Mummy wants at least one of us (three brothers) to be there," he says. Ram says he would have set out on foot, like countless others are walking hundreds of kilometres, but he cannot walk long distances due to the rod in his leg.  "If I walk too much, the leg swells up. A group of coworkers from Bihar left for their villages a few days ago. They asked me to join them. I denied,” he says. "I would have slowed them down too." With no money left on him, Ram doesn't have a place to sleep. For the last few days, he has been living in a container along with seven others in the yard. "Our contractor lets us use the 20X8 feet container. We use the toilets inside the trains and bathe with the help of water pipelines provided along the length of the platform to fill the tanks in coaches,” he says. The steel container has two small windows and an emergency light. Ram's coworker, Md. Amjad Ali from Bihar's Begusarai, is still holding onto hope that things will return to normal and he will have enough money to go home soon. "There's not a single paisa in my pocket right now," Ali says, as he eats the remaining morsels of khichdi in his plate. "I have been doing this work for two months. We got our salaries last month. I am awaiting the wages for April, then I will go home," he says, and asks if some help can be sent to the "workers stuck in the yard". "We get just one meal during the day. We have been sleeping empty stomachs," he says, before running towards a man who called out his name.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disability-keeps-poor-railway-worker-from-reaching-home-838598.html
17-05-2020||National||COVID-19 could cost 135 million jobs, push 120 million people into poverty in India: Report||Following the COVID-19-induced economic disruptions, up to 135 million jobs could be lost and 120 million people might be pushed back into poverty in India, all of which will have a hit on consumer income, spending and savings, says a report. According to a new report by international management consulting firm Arthur D Little, the worst of COVID-19's impact will be felt by India's most vulnerable in terms of job loss, poverty increase and reduced per-capita income, which in turn will result in a steep decline in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). "Given the continued rise of COVID-19 cases, we believe that a W-shaped recovery is the most likely scenario for India. This implies a GDP contraction of 10.8 per cent in FY 2020-21 and GDP growth of 0.8 per cent in FY 2021-22," the report said. India's COVID-19 tally has crossed 90,000 and the nationwide death toll has touched nearly 2,800 so far. The report titled "India: Surmounting the economic challenges posed by COVID-19: A 10-point programme to revive and power India's post-COVID economy" said the 'collateral damage' of the forecasted GDP slowdown, will be felt most acutely in employment, poverty alleviation, per-capita income and overall nominal GDP. "Unemployment may rise to 35 per cent from 7.6 per cent resulting in 136 million jobs lost and a total of 174 million unemployed. Poverty alleviation will receive a set-back, significantly changing the fortunes of many, putting 120 million people into poverty and 40 million into abject poverty," the report said. "India is headed towards a W-shaped economic recovery with a potential GDP contraction of 10.8 per cent in FY21. An opportunity loss of USD 1 trillion is staring India in its face," said Barnik Chitran Maitra, lead author of the report and Managing Partner & CEO of Arthur D Little, India and South Asia. Maitra further said "for its USD 5 trillion vision, a radical economic approach is needed, centred on an immediate stimulus and structural reforms. The Prime Minister's visionary 'Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan' is a good start to this new approach." The report lauded the steps taken by the government and the Reserve Bank of India, but said a far more assertive approach may be required given the magnitude of the adverse economic output.  The report suggested a 10-point programme to accelerate the recovery which include strengthening the 'safety net' significantly for the most vulnerable, enable survival of small and medium businesses, restarting the rural economy and providing targeted assistance to at-risk sectors. It further said the government should launch "Make in India 2.0" to capture global opportunities, build 'Modern India', accelerate Digital India and Innovation, strengthen global investment corridors with the US, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Japan and the UK, debottleneck land and labour and transform banking and financial markets in a bid to secure a sustainable economic future for 1.3 billion Indians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-could-cost-135-million-jobs-push-120-million-people-into-poverty-in-india-report-838607.html
17-05-2020||National||Fake message claims labourers working between 1990 to 2020 will get Rs 1.2 lakh||On May 12, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an economic package of Rs 20 lakh crores to support the nation gripped with the coronavirus crisis. The PM informed that the details of the plan would be shared by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman the next day. Since then Sitharaman has made an announcement in three tranches. The Financial Express reported live updates of the third tranche on May 15. A WhatsApp text claims that labourers who have been working between 1990-2020 will get Rs 1.2 lakhs from the Ministry of Labour and Employment (MLE). The message is followed by a suspicious link ‘https://lI.IlllI.uno’ however the text includes a preview of the official website of MLE — labour.gov.in. The preview reads, “Ministry of Labour and Employment: Benefits available obtain ₹120000.” Alt News opened the suspicious link ‘https://lI.IlllI.uno’ and it directed to another domain ‘labour.rebajas.live’. Both websites are no longer accessible. A Twitter user who tagged MLE to authenticate the message has attached the screenshots of the website when it was accessible. On May 14, the Press Information Bureau (PIB) debunked the viral WhatsApp text on Twitter. “There is no such announcement by Govt. of India. Beware of such fraudulent websites,” reads the tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fake-message-claims-labourers-working-between-1990-to-2020-will-get-rs-12-lakh-838608.html
17-05-2020||National||1547 ceasefire violations by Pakistan reported this year along LoC||There has been a huge surge in ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the Line on Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir with 1,547 instances reported in the first four and half months of this year. The highest number of violations were reported in March with Pakistan violating 2003-ceasefire agreement 411 times, official figures reveal.  In January, 367 violations took place while 366 were reported in February. April saw 387 ceasefire violations, while this month so-far 16 instances were reported. Pakistani troops had made the highest number of ceasefire violations since 2003 along the J&K border in 2019, amounting to over 3,200 instances or an average of nine such violations daily. The Government of India led by then Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee had entered into a border ceasefire agreement with Pakistan along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir on November 26, 2003. However, according to officials, shelling and firing by Pakistani troops since last year is so heavy that virtually it has made the 2003 truce redundant. An official in the security grid said that the ceasefire violations are expected to increase in the coming months as summer is the peak infiltration period from across the LoC in J&K. “In June and July, snow melts at the passes which is an indication that infiltration may go up. We expect a rise in infiltration attempts as this year so far a major infiltration bid was foiled in April alone in which five militants were killed in Keran sector of north Kashmir’s Kupwara district,” he said. Another security official said that though the terrain and topography along the LoC in Kashmir is difficult, troops are maintaining the highest level of vigil to thwart all the possible infiltration bids being made from across. “Heightened vigil is being maintained at the traditional infiltration routes in north Kashmir’s Gurez, Keran, Uri, Machil and Tandghar sectors,” he said.  The official said besides helping infiltration, Pakistani troops repeatedly target forward posts and villages along the LoC and the International Border (IB) to create a fear psychosis among the people. India shares a 3,323-km-long border with Pakistan, of which 221 km of the IB and 740 km of the LoC fall in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1547-ceasefire-violations-by-pakistan-reported-this-year-along-loc-838617.html
17-05-2020||National||Hizbul commander responsible for killing RSS leader neutralised in Jammu and Kashmir’s Doda||A commander of Hizbul Mujahideen outfit, wanted in the killing of an RSS functionary, and a soldier were killed in a gunfight between security forces and militants in hilly Doda district of Jammu region on Sunday. The gunfight erupted after the security forces launched an operation in Posta-Potra village in Gundana, Doda, following information about presence of some militants in the area, sources said. As the searches were going on in the area, the hiding militant fired upon the forces, who retaliated, triggering an encounter. Inspector General Police (IGP), Jammu, Mukesh Singh told reporters Tahir Ahmad Bhat, a resident of Malangpora village of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district was killed in the gun battle. “The deceased was a close associate of newly appointed Hizbul Mujahideen operational chief Saifullah and was assigned the task of reviving terrorism in Chenab valley region,” he told reporters in Jammu. Describing his killing as a major setback to the Hizbul and a big success for the security forces, the IGP said the slain militant was part of the group which shot dead an RSS functionary along with his personal security officer in nearby Kishtwar district in April last year. “The AK assault rifle, which was seized from the dead terrorist, was the same which had been taken away by militants after killing the RSS functionary and his PSO,” Singh said. The IGP added that Bhat had joined militancy early last year and was directed by his mentors to target the security forces and carry out some “sensitive and sensational” attacks in Chenab Valley to create insecurity among the people and disturb the peaceful atmosphere. Earlier Defence Spokesman in Jammu Colonel Anand confirmed that a soldier was killed in the encounter. Reports said the jawan was critically injured in the initial firing from the holed up militants and later succumbed to injuries while being evacuated to hospital. Sources said Bhat had taken over the command of the Hizbul in Chenab valley region after Haroon Abbas was killed in an encounter with security forces on January 15 this year. Doda along with nearby Kishtwar district has witnessed increased militant activity since 2018. More than a decade back, these districts were declared militancy-free by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hizbul-commander-responsible-for-killing-rss-leader-neutralised-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-doda-838618.html
17-05-2020||National||States will see COVID-19 peak at different times, says epidemiologist||The COVID-19 would peak at different times in states and there is not going to be uniformity across the country, a noted public health expert and epidemiologist said, suggesting heightened surveillance and forming district action plans to handle the pandemic more effectively. Professor and Head of Life Course Epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India, Giridhara R Babu said the coronavirus is in complete ascendancy stage in states such as West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat, where it has gone beyond minimal containment. There, things will have to be completely different in terms of reducing the mortality rate, while in other states we are yet to see the surge and, therefore, our preparedness will have to continue, he said. But in both these categories we have to make sure surveillance is the only thing which will guide us, because if we lose our guard now, then we will no longer enjoy that success that we relatively have compared to the other countries, Babu told PTI. The only way forward is surveillance. On whether states would see the pandemic peaking at different times and it would not be uniform across the country he said: Absolutely, each State is like a country. We can postpone (the peak) in low transmission areas. Babu, who is trained in Epidemiology (MPH and PhD) from University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), said one should not get bogged down with the increase in number of cases, adding, the goal is to reduce the number of deaths. If your surveillance is good, then you will pick up more cases, and thereby you will reduce the number of deaths, that should be the focus. He said he is worried about silent districts, where there is not even a single COVID-19 reported case. Giving an example, Babu said a few days ago there were no cases in three districts in Karnataka (Davanagere, Chitradurga and Shivamogga) but they have now become hotspots. So, for me, the nomenclature of red, orange and green is completely artificial because it is dynamic and you cannot have such a categorisation for a dynamic process, he said.  According to him, it is now known that the number of expected COVID-19 cases in the country is 54 per million (ten lakh) population. He said if a district has not reported coronavirus cases, it should be in the red because surveillance is not adequate. Even in a well-controlled state like Kerala, cases are coming back. He suggested drawing up district action plans, something similar to pulse polio campaigns (which are done three days in a year), for which preparations start three months in advance in terms of micro-plan, which lists every migrant population and temporary settlement. Then, teams are drawn to cover everybody, then there is logistics that are planned, we do not have district action plan for the country (to handle COVID-19). When you open up after lockdown, and if there is a surge in cases in a few districts, they dont know what to do. That terrifies me. Districts should have task force and action plans to handle the COVID-19 pandemic, added Babu, who has worked with World Health Organization for nearly six years, during which his efforts included stopping polio transmission in Karnataka and initiation of measles surveillance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-will-see-covid-19-peak-at-different-times-says-epidemiologist-838627.html
17-05-2020||National||Coronavirus slugs potters' wheel into slow motion, 'Kumhar Grams' struggle to make ends meet||The 32-year-old Rukma Devi spends her day sitting on the roadside with earthen pots and piggy banks lined up on a folding table, desperately waiting for customers. Every passing vehicle raises hopes in her which dash in a flash as it zooms past. Her husband, who is usually at the potter's wheel when she sets up the makeshift shop, has stopped making new ones now. "There are no sales," Rukma rues. She is among the many who stay in various 'Kumhar Grams' (potters' villages) in Gurgaon and make earthen pots and diyas for livelihoods. First the ban on use of wood-fire kilns and now the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus have left them struggling to make their ends meet. "There are no sales. My husband has stopped making new ones as we have not sold even 10 pieces in last two months," Rukma tells PTI, cuddling her 3-year-old kid who sleeps with a mask on a cloth mattress beside her. Her husband is now looking for some alternative work but there has been no luck because of the lockdown. "I bring my son with me, because my husband goes to different places where food is being distributed. Thus, he arranges meals for us," she says. Roshan (42) apprehends that the situation might not improve just after the lockdown is eased as the fear of virus spread has gripped people. "This used to be a good season for us as people would prefer buying earthen pots to beat summer woes. However, it's not the same this year. It's not just the lockdown that has caused this situation but also the fear of virus spread. Even if we take precautions of wearing masks and washing hands, people are sceptical in buying," he said. The lockdown has also halted the supply of clayey soil, which is used to make earthen pots and other products. "We just have two seasons -- one is summer and the other is Diwali time. We survive on the savings from these time or do other jobs. However, we are already running out of the savings now and there are not much options to take up some alternative work," Deepak Kumar said. "The supply of soil is limited. We were already feeling the pinch due to competitive pricing, low wholesale rates and the government's push to ban wood-fired kilns used by us for pottery. The virus spread and the lockdown have made things even worse," he added. Gurgaon has several settlements of potters. The area used to be bustling with activities amid a din of vendors trying to make a sale and buyers trying to bargain. But all these have vanished now. There is some occasional commotion when someone comes to distribute food or essentials. The potters in Kumhar Gram usually sell their products at a very low price, mostly in wholesale to dealers who further sell the in different parts of the city at higher profit margins.   "Dealers are also not buying at this time. And even when they do, the payment is not immediate. The government is making announcements for everyone, but no one has bothered about the potters. "In the initial days of lockdown, we were not even allowed to sell. Now the cops don't bother us unless we are not wearing a mask, but that is not helping our livelihoods," said Prince Khandodiya. The nationwide lockdown was first imposed from March 25 to April 14, then extended until May 3, and again extended to May 17 with an aim to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus that has claimed 2,872 lives and infected 90,927 people in the country. India's economy has been severely hit by the coronavirus-induced lockdown with thousands of people losing their means of livelihood across the country. To deal with the situation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced an economic stimulus package for Rs 20-lakh crore, estimated at 10 per cent of the GDP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-slugs-potters-wheel-into-slow-motion-kumhar-grams-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-838631.html
17-05-2020||National||One TV channel each for classes 1 to 12; Centre unveils PM-eVidya initiative||The Centre, on Sunday, said it would soon launch 12 television channels that would act as virtual classrooms, with one each dedicated to students from Class 1 to Class 12. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman also unveiled the PM-eVidya initiative that also allows the top 100 universities to automatically start online by May 30. She said under the one class, one channel initiative, the Centre would soon launch 12 DTH channels under the Swayam Prabha bouquet – each earmarked for every class from 1 to 12. “Three channels are already earmarked for school education and now another 12 will be added,” the Minister said. Besides, provisions are also being made for telecast of live interactive sessions on these channels with experts from home through Skype. The PM-eVidya initiative, that seeks to provide multi-mode access to digital/ online education content, will also have special e-content for the visually and hearing challenged. The Centre also plans to make extensive use of radio, community radio and podcasts. The Department of School Education and Literacy has asked NCERT officials to keep class-wise and subject-wise content ready for classes 1 to 12 for at least a week. The content will be telecast on the 12 ‘Swayam Prabha’ channels that the ministry has on Direct-to-Home (DTH) platforms such as Airtel and Dish TV. The initiative is part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 12 to deal with the economic disruption caused by the COVID-19 outbreak. The Finance Minister said that the Digital Infrastructure for Knowledge Sharing (DIKSHA) platform will be used extensively for school education in states and union territories. The DIKSHA platform offers teachers, students and parents learning material relevant to the prescribed school curriculum. Students can download the DIKSHA app and scan the textbook QR code for easy access to school lessons. Sitharaman said that the government will launch a new National Curriculum and Pedagogical framework. This will be for school, early childhood and teachers and integrated with the current skill requirements. Amid concerns over the rise in stress among students, Sitharaman said the government was launching a new initiative to promote mental health. “Called Manodarpan, this initiative will offer psycho-social support to students, teachers and families for mental health and emotional well-being,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-tv-channel-each-for-classes-1-to-12-centre-unveils-pm-evidya-initiative-838643.html
17-05-2020||National||SC grants bail to under-trial man after he tests positive for COVID-19||The Supreme Court has granted bail for two months to an under-trial man who has tested positive for COVID-19 in Jaipur jail to get treatment. The court said the man, facing trial in an abetment to suicide case, and the authorities would have to follow all conditions imposed by doctors with respect to COVID-19 patients. Justices M M Shantanagoudar and R S Reddy were informed by the man's counsel that his client has tested positive for COVID-19 and is undergoing treatment for it. "We desire to release the petitioner on bail only on the aforementioned ground for a temporary period of two months so as to enable the petitioner to take treatment properly. We make it clear that we have not considered the matter on merits," the bench said in its May 15 order after hearing the case through a video link. "After two months he should surrender before the jail authorities," the bench said. It said after the accused would surrender, it would be open for him to file application for bail afresh before the trial court. During the arguments, the State of Rajasthan was represented by senior lawyer Manish Singhvi and advocate D K Devesh.  According to police, the man is facing trial in a September 2018 case.   The FIR was lodged against 10 persons on the basis of a suicide note, police said, adding that seven were arrested after investigation and a charge sheet was filed against them. The trial in the case commenced in April this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-bail-to-under-trial-man-after-he-tests-positive-for-covid-19-838644.html
17-05-2020||National||Govt plan for COVID-19 containment in urban areas calls for roping in political, religious leaders||With a bulk of COVID-19 cases coming from urban settlements, the government has suggested deploying additional manpower in these areas and roping in local political and religious leaders for communicating all aspects of coronavirus disease prevention measures as residents are "more inclined to trust them". It has also decided to identify an "incident commander" in urban settlements, who will be tasked with planning, operation, logistics and finance to implement an Incident Response System. The commander will report to the area municipal commissioner. In a document, the Health Ministry said these settlements in cities have poor living conditions and are often overcrowded, with many people crammed into very small living spaces. And hence physical distancing, isolation and communicating the risk of infectious respiratory diseases -- such as COVID-19 -- to the dwellers could be challenging. So the Urban Local Bodies need to prepare for responding to any possible outbreak. The document, a set of guidelines for preparedness and response to COVID-19 in urban settlements, outlined steps to do it and setting up an Incident Response System and engaging community leaders were part of the measures. "Community groups are key to creating awareness on COVID among these populations. Use of local (political, religious and opinion) leaders for communicating all aspects of the COVID prevention and control is vital as dwellers are more inclined to trust them," it said. The trained manpower available on www.covidwarriors.gov.in will be contacted for their readiness to deployment at short notice. The document said a coordination committee will be formed under the leadership of the "incident commander" and would comprise representatives from departments like health, women and child development, elected representatives and NGOs already serving the area. The guidelines called for all risk-communication intervention to address psycho-social and stigma issues, particularly in local languages, and to put up posters outside community toilets and water points, and use of cable TV channels to create awareness. Social media should be used with appropriate messages to target these population and for refuting fake news. Community groups should also popularise adoption of Aarogya Setu application, it said.  The document was released on Saturday as Health Secretary Preeti Sudan, Rajesh Bhushan, OSD, Health Ministry, and other senior officers held a review meeting with principal health secretaries, municipal commissioners, DMs and other officials from the 30 municipal areas contributing almost 80 per cent of the country's COVID-19 cases. These 30 municipal areas are BrihanMumbai, Pune, Kolkata, Jaipur, Nashik, Jodhpur, Agra, Greater Chennai, Ahmedabad, Thane, all Delhi MCs, Indore,Howrah, Kurnool, Bhopal, Amritsar, Villupuram, Vadodara, Udaipur, Tiruvallur, Aurangabad, Cuddalore, Greater Hyderabad, Surat, Chengalpattu, Ariyalur, Palghar, Berhampur, Solapur and Meerut. The guidelines further said the surveillance system will be strengthened in these areas and a strict perimeter control will be maintained in containment zones with Section 144 enforced to ensure people remain in their dwelling units. The document acknowledged the disease surveillance system in most cities or towns is not as well organised as in rural areas and this is more pronounced in urban settlements. According to the 2011 Census, there are 2,613 towns/cities with such settlements. Nearly 6.54 crore people reside in 1.39 crore households in these areas, representing 17.4 of all urban population.     The Health Ministry has also brought out two updated containment plan documents: one for large outbreaks (15 or more cases), and one for others. According to the plan for large outbreaks, a geographic quarantine or near absolute interruption of movement of people will be applicable to such areas and strict perimeter control in containment zones will be applied with active search for cases through physical house-to-house surveillance. The plan, however, said a number of variables determine the success of the containment strategy through geographic quarantine such as number and size of clusters, effectiveness of geographic quarantine, how efficiently the virus is transmitting, taking into account environmental factors like temperature and humidity, public health response in terms of active case finding, testing of large number of cases, immediate isolation of suspect and confirmed cases and quarantine of contacts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-plan-for-covid-19-containment-in-urban-areas-calls-for-roping-in-political-religious-leaders-838648.html
17-05-2020||National||Bar association urges PM to amend law to allow citizens to seek damages from China amid coronavirus lockdown||The All India Bar Association on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to amend Section 86 of the Civil Procedure Code, which restricts the scope of a citizen to sue a foreign government, enabling the filing of lawsuits against China to seek damages for the COVID-19 pandemic. Terming the pandemic a "handiwork" of China, President of the Association Adish C Aggarwala said the government should bring an ordinance to amend the CPC Section which will enable Indians to seek damages from China for the disease that has brought the economy to a grinding halt and claimed 2,752 lives. "The pandemic is the handiwork of The People's Republic of China. The virus is the creation of its laboratories under orders of the government which is now trying to cover its tracks," he alleged. The virus, developed with a remarkable ability to mutate, spread and afflict, and with an unprecedented rate of mortality, has been deliberately and consciously wreaked upon the world by the Government of China, as part of its design, he alleged in the letter. In his letter to the Prime Minister, Aggarwala, a senior Supreme Court lawyer and President of International Council of Jurists, said according to section 86 of CPC of India no foreign State may be sued in any court otherwise competent to try the suit except with the consent of the Central Government certified in writing by a Secretary to that Government. "It should be noted that the above provision allows suits to enforce contractual obligations in respect of trade activity in which a government is engaged but not for damages for the commission of the tort. There is no logic underlying this distinction," he said. A law which tends to take away, completely, the capacity of a person to canvass his rights, is itself a nullity, he said. "As the law stands today, there is no other remedy available to an individual against the State of China. An individual can also not approach, directly, the International Court of Justice for seeking damages," he said. The Doctrine of State Immunity--countries enjoying protection from being sued in courts of other countries --applies on those who have signed and ratified the United Nations Convention on Jurisdictional Immunities of States and their Property (“Convention”). He said India having signed the Convention on January 12, 2007 is yet to ratify it. China too is a signatory but did not ratify it, he said. Aggarwala in the absence of ratification India is under no obligation to exempt China or any other country from being prosecuted or sued in India for any for any violations.  "Any citizen will be entitled to sue in India once CrPC is amended. At International level, anyone can approach only United Nations Human Rights Council. No other court or Tribunal for this purpose," he told PTI over phone. When asked if verdict of Indian courts will be binding on China, he said," Yes. Once there is decree from Indian court, then China would be under obligation to pay. If China is not making payment of decree, then decree can be executed from the assets of China in India and the the decrees can be transferred to Chinese courts for execution."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bar-association-urges-pm-to-amend-law-to-allow-citizens-to-seek-damages-from-china-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-838653.html
17-05-2020||National||COVID-19 times: Urban families pick kitchen gardening||Stuck in homes due to lockdown, many urban families in Delhi-NCR have discovered their green thumb and are nurturing kitchen gardens in their terrace and balconies. The fresh, pesticide-free produce is not only helping address the food safety concerns of people but also serving as a stress buster during the time of coronavirus-induced lockdown. Nibha Dalal, a resident of Noida sector 41 has been growing tomatoes, okra and potatoes in her kitchen garden. "At first it was just a hobby but when I saw the risk of resources depleting at super markets and also that exposure to fruits and vegetables may increase chances of coronavirus transmission through the surface, I thought it might be a good idea to be self-sufficient," Dalal said. Her neighbour Varsha Rajora said she is not only growing vegetables for food security but also to de-stress. "All my three children are in Mumbai presently and we keep seeing news of how badly Maharashtra is impacted by coronavirus. My kitchen garden helps me stay distracted and occupied," Rajora, who spends an average of four hours in her kitchen garden everyday, said. Naseema Firdaus, a resident of Mayur Vihar Extension, has converted her balcony into an area to grow vegetables. She is growing cherry tomatoes, curry leaves, coriander leaves and potatoes in her balcony. "The idea to grow my own vegetables came after the lockdown started. I realised it would be a lot safer to grow vegetables in my own garden but due to space constraint I am growing only those vegetables that can survive in a limited space," she said. Nisha Tomar, a Gurgaon resident, said gardening has become a matter of self-sustenance. "In the initial week of lockdown, attempting to grow some vegetables was less about a hobby and more about self sustainability. We don't have local vegetable shops around my society and Big Basket took time to resume delivery in my area after the lockdown was announced. "So, I decided to attempt the basics on my own. I tried basil and mint first and they quickly grew. Then I got excited about it and moved to spinach," Tomar told PTI. The limited accessibility in initial weeks of lockdown prompted Dhwani Bhardwaj to try her hand at kitchen gardening and she found it a unique way of keeping her kids occupied. "I remember as kids we would paste different seeds in holiday homework scrapbooks but honestly I never gave a thought that we can try it at home. So following some YouTube instructions I planted tomatoes, cucumber, bell pepper and lettuce and we named each of the pot after each family member to fix responsibility for the pot. And now after a month, we were excited to see the results," she said.  "It is not even an accessibility issue now but I think I will procure limited vegetables from outside till the corona crisis is over," she said.     Dipti Jhanjhani,who has been growing vegetables in her balcony for a few years, is now receiving calls from her friends and relatives who want gardening tips. "The lockdown has taken the DIY trend to another level.Earlier, whoever visited my house would be stunned with how I have accommodated so much in the balcony and how I am so dedicated to gardening. Now during the lockdown I got calls from many of my friend who wanted to experiment with kitchen gardening," she said. There is no available data on how many families may be growing vegetables at their homes since the lockdown. Atul Sharma, owner of a plant nursery in Noida, said the demand for seeds specially of vegetables has significantly increased in the last two months. "Though the nursery has not been operational due to the lockdown, I am getting 10-12 calls every day inquiring about seed availability and if home delivery is possible. Earlier such demand was seen for flower seeds but now it has moved towards vegetables," he said. Bhim Singh, a gardener, said he has been getting calls from people asking tips for their plants. "What kind of soil this vegetable needs, how much water should be given, is it suitable to grow it in pots are some of the common queries I am asked. Ironically, I would have got many gardening opportunities if I could step out," he said. Rabia Hasan, a psychiatrist, said growing vegetables can act as a good stress buster. "It gives people the satisfaction to think that they have enough to take care of the needs of their families. News of shortage of food items is also making people think that they are prepared to an extent and if nothing else it is a good hobby to pursue," Hasan said. India is currently under the biggest lockdown with around 1.3 billion people asked to stay home in view of the coronavirus outbreak that has claimed 2,752 lives and infected 85,940 people in the country. The government has asked people to "learn to live with the virus," urging people to make COVID-19 prevention guidelines a part of their lives as a behavioural change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-times-urban-families-pick-kitchen-gardening-838655.html
17-05-2020||National||Singapore reports 682 new COVID-19 cases, mostly foreign workers||Singapore on Sunday reported 682 new COVID-19 cases with a vast majority of them being foreign workers living in dormitories, taking the country's total to 28,038, the health ministry said. A 67-year-old Singaporean man, who had a history of heart disease, hypertension and hyperlipidaemia, died of the coronavirus, the 22nd fatality from the contagion, the ministry said.  It said that the vast majority of the 682 fresh cases are work permit holders residing in foreign worker dormitories. Four of them were Singaporeans or permanent residents. As the number of community cases goes down to single digits, authorities have been easing some "circuit breaker" restrictions, such as allowing more businesses to reopen, according to a Channel News Asia report.  Most of Singapore's coronavirus-related deaths are elderly cases, it said. The youngest patient to die from the disease is a 58-year-old Singaporean woman who was declared free of the virus before her death. As of Saturday, Singapore has 1,111 coronavirus patients in hospital and 17,881 in isolation, according to the ministry. A total of 8,342 patients have been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/singapore-reports-682-new-covid-19-cases-mostly-foreign-workers-838656.html
17-05-2020||National||Anand Mahindra backs Indian Army's 'Tour of Duty' proposal for civilians||Industrialist Anand Mahindra has backed a proposal by the army to allow civilians, including young working professionals, to join the force for a three-year tenure while stating that the Mahindra Group would be happy to consider for employment those who have served the term. The Indian Army is considering a proposal -- 'Tour of Duty' (ToD) or 'Three Years Short Service' scheme, under which civilians could be allowed to join the force for a three-year tenure as officers and in other ranks for a variety of roles, even frontline fighters. The proposal aims to tap the "resurgence of nationalism and patriotism" among the youths who do not want to join the Army as a profession but wish to experience the military life for a temporary duration. "I recently learnt that the Indian Army is considering a novel proposal, the 'Tour of Duty'. The young, fit citizens of India will get an opportunity to gain operational experience in the Army both as soldiers and Officers through this voluntary three year programme," Mahindra, who is the chairman of the Mahindra Group, said in a statement. He further said, "I definitely think military training will be an added advantage for Tour of Duty Graduates as they enter the workplace. In fact, considering the rigid standards of selection and training in the Indian Army, the Mahindra Group will be happy to consider their candidature." The army's proposal is a part of broad reforms envisaged for the force. It is expected to be discussed at a conference of top commanders of the Indian Army following which the process would be taken forward. At present, the Army recruits young people under short service commission for an initial tenure of 10 years which is extendable by another four years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anand-mahindra-backs-indian-armys-tour-of-duty-proposal-for-civilians-838662.html
17-05-2020||National||Anand Mahindra backs Indian Army's 'Tour of Duty' proposal for civilians||Industrialist Anand Mahindra has backed a proposal by the army to allow civilians, including young working professionals, to join the force for a three-year tenure while stating that the Mahindra Group would be happy to consider for employment those who have served the term. The Indian Army is considering a proposal -- 'Tour of Duty' (ToD) or 'Three Years Short Service' scheme, under which civilians could be allowed to join the force for a three-year tenure as officers and in other ranks for a variety of roles, even frontline fighters. The proposal aims to tap the "resurgence of nationalism and patriotism" among the youths who do not want to join the Army as a profession but wish to experience the military life for a temporary duration. "I recently learnt that the Indian Army is considering a novel proposal, the 'Tour of Duty'. The young, fit citizens of India will get an opportunity to gain operational experience in the Army both as soldiers and Officers through this voluntary three year programme," Mahindra, who is the chairman of the Mahindra Group, said in a statement. He further said, "I definitely think military training will be an added advantage for Tour of Duty Graduates as they enter the workplace. In fact, considering the rigid standards of selection and training in the Indian Army, the Mahindra Group will be happy to consider their candidature." The army's proposal is a part of broad reforms envisaged for the force. It is expected to be discussed at a conference of top commanders of the Indian Army following which the process would be taken forward. At present, the Army recruits young people under short service commission for an initial tenure of 10 years which is extendable by another four years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anand-mahindra-backs-indian-armys-tour-of-duty-proposal-for-civilians-838663.html
17-05-2020||National||Additional Rs 40,000-crore MGNREGS fund will ensure migrant families returning home get work: JP Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday said the additional allocation of Rs 40,000 crore for the rural employment guarantee scheme (MGNREGS) will provide adequate work and earning opportunities to migrant families returning home, as he hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his "concern and timely initiative". In his tweets, he said increased public expenditure on health, investments in ramping up health infrastructure, creation of infectious disease blocks in all districts and setting up of integrated public health labs at block levels will enhance the capability to meet health challenges and future requirements. His reaction came after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the fifth and final tranche of the Rs 20-lakh crore economic package announced by Modi to revive the coronavirus-hit economy.  "FM Nirmala Sitharaman Ji has today announced an additional allocation of Rs 40,000 crore for MGNREGS. I congratulate PM Narendra Modi Ji for his concern and timely initiative to provide adequate work and income-earning opportunities to migrant families returning home," Nadda said.  "New public sector enterprise policy announced today by FM will help the PSUs focus on strategic sectors & make them more efficient and help us realise the full potential for huge sectoral investments and growth in different sectors. This will give a massive push to our economy," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/additional-rs-40000-crore-mgnregs-fund-will-ensure-migrant-families-returning-home-get-work-jp-nadda-838670.html
17-05-2020||National||Space is strategic sector, needs appropriate safeguards, say veteran scientists||Veteran space scientists have welcomed the government's announcement on opening the space sector and ISRO facilities for private players but called for appropriate safeguards to ensure that sensitive and critical technologies do not fall into wrong hands given its strategic nature. Former ISRO Chairman K Kasturirangan termed the move as a very important and crucial step at this stage to take India's space programme, started in 1963, to the next level in the coming years, noting that the sector is a critical element of India's ambition in the economic field. "So, we need to look at avenues by which endevour can be expanded in scope and as well as in terms of scale," Kasturirangan, who was also a member of the now-defunct Planning Commission, told P T I. There is a big demand for space-related services in India, which provides cost-effective services in areas of launching, in building satellites or providing assistance in applications, itself, he pointed out. Former ISRO Chairman G Madhavan Nair, while welcoming private participation in India's space research activities, said one has to carefully consider some of the policy matters. "First of all, there has to be our national space law which will define responsibilities and liabilities," Nair told P T I. "There has to be proper control mechanisms to ensure that sensitive and critical technologies do not fall into the wrong hands." According to him, in spite of not having a viable aerospace industry in the country, ISRO has taken initiative to ensure industrial participation in its programmes. "The fact that about 60 per cent of ISRO's budget is spent through industries is proof of that," he said. "I also have the fear that space does not bring large revenues or profits. So, how many will take up this challenge? Space exploration is still more complex because returns are negative and it is only long term investment," Nair said. "The implementation has to be done taking into account sensitive international regulations like MTCR and international space law," he added. Kasturirangan saw the government move as one being certainly in the right direction in expanding the activity among the industries, institutions also privately funded and the public sector. "It is a very balanced way to look at the future. To me, this is timely and good and critical step." Space is certainly a national and strategic activity and we should look at the policies carefully and make sure that the expansion is facilitated with appropriate policy framework, he said. "I am sure this is being examined by the government and they will do rightful thing. I am sure those wh are working on strategic and national security areas will hopefully examine and work towards finding appropriate safeguards," Kasturirangan added. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday announced giving the private sector a role in India's space programme, including in satellites, launches and space-based services. Private sector will be allowed to use ISRO facilities and other relevant assets to improve their capacities, she had said. Future projects for planetary exploration and outer space travel would be open for private sector, she said, adding, liberal geo-spatial data policy will provide remote sensing data to tech-entrepreneurs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/space-is-strategic-sector-needs-appropriate-safeguards-say-veteran-scientists-838688.html
17-05-2020||National||Rajdhani special trains carry nearly 3.5 L passengers in 5 days, generate over Rs 69 cr revenue||Rajdhani Specials carried nearly 3.5 lakh passengers in last five days, generating a revenue of over Rs 69 crore for Indian Railways, said officials. The Rajdhani Special train service started by the national carrier on May 12 to ferry stranded people between Delhi and other major cities of the country has seen a major demand from the middle class with most of them running on full capacity. A total of 27,788 people travelled on these trains on May 16 and the number is expected to reach 30,127 on Sunday, said officials.  The trains run on Rajdhani routes and charge premium fares. “Around 1,87,827 tickets were booked till date and a total of 3,48,634 passengers have travelled so far on these special trains. The total fare till date has been Rs 69,33,67,735. Twenty-one trains will be operational on May 27,” the railways said. These trains are railways' first indication that a graded resumption of passenger services are slated to begin after the nationwide lockdown ends on May 17. Officials, however, indicated that no regular passenger service will be resumed at least till June 30. Initially these trains did not have a waiting list, but it was introduced later to cater to the huge demand for these trains. The railways allowed this relaxation for trains running from May 22 onwards.  The waiting list for special trains will be capped at 100 for AC 3 tier, 50 for AC 2 tier, 200 for sleeper class, 100 for chair cars, while the list will be capped at 20 each for First AC and Executive Class. There shall be no Reservation Against Cancellation (RAC) in special trains, Indian Railways said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajdhani-special-trains-carry-nearly-35-l-passengers-in-5-days-generate-over-rs-69-cr-revenue-838692.html
17-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: How COVID-19 unravelled the hidden migrant crisis in India||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation in India. In DH Insight, DH Journalist Prajwal Suvarna brings some insights into the massive challenge the exodus of migrant workers will pose to states, and what kind of challenges the states that absorb the migrants back will have to face, and some possible solutions being looked at.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-how-covid-19-unravelled-the-hidden-migrant-crisis-in-india-838695.html
17-05-2020||National||Twice toll amount to be charged for vehicle entering FASTag lane without FASTag||Now, be prepared to pay twice the toll amount at National Highway toll plazas, if the vehicle enters a FASTag lane without a FASTag or without valid or functional FASTag. Earlier, the vehicle users had to pay twice the payable fee at a toll plaza only if the vehicle did not carry the FASTag and had entered the dedicated FASTag lane. "The Ministry has issued notification GSR 298 E, dated May 15, 2020, for amendment in the National Highways Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules, 2008 which provide that if the vehicle is not fitted with “FASTag” or vehicle is without valid or functional “FASTag”, enter into “FASTag lane” of the Fee plazas, then they shall pay a fee equivalent to two times of the fee applicable to that category of vehicles," the notification said. This was done to encourage vehicle users to use FASTag than cash in toll plazas. The government had rolled out the FASTag-based electronic toll collection mechanism from December 15 across all toll plazas of the NHAI to ensure seamless movement at toll plazas and check pilferage in toll collection. After introducing FASTag, the toll collection also increased in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twice-toll-amount-to-be-charged-for-vehicle-entering-fastag-lane-without-fastag-838708.html
17-05-2020||National||Decentralisation of cities, devt of far-flung areas can help address migrant workers' woes: Gadkari||At a time when the trauma of migrant workers are coming to the fore amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Union minister Nitin Gadkari has said "decentralisation of cities" and development of far-flung areas are solutions to address the crisis faced by them. Migrants' tragedy is "too unfortunate", Gadkari said and emphasised that it was high time that employment avenues through development is created in villages, rural, backward and far-flung areas shorn of development. With the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, economic activities have been disrupted. After being rendered jobless, thousands of migrant workers have gone back or are making all efforts to go back to their native places. Adding to the woes, scores of migrant workers, including those going by foot, have been killed in road accidents during the lockdown, which began on March 25. "We will have to learn the art of living with coronavirus. Nobody comes to big cities willingly... it is acute poverty and lack of avenues at native places which force migrants to come to cities... "Pain and fear forced them to walk back...We have made arrangements for their food etc at toll plazas but we will have to instil positivity in them," Gadkari said. In a telephonic interview from his Nagpur residence, Gadkari said, "fear has resulted in this serious situation". Noting that decentralisation of the industry is the need of the hour, the minister said, "whoever comes, comes to Gurgaon, Delhi, Noida, Ludhiana, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Mumbai or Pune. We have to develop socially, economically and educationally backward areas". The Union Minister of Road Transport, Highways and MSME said that he was in touch with the Maharashtra government to work on a plan that could serve as a model for other parts of the country and can arrest mass exodus of workers in search of "greener pastures". "In Maharashtra's Dharavi 1.5 lakh people depend on leather work....The upcoming Delhi-Mumai Expressway goes through Thane. We have land available there. I have suggested to the Maharashtra government that if you join hands with us, we can establish a leather cluster there and these 1.5 lakh people of Dharavi will be shifted there. They will get affordable houses, they will get and opportunity to live with dignity," Gadkari said. According to the minister, once the plan is formalised, design and ancillary industries can be set up, and it can be an initial step for decentralisation of Mumbai.  "The leather industry is of the size of Rs 1.45 lakh crore in India of which Rs 85,000 crore is from domestic consumption while Rs 45,000 crore to Rs 55,000 crore are exports...If the Maharashtra government takes initiative, we can start work on it which can be replicated in other parts of the country depending on expertise of people and tribal area," he said. The Rs 1 lakh crore Delhi-Mumbai Expressway will reduce the travel distance between the two places by 220 kilometres and could help in decentralisation of over-concentrated cities. It would pass through the backward areas of Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Mahrashtra and Gujarat by bringing in various industry and clusters. The work on the 12-lane cement concrete highway is on full swing and as it is on a new alignment, the government has saved Rs 16,000 crore on land acquisition. Gadkari said plans are also afoot to build about 2,000 wayside amenities, industrial clusters and other facilities besides the highway. In addition, there would be smart cities and smart villages, and once the highway construction is complete, the land cost would rise manifold. On short-term solutions for migrant workers, the minister said what happened has been unfortunate as they left in fear but still the industry and the people can convince them to return. He cited example as to how about 16,000 migrant workers from two areas in Maharashtra -- Gadchiroli and Chandrapur -- which were not much impacted by the coronavirus had gone back to their villages in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. "A state minister has sought my help as 10,000 labourers had returned to Telangana and 6,000 to Andhra Pradesh from these areas. All work has come to a grinding halt. "I wrote to both the chief ministers and convinced them that they had gone back out of fear. Both the states helped us to send the workers back to Maharashtra border from where Maharashtra government brought them to their districts and they have started work," Gadkari said. According to him, similar process should be followed by the industry and others who should get in touch with the respective state governments and district collectors and bring back migrant workers legally. The process would no doubt be time taking but gradually the workers would come back, he said, adding that at the same time focus should also be on setting up village industries. "We are planning a large number of activities including promoting honey and other tribal produce... My target is to take the Khadi and Village Industries turnover to Rs 5 lakh crore in the next two years and for this we will work on 115 aspirational districts across the country." Further, the minister said that 95 per cent work of the National Highways has been started and that his ministry was ensuring that the guidelines like wearing masks, social distancing etc are being followed. "We will win the economic war and we will win the corona war... there are some people who turn opportunity into problems and there are some who turned problems into opportunity," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decentralisation-of-cities-devt-of-far-flung-areas-can-help-address-migrant-workers-woes-gadkari-838712.html
17-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Over 60% of sex workers in Delhi return to their home states||Over 60 per cent of Delhi's sex workers have returned to their home states due to loss of means of livelihood amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown that pushed many of them to the brink of starvation. The fear of contracting the deadly pathogen has kept customers away, leaving a debilitating impact on sex workers in the city. Kusum, who is president of the All India Network of Sex Workers (AINSW) - a group of sex workers that assists others with legal rights, health issues and social security across the country, said over 60 per cent of the sex workers in Delhi have already left for their home states. "The 60 per cent population accounts for around 3,000 sex workers. According to government figures, a total of registered 5,000 sex workers reside in Delhi," Kusum said. She said they were forced to leave the city after enduring weeks of struggle for basic facilities like food and medicines. Shalini, one such worker, moved back to her village in Uttar Pradesh after living for eight years in Delhi. "I ran away from my abusive home in UP at the age of 18. I wanted to be an actress but got into sex trade to support myself," 26-year-old Shalini told PTI. "After getting into this business (sex trade), at least I was not struggling for food, I was not on streets. But ever since the coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown, I have zero customers and money is drying up," she said. Another sex worker Rajni (name changed) said she and her four-year-old son have not eaten properly in the last two months. "When my son fainted out of weakness two weeks back I decided to move back. I have some relatives in UP who do not know what I do here. I will stay with them for some days before figuring out what to do next," she added. Sharmila (name changed) who grew up as an orphan on the streets of Kanpur became a sex worker in Delhi five years ago to make ends meet. "But now there is no food, no medicines and no customers. It is impossible to survive any longer in Delhi with the savings that I have. The social distancing is going to hit our business more than anything so there is no point staying here," Sharmila, who is planning to move back to Kanpur, said. Rajni, Sharmila and Shalini are residents of the Garstin Bastion Road, or more famously G B Road, and now renamed Swami Shradhanand Marg. There are around 100 brothels on the one-kilometre stretch housing approximately 1,500 sex workers. Activists fear that many of these women who were on medication for different diseases, including HIV-AIDS, will not be able to get proper treatment in their home towns. "We feel all the work which we did in the past years for HIV and other diseases would be of no use. Many of them who escaped abusive homes can again become victims of domestic violence. There are many concerns but mostly we are worried about their health," Kusum said. She further said that similar migration of sex workers is taking place in other cities too. Amit Kumar, the national coordinator for the AINSW, said the GB Road has completely shut down and most of its residents have returned to their home towns. "We were doing our best to provide dry ration, medicines, masks and sanitiser. We also gave them basic information on HIV treatment," he said. Kumar said many of the sex workers went to their homes during Holi but they did not return after that. India is currently under the biggest lockdown with around 1.3 billion people asked to stay home in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The nationwide lockdown was initially imposed from March 25 to April 14, but was later extended till May 17 to contain the spread of the deadly disease.  The virus has so far claimed 2,872 lives and infected over 90,000 people in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-over-60-of-sex-workers-in-delhi-return-to-their-home-states-838714.html
17-05-2020||National||Modi government's economic package to go a long way in making India self-reliant: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the announcement of the fifth and final tranche of an economic package by the Modi government will go a long way in realising the idea of a self-reliant India. In a series of tweets, Shah said the additional allocation of Rs 40,000 crore under MGNREGS will help in generating employment for the poor and migrant workers and create durable livelihood assets, which will greatly boost the country's rural economy and infrastructure. "Today's announcements by Modi govt will go a long way in realising the idea of AtmaNirbhar Bharat. "These steps will prove to be a game changer for health, education and business sectors, which will provide employment to crores of poor. I thank PM @narendramodi & FM @nsitharaman," he said. Shah said while Prime Minister Modi's leadership in handling COVID-19 has outshined several developed nations, he has resolved to prepare India for any such pandemic in the future, by strengthening and revamping India's health sector. The home minister said the Modi government has decided to increase India's health expenditure to create infectious diseases hospital blocks in every district, strengthening laboratories network and surveillance and encouraging research. "I am sure this foresight will take India way ahead in the medical sector," he said. Shah said the central government has decided to increase borrowing limit of states, which will give them an extra resource of Rs 4.28 lakh crore. He said the Centre had previously given Rs 46,038 crore through devolution of taxes in April, revenue deficit grants of Rs 12,390 crore and State Disaster Response Funds to the tune of Rs 11,000 crore.  Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday announced plans to privatise PSUs in non-strategic sectors and suspend loan default-triggered bankruptcy filings for one year. Sitharaman announced a Rs 40,000-crore hike in allocation for the rural employment guarantee scheme to provide jobs to migrant workers. She raised the threshold of insolvency proceedings to help the industry deal with COVID-19 pains. The finance minister also announced a new policy for companies under state control, saying PSUs in non-strategic sectors will be privatised while those in the identified strategic sector would be capped at four with the rest to be merged or sold. Sitharaman said the five-part stimulus together with the March 26 announcement of free foodgrain and cooking gas to the poor and some cash to the vulnerable sections for three months and RBI's Rs 8.01 lakh crore worth of liquidity measures swell the size of the COVID-19 economic package to Rs 20.97 lakh crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-governments-economic-package-to-go-a-long-way-in-making-india-self-reliant-amit-shah-838718.html
17-05-2020||National||SC to hear plea by sacked BSF constable against rejection of election plea against Modi on May 22||The Supreme Court has cancelled sitting of a virtual court presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde, on Monday. According to a circular issued on Sunday, all the matters listed on Monday would now be taken up on May 22. Among other cases, the court was scheduled to hear on Monday a plea by Tej Bahadur, a sacked BSF constable, against the Allahabad High Court's order that had dismissed his election petition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  Tej Bahadur's nomination papers were rejected as the Samajwadi Party candidate in Varanasi constituency in Lok Sabha polls. He challenged validity of the High Court's judgement of December 6, 2019. The High Court has dismissed his election petition as having no locus and further that he was neither a registered voter nor the resident of Varanasi Lok Sabha constituency. In a special leave petition, he contended that his nomination papers were rejected by the returning officer under "illegitimate pressure" from BJP.  "The officer acted in arbitrary manner and the High Court also committed grave error by ignoring the fact when any person filed nomination in a constituency and his candidature has been rejected, then he has locus to file election petition," his plea contended. The petitioner sought a direction to set aside the rejection of his nomination papers on May 1, 2019 also action against the returning officer for misuse of his official powers.  The petitioner was sacked from the BSF after a video in which he showed alleged poor quality of foods served to jawans went viral on social media networking sites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-plea-by-sacked-bsf-constable-against-rejection-of-election-plea-against-modi-on-may-22-838719.html
17-05-2020||National||National coronavirus lockdown to continue till May 31, with lower restrictions||India on Monday will enter into COVID-19 lockdown 4.0 for a period of two weeks with more exemptions as the Centre allowed states more powers for profiling its zones, re-starting of inter-state and intra-state bus travel, plying of autos and taxis and opening of all shops, including in markets but barring those in malls. The latest extension of the lockdown will end on May 31 but during this period, e-commerce firms will be allowed to deliver essential and non-essential items anywhere in the country barring containment zones while sporting events can be held in stadia but without spectators. While the Centre has allowed relaxations, according to the new guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on the last day of lockdown 3.0 on Sunday, it all depends on states as the new guidelines permit it to take a call on what should be allowed or not.  Except in containment zones where only essential activities are allowed, construction, industrial and other business activities are also allowed across the country.  Offices can also now start functioning but the guidelines suggest that work from home should be followed as far as possible. Staggering of work/business hours and social distancing should be followed in offices, work places, shops, markets and industrial and commercial establishments. "All activities will be permitted, except those which are specifically prohibited. However, in containment zones, only essential activities shall be allowed," the guidelines said. The states can prohibit any activity, which is allowed by the Centre, in various zones or impose restrictions as "deemed necessary" based on their assessment.  Once this fourth edition of lockdown is completed on May 31, the country would see 67 days of restrictions at a stretch since March 25 when it was first imposed for 21 days till April 14. The lockdown was then extended till May 3 and the further to May 17. Acceding to the demands of states, which found fault with Centre putting whole districts under red zone, the new guidelines gives more powers to the state in profiling its areas into green, orange and red zones by following the directives of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW).  Both domestic and international air travel, as well as Metro services, continue to remain shut during the lockdown, which has now been extended till May 31, while containment zones will witness only essential activities. However, train services, which have partially started on May 11, may gather pace in the coming days, as it is not in the prohibited list. One of the major relaxations is the allowing of bus transport and passenger vehicles. Inter-state movement of passenger vehicles and buses will be allowed with the mutual consent of states involved. States can decide on allowing movement of vehicles between districts. Placing a premium on online and distance learning during the pandemic, the guidelines have said all educational institutions will remain closed.  Cinema halls, shopping malls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums as well as hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services will remain closed. Among the eateries, only those open at railway stations, airports and bus depots are allowed. Restaurants are permitted to operate kitchens for home delivery of food items. Keeping in mind mega sports events like IPL, sports complexes, and stadia can open but spectators will not be allowed. As earlier, any kind of gathering will be disallowed while religious places will continue to remain closed. While profiling the districts, states should ensure that they mark containment and buffer zones in red and orange zones. In containment zones, there should be strict perimeter control and ensure that there is no movement of people. The night curfew between 7 pm and 7 am as well as restrictions on the movement of elderly, pregnant women, people with co-morbidity will continue. In the workplace, employers should ensure that Aarogya Setu app is installed by all employees having "compatible" mobile phones. District authorities should advise individuals to install the App on "compatible" mobile phones and regularly update their health status on the app.  In specific instructions to states, the MHA said all states will allow inter-state movement of healthcare professionals without any restrictions as well as plying of goods vehicles, including empty trucks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-coronavirus-lockdown-to-continue-till-may-31-with-lower-restrictions-838725.html
17-05-2020||National||213 fresh COVID-19 cases in UP; total now 4,353||Uttar Pradesh reported 213 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total in the state to 4,353. So far, 2,444 people have recovered from the disease, while 104 people have died due to it, Principal Secretary Medical and Health Amit Mohan Prasad said. "A total of 4,353 COVID-19 cases have been reported from 75 districts in the state with 213 fresh cases so far," he said. The number of active cases in the state stands at 1,805, Prasad said. He said people across the state are using Aarogya Setu app, while the control room of the health department has given health-related advice to more than 11,000 people so far. "Health check up of over 3.72 lakh migrant labourers has been done till now," Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/213-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-up-total-now-4353-838729.html
17-05-2020||National||MHA releases coronavirus lockdown 4.0 guidelines: Here's what you need to know||India on Sunday extended COVID-19 lockdown till May 31 with more exemptions, including allowing inter-state and intra-state bus travel with restrictions barring in containment zones. States can now decide on the profile of districts as red, green and orange zones. Within Red and Orange Zones, containment and buffer zones to be demarcated by district authorities.  Public transport will be opened up across the country barring containment zones. Autos and taxis will be allowed to ply. Guidelines:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-releases-coronavirus-lockdown-40-guidelines-heres-what-you-need-to-know-838738.html
17-05-2020||National||Centre takes digital route to impart education with PM e-Vidya initiative; one channel for every class||The Centre on Sunday unveiled the PM-eVidya initiative, a digital route to impart education in times of COVID-19 with plans to launch dedicated television channels – one each for Classes 1 to 12. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, announcing the fifth tranche of measures to re-start the COVID-stalled economy, also announced extensive use of radio, community radio, podcasts and e-content for the visually and hearing impaired. A key segment of the PM-eVidya initiative is ‘one class one channel’ for conduct of classes through direct-to-home channels which will be available on DTH platforms. “The government has launched Swayam Prabha DTH channels to support and reach those who do not have access to the internet, now 12 more channels will be added,” Sitharaman told reporters here. Provisions were also being made for telecast of live interactive sessions on these channels with experts from home through Skype, she said. The Department of School Education and Literacy has asked NCERT officials to keep class-wise and subject-wise content ready for classes 1 to 12 for at least a week. Besides, the top 100 universities on National Institutional Ranking Framework have been automatically allowed to start online courses from May 30. The initiative is part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 12 to deal with the economic disruption caused by the COVID-19 outbreak. The finance minister said that the Digital Infrastructure for Knowledge Sharing (DIKSHA) platform will be used extensively for school education in states and union territories. The DIKSHA platform offers teachers, students and parents learning material relevant to the prescribed school curriculum. Students can download the DIKSHA app and scan the textbook QR code for easy access to the school lessons. Sitharaman said that the government will launch a new National Curriculum and Pedagogical framework. This will be for school, early childhood and teachers and integrated with the current skill requirements. Amid concerns over the rise in stress among students, Sitharaman said the government was launching a new initiative to promote mental health. Called Manodarpan, this initiative will offer psycho-social support to students, teachers and families for mental health and emotional well-being, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-takes-digital-route-to-impart-education-with-pm-e-vidya-initiative-one-channel-for-every-class-838743.html
17-05-2020||National||Delhi BJP to distribute six lakh sanitary napkins under 'Mission Anivarya'||The Delhi BJP will distribute six lakh sanitary napkins under its 'Mission Anivarya' for better health of adolescent girls and women in collaboration with the police. Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari will launch the distribution campaign in association with Delhi Police on Monday. The campaign will be launched in New Delhi district. Six lakh sanitary napkins will be distributed among teenagers and women living in slums of the city, campaign coordinator and Delhi media co-in charge Neelkant Bakshi said. "Sanitary napkins will be handed over to women police officers tomorrow to carry forward this campaign," he said.  Bakshi said after distributing sanitary napkins in the initial phase, this campaign will continue at district and division level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-bjp-to-distribute-six-lakh-sanitary-napkins-under-mission-anivarya-838748.html
17-05-2020||National||Mount aggressive surveillance to detect COVID-19 cases: Centre||The Health Ministry on Sunday hinted that schools, colleges and work places could remain closed in buffer zones demarcated to contain the spread of COVID-19 even after the lockdown restrictions are lifted across the country. The Updated Containment Plan for Large Outbreaks of COVID-19, released by the Health Ministry, also came out with a working definition of a large outbreak where 15 or more cases are reported within a defined geographic area. The updated containment plan was released on a day when India witnessed the highest ever increase in COVID-19 cases in a single day as 4,987 fresh infections were reported on Sunday morning taking the total confirmed cases to 90,927. The death toll also spiked by 120 to reach 2,872. A separate DH COVID-19 Tracker put the total cases at 92,154 and the deaths at 2,906 at 8:00 p.m. on Sunday. The ministry also spelled out aggressive surveillance measures asking ASHA/Anganwaddi workers/ANMs to fan out to 100 households each to check for COVID-19 suspects. In difficult areas, the health workers will cover 50 households each. “All ILI/SARI cases reported in the last 14 days by the IDSP in the containment zone will be tracked and reviewed to identify any missed case of COVID-19 in the community,” the guidelines read. The health workers will also mount enhanced passive surveillance in buffer zones for influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) through the existing Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). It also directs maintaining strict social distancing in the buffer zones by cancelling all mass gatherinng events, meetings in public or private places, avoiding public places and ordering closure of schools, colleges and workplaces. In a separate document on ‘preparedness and response to COVID-19 in urban settlements’, the health ministry suggested that social distancing can be achieved in small living places by sleeping in the opposite direction. “While sleeping the distancing can be achieved to an extent by sleeping in opposite direction in a manner that head end of one person faces the leg of the other. Social distancing should be practiced particularly in community water points, public toilets, PDS distribution points, health centers etc,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mount-aggressive-surveillance-to-detect-covid-19-cases-centre-838762.html
17-05-2020||National||5 BSF men suffering from chronic kidney disease, cancer recover from COVID-19||These five paramilitary forces -- the Central Reserve Police Force, Border Security Force, Central Industrial Security Force, Indo-Tibetan Border Police force and the Sashastra Seema Bal -- also saw 28 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking their combined active cases to 680, as per data accessed by PTI.  "Thirteen personnel have been discharged since yesterday (Saturday) after they tested negative for coronavirus," BSF spokesperson Shubhendu Bhardwaj said. "These include five brave bordermen who got infected while undergoing treatment of their other ongoing battle with CKD-V that is a chronic kidney ailment (three men) and cancer (two personnel)," he said. The official added that the personnel being discharged will undergo another round of quarantine before joining work. BSF, the 2.5 lakh personnel-strong force that guards India's fronts with Pakistan and Bangladesh, now has 205 active cases apart from two deaths due to the pandemic. Overall, 148 BSF personnel have recovered from the disease till now, Bhardwaj added. The CRPF also saw 54 more recoveries, taking down the tally of its overall active cases to 174 apart from the death of a Sub-Inspector rank official last month. Its 31st battalion based in Delhi, that became a COVID-19 hotspot as about 137 personnel were infected within its campus in Mayur Vihar phase-III area, has seen close to 100 recoveries now. The country's largest paramilitary CRPF, with a strength of 3.25 lakh personnel,  reported no fresh case of coronavirus infection to its troops.  The ITBP, that guards the 3,488 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC), saw 13 fresh cases and 164 of its personnel are under treatment for COVID-19 at present. The chief of the 90,000 personnel-strong force, S S Deswal, also issued a statement for his under-treatment officials saying they should not feel demoralised and the ITBP will ensure the best medical treatment and health care facilities for them. Deswal said in his message that he is assured that the personnel suffering from the disease will get well soon and join the border guarding force to serve the country with dedication again. The 1.62 lakh personnel-strong CISF also saw five fresh COVID-19 cases with four in the unit that guards the Delhi Metro and one in the wing that secures important government installations in the national capital. The CISF, designated as the national aviation security force, also reported seven recoveries and its active cases now stand at 116. It had seen the highest number of deaths, at three, from the viral disease among the CAPFs. The Nepal and Bhutan borders guarding force SSB reported no fresh case for the second straight day as 21 of its personnel are under treatment for the disease. A senior CAPF official said the new guidelines for treatment and discharge of COVID-19-exposed and infected people has led to many troops of these forces being discharged as most of the positive personnel were asymptomatic and had a high level of immunity. These forces, about 10 lakh men and women in combined strength and under the command of the Union home ministry, have had six deaths from the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-bsf-men-suffering-from-chronic-kidney-disease-cancer-recover-from-covid-19-838765.html
17-05-2020||National||Imran Khan accuses India of creating opportunity for 'false-flag operation' against Pakistan||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Sunday accused India of attempting to create an opportunity to conduct a “false-flag operation” against his country by alleging that Islamabad was supporting terrorism in Kashmir. Khan once again took to Twitter to allege that the Indian government was trying to deprive the Kashmiris of their right of self-determination by "illegal annexation of their territory." In a series of tweets, Khan alleged that India was “trying to show Kashmiris' right to struggle for self-determination guaranteed in UN Security Council Resolutions as terrorism being abetted by Pakistan - to create opportunity for a false flag operation against Pakistan while detracting world attention away from" Kashmir. Khan's statement came amidst the ongoing war of words between the two countries. Pakistan on Saturday rejected the Indian army chief Gen MM Naravane's recent allegations of organising and supporting a new “terror group” in Kashmir, known as ‘The Resistance Front’. "I would like to emphasise that Indian Army will give proportionate response to all acts of infringement of ceasefire and its (Pakistan's) support to terrorism. The onus remains with Pakistan to bring peace in the region," Gen Naravane said last week. The ties between India and Pakistan strained following the Pulwama terror attack and the subsequent Balakot airstrikes by the Indian Air Force. The bilateral relations further nose-dived following the Indian goverment's abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution in August last that revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The move angered Pakistan, which downgraded diplomatic ties with India and expelled the Indian High Commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imran-khan-accuses-india-of-creating-opportunity-for-false-flag-operation-against-pakistan-838766.html
17-05-2020||National||Coronavirus doubling time in India improved to 13.6 days in last 3 days: Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||The doubling time of coronavirus infection in India has improved to 13.6 days in the last three days from 11.5 in the past 14 days, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday as the country registered a record single-day jump of around 5,000 cases. The fatality rate is down to 3.1 per cent and the recovery rate has improved to 37.5 per cent, he said. Substantiating his point that the spread of the infection in the country has been slow, Vardhan said coronavirus cases in India reached the 80,000 mark in 106 days while developed nations such as the UK, Italy, Spain, Germany and the US took 44-66 days to reach that mark. Eight states and Union Territories --  Arunachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Ladakh, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Puducherry, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Dadra and Nagar Haveli --have not reported any case of COVID-19 in the last 24 hrs. Sikkim, Nagaland, Daman and Diu, and Lakshadweep have not reported any case till now, Vardhan said in a statement.   With India entering the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown from Monday, Vardhan said, "Our policy, perseverance coupled with aggressive and early measures through a strong leadership have shown encouraging results. While the doubling time in the past 14 days was 11.5, it has improved to 13.6 in the last three days." Also as of Saturday, 3.1 per cent of the active COVID-19 patients are in the ICU, 0.45 per cent are on ventilators and 2.7 per cent on oxygen support, the minister said. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) announced on Sunday that the ongoing countrywide lockdown has been extended till May 31. In an order, it said that lockdown measures need to be implemented for a further period of 14 days in the country to contain the spread of COVID-19. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,872 and the number of total positive cases climbed to 90,927 Sunday morning, registering an increase of 120 fatalities and a record jump of 4,987 new cases in 24 hours since Saturday 8 am, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stands at 53,946, while 34,109 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said. "Thus, around 37.51 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. In a tweet, Vardhan said, "Because of India's well-turned strategy in the fight against COVID-19, the nation touched the 80,000-cases mark in 106 days as against 44-66 days taken by countries such as the UK, Italy, Spain, Germany and the US. I truly believe that under PM Narendra Modi's leadership, we will win this war against the pandemic." Elaborating on the health infrastructure preparedness, Vardhan said 916 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals with 1,80,473 beds -- 1,61,169 isolation and 19,304 ICU -- and 2,044 dedicated health centres with 1,28,304 beds (1,17,775 isolation beds and 10,529 ICU beds) along with 9,536 quarantine centres and 6,309 care centres with 5,64,632 beds are now available in the country. The Union health minister said that while India sees a gets accustomed to a "new normal", following simple hygiene measures like washing hands with soap frequently or using alcohol-based sanitizers, not spitting in public, sanitizing one's workplace, using face covers in public places are a must. "Physical distancing is the most potent social vaccine available to us and hence it is advisable to ensure 'Do Gaz ki Doori' (two-years distance) while interacting with others and to limit social gatherings by opting virtual gatherings," he said while people advising to travel only when it is absolutely necessary and not to visit crowded places to limit the exposure to the virus.  Due precautions, safe handling of food can help prevent the spread of COVID-19, the minister said. The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has advised some simple steps like washing raw fruits and vegetables in potable water, having "fully cooked" meat, avoiding sharing of utensils and cleaning of surfaces such as tables with anti-bacterial bleach wipes that can be followed to ensure food safety. Vardhan expressed his gratitude to the services being rendered by frontline health workers such as doctors, nurses, ANMs, anganwadi workers as well as the pathologists, lab technicians, scientists and others since the beginning of the pandemic, according to the statement said. They have been working under tremendously high-risk conditions in their line of duty, to save their fellow countrymen, Vardhan said and emphasized that the nation needs to shun stigmatising them and applaud their contribution.   "By shunning the stigma attached with COVID-19, we encourage people to report symptoms on time which will help in early detection and management of the cases thus improving the recovery rate in the country," the health minister said. He also emphasised on the importance of downloading the Aarogya Setu app which helps in self-assessment and provides surveillance of COVID-19 positive cases. Additionally, Vardhan warned against falling prey to misinformation, rumours and myths or unfounded claims regarding the coronavirus infection. Highlighting that the daily testing capacity has increased to 1,00,000 tests through 373 government and 152 private laboratories, he said, "Cumulatively, 22,79,324 COVID-19 tests have been done so far of which 90,094 samples were tested on Saturday." He also said the Centre has provided 90.22 lakh N-95 masks and 53.98 lakh Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to the states, UTs and central institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-doubling-time-in-india-improved-to-136-days-in-last-3-days-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-838769.html
17-05-2020||National||Over 66,000 J&K residents evacuated from different parts of country: Admin||While 54,866 locals returned to the union territory through Lakhanpur – the gateway to Jammu and Kashmir bordering Punjab, 11,456 stranded passengers arrived on COVID-19 special trains at Jammu and Udhampur railway stations, the official said. He said another 2,470 stranded passengers reached via Lakhanpur on Sunday afternoon, while Jammu district administration received the fourth train carrying 898 passengers belonging to the UT.  So far, four trains have reached Jammu with a total of 3,768 stranded passengers belonging to different districts. He said the eighth special train has reached Udhampur railway station carrying 1,315 people, taking the number of those who have reached Udhampur during the last week to more than 9,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-66000-jk-residents-evacuated-from-different-parts-of-country-admin-838772.html
17-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown 4.0: Regular train services to remain suspended||The regular train services remain suspended and only Shramik Special, other Special Rajdhani Express trains, parcel and freight services will operate during lockdown 4.0, said Indian Railways. The railways will continue to suspend the operations of passengers carrying regular mail/ express, and sub-urban railway services. The railways already cancelled all the tickets booked in regular mail and express trains till June 30, said an official in the Indian Railways. However, the railways also decided to run more Shramik Express trains to ferry stranded migrants, students and tourists. Special Rajdhani Express will continue to operate. If required more such trains will be operated, said the official. The Indian Railway suspended the train operations from March 24 and continue to operate only freight trains transporting essential commodities. However railways  from May 1st  started operating Shramik Special and from May 12, Special Rajdhani Express trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-40-regular-train-services-to-remain-suspended-838775.html
17-05-2020||National||Doctor suicide case: Delhi court sends AAP MLA to 14 days judicial custody||A Delhi court on Sunday sent AAP legislator Prakash Jarwal, arrested in connection with a case of alleged suicide of a doctor in south Delhi last month, to judicial custody for 14 days, said his lawyer. The court sent Jarwal and co-accused Kapil Nagar to judicial custody after deciding that their police custody was no longer required for investigation, said the AAP leader's lawyer Mohd Irshad. It had sent them to police custody and later extended it, saying a lot of investigative work remained to be done and information still needed to be ferreted out. Rajendra Singh, 52, allegedly committed suicide in Durga Vihar in south Delhi on April 18. In his suicide note, the doctor held Jarwal responsible for his death. Like Jarwal, Singh was also involved in the business of water supply with the Delhi Jal Board since 2007, and police alleged that the MLA and his associates were extorting money from other water-tanker owners, including the doctor. Jarwal, who represents the Deoli assembly constituency, and his aide Nagar were arrested on May 9, after a case of extortion and abetment to suicide was filed against them and others based on a police complaint by the doctor's son -- Hemant. The FIR says Singh had been threatened and intimidated by Jarwal and Nagar. Police claimed both the accused did not cooperate during interrogation and hid facts vital to the investigation. "During investigation it was found that there was a big nexus between water-tanker owners and the accused persons," the police said in the remand application. Police said their investigation showed the money extorted from water-tanker owners was routed through the MLA's brother Anil Jarwal and invested in several properties and farm-houses in Delhi, Gurugram (Haryana) and Jaipur (Rajasthan). They also claimed that Jarwal had got allotted many water borewells in his constituency by influencing the Jal Board and one water borewell was illegally given after taking Rs 10 lakh as "gratification money". Police said complaints against the accused were filed to various authorities but action was never taken. They said they have found a WhatsApp group in the name of tanker-owners whose administrator is Nagar and Jarwal is one of its members. The chat details clearly show the direct involvement of both the accused in running the tanker mafia in Sangam Vihar and Tigri. The AAP leader's lawyer has said the politician had been falsely implicated in the case and was willing to cooperate in the investigation as and when required.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctor-suicide-case-delhi-court-sends-aap-mla-to-14-days-judicial-custody-838777.html
17-05-2020||National||Woman migrant delivers baby onboard Chhatisgarh-bound Shramik train||A woman migrant worker on Sunday gave birth to a girl on board a Shramik special train that was coming to Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh from Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh, health officials said. The woman, Ishwari Yadav (23), delivered the baby around 1.50 am with help of some women passengers on the train before it reached Nagpur railway station in Maharashtra, her husband Rajendra Yadav told PTI over phone. "She went into labour at midnight, following which I called the railway on the helpline number. The helpline staff said doctors will reach after the train arrives at the nearest station, which was far from there," he said. "Then I started asking other women passengers travelling on the train if they could help me, to which they agreed," he said. Thanks to those women, the delivery happened safely, Yadav added. "When the train reached Nagpur station around 4 am, a railway medical team came and provided assistance. They removed the umbilical cord and clamped it. Doctors also gave some medicines to my wife, and the journey resumed after that," he said. "After arriving at Bilaspur railway station at 10.55 am, the mother and the newborn were rushed to Chhattisgarh Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS) Bilaspur in an ambulance," Public Relations Officer of the institute, Dr Aarti Pandey, said. Both of them have been kept in the isolation ward and they are fine. The rapid testing of the woman for coronavirus came out negative. However, her sample has been sent for RTPCR testing for final confirmation, she said. Yadav, a native of Dharampura village in Mungeli, said he had gone to Bhopal after the Holi festival in March to work as a construction labourer along with his pregnant wife and a one-and-a-half year daughter. "Unfortunately, only three-four days after I startedworking, lockdown came in force. It was very difficult to arrange for food and other essentials for two months. I borrowed money from my contractor and others. Sometimes we had to manage with just water as there was no food," he said. "The horrific experience of lockdown will continue to haunt me," he added. "As my wife's delivery date was nearing, I tried many times to return home on goods vehicles, but it could not be materialised," he said. Finally I boarded the special train at Habibganj station with the help of other labourers of my area who were also there, and finally reached here, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-migrant-delivers-baby-onboard-chhatisgarh-bound-shramik-train-838778.html
17-05-2020||National||Stimulus measures support PM Modi's vision of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat': Rajiv Kumar||Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar on Sunday said that the vision for an 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' laid down by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been duly supported by the announcements and several reforms announced by the finance minister. In a series of tweets, Kumar said that the decision by the government to increase public expenditure on healthcare and investment in grass-root health institutions like health and wellness centres will help prepare India for any future pandemic. He also said an additional sum of Rs 40,000 crore allocated by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to MGNREGS will help in creating sustainable livelihood assets, which will give a boost to the rural economy and infrastructure. Sitharaman, whose previous four parts of the stimulus package involved credit line to small businesses and new fund creations to be shouldered by banks and financial institutions with very little extra budget spending, announced a Rs 40,000 crore hike in allocation for the rural employment guarantee scheme to provide jobs to migrant workers. She also raised the threshold of insolvency proceedings to help the industry deal with COVID-19 pains. Sitharaman said the five-part stimulus together with the March 26 announcement of free foodgrain and cooking gas to poor and some cash to vulnerable sections for three months and RBI's Rs 8.01 lakh crore worth of liquidity measures swell the size of the COVID-19 economic package to Rs 20.97 lakh crore. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's pledge of total spending of Rs 20 lakh crore (USD 265 billion) to weather the fallout of the coronavirus pandemic under 'Atma-nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan' is about 10 per cent of India's GDP in 2019-20 and ranks behind stimulus provided by Japan, the US, Sweden, Australia and Germany. In the fifth and final tranche of the economic stimulus package, Sitharaman raised the allocation for the employment guarantee scheme by Rs 40,000 crore over and above the Rs 61,000 crore budgeted for MGNREGS to provide jobs to migrant workers moving back to their states. This, she said, will help generate nearly 300 crore person-days in total.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stimulus-measures-support-pm-modis-vision-of-atmanirbhar-bharat-rajiv-kumar-838780.html
17-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Allow 'work from home' as far as possible, says MHA||The lockdown 4.0 guidelines allow the functioning of offices but want them to allow employees to 'work from home' as far as possible. While it allows the opening of shops and markets, it also wants these facilities open with staggered timings, so as to ensure social distancing. All shops should have to ensure six feet distance among customers and also not allow more than five persons at one time.  According to the National Directives for COVID-19 Management, which is part of the guidelines, staggering of work/business hours and social distancing should be followed in offices, workplaces, shops, markets, and industrial and commercial establishments. For offices, till now, there were restrictions that only 33% of workers could be present and this restriction has now been taken away. In the workplace, employers should ensure that the Aarogya Setu app is installed by all employees having "compatible" mobile phones. District authorities should advise individuals to install the App on "compatible" mobile phones and regularly update their health status on the app, the directives said. "This will facilitate timely provision of medical attention to those individuals who are at risk," the MHA said.  While making Aarogya Setu app, the government this time has made efforts to take into account that several people do not have smartphones and cannot download such apps. This has led to the inclusion of 'compatible' mobile phones in the directive. The directives also said workplaces should have provision for thermal scanning, hand wash, and sanitiser at all entry and exit points and common areas. There should be frequent sanitisation of the entire workplace, common facilities and all points which come into human contact like door handles shall be ensured. The guidelines have also done away with restrictions on construction activities and industrial activities. Earlier, workers who were staying sites were allowed to work in construction activities in red zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-allow-work-from-home-as-far-as-possible-says-mha-838782.html
17-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Want a haircut? Your barber may open shop||Those who badly need a hair cut, you can rush to your barbershop on Monday morning itself provided your state government feel it's safe to do so. The Centre has now allowed the opening of barbershops, salons and spas anywhere barring containment zones but has left it to states to decide on what all facilities to open. Several people had earlier complained about not allowing barbershops and salons.  Cycle rickshaws, auto-rickshaws, taxis, and cab aggregators are also allowed to ply, which would ease transportation woes of people. Since May 3, there had been substantial opening up of activities but lack of transport facilities had hampered the movement of people to work. As earlier, wearing of face cover is compulsory in public and workplaces. Spitting will be punishable with fine.  The restrictions on marriage-related gathering will continue and no one can invite more than 50 guests for the function. For funerals, only 20 people will be allowed. Consumption of liquor, pan, gutka, and tobacco in public places will not be allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-want-a-haircut-your-barber-may-open-shop-838790.html
17-05-2020||National||14 cops among 62 test positive for COVID-19; Jammu and Kashmir tally reaches 1183||Jammu and Kashmir continued to witness a sharp surge in COVID-19 cases with samples of 62 people testing positive taking the tally to 1183 while a 29-year-old lady who had tested positive for the deadly virus recently died on Sunday. With another death, the toll due to COVID-19 has mounted to 13 in J&K, including 11 from Kashmir division and two from Jammu region. 14 policemen included those tested positive for COVID-19 today, officials said. While 16 among the fresh positive cases are from Jammu division, 46 from Kashmir valley. Since the last few days, J&K witnessed a sharp surge in COVID19 cases as more people who arrive from outside are testing positive. On Saturday, among the 108 reported positive cases, 80 were those who had traveled back to J&K in recent days. J&K has been carrying out 100 percent sampling of all people returning from outside, the exercise has shot up positive cases of COVID19 drastically. The travellers, put under administrative quarantine mandatorily, are sampled on the fifth day of their arrival. According to the daily Media Bulletin, out of 1183 positive cases, 595 are Active Positive, 575 have recovered and 13 have died. Out of 80934 test results available, 79751 samples have tested as negative till May 17. Providing district-wise breakup, the Bulletin said that Bandipora has 135 positive cases, Srinagar 157, Anantnag 177, Baramulla 118, Shopian 108, Kupwara 97, Budgam 57, Ganderbal 23, Kulgam 147 and Pulwama 16. Similarly, Jammu has 45 positive cases, Udhampur 25, Samba 13, Rajouri five, Kathua 32, Kishtwar one, Ramban 23, Reasi three and Poonch one. The Bulletin said that the breakup represents districts from which the patients have been traced or are ordinarily residing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-cops-among-62-test-positive-for-covid-19-jammu-and-kashmir-tally-reaches-1183-838793.html
17-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0: Govt allows movement of buses with riders; no Metro, flight till May 31||The Centre on Sunday allowed inter- and intra-state movement of public vehicles with conditions and reopening of all shops except those in malls and COVID-19 containment zones as it extended the nationwide lockdown till may 31, during which flight and Metro services and all kinds of public gatherings will be barred. Immediately after the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), the nodal department, announced lockdown 4.0 to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued fresh guidelines to allow further resumption of economic activities. It allowed inter-state and intra-state movements of passenger vehicles and buses from areas other than the containment zones. However, the guidelines made it clear that bus services will be allowed with mutual consent of states and union territories involved. All necessary standard operating procedures which includes social distancing, wearing of masks, availability of sanitiser need to be ensured. Domestic air travel of passengers will be barred. Taking a view of limited air services opened for bringing stranded Indians home and taking people through trains, the centre allowed running of canteens at bus depots, railway stations and canteens. "The Lockdown measures in place since March 25, 2020 have helped considerably in containing the spread of COVID-19. It has therefore been decided to further extend the lockdown till May 31, 2020," the home ministry said.  The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 2,872 and the number of total positive cases climbed to 90,927 Sunday morning, according to the Union Health Ministry. In order to facilitate the movement of persons, various modes of transport have already been opened up which includes limited train services since May 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-40-govt-allows-movement-of-buses-with-riders-no-metro-flight-till-may-31-838795.html
17-05-2020||National||Helpline number for lawyers in SC; SC issues fresh SoP for e-filing and video conferencing||For the first time in the Supreme Court, a helpline number would work between 10 am and 5 pm under the supervision of senior officers to provide instant solutions to query of advocates or litigants on the e-filing of fresh cases. The Supreme Court has issued fresh Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) for e-filing, mentioning, listing, and hearing of matters through video conferencing and teleconferencing. The top court has already decided to continue holding virtual courts from May 18, 2020 to June 19, 2020, which was earlier notified as summer vacations.  According to the SoP, fresh matters lying in the pool which could not be listed due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic are scheduled to be listed before the virtual court for hearing during the period. "Once the pool of fresh matters is exhausted, matters belonging to short categories, which are ready for listing, will be heard. In addition to the fresh matters and short category matters, such other matters shall also be listed for hearing, as may be directed," the circular stated. For the purpose of the hearing, a web-link for joining the video-conference would be provided to the Advocate-on-Record. A separate link has been prepared for filing of the matters. The SoP also contained elaborate instructions for joining video conferencing.  Among others, it states, during hearing through video-conferencing, the parties may keep in mind that they are participating in court proceedings, and hence it is expected that they would not resort to any "indecorous conduct or dress or comment". "Further, parties are required to ensure that the proceedings by video-conference are neither recorded or stored nor broadcast, in any manner whatsoever, as recording or copying or storing and broadcasting, by any means, of the hearings and proceedings before the Supreme Court of India are expressly prohibited," it stated. The SoP stated that after publication of the cause list, a WhatsApp group may be created by the Registry before the hearing of the matters where the participants may raise any query related to video conferencing. Besides, the parties are allowed to contact Helpline Telephone Number 1881 for any query. Notably, it provided the parties to use landline or mobile phone for tele-conferencing, in case of non-availability or technical issue in connecting the video conferencing for hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/helpline-number-for-lawyers-in-sc-sc-issues-fresh-sop-for-e-filing-and-video-conferencing-838801.html
17-05-2020||National||Migrant worker dies of snake bite in Chhattisgarh quarantine centre||A 31-year-old migrant worker died after being bitten by a snake at a quarantine centre in Chhattisgarh's Mungeli district on Sunday morning, officials said. The incident took place in Kirna village under Kotwali police station limits, Mungeli Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Chitrakant Chali Thakur said. "Migrants workers Yogesh Verma had returned from Pune in Maharashtra on Saturday. He was kept at a quarantine facility in a government school in the village. He was sleeping on the floor in the verandah outside his room when he was bitten by a snake. He died during treatment in a nearby hospital," the SDM said. The kin of the deceased was given immediate assistance of Rs 10,000 and a compensation of Rs 4 lakh will be paid out after completing necessary formalities, he added. "The panchayat staff have been told to make sure no one sleeps outside their rooms in quarantine facilities," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-worker-dies-of-snake-bite-in-chhattisgarh-quarantine-centre-838803.html
17-05-2020||National||BJP, Congress slam Odisha govt for hiking VAT on fuel amid COVID-19 crisis||The opposition Congress and BJP hit out at the Odisha government on Sunday for raising the rate of Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel. While VAT on petrol has been raised from 26 per cent to 32 per cent, it was hiked to 28 per cent on diesel. The new price came into effect on Saturday midnight, official sources said. The price of petrol per litre is up by Rs 3.11, it has gone up by Rs 1.03 per litre in case of diesel, they said. This is not the proper time to hike the price of fuel when the people are passing through the worst period of their lives due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This is something which can be described as a burden on the people, state Congress president Niranjan Patnaik said. Leader of Opposition P K Naik of the BJP said, It is a fact that there is heavy pressure on the states finance due to the pandemic and subsequent lockdown. But, that does not mean additional pressure will be put on the people who are already finding it difficult to make both ends meet. Commerce and Transport Minister Padmanabh Behera, however, said that the price of fuel will not be a burden on the people. The price is much within the limit. The government has no intention to burden the people, he said. General Secretary of the Utkal Petroleum Dealers Association Sanjay Lath also criticised the state governments move. The people should get the benefit when there is a decline in the price of petroleum products in the international market. This is not the proper time to increase the price, he said. The retail price of petrol in Bhubaneswar on Sunday was Rs 71.72 per litre, and diesel Rs 67.73 per litre. In a statement, the state government said that the additional revenue from fuel sales would be utilised for delivery of services in health, education and other social sectors. The Centre increased the cess and excise duty by Rs 10 per litre on petrol and Rs 13 per litre of diesel on May 5. With the increase in the rate of VAT, the state government will collect Rs 16.60 per litre on petrol and Rs 14.34 per litre on diesel. Finance Department officials also argued that the retail price of petrol in Bhubaneswar is less than most other cities in the country even after the hike. Similarly, the price of diesel in Bhubaneswar is at par or even less than other state capitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-congress-slam-odisha-govt-for-hiking-vat-on-fuel-amid-covid-19-crisis-838805.html
17-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: States can now classify ward, sub-division as red, orange zones||Giving flexibility in profiling zones, the Centre has now allowed the states to categorise even a subdivision or ward as a red or orange zone. It does not need to declare a whole district as a red or orange zone. According to the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, states can categorise districts or municipal corporations as red or orange zones.  "States may, however, also choose to categorise a sub division or ward or any other appropriate administrative unit as red/orange/green zone after detailed analysis at their end, duly taking into consideration the geographical spread of cases, contacts and their zone of influence in terms of disease spread.  States like Delhi had earlier questioned the Centre classifying an entire district as a red zone or orange zone, saying majority of the area could not have witnessed a case but had to follow prescribed restrictions. The whole of Delhi was declared a red zone after the government had on May 3 declared all the 11 districts in the capital red zones. Soon after lockdown 3.0 was announced with these parametres, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had opposed it saying it was hampering the economic activities.  Several other states also wanted that they should be allowed to decide on which areas will be a red or orange zone, as locking down the whole district was "impractical".  According to the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, every state has to identify containment zones and their buffer zones in red zones. Buffer zone will be primarily the area wherein additional and focussed attention is needed so as to ensure that infection does not spread to adjoining areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-states-can-now-classify-ward-sub-division-as-red-orange-zones-838825.html
17-05-2020||National||Govt highlights advantage of Aarogya Setu, but stops short of making it compulsory in new guidelines||The government appears to have made Aarogya Setu optional, scaling down its earlier directive that had made it compulsory for several categories of people to download the mobile app which monitors the spread of coronavirus. In fresh guidelines issued Sunday on lockdown 4.0, the government has focused on the advantage of the app saying it enables for early identification of potential risk of infection and thus acts as a shield for individuals and the community. "With a view to ensuring safety in offices and work places, employers on best effort basis should ensure that Aarogya Setu is installed by all employees having compatible mobile phones," it said. In its May 1 guidelines, the government had said "use of Aarogya Setu app shall be mandatory for all employees, both private and public. It shall be the responsibility of the head of the respective organisation to ensure 100 per cent coverage of the app among the employees". Sunday's guidelines also said district authorities "may advise" individuals to install the app on compatible mobile phones and regularly update their health status as this will facilitate timely provisions of medical attention to those individuals who are at risk. The last guidelines had said that the local authority "shall ensure 100 per cent coverage of Aarogya Setu app among the residents of containment zones", a point no more mentioned in the latest one. Early this month, a French hacker and cyber security expert who goes by the name Elliot Alderson had claimed that "a security issue has been found" in the app and that "privacy of 90 million Indians is at stake". The government had categorically rejected this claim saying no data or security breach has been identified in the app and "no personal information of any user has been proven to be at risk by this ethical hacker". "We are continuously testing and upgrading our systems. Team Aarogya Setu assures everyone that no data or security breach has been identified," the government had said through the app's Twitter handle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-highlights-advantage-of-aarogya-setu-but-stops-short-of-making-it-compulsory-in-new-guidelines-838828.html
17-05-2020||National||Gujarat's COVID-19 cases go up by 391 to 11,380; deaths 659||The number of COVID-19 patients in Gujarat rose to 11,380 after 391 new cases were reported on Sunday, while the death toll reached 659 as the virus claimed 34 more lives, a health department official said. As many as 191 coronavirus patients were discharged from hospital Sunday, taking the number of recovered patients in the state to 4,499, Principal Secretary (Health), Jayanti Ravi said. Of the 19 districts which reported new cases of coronavirus on Sunday, 276 were found in Ahmedabad alone, while Surat and Vadodara reported 45 and 21 new cases respectively. The number of COVID-19 cases in Ahmedabad rose to 8,420, while in Surat and Vadodara, the tally went up to 1,094 and 660 respectively. As many as 31 COVID-19 patients died in Ahmedabad, two in Surat and one in Panchmahal. With this, the death toll in Ahmedabad district has gone up to 524 such patients. As many as 191 COVID-19 patients were discharged form state hospitals Sunday, due to which the count of recovered persons reached 4,499. Of these, 115 patients were discharged from Ahmedabadhospitals. It took the total number of recovered patients here to 5,236 there. "With this, Gujarat has achieved the recovery rate of 39.53 per cent," Ravi said. Out of the 6,222 active cases, 38 are on ventilator support, she said. The state has so far conducted tests on 1,43,600 samples for coronavirus, Ravi said. Other districts that reported high number of COVID-19 cases are Gandhinagar (168), Bhavnagar (108), Banaskantha (83), Anand (83), Rajkot (79), Aravalli (78), Mehsana (75), Panchmahal (71) and Botad (56). Gujarat's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 11,380, new cases: 391, deaths: 659, discharged: 4,499, active cases: 6,222; people tested so far: 1,43,600.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarats-covid-19-cases-go-up-by-391-to-11380-deaths-659-838842.html
17-05-2020||National||PM appreciates song inspired by his call for 'atma-nirbhar' India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday appreciated a new song that has been inspired by his call for an "atma-nirbhar" or self-reliant India, describing it as upbeat and motivating. He was responding to a tweet by acclaimed singer Lata Mangeshkar who said the song, inspired by the spirit of a self-reliant India, was created by 211 singers. "This song is upbeat and motivating," the prime minister tweeted. He said its music and melody gives the message of a self-reliant India. In his address to the nation on Tuesday, Modi had said the goal of the country will be to become self-reliant.  Self-reliance is one of the biggest lessons that the coronavirus outbreak has taught us, he had said recently while addressing gram panchayat members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-appreciates-song-inspired-by-his-call-for-atma-nirbhar-india-838847.html
17-05-2020||National||Fire breaks out at Sena Bhavan||A minor fire broke out at the ground floor of the Sena Bhavan here on Sunday due to an electric spark in an air conditioner, a Delhi fire Service official said. Sena Bhavan is the headquarters of the Indian Army. The fire department received a call at around 7.55 pm after which five fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The fire sparked from a cable of an air conditioner and it was brought under control within 15 minutes, a senior fire official said. No injuries were reported, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-breaks-out-at-sena-bhavan-838848.html
17-05-2020||National||10 new COVID-19 cases in Goa; state tally rises to 36||The new patients included nine who reached Goa in a train from Mumbai on Sunday, and another woman who travelled to the coastal state in her car and was quarantined at Vasco, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said. Samples of all the 10 people came out positive in TrueNat (rapid) tests, he said.  Nearly 456 passengers who arrived here in the Mumbai- Goa train were tested since Sunday at a lab set up at Hospicio Hospital in Margao town of South Goa district, according to a health department bulletin. Till Sunday, there were 26 active COVID-19 cases in the state, but since Monday morning 10 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 36. "All the 36 patients have been admitted to a specially-designated COVID-19 hospital in Margao town," Rane said. So far, 12 passengers of the Mumbai-Goa train have tested positive for coronavirus, he said. Earlier, six passengers, who travelled to Goa in the Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Rajdhani train on Saturday, had tested positive for the infection. On May 1, Goa was declared a green zone after all the seven COVID-19 patients previously found in the state recovered.  However, the coastal state has witnessed a rise in the number of cases over the last few days. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday claimed there was no community transmission of the infection in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-new-covid-19-cases-in-goa-state-tally-rises-to-36-838853.html
17-05-2020||National||India to join EU, others to ask WHO to identify zoonotic source of COVID-19 virus||With the 73rd session of the World Health Assembly commencing on Monday, India will join 27 nations of the European Union (EU) and at least 34 other nations in moving a resolution, which will stop just short of seeking a probe into the origin of the COVID-19 virus at Wuhan in China, but will call upon the WHO to take scientific and collaborative “field missions” to find its zoonotic source and the route of transmission to the human population. It will also request the WHO Director General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus to start “at the earliest appropriate moment” an “impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation” of the international response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the actions of the agency itself and their timelines.    It has been speculated widely that the COVID-19 virus started spreading from bats to humans at a wet market at Wuhan in China.   The resolution, which will be discussed at the World Health Assembly, will request the WHO “to continue to work closely with the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE), the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and countries, as part of the One-Health Approach, to identify the zoonotic source of the virus and the route of introduction to the human population, including the possible role of intermediate hosts”. It will also call upon the WHO to conduct “scientific and collaborative field missions, which will enable targeted interventions and a research agenda to reduce the risk of similar events as well as to provide guidance on how to prevent SARS-COV2 infection in animals and humans and prevent the establishment of new zoonotic reservoirs, as well as to reduce further risks of emergence and transmission of zoonotic diseases”. The “field missions” will require the WHO to send teams of experts to the “ground zero” of the pandemic in China. The WHO’s response after the COVID-19 outbreak was first reported at Wuhan in China in December 2019 has since long been under the scanner. The United States launched a tirade not only against China but also against the WHO, with President Donald Trump, himself, accusing it of “severely mismanaging and covering up the spread” of the Covid-19 virus from the communist country. The US also suspended funding to the WHO. The virus so far infected 45.25 lakh people and killed over 3.07 lakh around the world.  India so far refrained from joining the US-led campaign against China or the WHO. It has been maintaining that the “question” on the role of the agency could be revisited once the world would have had contained the pandemic. New Delhi, however, decided to co-sponsor with the European Union and other nations a resolution at the World Health Assembly, not directly asking for a probe into the origin of the outbreak in China but calling upon the WHO to evaluate its own responses to it and the timelines of its actions, albeit in consultation with the member nations. India will take over the chair from Japan at the end of the assembly on Tuesday. The draft resolution New Delhi is co-sponsoring with the EU and others calls upon the WHO Director General, himself, to “initiate, at the earliest appropriate moment, and in consultation with the Member States, a stepwise process of an impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation, including using existing mechanisms, as appropriate, to review experience gained and lessons learned” from the international response – coordinated by the agency he leads – to the COVID-19 pandemic. The countries co-sponsoring and supporting the resolution want the proposed “evaluation” to include the effectiveness of the mechanisms at WHO’s disposal, the functioning of the global response to the pandemic and the status of implementation of the relevant recommendations of the previous review committees, the WHO’s contribution to the efforts made by the United Nations and “the actions of WHO and their timelines pertaining to the COVID-19 pandemic”. The draft resolution requests Dr Ghebreyesus to make recommendations to improve global pandemic prevention, preparedness and response capacity, “including through strengthening, as appropriate, WHO’s Health Emergencies Programme”. India on April 17 joined France, Germany and other members of the “Alliance for Multilateralism” to endorse the WHO as the “backbone” of the efforts to contain the pandemic. It also joined other members of the BRICS (a bloc comprising Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) on April 28 to support the WHO, notwithstanding the US allegations against it.  A source in New Delhi said that India would co-sponsor the resolution at the World Health Assembly on Monday because its text no way contradicted its position on the WHO. “India is not in favour of undermining the WHO; it rather wants the agency to be strengthened and one of the best ways to do that is to let it assess its response to the COVID-19 pandemic and find out from the lesson learnt how it can coordinate the global response to future crises in a better way,” said the source aware of New Delhi’s view on the issue.    Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla last Monday said that the WHO, like other intergovernmental institutions, was based on last century’s model and “driven more to balance competing individual interests, rather than advance the collective interests of all human kind”. He also stressed on an international conversation to enhance capabilities to respond to future threats to biosecurity. “The current crisis demonstrates that in spite of this common understanding and coordination, major gaps exist,” he said while addressing the students and teachers of a university during a video-conference. “Catastrophic biological events could possibly occur again. There is a need for an international conversation that will be focused on improving the capacities to respond to such future mega-disasters.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-join-eu-others-to-ask-who-to-identify-zoonotic-source-of-covid-19-virus-838868.html
17-05-2020||National Politics||Govt package only worth Rs 3.22 lakh cr and 1.6% of GDP, not Rs 20 lakh crore: Cong||The Congress on Sunday accused the government of misleading people in the name of an economic package and said the measures announced by the Centre amounted to only 1.6 per cent of India's GDP, i.e. worth Rs 3.22 lakh crore instead of Rs 20 lakh crore as claimed by the Prime Minister. Congress' senior spokesperson Anand Sharma said Prime Minister Narendra Modi must "walk the talk" and announce the measures required by giving money in the hands of the poor and small and medium enterprises to help reboot the economy. He noted that there was a difference between providing stimulus to the economy and merely giving loans and credit to people.  Sharma, a former union minister, challenged the finance minister for a debate on the package while raising questions about the announcements made by the prime minister. "The government's economic package is only of Rs 3.22 lakh crore and is only 1.6 per cent of India's GDP and is not worth Rs 20 lakh crore as announced by the prime minister," Sharma said while addressing a press conference through video conferencing. "I am questioning the Finance Minister, disputing the announcement of Prime Minister and challenging the government to disprove me on the numbers given by me and am ready for a debate with the finance minister," he said. The Congress leader further said the Finance Minister should answer questions and not ask questions instead. He also demanded that the government provide answers to the country on the plight of migrants forced to walk on roads due to lack of planning on the part of the central government. Sharma hit back at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for her attack on the opposition party and termed it as "frivolous", saying the country expects some seriousness and gravitas from the finance minister. He also asked the government to apologise to the poor citizens of the country who have been abandoned and their fundamental rights and legal rights violated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-package-only-worth-rs-322-lakh-cr-and-16-of-gdp-not-rs-20-lakh-crore-cong-838679.html
17-05-2020||National Politics||BJP government solely responsible for plight of migrants: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday hit out at the Centre over the migrant crisis in the country, saying the BJP government is "solely responsible" for their plight. A large number of migrant workers from major urban industrial centres in the country have been moving with their families towards their home states, often walking and also in cramped trucks and other vehicles, during the nearly two-month-long lockdown due to COVID-19. "Today, for the first time after 1947, there is a migration of workers across the country. The government of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is solely responsible for the barbaric treatment towards the migrant workers returning to their home states," AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said. He urged the BJP-led government to pay heed to the condition of the migrants. "The BJP arranged luxurious ships and private chartered planes to bring the rich people and the capitalists back to India from abroad. But the BJP did not make any arrangements to send the poor labourers and migrants to their home states," he told reporters. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of coronavirus, which has infected over 90,000 people and killed more than 2,800 people in the country till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-government-solely-responsible-for-plight-of-migrants-aap-838734.html
17-05-2020||National Politics||BJP government ‘hawa-hawai sarkar’, poor ‘not vandaniye’ in Vande Bharat’: Akhilesh Yadav||Terming the BJP governments in the Centre and Uttar Pradesh as “hawa-hawai sarkar,” Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday asked why are the poor not “vandaniye” (respectable) in ‘Vande Bharat’. "Uttar Pradesh, which gave the country its president and the ‘pradhan jee’ (prime minister), has sealed its borders for the poor. How will the migrant labourers be able to reach Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bengal and the North-East without road?” Akhilesh Yadav asked in a tweet in Hindi. "The order of the BJP government is that migrant labourers will neither be allowed to enter UP nor walk on roads or rail tracks, or travel in trucks or two-wheelers,” he said in another tweet. “Let this hawa-hawai sarkar' (aerial government) itself suggest some aerial route for migrating workers,” said the SP president. “Why are the poor not 'vandaniye’ (respectable) in Vande Bharat?” Yadav asked further, making dig at the mission, launched by the Centre to fly back Indians stuck abroad amid the COVID lockdown. In another sarcastic tweet, Yadav suggested the government to impose National Security Act on lives of the poor itself. “The anti-poor policies of the BJP have compelled the people to indulge in illegal work. You may well do something like imposing NSA on lives of the poor itself. (Aisaa karo baabu, gareeb kee zindagi par hi raasukaa lagaa do)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-government-hawa-hawai-sarkar-poor-not-vandaniye-in-vande-bharat-akhilesh-yadav-838741.html
17-05-2020||National Politics||Fifth tranche of economic package will have transformative impact on health, education sectors: Modi||The fifth and last tranche of economic stimulus announced by the government on Sunday will have a transformative impact on India's health and education sectors, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said. The measures will boost entrepreneurship, help public sector units and revitalise the village economy, the prime minister said in a tweet. "Reform trajectories of the states will also get an impetus," he said. The government on Sunday announced suspension of new bankruptcy filings on loan defaults for one year and raised the threshold for insolvency as it moved to ease COVID-19 pain for the industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fifth-tranche-of-economic-package-will-have-transformative-impact-on-health-education-sectors-modi-838758.html
17-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Package politics kicks in as Lockdown 4.0 begins||With barbs like ‘jumla package’ and ‘dramabazi’, the politics of the poor versus the rich has kicked in over the Centre's financial package. Announcing the fifth and final tranche of financial package, FM Nirmala Sitharaman and MoS Finance Anurag Thakur claimed that the Government has taken all measures to ameliorate a lot of people in the last two months of coronavirus crisis. Sitharaman hit out at Congress President Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi in wake of the sustained campaign by the Opposition party, raising questions on the government’s handling of the COVID-19 management.  “Why do Congress-ruled states not request for more trains so that more migrants can reach home? They call us dramebaaz. What about yesterday? They sat beside migrants who were walking back home and spoke to them. That is dramabaazi…it would have been better if he had walked alongside migrants, holding their children and suitcases," Sitharaman said during her press briefing. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala slammed the Finance Minister for his “dramebazi” comment on Rahul Gandhi’s visit calling the insult of the labourers. Senior Congress spokesperson Anand Sharma said, “It is clear that the Government has no strategy to improve the situation and bring the economy back on rails. What the Prime Minister had promised was a package of Rs 20 lakh crore, what the Finance Minister has announced is credit that cannot be called financial support or stimulus.”. Sitharaman wondered why the Congress-ruled states are not asking for more trains to send more migrants safely back home. Urging political parties with folded hands to refrain from politicising the plight of migrant workers and behave responsibly on the issue "I ask Sonia Gandhi ji; let us speak and deal with our migrants more responsibly." Soon after the FM’s press conference, Priyanka Gandhi, who had earlier sought permission for plying one thousand workers to ferry migrant labourers, renewed her request asking UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to allow Congress workers to ferry migrants in these buses. She told the CM “this is no time for politics”.  Former UP Chief Minister and Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav raised the contrast between the “palace of power (satta ka mahal)” and the foundation of the faith of the poor to highlight that the poor are at the receiving end of the pandemic while the government is doing everything for the rich. Surjewala has called the package a ‘jumla package’, Ahmed Patel said it is not economic but empty package and former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh the package “bogus” asking how many more ‘jumlas” India will endure and asked what more “gimmickry and recycling remains”.  In remarks laced with sarcasm, he mocked the atma nirbhar pitch made by the Prime Minister and asked Sitharaman to shed lights on the basics of 'atma nirbhar arthashastra' as the Union Ministers in last five press briefings o the package harped on gaaon gareeb kisan Mazdoor pitch. CPI-M slammed the government over opening up FDI in the defence sector to 74 percent and raised questions about the government’s commitment to national security. CPI-M general secretary Sitaram Yechury accused the government of using the pandemic to push the agenda of the rich. “More avenues for loot to his Cronies, foreign & domestic corporations is Modi and his govt’s best Covid cure! What has whittling down the public sector, even in “notified strategic areas”, got to do with the Covid crisis?,” asked CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-package-politics-kicks-in-as-lockdown-40-begins-838759.html
17-05-2020||National Politics||We said it first, says Congress as states become new bosses in Lockdown 4.0||With states turning the real bosses in Lockdown 4.0, Congress was quick to take claim that it was Rahul Gandhi, who had way back on May 8 said the future of COVID-19 control strategy lies in decentralisation of its management. Three days before Prime Minister held interactions with Chief Ministers on the strategy next for containing COVID-19,  Rahul Gandhi during his media interaction on May 8 had said that instead of one strong leader, he would prefer many strong Chief Ministers and District Magistrates, Collectors in such a situation in order to tackle the disease at the local level itself. He had also said that zones that have been decided at the central should be decided at the state level as the correct information is only with the state level leaders. “What is needed is that these zones should be decided by the DMs, the CMS as they have the information. Delhi (Centre) does not have this information,” Gandhi had said. On Sunday as the central government issued detailed guidelines for Lockdown 4.0 leaving it virtually to states to decide the containment strategy, the Congress went to town claiming that it was Gandhi, who had asked for it long back. Earlier also Congress had cited a tweet of Rahul Gandhi on Corona warning posted way back on February 12.  “The Corona Virus is an extremely serious threat to our people and our economy. My sense is the government is not taking this threat seriously. Timely action is critical,” Gandhi had tweeted 40 days before the government announced the first lockdown on March 24. This was projected by the Congress as a sign of the foresightedness of Rahul Gandhi. Rahul has been addressing several press conferences and been quite active on social media during the entire Corona crisis. Congress has taken efforts to project Rahul Gandhi’s initiatives on the Corona crisis as aspects of his leadership qualities. However, the process of passing the baton of fighting COVID-19 to the states had begun from mid-April itself.  Home Ministry guidelines on Sunday leaving it to states to demarcate zones and  starting interstate transport services as well as intra state auto taxi services come after five long deliberations the Prime Minister held with the Chief Ministers and from April itself, the states had started asserting that the decision making should be local and left to them. On May 11, the Prime Minister asked the state Chief Ministers to give him specific feedback on lockdown till May 15 and thanked them for their valuable suggestions emanating out of their grassroot level experience. Addressing the 11th Episode of ‘Mann Ki Baat 2.0” on April 26, Modi had said the “responsibilities being borne by local administrations and state governments are critical in the fight against Corona”. In his earlier interaction with CMs on April 2, Modi said It is truly praiseworthy how all the states have worked together as a team to check the spread of the virus and added that both the states and Centre must formulate a common exit strategy to ensure staggered re-emergence of population once Lockdown ends. On March 24, The Prime Minister said the central and state Governments countrywide are working swiftly to ensure that citizens do not face much inconvenience in their daily life. Interacting with leaders of political parties on April 8, the PM had also said states, district administrations and experts have suggested extension of lockdown to contain spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/we-said-it-first-says-congress-as-states-become-new-bosses-in-lockdown-40-838792.html
17-05-2020||National Politics||Congress should send buses to Punjab to transport migrants home instead of UP: Mayawati||BSP chief Mayawati on Sunday advised the Congress party to send a fleet of buses to Punjab and Chandigarh instead of Uttar Pradesh for ferrying migrant workers home as it would avert any risks of them crossing Yamuna river. In a series of tweets, Mayawati said, "It is evident that owing to the continuous negligence of the migrant labourers in the BJP-ruled states, they are falling prey to accidents and have suffered painful deaths, which is very sad." She added that the Congress leaders should also learn a lesson from these incidents as a number of migrant labourers from UP staying in Punjab and Chandigarh are returning home through Yamuna river due to "negligence" shown by the governments there and can lead to mishaps anytime. "In this situation, instead of sending its 1,000 buses to UP, it would be better if the Congress sends the buses to Punjab and Chandigarh. The affected migrants could reach UP safely by road instead of risking their lives trying to cross Yamuna river," Mayawati said in another tweet. She also tweeted, "If the Congress leaders while meeting the migrant labourers in Delhi could have given them some financial help and food, then they could have got some help. In other words, the Congress could have shared their pain and also lent them help like the BSP had done."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-should-send-buses-to-punjab-to-transport-migrants-home-instead-of-up-mayawati-838804.html
17-05-2020||National Politics||Cong demands PM Modi, Sitharaman apologise to migrant workers for 'dramabaaz' remark||The Congress on Sunday hit back at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for describing Rahul Gandhi's interaction with a group of labourers on their way home a drama, and demanded that she and Prime Minister Narendra Modi apologise to migrant workers. The country will not spare Sitharaman for this insult of lakhs of migrant labourers and workers, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. "Do the woes and helplessness of migrants walking down to their homes thirsty and hungry look like 'dramebaazi' to the government. "Please do not insult the lakhs of workers and the country will not spare you for doing so. This insensitive and 'sahukaar' government and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman should apologise to the workers of the country," he said in a video message. Surjewala said Rahul Gandhi met the migrants to share their pain in this hour of crisis. "If sharing pain is a crime, then the Congress will repeat this crime again. If hearing out the woes of labourers about this insensitive government is a crime, then Rahul Gandhi will commit this crime again," he said. Another party leader, Anand Sharma said one expects certain degree of seriousness and gravitas when a finance minister is addressing an official press conference. "She should answer questions; she should not ask questions. Congress President Sonia Gandhi does not have to learn from Nirmala Sitharaman about how to conduct, answer and what genuine compassion the Congress Party have about the suffering migrant labourers and our solidarity to them." he said at a press conference. "We don't intend to play politics, but, the fact is, it is almost two months they are suffering, because, it was without any planning, without any preparedness, without any coordination with the states the lockdown was imposed in 4 hours and tens of millions were left stranded," Sharma said. He said the government has to answer and apologise to these poor citizens of India who have been left abandoned and their fundamental and legal rights snatched. Sitharaman on Sunday said Rahul Gandhi is doing drama and asked political parties to refrain from politicising the plight of migrant workers and behave responsibly on the issue. After announcing the Rs 20-lakh crore economic package, she said the government would seek cooperation from all parties including the Congress to resolve the issue. Referring to Rahul Gandhi's interaction with a group of migrant workers returning their home on Saturday, Sitharaman said, "They are adding to misery of migrant labourers, who are walking on their foot to their home, by stopping them and talking. It would be much better, if they could walk along with with them and also carry their yoke or their children". "They are calling us dramabaaz. What happened yesterday by stopping migrants and interacting with them on the road and wasting their time? Aren't they dramabaaz?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-demands-pm-modi-sitharaman-apologise-to-migrant-workers-for-dramabaaz-remark-838820.html
17-05-2020||National Politics||Fresh lockdown guidelines issued as per views of states, UTs: MHA||In a communication to chief secretaries of all state governments and union territory administrations, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said under the new guidelines effective from Monday, states and UTs will now categorise red, orange and green zones taking into consideration the revised guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday. The ongoing countrywide lockdown was extended till May 31 by the National Disaster Management Authority. New guidelines on lockdown measures have been issued in supersession of earlier lockdown orders, except the Standing Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued on the movement of persons. These guidelines have been issued after taking into consideration the views of the state governments following the video conference held by the Prime Minister with the Chief Ministers on May 11, Bhalla said. The home secretary said states and union territories (UTs) will now categorise red, orange and green zones and inside the red and orange zones, containment and buffer zones will be identified by the district administration and local urban bodies with technical inputs at local level and by taking into consideration the health ministry guidelines. Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control shall be maintained, and no movement of people would be allowed across the zones, except for medical emergencies and for maintaining supply of essential goods and services, the letter said. The home secretary said a limited number of activities will continue to remain prohibited throughout the country. In order to facilitate the movement of people, various modes of transport have already been opened up as per SoPs issued by MHA and all other activities will be permitted except those which are specifically prohibited under these guidelines. However, in containment zones, only essential activities shall be allowed, as mentioned earlier. "As emphasized in my earlier letters, I would like to reiterate again that States and Union Territories cannot dilute restrictions imposed vide the aforesaid guidelines issued by MHA," Bhalla said. "States and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain other activities in various zones, or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary." "I would urge you to ensure compliance of the new guidelines, and direct all concerned authorities for their strict implementation," Bhalla said. The lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to combat coronavirus pandemic. It was first extended till May 3 and again till May 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fresh-lockdown-guidelines-issued-as-per-views-of-states-uts-mha-838846.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||Two people die of COVID-19 in Rajasthan, 70 new cases||Rajasthan recorded two deaths due to coronavirus and 70 positive cases of the virus on Sunday, an official said. The deaths were reported from Jaipur, taking the total number of COVID-19 fatalities in the state to 128. A total of 70 fresh cases were reported on Sunday and 36 of them are from Jaipur alone. The 36 cases in Jaipur include 11 from central jail and three from district jail, the official said. Dungarpur and Bikaner reported 18 and 5 cases respectively, while two cases were reported each from Kota and Jhunjhunu and one each from Ajmer, Barmer, Dausa, Pratapgarh, Nagaur and Karauli.  With 70 fresh cases on Sunday, the total number of coronavirus cases in the state has climbed to 5,030. As many as 128 COVID-19 patients have died and 2,991 patients have recovered so far and there are 1,911 active cases in the state as of now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-people-die-of-covid-19-in-rajasthan-70-new-cases-838585.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||Over 580 Indian evacuees from Maldives arrive in Kochi by naval ship||More than 580 Indian citizens stranded in the Maldives due to the COVID-19 pandemic arrived here onboard a Naval ship on Sunday, in the second phase of the Vande Bharat repatriation mission, officials said. The Indian Navy ship INS Jalashwa under "Operation Samudra Setu" with 588 evacuees from the Maldives arrived at the Cochin Port at 11.30 am on Sunday, official sources said. The Cochin Port Trust tweeted a photo of the third group of Indian expatriates evacuated from the Island nation arriving at the port. There are 568 repatriates of Kerala, 15 of Tamil Nadu and three belonging to Telangana and two persons from Lakshadweep, officials said. This is the third naval ship operated as part of the Vande Bharat mission to the city. On May 10, the vessel had brought home 698 Indian nationals from the Maldives. Two days later, another Navy Ship INS Magar had evacuated 202 Indian citizens from the Maldives to here. As Jalashwa carrying 588 evacuees left the Maldives on Saturday morning, the High Commission of India there expressed its gratitude to the government of the island nation for ensuring safe repatriation of stranded Indian citizens. "We are extremely grateful to the Govt.of #Maldives and all concerned agencies in ensuring safe and secure repatriation of nearly 1,500 Indian nationals from the Maldives under Op. #SamudraSetu," it had tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-580-indian-evacuees-from-maldives-arrive-in-kochi-by-naval-ship-838600.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||Another body pulled out, death toll in landslide on Jammu and Kashmir highway climbs to two||Rescuers have retrieved one more body from the scene of the landslide that hit the Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Ramban district of Jammu and Kashmir, taking the death toll in the incident to two, officials said on Sunday. Eight persons have so far been rescued, while a search is on for an excavator operator who is believed to be trapped under the debris along with the earthmoving vehicle, the officials said. The landslide struck the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country at Seeri near Ramban town around 6.15 pm on Saturday, causing damage to nine vehicles, mostly trucks and excavators engaged in an ongoing four-laning highway project. Several vehicles, including a mini-load carrier, were buried under the debris, prompting a massive rescue operation which continued throughout the night, the officials said.  While the body of 25-year-old Raj Kumar was recovered soon after the landslide, 19-year-old Khalid Hussain was found dead under the debris by rescuers comprising police and local volunteers late Saturday night, they said, adding both the deceased were locals engaged in the four-laning project. The officials said eight more persons were rescued and have been admitted to a local hospital. They said over 800 vehicles, mostly trucks carrying essential commodities to the valley, were stranded on the highway due to the landslide which occurred when the work on the four-laning project was in progress. However, road clearance agencies later managed to clear the highway for partial restoration of traffic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-body-pulled-out-death-toll-in-landslide-on-jammu-and-kashmir-highway-climbs-to-two-838610.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi Congress president alleges detention, cops deny charge||Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar on Sunday alleged that he was detained by police for "helping migrant workers", a charge denied by a senior police official. "Police came to my home from the New Ashok Nagar police station in the morning today. Police told me that I was being detained but no reason was given for doing so," he said. Kumar said police kept asking him if he had gone to the Ghazipur border on Saturday. "The Congress is providing help to the starving migrant workers that’s why I went to the Ghazipur border yesterday. People will not spare these governments that are detaining us for helping migrant workers," the Congress leader said. However, a senior police official said Kumar was only questioned and asked to remain at home. "We were patrolling in the area when we came to know through some migrants that Anil Kumar had assured them some help in migrating to their native place. So, we requested him to remain at home and not venture out," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-congress-president-alleges-detention-cops-deny-charge-838620.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases nearing 10,000 mark in Delhi||The number of COVID-19 cases in New Delhi is nearing the 10,000 mark and death toll approaching 150, with 422 new cases and 19 more deaths added to the official bulletin on Saturday. The total number of cases has touched 9,755 and the death toll is at 148. However, the 19 deaths added to the official toll did not happen in the past 24 hours and these were added to the bulletin after the Death Audit Committee declared COVID-19 as the primary cause of their death. May alone has reported 6,240 or 63.96% of the total cases reported in the National capital since the first case was detected on March 2. According to the bulletin, 276 people have been discharged in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 4,202. There are 5,405 people still under treatment, including 2,142 in home isolation. A total of 1.35 lakh samples have been tested so far, including 4,946 fresh samples. On May 14, Delhi had reported 472 cases, the highest for a single day. On May 15, 425 cases were reported and on May 16, it was 438.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-nearing-10000-mark-in-delhi-838624.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||No distractions and time to introspect, devout Muslims find silver lining in lockdown Ramzan||It was billed to be a Ramzan like no other and it really is, but many devout Muslims apprehensive about not going to the mosque or iftaar gatherings are appreciative instead that the lockdown has helped them stay true to the spirit of the holy month.   Three weeks into fasting, many Muslims feel the coronavirus-forced lockdown has a silver lining after all -- it has left them with plenty of time to read the Quran, attend virtual Quran classes and focus on prayers.   After all, Ramzan is a time for self-discipline and introspection, they point out. Tanvir Parvez, a lawyer from Ghaziabad, was among those bracing himself for a Ramzan devoid of its usual charms of special prayers in mosques (Taraweeh), sitting with his friends and family to break the fast at iftaar time and gatherings to discuss the teachings of Prophet Mohammad. Parvez, who has never missed the Taraweeh during Ramzan, said he was gutted to learn that this year prayers would not be allowed in mosques due to the coronavirus lockdown.   "I was mentally preparing for a bad Razman experience with so many restrictions in place, but it has turned out to be a very special one as staying at home with family, discussing religion and reading the Quran with English translation has given me a new perspective on life," the 63-year-old told PTI.   The special prayers, iftaar congregations and spiritual gatherings are being missed, but the benefits have also made it a special "special Razman" this year. "Earlier Ramzans were just about racing against time from the courts to reach home for iftaar, but now I am involved in making iftaar with my wife and though the spread is very simple, it brings the family closer as everyone is involved," he said. People are also relishing the time they are getting to introspect and learn more about Islam with no distractions such as grand iftaar parties and shopping sprees. Hasan Askari, an agriculturist based in Ghaziabad, said the month usually raced by with a string of iftaar parties and endless shopping trips, but not this time. "The lockdown is proving to be a boon with distractions like shopping and endless iftaar parties not there, allowing me to read books on Islamic teachings which my brother-in-law gets from Jeddah and watching Islamic sermons online," Askari told PTI. Prominent Muslim body Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind's president Maulana Arshad Madani said it is heartening to see Muslims finding positivity in these difficult times and using the lockdown downtime to learn more about Islamic teachings and Quran. "Another significant trend witnessed this year is that seeing the sufferings of migrant labourers and the needy, Muslims have undertaken charity at a scale not seen before," Madani told PTI. Even though everyone's economic future is uncertain, Muslims are helping the poor with money and food in a massive way to realise the true meaning of Ramzan, he said. Another popular trend this Ramzan has been Muslims watching religious programmes and taking up Quran classes online. Professor Salim Engineer, vice president of the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, said his organisation is webcasting many religious programmes on its YouTube channel to explain the meaning of Quranic verses and important Islamic issues. "We are also webcasting programmes for non-Muslims. Recently, we shot one with religious leaders from different religions discussing the importance of fasting. In mosques, 1,000-1,500 people would listen to the discussions. This year, many thousands are watching these programmes online during Ramzan," he told PTI. Iftaar food, normally an elaborate feast with kebabs, kormas and much more, have also become simpler.   Sultana Siddiqui, a homemaker from Lucknow, would spend most of her day preparing the meals. Not this time though.   "Making non-vegetarian delicacies during Ramzan takes up a lot of time. But this year with most meat shops closed and lockdown in place, the iftaar menu is very modest and allows plenty of free time to devote to Islamic learning and preaching," Siddiqui said. "I have enrolled for online Quranic classes to fine tune my Arabic pronunciation and also to enhance my understanding of the Quran. It has been a life-changing experience," she said. There are also those missing the festive fervour of iftaar parties and sehri (pre-dawn meal at the start of a fasting day) at old Delhi's famous eateries. "Ramzan is a time when family and friends come together -- praying, fasting and feasting. With many family members stranded in different parts, the festive feel is missing this time," said Qazi Aamir Ali, a corporate employee working in Gurgaon. Also, the going is not easy for everyone. While middle and upper class homes are finding positivity during the holy month, the poor and the needy are struggling to make ends meet. "We are fasting through the day and there is hardly anything to eat around sehri. Organisations and people are reaching out, so iftaar is sorted, but we begin our fast just by drinking water," said Shaheen Bano, an out of work house maid and mother of six. "We pray to Allah and fast that these difficult days will pass, I will go back to work and see smiles on my kids' faces," she said. Ramzan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar during which Muslims worldwide refrain from eating and drinking from dawn to dusk and end their fast in the evening. The month is in its fourth week now and Eid will be celebrated on May 24 or 25, depending on the sighting of the moon. For Muslims, this Ramzan is also about hope that their prayers will be answered and a new dawn will emerge in post-pandemic times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-distractions-and-time-to-introspect-devout-muslims-find-silver-lining-in-lockdown-ramzan-838628.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||Man tests positive for COVID-19 in Rishikesh||A man, who had returned here from Mumbai on May 15, has tested positive for COVID-19, an official said. The man's swab sample report confirming that he is positive arrived past midnight on Saturday, PRO, AIIMS Rishikesh, Harish Thapliyal said. The area where the patient's residence is located will be categorised as a containment zone, Covid duty magistrate of Rishikesh, Apoorva Pandey, said. The patient's family will also be subjected to COVID-19 test and kept in quarantine, she said. His contact tracing is being done, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-rishikesh-838637.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Limited file movement, disinfected files in Delhi govt offices||Amid the coronavirus scare in the city, movement of files in Delhi government offices has become "limited", with officers keeping handy gloves to sign and write comments on files related to urgent matters, officials said. Some babus have also stopped asking their peons to fetch them a glass of water or heat food in the microwave to maintain social distancing. Three officials of Delhi government, who did not wish to be named, said that if a file pertains to an urgent matter involving COVID-19 or any other important issue, it is disinfected before being placed before the official concerned. The measures come in the backdrop of several Delhi government employees being infected with coronavirus. "Most officials wear gloves before signing and writing down comments on urgent files. They sanitise hands after signing files," an official said. There are around two lakh Delhi government employees, including about 75 IAS officers and 450 Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands Civil Service (DANICS) officers. There are also 10,000 clerks and stenographers. Earlier this week, Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said that over 400 healthcare workers have been affected by COVID-19, adding that standard protocols of social distancing, wearing of masks and regular washing of hands are being followed at government offices. "The file movement in all Delhi government offices has been limited. Before the outbreak of COVID-19, hundreds of files were put up on tables of officials every day, but these days files related to urgent and important matters are being attended to," another official said. Umesh Batra, general secretary of Delhi Government Employees Association, said government employees are at a risk of being infected as they are engaged in different duties involving COVID-19, distribution of ration and cooked food to lakhs of the needy in the city.  "I will request Lt Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to provide masks, gloves and hand sanitisers to all government employees as part of precautionary measures against COVID-19," Batra said. He said that several government employees have been infected with the dreaded virus. On Sunday, the national capital reported 422 new cases, taking the total tally to 9,755. On Saturday, the death toll due to coronavirus in Delhi rose to 129.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-limited-file-movement-disinfected-files-in-delhi-govt-offices-838640.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Stranded Indians in Israel excited to return home on May 25||Out of work and almost broke amid a raging COVID-19 pandemic, many Indians working as caregivers in Israel have heaved a sigh of relief at the eagerly-awaited announcement that a special Air India flight will operate on May 25 to bring back Indian nationals stranded in the country. The Indian government launched the 'Vande Bharat Mission' on May 7 to bring back Indians who were stranded in various countries due to coronavirus-related restrictions. Under the phase one of the mission, the government evacuated a total of 6,527 Indians from the Gulf region and from countries like the US, the UK, the Philippines, Bangladesh, Malaysia and the Maldives. "Air India has planned a flight on Delhi-Tel Aviv - Delhi sector on May 25 to repatriate Indian nationals stranded in Israel and are willing to meet the conditions set by the government such as an undertaking that they will go for mandatory quarantine. We will also offer Israelis who are currently in India and looking to come back to Israel to take the Delhi-Tel Aviv flight," Air India's country manager, Pankaj Tiwari, told PTI. The Indian embassy in Tel Aviv, in an announcement on May 15, said that it was looking into the possibility of facilitating the return of interested Indian nationals from Israel, who could not travel earlier due to COVID-19-related international travel restrictions. "The passenger will have to bear the expenditure of travel and mandatory quarantine for self and family members (if accompanying) at destination", the announcement said. "Around 140 people have so far contacted them for repatriation, out of which around 90 have provided their details and willingness to pay for ticket and quarantine," the embassy officials told PTI. With an overwhelming majority of possible passengers looking to go to Kerala, the Ministry of External Affairs is said to be looking at the possibility of arranging a connecting flight to Kochi from Delhi. Annama Siby, who is from Kerala's Idukki district and came to Israel in 2013 as a caregiver but has been recently cleaning houses in Tel Aviv for a living, said that most of the people looking to go back are those without a job. "I am without a job for almost four months now. I have no money and no work. I have to pay rent for my room and Israel is such an expensive place. The Israeli government has given us the permission to work but even those who would earlier give us some work are scared because of the coronavirus and we have to sit idle", Siby said. "I want to go back to be with my husband and two sons, 8 and 13. I have requested the embassy to register me for the flight. I will borrow money from friends now and settle with them once I am back in India", she said. Her husband, who is a school teacher in Idukki, has been taking care of the children. She had been visiting them once every two years earlier, but now does not plan to return. Alex D'Souza, a 65-year-old man from Mangalore in Karnataka has been working near Beit Shemesh as a caregiver for 13 years. His employer died on March 17 this year and he has been without work and pay since then. "I have registered for the flight but do not know how much I have to pay. I hope it is not something ridiculous like I heard of the people evacuated from Abu Dhabi had to pay", he said. Anusree Sasi, who is from Ernakulam in Kerala, was planning to go back after completing work as per her contract on March 27 to get married and settle down. The COVID-19 lockdown has her stranded here due to lack of international flights and with no income during the past month and a half. "I have worked in Ashkelon for two and a half years as a caregiver and didn't expect this to happen. I want to go back, get married and have no plans to come back," she said. There are also several Indian students and researchers who have applied to go back for various reasons. Akhila Viswan, a postdoctoral fellow at Bar-Ilan University had declined to take an extension and informed her Chemistry department about her plans to leave for India after finishing her one-year term. Her family has been waiting for her to come back and to get married. "I did not extend my visa which got over in April as I am certain about going back. It has been a good learning experience here in Israel otherwise", she said. Two of her friends have also registered to be repatriated with one securing a teaching position in India and the other looking to join his wife who is in an advanced stage of pregnancy. Ministry of External Affairs will be approving the list of the passengers following which the Air India would be reaching out to them for bookings. The passengers would then receive a link for payments as has been the practice during evacuation of Indians from other destinations. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has claimed 2,872 lives and infected 90,927 people as of Sunday. All scheduled commercial passenger flights have been suspended during the lockdown period. The deadly coronavirus which originated from China's Wuhan city in December last year has claimed 311,821 lives and infected over 4.6 million people, according to Johns Hopkins University data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-stranded-indians-in-israel-excited-to-return-home-on-may-25-838665.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||Pakistan shells forward areas along Line of Control in Poonch||The Pakistan Army on Sunday opened fire and shelled forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, a defence spokesman said. The cross-border firing started in Degwar sector around 8:40 am, drawing retaliation from the Indian Army, the spokesman said. He said there was no report of any casualty on the Indian side in the Pakistani firing. “They started with small arms firing and later fired mortars around 9:30 am,” the spokesman said, adding the cross-border firing between the two sides was going on when last reports came in. The Pakistani firing ended over a week-long lull along the LoC. Pakistan last violated the ceasefire in Degwar sector on May 9 and Kirni, Qasba and Shahpur sectors of Poonch two days earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-shells-forward-areas-along-line-of-control-in-poonch-838668.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||6,500 prisoners released from Madhya Pradesh jails since COVID-19 outbreak||Nearly 6,500 prisoners have been released from jails in Madhya Pradesh since the coronavirus outbreak, an official said on Sunday. Of these prisoners, as many as 3,900 have been granted parole while 2,600 have been released on interim bail by courts for a stipulated period, state prisons Deputy Inspector General Sanjay Pandey told PTI. "We have complied with the Supreme Court's directives," he said. The state has around 131 jails, of which more than 75 per cent were overcrowded, another official said. The jails in the state altogether have the capacity to lodge 28,500 prisoners. Following the release of 6,500 prisoners, there are still nearly 39,000 inmates in the jails, the official said. The released prisoners were initially granted parole for 60 days and interim bail for 45 days. "Our jails are overcrowded. We have extended the parole for another 60 days, while courts have extended the interim bail of the prisoners for another 45 days," the official said. Quoting a report, the official claimed Madhya Pradesh in on top in the country in the release of prisoners on parole during the lockdown, while Uttar Pradesh has released the highest number of inmates on interim bail. The Supreme Court in March directed all states and Union Territories to constitute high-level committees to consider releasing on parole or interim bail prisoners and undertrials for offences entailing up to seven-year jail term to decongest prisons in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. The top court had said overcrowding of prisons is a matter of serious concern, particularly in the present context of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6500-prisoners-released-from-madhya-pradesh-jails-since-covid-19-outbreak-838674.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Probe on as Shramik Special pax say employers took money||Seventy-one migrant labourers who returned to Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh from Gandhinagar in Gujarat by a special train early this week have claimed their employers took money from them for the commute, an official said here on Sunday. A state government release said a probe was ordered by the collector into the allegations, and a report has been submitted by the latter to the secretary of the state labour department. The matter came to light after statements of workers, staying in quarantine centres, were recorded. "It was revealed that six brick kiln owners and their accountants in Gandhinagar have illegally taken Rs 52,950 from 71 labourers working in their units on the pretext of paying for their train tickets. A Litiya village based worker Jogendar Sai said he and 10 other workers paid Rs 8,250," it said. Officials said the Chhattisgarh government had given consent for 37 trains to bring back migrants stranded in the coronavirus-induced lockdown, and eight Shramik Special trains had arrived till Saturday since May 11. The state government has so far paid Rs 1.16 crore to the railways for ferrying the labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-probe-on-as-shramik-special-pax-say-employers-took-money-838685.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||With 123 more patients, total 5,083 coronavirus cases reported in Rajasthan; two more deaths reported||Two deaths and 123 positive cases of coronavirus were reported in Rajasthan on Sunday, officials said. The deaths were reported from Jaipur, taking the total number of fatalities due to COVID-19 in the state to 128, they said. A total of 123 fresh cases were reported on Sunday and 37 of them are from Jaipur alone. This takes the total number of positive cases in the state to 5,083, the officials said. The 37 cases in Jaipur include 14 from jails (12 from central jail and two from district jail), an official said. Dungarpur and Udaipur reported 18 and 16 cases respectively while 11 cases were reported from Jodhpur, 10 from Rajsamand, seven from Sikar, six from Pali, five from Bikaner, two each from Jhunjhunu and Kota and one each from Ajmer, Barmer, Bhilwara, Dausa, Jalore, Karauli, Nagaur, Pratapgarh and Sawaimadhopur. As many as 128 COVID-19 patients have died, 2,992 patients have recovered so far and there are 1,963 active cases in the state as of now, according to the state government's data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-123-more-patients-total-5083-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-rajasthan-two-more-deaths-reported-838691.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||3 container trucks carrying over 170 migrant workers seized in UP||Three container trucks carrying over 170 migrant workers during the lockdown were seized by police in Uttar Pradesh, close on the heels of death of 26 migrants in a collision between a trailer and a truck on which they had hitched rides. A total of 178 migrant workers were found travelling in unauthorised vehicles on Saturday, officials said. Seventy-eight migrant workers were found holed up inside a container truck in Shamli on Saturday evening, SP Vinit Jaiswal said. The truck which was on its way to Ludhiana in Punjab was impounded by police and all the migrant workers were sent to a shelter home, he said. In a similar incident, a container truck was intercepted by police in Muzaffarnagar, the SP said. During checking, police found 60 migrant labourers sitting inside the vehicle, he said. Police said arrangements were being made to send these labourers to their native places in West Bengal by special trains. Forty migrant workers were found travelling in a truck by police in Muzaffarnagar district on Saturday night, Jaiswal said. The truck was intercepted at the Baghela checkpost, he said. It is learnt that authorities have sealed all entry points to Muzaffarnagar and Shamli to prevent travelling of migrant workers on foot and in unauthorised vehicles following a series of road accidents. At least 26 migrants were killed and 34 others injured when a trailer and a stationary truck collided on a highway near Auraiya in the early hours of Saturday, police said. Most of the victims were sitting on sacks of lime powder loaded on the trailer, and were crushed when the vehicles overturned and fell into a ditch following the crash near an eatery between 3 am and 3.30 am on the Auraiya-Kanpur Dehat stretch of National Highway 19, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-container-trucks-carrying-over-170-migrant-workers-seized-in-up-838702.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 lockdown: Violence ensues after UP seals borders, migrant workers break barricades||As the Uttar Pradesh government sealed its borders, thousands of migrant workers, who were stuck at the state's borders with Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi, on Sunday indulged in violence and broke barricades at many places prompting the police to make lathi charge. The workers also blocked the highways at many places by squatting on them and burning tyres and damaged vehicles, according to reports. Sources said that the migrant workers demolished the barrier erected at UP-MP border at Reewan district and forcibly entered the state as the police watched helplessly.  Hundreds of vehicles carrying migrant workers got stuck at UP-MP border at Ruxa in Jhansi district after the state police denied entry to the workers. While the police said that the workers would be sent by buses to their respective towns, the latter insisted on travelling by their own vehicles, sources said. Restless migrant workers indulged in stone-pelting and damaged several vehicles on the UP-Haryana border in Saharanpur district after the police refused to allow them to enter the state.  The state government's directive, that came after Saturday's mishap at Auraiya, where 26 workers travelling in a truck were killed in a collision between two trucks, banned migrant workers from walking or travelling in any other vehicle except in the buses arranged by the government. The opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) slammed the state government for using force against the workers and demanded that they be allowed to travel to their native towns and villages in Bihar, UP, Jharkhand and West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-violence-ensues-after-up-seals-borders-migrant-workers-break-barricades-838705.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||My son, who had not even turned one-year-old, died: Rampukar Pandit back in Bihar, waiting to meet his family||Rampukar Pandit, who became a snapshot of India’s migrant tragedy with his photograph speaking on the phone on a Delhi roadside, is back in Bihar, broken at not being able to meet his son before he died and despairing about the future. "We labourers have no life, we are just a cog in the wheel, spinning continuously until we run out of life,” said the man, his name unknown but his face by now familiar to many thousands of people across the nation. The construction labourer, who worked at a cinema hall site in Delhi, was spotted weeping uncontrollably as he talked on the phone by the side of the Nizamuddin Bridge in Delhi by PTI photographer Atul Yadav earlier this week. The powerful image of the distraught man, struggling to reach home in Begusarai, almost 1,200 km away during the nationwide lockdown, was widely shared across all media, becoming a defining image of the trauma of lakhs of migrant labourers stranded away from home. The photograph resulted in help being provided to him to reach his home in Bihar. When the photograph was taken, the 38-year-old, who is now at a quarantine centre in a village school on the outskirts of Begusarai, said he was anguished at the thought he might not get home on time to see his baby. Shortly after the photograph taken on Monday, his son died. "My son, who had not even turned one-year-old, died and a bolt of lightning hit me. I pleaded to police authorities to let me go to my home but none helped," he told PTI over the phone. "One policeman even said, ‘Will your son become alive if you go back home. This is lockdown, you cannot move.’ This is the kind of reply I got from them." A woman in Delhi and a photographer - he did not know Yadav’s name - were his saviours, he said. "I was sitting there on the roadside, exhausted and just thinking of ways to reach home. A journalist came and asked why I was so upset and tried to help me by taking me in his car, but the police did not allow him. A woman then came and made some arrangements...she was like my 'mai-baap' (parents)," Rampukar said. He had been stuck at Nizamuddin Bridge for three days before help arrived. "The woman gave me food, Rs 5,500 and also booked my ticket in the special train, and that's how I was able to reach home," Rampukar said. "The rich will get all the help, getting rescued and brought home in planes from abroad. But we poor migrant labourers have been left to fend for ourselves. That is the worth of our lives," he said. "We labourers don't belong to any country ('hum mazdooron ka koi desh nahin hota')." Rampukar, who also has three daughters, said he had named his son Rampravesh, as his name also has a Ram in it. “Will a father not want to go home and even mourn the death of his son, with his family?"  Rampukar, who moved to Delhi's Uttam Nagar during his childhood along with his uncle to eke out a living, still hasn’t managed to meet his family. "I reached Begusarai from Delhi by train a couple of days ago. We were then taken to a nearby screening facility and kept there overnight. In the morning, a bus took us to a school just outside the Begusarai town, and since then I am here," he said. He still doesn't know when he will be reunited with his family. "My wife, who is unwell, and my three daughters, Poonam (9), Pooja (4) and Priti (2) are waiting for me. The wait just doesn't seem to end," he said. Fortunately, he has found a friend in his hour of grief. Ghanshyam Kumar, 25, his neighbour in his village Bariarpur, is also quarantined in the same school. "I work as a labourer in Kanpur, and reached the UP-Bihar border after taking a bus, and from there a train. At the station, I recognised Rampukar. Grief tears us apart, and sometimes unites us too," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/my-son-who-had-not-even-turned-one-year-old-died-rampukar-pandit-back-in-bihar-waiting-to-meet-his-family-838706.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||Auraiya road accident: Two more migrant workers die, toll rises to 26||Two more migrant workers died on Sunday following injuries sustained in the road accident a day earlier at Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh, raising the death toll in the incident to 26, said local police. Twenty-four migrant workers had died and 36 injured on Saturday early morning when a trailer truck carrying sacks of lime along with 43 people rammed into the back of a stationary truck with many other migrant workers sitting in it near a roadside eatery on the national highway in Auraiya. In a statement issued here, the Auraiya police said the accident took place near Shivji Dhaba in Tikauli village involving a trailer truck and a mini-truck with both the vehicles falling into a ditch by the roadside. "In the accident, 26 migrant labourers died, while 34 others sustained injuries," the statement said while updating the casualty figures. A case has been registered against the drivers, owners and transporters of both the vehicles under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Motor Vehicles Act at Kotwali police station in Auraiya. Investigations are going on in this regard, police said, adding that efforts are being made to arrest the drivers, owners and transporters of both the vehicles. Meanwhile, as many as 32 injured migrant labourers were admitted to the Uttar Pradesh University of Medical Sciences at Saifai in Etawah district. The varsity's Vice-Chancellor, Dr Raj Kumar said, "The condition of four migrant labourers is extremely serious, while seven others are in serious condition. Apart from this, 20 other injured labourers are also undergoing treatment. Some of these labourers could be discharged in the next couple of days." Shiv Kumar, an injured labourer who was going from Rajasthan to West Bengal, while recalling the accident said, "There were around 40-50 persons travelling in the trailer truck. As the trailer hit the stationary mini-truck near a 'dhaba' (roadside eatery), both the vehicles overturned and people fell down. Some came under the truck." The accident in Auraiya is the latest one in a string of mishaps involving migrant workers returning to their native states amid the coronavirus lockdown. Most of the victims were sitting on sacks of lime powder loaded on the trailer and were crushed when the vehicles overturned and fell into a ditch following the crash near an eatery between 3 am and 3.30 am on the Auraiya-Kanpur Dehat stretch of the national highway, police said. While many of the workers were from Jharkhand and West Bengal, some were from Kushinagar in eastern Uttar Pradesh, they pointed out. "In the accident, most of the labourers were crushed under these bags, which were on the trailer truck, and died. Some of them succumbed to injuries on the way to hospital," District Magistrate Abhishek Singh said, adding that all the deceased were men. The mini-truck, which was going from Delhi to Madhya Pradesh, had stopped at the eatery as some workers wanted to have tea. It was carrying around 22 people, including five women and seven children, officials said. The trailer truck with 43 migrants was coming from Rajasthan, they said. Both the vehicles were ferrying people who found themselves without jobs, money or food during the lockdown and were desperate to get back home. Local villagers assisted the police and the administration in the rescue operation as earthmovers were used to pull out the people from under the lime sacks. The badly mangled vehicles showed the intensity of the crash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/auraiya-road-accident-two-more-migrant-workers-die-toll-rises-to-26-838715.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||Those travelling by special train must 'agree' to follow quarantine protocol of states: IRCTC||After passengers on board a special train to Bengaluru refused to be quarantined, the IRCTC has now decided that only those who agree to follow the quarantine protocol of the destination states will be allowed to book tickets on its portal. The new rule, mentioned in a pop-up on its website, reads "I have read the health advisory issued by my destination state. I accept and shall abide by the same" and requires the passenger to click on 'I agree' to move forward and book tickets. The rule comes days after around 50 passengers who arrived in Bengaluru from Delhi on May 14 refused to be quarantined at an institutional facility and created a ruckus at the station. Despite much persuasion, the railways had to attach an extra bogie and send back around 15 passengers who refused to be quarantined. The passengers paid for their tickets. According to IRCTC officials, before finally proceeding to book a ticket, a pop-up will now appear on the computer or mobile screen asking passengers to confirm if they had read the health advisory of the destination state and agree to abide by it. The message is being displayed in Hindi as well as English. If the passenger selects disagree, then s/he won't be able to book the ticket and will be returned to the reservation page. The new rule is part of a growing list of "mandatory" protocols that the railways has issued due to travel restrictions during the coronavirus crisis. Earlier, railways made it mandatory for passengers to download the government's contact-tracing app Aarogya Setu and also made it compulsory for passengers to list their destination address before they could book tickets on the IRCTC portal. It has also made wearing masks and social distancing mandatory during travel. The special Rajdhanis are travelling between 15 major cities and the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/those-travelling-by-special-train-must-agree-to-follow-quarantine-protocol-of-states-irctc-838720.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||Auraiya road accident: Two more migrant workers die, toll rises to 26||Two of the 36 migrant workers, injured in a road accident on early Saturday morning at Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh, died, raising the death toll in the mishap to 26, said local police. A total of 24 migrant workers had died and 36 injured at 3.05 am on Saturday when a trailer truck carrying sacks of lime and 43 people rammed into the back of a stationary truck with many other migrant workers sitting in it near a roadside eatery on National Highway in Auraiya. In a statement issued here, the Auraiya Police said the accident took place near Shivji Dhaba in Tikauli village involving a trailer truck and a mini-truck with both the vehicles falling into a ditch by the roadside.  “In the accident, 26 migrant labourers died, while 34 others sustained injuries,” the statement said, updating the casualty figures. A case has been registered against the drivers, owners and transporters of both the vehicles under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Epidemic Act and the Motor Vehicles Act at Kotwali police station in Auraiya. Investigations are going on in this regard, police said, adding efforts are being made to arrest the drivers, owners and transporters of both the vehicles. The accident in Auraiya is the latest one in a string of mishaps involving migrant workers returning to their native states amid the coronavirus lockdown.  Most of the victims were sitting on sacks of lime powder loaded on the trailer, and were crushed when the vehicles overturned and fell into a ditch following the crash near an eatery between 3 AM and 3.30 AM on the Auraiya-Kanpur Dehat stretch of National Highway 19, police said. While many of the workers were from Jharkhand and West Bengal, some were from Kushinagar in eastern Uttar Pradesh, they said. "In the accident, most of the labourers were crushed under these bags, which were on the trailer truck, and died. Some of them succumbed to injuries on the way to hospital," District Magistrate Abhishek Singh said, adding all the deceased were men. The mini-truck, which was going from Delhi to Madhya Pradesh, had stopped at the eatery as some workers wanted to have tea. It was carrying around 22 people, including five women and seven children, officials said. The trailer truck with 43 migrants was coming from Rajasthan, they said. Both the vehicles were ferrying people who found themselves without jobs, money or food during the lockdown and were desperate to get back home. Local villagers assisted the police and the administration in the rescue operation as JCB machines were used to pull out the people from under the lime sacks. The badly mangled vehicles showed the intensity of the crash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/auraiya-road-accident-two-more-migrant-workers-die-toll-rises-to-26-838727.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: 'Will not come back, even if I starve'; Stranded at Delhi-UP border, migrant workers wait for help||Vijay Kumar, a jobless factory worker, waited for hours along with his wife and two children under a flyover at Ghazipur, hoping to get a bus to his home town Sitapur after police stopped them at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border on Sunday. The 28-year-old, who said he was not paid since March by the footwear factory in Tikri, Gurgaon where he was employed, started the 600-km journey to his hometown on Saturday evening, walking with his wife Suman, daughter Arushi (2) and son Sunny (4). Kumar was among the hundreds of migrant factory workers, daily wagers, street vendors, all rendered jobless due to the coronavirus lockdown, who were heading towards their homes in states like UP and Bihar but were stranded on the Delhi border after the police stopped them from walking on foot for their onward journey. With worry and despair writ large on their faces, many said there was no reason for them to stay back. "There was no way but to go back to Sitapur because I was paid nothing since March," said Kumar. "I thought I will catch a bus on the UP border. But there is no transport here. I just have around Rs 700 and there is little help from anyone. If nothing is available, I will walk with my family to go to Sitapur," said the desperate man. Anil Soni, a house painter by profession, too tried to cross Delhi-UP border along with his family when the policemen stopped them. "I lost work because of lockdown and coronavirus, because people do not want any unknown person to enter their homes," he said. Accompanied by his wife and three children, the youngest just ten months old, Soni hoped to make it to his home in Badayun in UP. "I will not come back here even if I have to beg at home. This is no life. Can you tell me what am I supposed to do. Policemen do not allow us to go ahead and there are no buses or trains even if one is ready to buy a ticket," he said, the frustration palpable in his voice.  The dirt and filth covered area under the flyover at the border served as a temporary shelter for the stranded migrants as policemen did not allow them to enter Ghaziabad. "We have been directed to ensure that no person without proper authorisation crosses the border. There is nothing we can do for these people," said a Delhi police officer present on the spot. Food and water was arranged by some social organisations and members of Youth Congress for the stranded people whose only worry was to reach home. Among them was a group of eight farm labourers trying to reach Bahraich in UP on their cycles.  "I have nothing with me now, because I used Rs 4,000 for purchasing this bicycle. Now the policemen are saying to keep it at the police station and go to a shelter of Delhi government. I am not going anywhere, I will not move from here," said 21-year-old Babloo. The group worked at a farmhouse in Najfagarh from where they were evicted by the owner after the wheat crop was harvested. "We have our own fields in Bahraich but we came here to earn some cash. I will not do this ever again, even if I starve at home," said Naresh, one of the eight sharing five bicycles.   Two teenagers walked from Panipat in Haryana, hoping to reach their home in Gorakhpur. "Can I get a train? We walked from Panipat thinking we will catch a bus or truck. I have heard that government has started trains," said 18-year-old Ankit who ran a food stall in Panipat before the coronavirus lockdown started on March 25. Shramik special trains are being run since May 1 to take the migrants back to their native states, but a large number of people have not been able to avail the facility. Buses have also been arranged by some states, still they have been inadequate forcing the migrants to trek for hundreds of kilometres or travel in crowded trucks and other vehicles on long perilous road journeys. After a collision between a truck and trailer, which were ferrying migrants, left at least 26 dead in Auraiya, the Uttar Pradesh government had directed border districts to not allow any such movement, and to make provision of buses for such stranded people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-will-not-come-back-even-if-i-starve-stranded-at-delhi-up-border-migrant-workers-wait-for-help-838740.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Delhi metro to remain shut till May 31||Metro services will remain closed for commuters till May 31, in view of the lockdown extension, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said on Sunday. The ongoing countrywide lockdown has been extended till May 31, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) announced on Sunday. In an order, the NDMA said lockdown measures need to be implemented for a further period of 14 days in the country to contain the spread of COVID-19. "In light of the extension of lockdown issued by the government, metro services will remain closed for commuters till 31st May. Our helpline services 155370 shall also not be available. You may reach us at helpline@dmrc.org," the DMRC said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-delhi-metro-to-remain-shut-till-may-31-838764.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||Lockdown 4.0: Plan to ease restrictions in Delhi to be announced on Monday, says Kejriwal||Centre's lockdown 4.0 guidelines are largely in line with the proposal sent by the Delhi government, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday as he announced that a detailed plan to ease restrictions in the national capital will be announced on Monday.  "Centre's guidelines are largely in line with the proposal sent by Delhi govt based on suggestions of lakhs of Delhiites. We have used the lockdown period to prepare our healthcare system if Corona cases increase, but it is now time to relax the restrictions to some extent," he said in a tweet. "Delhi govt will prepare the detailed plan for Delhi based on the Centre's guidelines and announce it tomorrow (Monday)," he said in another tweet. In a statement issued earlier, the Delhi government said that the Centre’s guidelines for the fourth phase lockdown are in the right direction of opening up economy and leaving it to states to work out the details. "We do expect a slight increase in cases when the economy reopens and Delhi is prepared to deal with it. We have always been saying that we all will now have to learn to live with Corona," the statement said. "We used the last two month lockdown period to prepare ourselves for dealing with coronavirus by improving necessary logistics and health infrastructure," the government said in the statement.  On Sunday, centre extended ongoing lockdown till May 31 and said that prohibition on all public gatherings, closure of schools, malls and restaurants, and suspension of flight and Metro services will remain in force till the last end of this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-40-plan-to-ease-restrictions-in-delhi-to-be-announced-on-monday-says-kejriwal-838830.html
17-05-2020||North and Central||Jamia student arrested in connection with violence during anti-CAA protest||The Delhi Police's crime branch has arrested a student of Jamia Millia Islamia in connection with the violence in the Jamia area during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act in December last year, officials said on Sunday. The police said Asif Iqbal Tanha, a resident of Abul Fazal Enclave in Shaheen Bagh, is a member of the Students Islamic Organization and was part of the Jamia Coordination Committee which spearheaded protests against the new citizenship law. "He has been arrested in connection with a case which was registered at Jamia police station on December 16, 2019 in connection with riots in the Jamia area in which he was named an accused," a senior police officer said. Asif, 24, is a third-year student of BA in Persian language. On December 15 last year, protesters torched four public buses and two police vehicles as they clashed with police in New Friends' Colony near Jamia Millia Islamia during a demonstration against the amended Citizenship Act, leaving at least 40 people including students, policemen and fire fighters injured, officials had then said. "Asif is a key member of the Jamia Coordination Committee and played an active role in organising protest and riots in Jamia in December 2019. He is a close associate of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar who had been key organisers of anti-CAA protests and subsequent riots," the police officer said. The Jamia student was produced before a metropolitan magistrate who remanded him in judicial custody till May 31, the police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamia-student-arrested-in-connection-with-violence-during-anti-caa-protest-838836.html
17-05-2020||Opinion||The funeral of human decency||Friends, yeomen, countrymen, Lend me your fears. I come to bury human decency, not to praise it. The evil that left-liberalism does lives on after it, especially on social media; the good is oft interred with its bones. So, let it be with a little damn human decency. The noble Modi has told you that human decency is an outdated speed bump on the road to development and self-reliance, aka doing what he says without asking too many questions—if so, it was a grievous fault, and grievously hath human decency answered it. Here, under leave of Modi and the rest—for Modi is an honourable man; so are they all, all honourable people—come I to speak at decency’s funeral. It was a founding principle baked into the Constitution, egalitarian and just to all; but Modi thinks that surprise announcements with four hours’ notice are sexier; and Modi is an honourable man. Human decency made many people help migrant workers get home, or report on them, or speak for them in court; did this, in decency, seem anti-national? When that the poor have cried, human decency hath wept; perfidy should be made of sterner stuff. Yet, Modi’s government doesn’t much mention the humanitarian emergency his policy made, and is incredibly tight-fisted, except when it comes to spending Rs 20,000 crore digging up the centre of Delhi for a narcissistic remodel in the middle of the worst crisis in Independent India, and Modi is an honourable man. You all did see that in the lockdown, he thrice extended confinement, which human decency thrice complied with but also said, hello, what about the millions of people suffering from starvation and exhaustion and the absence of their families and homes: was this treason? Yet, Modi behaves as if human decency is less important than a strong statement at 8 pm every so often; and, sure, he is an honourable man. I speak not to disprove what Modi spoke. But here I am to speak what I do know. We all have some human decency in us, not without cause; what cause withholds you, then, to demand more of it instead of going all cow-eyed about a Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package that turns out to be frankensteined together out of bits and pieces of schemes already out there, steps already taken, and maybe your next ATM withdrawal—yet does little to relieve immediate suffering? Oh judgement! Thou art fled to brutish beasts, and too many people have lost their reason. Bear with me; my heart is on the funeral pyre there with human decency, and I must pause until it comes back to me. (With apologies to Shakespeare.) Mark Antony made a political speech from the fires of grief and outrage, but in today’s global emergency, whoever’s in the hot seat has to steer us through. It’s not about left or right, it is about a modicum of human decency in governance. All governments are accountable for how they treat the most disempowered. The Indian State’s track record since Covid-19 appeared has been, first, to ignore the coming pandemic to strut around with Trump and topple a state government; then use the fear of coronavirus to further Islamophobia, politically-motivated crackdowns, and surveillance; then, belatedly, to try to look as if it’s helping migrants and building medical capacity; then to fudge economic and medical data to look as if it’s in control. Unpreparedness, incompetence, authoritarianism, panic, and cover-up. Indians deserve the truth about the pandemic, generous assistance from the government, and we deserve to be taken into confidence about the foreseeable future. In this moment of historical uncertainty, it’s just the decent thing to do.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-funeral-of-human-decency-838544.html
17-05-2020||Opinion||Redesigning our streets and cities||We need a social life and an outdoor life for our mental and physical health. As we edge close to the third month of COVID-19 restrictions on movement, it is important to think long-term. What does this virus, which seems to be digging in for the long haul, mean to the future of outdoor life in Indian cities? Across the globe, people are walking more, and reducing movement in cars. Public transport is shut down in many cities. Where open, there are safety constraints. The majority of people in Indian cities have always used more sustainable modes of transport. But these large numbers of walkers and cyclists have remained invisible to many of us who only see the traffic jams on roads. In the first few weeks of the lockdown, we saw, all too briefly, a new world emerge. A world with bird song, butterflies in motion, clear skies, and stars sparkling at night. But this new world came at a terrible cost: a cost that continues to be extracted from the poorest of the poor. Hunger and desperation stalked the streets during lockdown, as people lost their jobs. Migrant workers, including just-born babies and venerable citizens in their eighties, were reduced to walking hundreds of kilometres home, several dying on the way. We must learn from the terrible cost that this crisis has inflicted, understanding that our cities are built on the blood, sweat, tears and sufferings of the men, women and children who toil with little recompense. How can we redesign our cities to make them livable places for all its residents? We need to creatively re-imagine our cities. An important aspect of this re-imagination is to reclaim our streets for walking and cycling. Just as the Bus Rapid Transport lanes on the Outer Ring Road reduced bus travel times, we need wider pavements, and well-protected cycle lanes to help walkers and cyclists speed past the car, moving those who have shorter distances to travel towards cheaper, healthier ways of transport.   Many cities in the world are beginning to put the necessary policies in place. Paris plans to expand its cycling lanes by 650 km, testing out temporary “pop-up” lanes to see which ones are most preferred by cyclists, eventually making those permanent. Milan is expanding pedestrian and cycling paths on 35 km of congested inner-city roads. It’s not just the wealthy cities that are working on such plans. In Bogota, the capital city of Colombia, 120 km have been closed off to motorised traffic and kept for walking and cycling – expanding a pre-existing programme called “la Ciclovía”. Mexico City is working on similar initiatives. When a city as large and congested as Mexico City, or one with crime levels as high as Bogota, can think of urban innovation, surely Bengaluru should be able to do the same. Previous surveys find that one-third of Bengaluru’s working residents walk and cycle to work, while 28% take the bus. Only 33% use cars and scooters. Bengaluru’s Bicycle Mayor has asked for 193 stretches of road, especially in the areas hardest hit by COVID-19, to be cordoned off exclusively for cycling and walking. High-end cycle shops report a doubling in the number of people visiting their stores recently. At a time like this, why is Bengaluru pinning its hopes for post-COVID economic recovery on liquor stores, gyms and spas? “Of course, we want to reopen the economy, but we think we should do it on a different basis from before,” the deputy mayor of Milan said in a recent interview. Can we not find in us the resources, creativity and imagination to do the same?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/redesigning-our-streets-and-cities-838545.html
17-05-2020||Opinion||India’s foreign policy tightrope is fraying||Prime Minister Narendra Modi repeatedly says that he wants global leadership for India. His wish has now been granted – and on the biggest stage of them all, no less. Starting this month, India will chair the Executive Board of the World Health Organization (WHO) – the decision-making body of the WHO. But international politics is a lot like life; all crowns come with thorns. This is the sort of story that novels are made of: India will preside over the world’s largest healthcare organiCOVID, in the midst of the biggest pandemic in a century, while the two most powerful countries are at each other’s throats. Already, India is being yanked from both ends of the tug-of-war between China and the United States. In one corner is Donald Trump: He wants the WHO to hold China accountable for its mishandling of the pandemic early on – for cover-ups and misinformation. He also wants to snub the Chinese by inviting Taiwan to the World Health Assembly (the WHO’s governing body, composed of all member states). In the other corner is Xi Jinping: He has unleashed a vicious social media counterattack against the US over the past several weeks. This week, Xi even began exploring “punishment” against American politicians who are pushing “anti-China legislation.” India has just entered the arena – and it has been frenetic. Over just three days this past week, India found itself having tea and snacks (albeit virtually) with both sides of the conflict. On Monday, India was invited to a 7-nation team huddle by the US and its close allies. Two days later, India went to a meeting convened by China and Russia, ostensibly to talk about the pushback. What will India now do with its god-sent opportunity at the WHO? In many ways, this dilemma is a classic representation of India’s foreign policy practice. In years past, whenever India found itself caught between the devil and the deep blue sea, it walked a tightrope between them. On foreign trips, the Prime Minister acted like an apolitical businessman, signing MoUs and agreements. When asked sensitive questions, India simply turned the other way. As a result, India’s foreign policy history is now replete with umpteen unresolved questions – and oftentimes, flip-flops. For instance, should India speak up for democracy in other countries (such as the Maldives), or should it not? Should it recognise Taiwan? Should it levy sanctions on Iran? Should Israel be held accountable for illegal settlements in Palestine? As a middle power, with neither global military presence nor strong political positions, India has often gotten away with no serious answer to any of these questions. India’s opinions are neither asked for, nor offered. But a growing power with vishwaguru aspirations cannot get off the hook so easily – and the tightrope is now starting to fray. In Washington, Donald Trump seems determined to build a grand anti-China coalition. The fact that India was invited to an exclusive meeting of only seven countries is quite significant: It means that Trump wants India to behave like a core member of the US alliance. Meanwhile, China is determined not to take things lying down either: In this same eventful week, China and India began yet another round of their unending border feud in the Himalayas (and coincidentally, Chinese air force planes were landing in Kathmandu). Shortly after he came to power in 2014, Modi told senior diplomats that he no longer wants India to play a “balancing role”. Time has come to act on those words; India must make difficult decisions on burning global issues. The stage is set at the WHO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-s-foreign-policy-tightrope-is-fraying-838546.html
17-05-2020||Opinion||The ‘India story’ has no legs to stand on||Finally, we are seeing things as they actually are. The ‘India story’, whatever it may have stood for, has no legs left anymore. The legs are marching back home, across the length of India, and stopping might mean death. Literally.  Thousands of migrant workers are walking back to their villages and small towns through what is arguably the harshest lockdown in the world. No work, no wages and no means of transport to return home meant they had to fend for themselves, be atmanirbhar. And so, workers have been on the move for over a month-and-a-half with whatever little belongings they have, accompanied by family members, some of them small, tired children who have to carry on in the punishing heat as though it is the most natural thing to do. But it isn’t, and the pictures are unforgiving, unconscionable.   Any blinkers that may still be on about the leaps of ‘progress’ that India has made during the last three decades should have come off by now. We always knew how dire the condition of the working poor in our cities was, but to see it enacted in this manner has jolted us out of our collective reverie. Other than those going back, there are at least eight crore migrants across the states, according to the central government’s own estimates, who are non-card holders and hence can’t access food grains from the state. The Centre has belatedly promised free grains to them for the next two months — 51 days into the lockdown — but this is unlikely to help much. According to a recent report by the Stranded Workers Action Network, a group of volunteers responding to distress calls from migrants across India, over 82% of the 12,248 workers who reached out to them did not receive rations from state governments and 64% of 9,981 people had less than Rs 100 left with them. If this is anything to go by, we will have to deal with far worse than what we have encountered until now.  The question before us is really this: What kind of a system allows the State to abnegate its responsibility towards a large section of its population, even if it is to save lives and make sure medical facilities are not overwhelmed? Although the world over countries are struggling, nothing matches the scale of the humanitarian disaster unfolding in India. Just take two examples out of the many that have been recorded. In Maharashtra’s Aurangabad district, 16 workers headed for Bhusawal from Jalna were crushed to death under a goods train. The workers were resting on the railway tracks after covering a part of their journey on foot to board the ‘Shramik Special’ train that would take them to Madhya Pradesh. A few days later, it was their bodies that left on the trains meant to take them back home. The other disturbing story is not of death but birth, this time by the side of a road. Mann Kumari, heavily pregnant, left Ambala with a number of other workers for Madhya Pradesh, only to give birth on the road after walking 300 kilometres. The new-born and the mother waited but a few hours before resuming their unending march. They were provided transportation back to their homes after they had walked on for another 150 kms. And hers is not the only story like this.  These are grim times, and many are losing loved ones to the infection and jobs and incomes to changing times. But still, there is loss and then there is systemic callousness that inflicts unacceptable misery on the poor. The lockdown has shown us that the Indian State, and the political system that has shaped it, can’t be bothered about the most disadvantaged and disempowered among us. If this was not clear to us in the years and months leading up to the lockdown, then the current events should show us how far we have come since Independence. Incidentally, that was when we had another great migration. What we are seeing now has surpassed even that painful event in some ways. We were supposed to do better all these years later. But we haven’t. In fact, we seemed to have regressed. It would be best to accept that we have spawned a perverse system. Being clear-eyed about ourselves might be the only thing that could help us emerge out of this self-inflicted tragedy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-india-story-has-no-legs-to-stand-on-838547.html
17-05-2020||Opinion||What’s in a NAM? The possibility of a new economic bloc||Even as the demand for an economic package grew louder in the wake of the total shutdown of economic activities, the Prime Minister’s announcements elaborating his vision of self-reliance (Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan) raises hope of renewed growth. The Prime Minister’s vision statement has been followed by a series of explanations of the programme the government has envisaged. The cumulative loss of revenue to the exchequer due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the fall in international trade, an important part of our economic growth, are yet to be determined by the government, but these surely are some stunning figures.   The present economic crisis is very different from any of the earlier ones, which were born out of local or specific isolated conditions, like the 1991 Balance of Payments crisis or the 2008-9 economic meltdowns. The presence now of a strong and stable dispensation in New Delhi with strong political will seems to be a positive factor in terms of the prospects of economic reconstruction. Yet, whether the four elements and five pillars that Prime Minister Modi so powerfully catalogued will be able to keep the economic edifice from collapsing is a million-dollar (or Rs 20-lakh-crore, if you prefer) question. Time will tell.   The emphasis on a self-reliant economy, matching infrastructure development, technology-driven governance and administrative systems, vibrant demography and building a strong and viable supply chain arrangement to cater to demand-supply requirements are the five pillars that Modi and his team expect will bail out the domestic economy. But beyond the confines of the domestic economy, there lies a vast area of regional and global trade that the Union government is yet to tap and tackle. Frequent pronouncements about this being the ‘Asian Century’, and more specifically the ‘Indian Century’, have not materialised despite the major initiatives already made in pursuit of this dream. In view of the impact of the COVID-19 crisis, New Delhi will now have to do much more than just tweak policies and look for band-aid solutions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his recent address to the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) Contact Group in response to COVID-19, made some  noteworthy points that are likely to greatly influence our foreign policy and the way India conducts its global trade in future. Making a significant reference to the present crisis and Delhi’s outreach through medical supplies to the grouping’s 120 countries, Modi suggested that we need to work out a new template of globalisation “based on fairness, equality and humanity”. The call for “a new template” assumes importance in the light of apprehensions about the impending collapse of the existing global trade structures. At the very least, international economic institutions, existing bilateral and multilateral agreements, institutions and relations are set to undergo massive changes. As national governments increasingly turn to the existing global mechanisms, they also realise the limitations of these institutions in resolving the conflicts, both trade and political/military. The trade war between the US and China, fought bitterly out in the open, affecting the global supply chain systems, remains unresolved till date and is likely to manifest as a much larger problem in the days to come. India’s share in global trade in 2019 through export of goods and services was to the tune of $322.8 billion. This trade figure, calculated in dollar terms, actually amounts to a 0.4% reduction since 2015, but a 22.3% rise over the 2018 figures. This rise could be directly attributed to the US-China trade war. An analysis of trade figures shows that almost half (47.8%) of India’s exports by value were to Asian countries and immediate and distant neighbours in the region, while 19.3% exports were to Europe and 18.8% to North America. The question for us in India in this whole context is that of preparing ourselves for the emerging global trade architecture. The socialist states have failed and wound up, capitalism is in a crisis, and the regional emerging economies (like the Asian Tigers) are history, devoured by China. After over 20 years of America’s ‘unipolar moment’ following the end of the Cold War, a new bi-polar world is rapidly taking shape, dominated by two strong economies, and creating space for a third and formidable new economic block. If during the US-Soviet Cold War, the world saw the emergence of a Non-Aligned Movement that primarily was concerned with preventing the next world war and with the development and emergence of the global South, could we now evolve that bloc into one that sidesteps the US-China war over trade, technology and standards dominance and benefits from the best that both sides have to offer – a ‘Non-Aligned Economic Movement’, if you will? The Prime Minister’s call for ‘a new globalisation template’ could be followed up with a meeting of NAM trade and finance ministers meeting to initiate the idea of a NAM-centric trade block, which should propose new global trade rules, provide avenues for negotiations, implement and monitor global trade, build capacity in developing economies and put in place a new dispute redressal mechanism. It will be a long journey, but it can start with a small step.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-s-in-a-nam-the-possibility-of-a-new-economic-bloc-838548.html
17-05-2020||Opinion||COVID-19 relief as policy package||The two important decisions with financial implications which Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Sunday as part of the government’s COVID-19 relief package are the plan to release an additional Rs 40,000 crore for MNREGA and the enhancement of the states’ borrowing limit from 3% to 5% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The usefulness of the first is limited by practical problems, as MNREGA is never effectively implemented in states where it is now really needed to be implemented. As much as 75% of the additional borrowing that states can make is conditional, and they cannot access it now when they need funds. The plan for higher expenditure on public health and to set up more hospitals, wellness centres etc, is for the future. The increased use of technology in education and the e-learning initiatives are needed and are welcome, but the minister has not mentioned their cost to the government.  The most important announcements, both in the fourth and the fifth editions of the government’s package, are about policies and reforms to be pushed in future and not about relief to be given to the people now. These decisions are basic and structural, will change the nature of the economy and can well be considered as part of the three-decades-old liberalisation process. All the sectors of the economy are to be thrown open to the private sector, and the public sector will exist only in some strategic areas where too its presence will be limited. Privatisation is the dominant theme of the government’s economic policy now, and this was clear even in the fourth tranche of announcements on Saturday when major sectors like coal and minerals, defence, civil aviation, power distribution and space were thrown open for greater private sector role and participation.  These have been considered till now as economically too important, sensitive and strategic to have any significant private sector presence. The commanding heights are changing.  There may be merit in the new thinking and the government has the right to move in new directions. But it is wrong to present a policy package on reforms in the garb of COVID-19 relief and an economic stimulus. There is little in the serial announcements made by Nirmala Sitharaman that will help the distressed industry, big and small, the farmer in the field, the common man locked down at home and the migrant worker on the streets to cope with the situation here and now. Even after strenuous explanations from the minister, the Rs 20 lakh crore package remains unconvincing, misleading and deceptive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-relief-as-policy-package-838861.html
17-05-2020||Panorama||Way forward towards a new education policy for Kalyana Karnataka||The central purpose of Article 371 of the Constitution is to remove regional imbalances by affirmative action in key areas of socio-economic development such as education, health and employment. In Karnataka, six northern districts of Hyderabad-Karnataka region have been brought under Article 371-J providing for special provision - Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal and Ballari - collectively called Kalyana Karnataka. The special purpose Hyderabad-Karnataka Development Board and several social organisations have been striving to leverage overall developmental outcomes. It is also true that there are other but smaller regional pockets/taluks outside Kalyana Karnataka suffering from similar disadvantages, calling urgent attention of the planners. The fast emerging national/global priorities also compel us to set a wider canvas for bridging the developmental deficit of these regions. While funds for 371-J districts may come from special Central grants marked for the purpose, only the other similar area will have to covered by the state government. It is noteworthy that both education and employment have an intertwining relationship with each one individually and synergistically producing desirable outcomes - acquisition of academic competence as well as skills/expertise to become socially productive citizens. Therefore, in this article, a few key areas of education are prioritised to put in place a versatile platform to launch a holistic offensive progressively. The present action plans are tweaked keeping in mind their positive impact on the enhanced opportunities to the students in the globalised knowledge-based economy. The special package proposed here includes: Skill Development Centres: Each of the six districts may have a Skill Development Centre. Specially designed courses for the following may be offered: For uneducated stream: Assistants in healthcare, office/business administration etc, with communication skills in chosen languages with potential for employment in public and private sectors For PUC qualified students: the existing range of diploma/degree courses in engineering may be expanded to include courses in paramedical sciences such as Optometry, Dentistry, Medical Microbiology, Radiology, Community Health, Hospital Management/Administration For graduates: Incubation centres, venture capital, self employment channels, entrepreneurship Civil Services Training Academy Special training programmes for the differently-abled with focus on employability and/or professional advancement Third-Party Skill Certification as per the recommendations of the International Labour Organisation and British Council to assure national/global validity The Federation of Karnataka Commerce and Industry should be taken on board to ensure employment/placement Language empowerment: A Centre for International Languages is envisaged with following functions-- To be located in any one of the six districts, strategically selected for maximum impact A basket of selected languages (Kannada, Hindi, English, Sanskrit and one other international language (French, Spanish, Chinese, German, Arabic etc) to promote national/international mobility Offer courses to school teachers (teach the teachers) to train and sensitise them in emerging methods of language teaching and learning processes Serve as a Resources Centre in association with national/global language institutions for design and development of school/university curricula in linguistics, language and literature A learning resource for aspirants of civil services Undergraduate degree courses with enhanced employment opportunities: The undergraduate degrees with the present three-subject combinations to be replaced with at least one subject with enhanced employment opportunities. Liberal Arts graduate programmes (western model) and CBCS system providing for students to select subjects across the disciplines could be utilised for the purpose. Courses in performing arts and physical education may also be offered as choices to the students, on par with those in urban area institutions. Novel student support systems: Each of the six districts may be allotted 500 Special Student Merit Fellowships (total 3,000). The awardees may carry these fellowships to pursue their studies in any institution of Karnataka. This measure would be in addition to the conventional scholarships awarded to students after admission to a local institution. Thus meritorious students from backward region are also given an opportunity to study in best of institutions in the state. Any constraints in admission rules may be removed by suitable amendments or making a special provision. Modern teaching-learning activities: In addition to standard classroom equipment (smart boards, PowerPoint presentation facilities, Wi-Fi savvy campus etc, efforts should be made to provide EduSAT connectivity to the teaching-learning activities - presently, only VTU has this capability. Necessary infrastructural changes may be made. This measure would remove technology-related disadvantages to the learning activities in the region and also demonstrates the government’s sincere efforts to reach out to the students in backward regions. It is equally important that the educational institutions, teachers and students are imbued with online education procedures to prime them to deal with possible academic loss during pandemics or natural disasters. Sports Academy: Each district may have a sports academy (existing ones could be strengthened) to promote innate talents in sports. The academy would function as a resources centre for all educational institutions in the district to guide sports-related activities. In addition to conventional sports events, online courses on sports ethics, sports nutrition, sports psychology, yoga, physical fitness, leadership and human resources may be offered by the academy. Health awareness and yoga training programmes to the public would add a new dimension to the activities of the academy. Teachers’ Academy: School and college teachers should receive training in emerging teaching-learning practices. Focus would be on online education practices to effectively deal with emergent situations arising out of natural disasters and pandemics. Teachers should also be sensitised with teaching languages; training in Sign and Braille languages useful to special students (divyangajan) would add a humanitarian dimension to the training imparted by the academy. The above proposal is a provocative minimum to invite the participation of all the stakeholders and experts to craft a more complete, enabling and empowering design to address regional imbalances worthy of attention by other state/national planners. (The writer is Adviser (Education Reforms), Government of Karnataka, and Chancellor, PES University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/way-forward-towards-a-new-education-policy-for-kalyana-karnataka-838867.html
17-05-2020||Right in the Middle||An evening in Fort Kochi||Long before the pandemic, during my infrequent visits to Kochi, I always made it a point to spend at least one evening in Fort Kochi. After driving at snail’s pace through traffic snarls and crossing canals and backwaters with multi-storied buildings almost at their edge, I reach Fort Kochi. One experiences an old-world charm while walking through the narrow roads and cobbled by-lanes in a village ambience with colonial buildings in Portuguese, Dutch and British styles of architecture on both sides. I am reminded of the Chinese who brought their unique fishing nets here centuries ago and demonstrated before the curious locals another way of catching fish and Vasco da Gama, the legendary explorer who came all the way from Portugal with his retinue to meet with a death caused, of all things, by mosquito bites! The remains of the Dutch cemetery remind me of those who braved the high seas in their primitive vessels only to take their final rest in a strange land and wonder if anyone back home ever thinks of them. As I reach the busy beach caressed by the gentle breeze from the sea, I look for the elderly gentleman with an immaculate pencil-thin moustache with whom I had a few words a couple of times in the past. And there he is, on his usual seat, busy talking with another person. I wave to him and he waves back uncertainly. Hawkers roasting groundnuts on kerosene stoves, tempos stocked with ice-creams, cones and cool drinks and handcarts laden with glass jars containing cut fruits and pickled gooseberries add to the joy of the visitors. A boy throws groundnuts to pigeons, who pick them up instantly and fly away as soon as the stock is exhausted.  A large ship moves majestically toward the open sea, its size diminishing gradually and a couple of giant fuel storage tanks with red lights on their top bear witness to all that is happening around them. The horizon is dotted with tiny-looking vessels that seem to stand still. The sun dips slowly into the shimmering sea, leaving the sky fiery, painted in bold red and yellow. A couple of kites glide high above in circles, looking for the last meal of the day, before it is too dark to forage. Nearer at hand, a massive dark cloud with silver edges hovers over the beach like an alien spaceship about to land. As darkness spreads, the sea disappears from view and the only sign of its presence is the sound of gentle waves hitting the shore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/an-evening-in-fort-kochi-838865.html
17-05-2020||Second Edit||Long way to go for coronavirus vaccine, drug||While lockdowns and other measures are widely employed to counter the spread of the coronavirus all over the world, widespread efforts are also on to find an effective medical response to it. There is no known cure now, and the treatment is limited to treating the symptoms or the body processes or the organs which are affected, without targeting the virus as such. This is because the virus is new and its nature is largely unknown, and the existing remedies for virus-related diseases are ineffective against it. But with millions of people being affected by it, finding a preventive medicine or a cure has become urgent, and the world’s medical and scientific research establishments are focussed on it. Over 100 private companies and institutions associated with governments are said to be separately or collectively involved in the research. It is happening in India also, and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) announced last week that it was partnering with Bharat Biotech to develop a vaccine.  All the research efforts are directed at either developing a vaccine or finding a drug to cure the disease. Vaccine development takes many years and even in the best circumstances at least 18 months. Even in the most hopeful scenarios, the waiting period is from some months to a year. There are reports that clinical trials of vaccines have started, but they may lead to positive or negative results. Even after a vaccine is developed, it will have to be industrially manufactured and commercially supplied in adequate quantities, and this may also take time. Vaccines are considered to be better weapons against the disease than drugs because they are preventive in nature. But much research is being done on drugs too. There was some excitement when a US company recently announced  that it had received the US FDA’s emergency approval for the drug Remdesivir.  But even this has only limited effect and will be fully developed and marketed only by 2022.  It is clear that all vaccine and drug candidates will take time before they are ready for use. It is also possible that a company that makes it will try to make maximum and even unreasonably high commercial gains from it. Countries where it is developed may claim the first right to use and keep it for the use of its entire population first. It may be used for political or economic bargain with other countries. But the other option is herd immunity whose costs are also unpredictable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/long-way-to-go-for-coronavirus-vaccine-drug-838860.html
17-05-2020||South||25 fresh COVID-19 cases, one death in Andhra Pradesh; Toll rises to 50||The COVID-19 death toll rose to 50 and total cases to 2,380 in Andhra Pradesh with the addition of one fatality and 25 new infections, the state Health Department said on Sunday. Of the new cases during the past 24 hours ending 9 AM on Sunday, five were linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, which has become a hotspot, according to a bulletin issued by the department. Of the total positive cases, 150 were from other states. Srikakulam reported seven of the new cases, Chitoor and Guntur four each, Visakhapatnam, Prakasam and Kurnool three each and Nellore one. The lone death was reported in Krishna district, the bulletin said. A total of 9,880 samples were tested and 103 people have been discharged from various hospitals after treatment, taking the cumulative recoveries to 1,433. Currently, the state has 747 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/25-fresh-covid-19-cases-one-death-in-andhra-pradesh-toll-rises-to-50-838601.html
17-05-2020||South||Vande Bharat Mission: 168 evacuees from US land in Hyderabad||Over 160 Indian citizens from Chicago in the US arrived here on Sunday on board an Air India flight, the ninth such service to reach the city since the beginning of the Vande Bharat Mission to repatriate people from the country stranded due to coronavirus lockdown. The AI 126 flight arrived via Delhi at the international airport here at 4.45 AM, airport sources said. The passengers were serviced through the fully sanitised international arrivals of the main passenger terminal of the airport, they said. This is the ninth Vande Bharat evacuation flight to land in the city. To facilitate the arriving passengers and aircraft crew, the airport has kept the international arrivals and the entire stretch right from aerobridge to arrivals ramp fully sanitised and fumigated. The airport also enforced social distancing among passengers right from the aero-bridge to across the terminal, the sources added. All arriving passengers and aircraft crew were brought out from the aircraft in a batch of 20-25 people each and screened using the thermal cameras under supervision of the airport health officials as per the directives of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare prior to immigration formalities. The sources also said the airport handled the departure of a repatriation flight from Hyderabad to Delhi carrying 68 passengers bound for foreign countries. Air India AI 1840 departed at 06.41 AM. As per the flight itinerary, from Delhi, these passengers were supposed to be airlifted to various destinations in the UK and the US.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vande-bharat-mission-168-evacuees-from-us-land-in-hyderabad-838621.html
17-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: Political spat over quarantining brewing in Kerala||Kerala is witnessing a political spat over MPs and MLAs of the opposition Congress party being quarantined and slapped with cases alleging flouting of social distancing and lockdown norms, while two ministers of the ruling CPM who faced similar allegations were spared. Close on the heels of two MPs and three MLAs of the Congress being asked by the health officials to remain in 14 days home quarantine citing close contact with COVID infected, a similar allegation raised by Congress against Kerala Local Administration Minister A C Moideen was rejected by the health officials.  A couple of weeks back a police case was slapped against Congress MP Adoor Prakash for attending a function to distribute food kits on the rural parts of Thiruvananthapuram. He was accused of flouting social distancing norms. In the meantime, the Congress alleged that Kerala Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran attended a function at a school in the rural parts of the district for collecting contributions from students to CMDRF. But no action was initiated against the minister by the authorities maintaining that the minister did not violate the social distance norms. These are enough reasons for Congress in Kerala to allege the government of deliberately quarantining Congress MPs and MLAs accusing them of flouting the social distancing and lockdown norms. Congress also stepped up the demand to quarantine Local Administration minister citing that two persons among those interacted by the minister were tested COVID positive.  Chief Minister Pinarayai Vijayan even accused the opposition of staging a political drama by going to border areas where people from other states are coming in. Congress MPs T N Prathapan, V K Sreekandan and Ramya Haridas and MLAs Shafi Parambil and Anil Akkara have visited the Kerala - Tamilnadu border at Walayar in Palakkad. Meanwhile, in an embarrassment to the CPM, a local leader of the party in Kasargod got infected after he along with his wife, who is a local body representative, went to the Talapady border to collect a person who came from Maharashtra and dropped him at his house. There were even allegations that the person from Maharashtra, who was also later tested COVID-19 positive, did not formally register for returning to the state and the CPM local leader facilitated his entry even as the Kerala government was insisting that only those who make advance registration would be allowed to enter the state in order to ensure proper quarantining. The CPM leader, his wife and two children were infected later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-political-spat-over-quarantining-brewing-in-kerala-838709.html
17-05-2020||South||Kerala COVID-19 active cases cross 100 mark again||The COVID-19 active cases in Kerala that came down to 16 on May 8 is again witnessing a spike with the active cases reaching 101 in ten days time as more Keralites returning from other states and countries being tested positive. Of the 14 tested positive in Kerala on Sunday, ten came from other states and three from abroad, including a UP native who came by ship from Maldives to Kochi. Of the 101 active cases now, 76 were those who came from other states and abroad while others contracted infection from them.  So far 601 COVID-19 active cases were reported in Kerala. The highest number of active cases in Kerala was on April 6 with 266 active cases when the total COVID-19 cases reported was 327. Since them the number of active cases was witnessing a steady decline and reached 16 by May 8. But as anticipated by the state, the number of active cases again started going up with evacuation of NRIs and return of people from other states.  State health department sources said most of the fresh cases being reported so far were not in severe condition. The state is trying for early detection of all COVID-19 cases and thereby bringing down the mortality rate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-covid-19-active-cases-cross-100-mark-again-838723.html
17-05-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Congress arranges 16 buses from Karnataka to Kerala||Congress has so far arranged 16 bus services from Karnataka to Kerala for Malayalis stranded in Karnataka to return home. Kerala Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said in a statement that Congress leaders of Karnataka led by D K Shivakumar initiated arranging the buses on rent from the state transport corporation. In order to ensure social distancing, only 27 passengers were allowed in each bus and the service was offered free.  The buses started operating from May 11. Only seven buses were allowed permission to enter Kerala and hence the passengers in ten services were dropped at the border as informed earlier, said Ramesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-congress-arranges-16-buses-from-karnataka-to-kerala-838731.html
17-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu witnesses exodus from Maharashtra, a new wave of COVID-19 infection||Exodus of people from other states, especially Maharashtra the country’s COVID-19 hotspot with over 30,000 cases, to their native villages and towns in Tamil Nadu has led to a fresh wave of infections in the southern state, whose Coronavirus tally has now crossed 11,000. As many as 256 persons who returned from abroad and other states have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past week with 216 of them from Maharashtra alone. Nine who returned from Gujarat, three from Karnataka, two each from Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh, three from Telangana, two from Qatar, four from Kuwait, six from the Maldives, five from Malaysia, and four from Bangladesh have also tested positive for the virus.  Of the 216 who tested positive after returning from Maharashtra, 91 are from Tirunelveli district, Thoothukudi (30), Sivaganga (14) Kallakurichi (28) and Madurai (13) among others. District administrations have erected check-posts on the borders and have kept quarantine centers ready to collect swab samples of those returning from other states. Every person returning from other states and abroad are tested for COVID-19. People returning from Maharashtra testing positive Though migrant workers and others from states like Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka have also returned, people coming from Maharashtra are testing positive in more numbers when compared to other states, sources said. They attributed the trend to the number of cases in Maharashtra, especially in Mumbai, which has over 18,000 cases. Admitting that handling a new set of infections discovered in those returning from other states is a challenge, Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar said the government was prepared to handle the situation as it has required infrastructure. Thousands of people from across Tamil Nadu, particularly in the southern districts of Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi, who had migrated to Mumbai and its suburbs are returning back to their native villages and are being quarantined at facilities set up by the district administrations. “We have been discouraging people who have settled here in Mumbai not to leave for Tamil Nadu and encouraging only migrant workers to register for passes. People from Tamil Nadu run idli and dosa shops across Mumbai and several of them are returning to their home states as they currently live in cramped accommodation and fear for the spread of the virus,” Sridhar Tamilan of Mumbai Vizhithezhu Iyakkam, told DH from Mumbai. Since Dharavi, Asia's biggest slum where Tamils are a sizeable chunk, has over 1,000 cases, Sridhar said, most people want to leave their small houses and go to their native villages because there is no facility to ensure social distance at home and in public areas here. He added that people like have been helping migrant workers and students and get e-pass for their travel and to follow safety precautions like wearing a mask, using hand sanitizers. Districts keep a vigil People from other states, especially Maharashtra, have come back through different modes of transport like buses, vans, and cars with valid passes and have been stopped at check-posts erected by the district administrations before being taken to quarantine facilities. “All kinds of people like those who were working in Mumbai, who had been selling idli and dosa, labourers and who had set up small businesses are returning to their home towns and villages. We are stopping them at the check posts as it would be difficult for us to track them once they go into the villages, Thoothukudi District Collector Sandeep Nanduri told DH.  The district, which had 18 cases as on Saturday, has set up 15 check-posts at the borders to ensure people coming from other states are taken to quarantine facilities. “We isolate them immediately, collect swab samples and move those testing positive to hospitals and decide on the next course of action for those testing negative,” Nanduri added. ‘Challenge can be handled by TN’ Dr P Kuganantham, former Chennai city health officer and senior epidemiologist, told DH that it is “tenable” to handle the challenge. “These are potential carriers of COVID-19 and we are testing every person who comes to our state from other states. Testing, isolating, and treating positive patients and quarantine those turning negative will ensure they do not infect anyone with the virus if they are carriers. We need to be extra cautious in handling people who come from abroad and other states,” Kuganantham, part of the expert panel advising the Tamil Nadu government, said. Kallakurichi district collector Kiran Gurrala told DH that hundreds of labourers and others who were working in different numbers have come back to their villages in the past few days. “The number of people returning from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh are much more when compared to Maharashtra, those testing are mostly people who returned from the Western state,” Gurrala said. Like the Koyambedu cluster, which led to a spike in the number of cases in several districts including Kallakurichi, this will also lead to an upward swing before it comes down, he added. 14 people who returned from Maharashtra tested positive in the district alone on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-witnesses-exodus-from-maharashtra-a-new-wave-of-covid-19-infection-838745.html
17-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: Andhra Pradesh govt to arrange 22 special trains to ferry 33,000 migrant workers||The Andhra Pradesh government is in the process of sending home 33,000 stranded migrant labourers by 22 Shramik Special trains this week and taking steps to bring back those travelling on foot to the nearest relief centres in the state as a temporary measure. ]The government has already arranged 31 trains- nine for Bihar, Odisha-five, UP, Jharkhand and Rajasthan- four each, Maharashtra-three and Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh-one each- from the state facilitating the transportation of 39,000 people to various destinations, an official release said on Sunday. "We will be running five trains for 7,500 people today (May 17). We have planned another 22 Shramik trains during this week for 33,000 people and NoCs from the receiving states are being pursued, it said adding top most priority was being given to send them home," it said. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has given instructions to arrange buses to transport migrant workers to the nearest relief centers. All the police check posts were provided with staff from the revenue department to persuade the migrant labourers to stay at the relief centers with a promise to send them by Shramik trains. As many as 79 food counters were set up along the national highway nearest to the check posts to provide food and water. The Centre had on Friday asked states and union territories to provide food and shelter to migrant workers if they are found walking on roads and railways tracks, and ensure they board special trains to reach their native places. "Collectors were asked to put up banners on highways in Odiya and Hindi explaining the arrangements made for the migrant labourers going on foot. Once they reach the relief centers, instructions are given that people belonging to AP are to be sent to their native districts by APSRTC buses free of cost. Similarly, those belonging to other states will be sent by Shramik trains duly transporting them to the embarkation points free of cost," it added.  During the last three days, around 4,661 migrant workers going by walk have been stopped at various check posts and taken to 62 relief centers. Out of them 485 people were walking to various places within the state, while the remaining 4,176 belonged to other states, the note said. State Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney had detailed discussions with her Odisha counterpart, who agreed to receive the migrant labourers of the neighbouring state at Ganjam with prior intimation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-andhra-pradesh-govt-to-arrange-22-special-trains-to-ferry-33000-migrant-workers-838752.html
17-05-2020||South||Dancing away the COVID-19 blues in doctors’ style||In these dire times of the COVID-19 pandemic, even frontline warriors need to cheer up. And what better way than letting your hair down by shaking your leg. That is exactly over 100 senior doctors from 35 private and government hospitals in Tamil Nadu did by dancing to the tunes of mash-up songs in Tamil and English to keep alive their spirits and those at the forefront of the war against COVID-19.  In a 9.40-minute video uploaded on YouTube, doctors shake their leg to convey a pertinent message of “Be the hope. Together we can. Together we will. Because we care” to their fraternity and those helping them like paramedics and housekeeping staff. All this has been done without even uttering the word "coronavirus" once.  The music video titled “Tamil Nadu doctors beat COVID-19 Blues”, which has been viewed over 18,000 times at the time of writing, has been shot as part of the “Be the Hope” initiative featuring top professionals like Dr Mohammed Rela of the Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre here. The video also conveys social distancing and hand wash messaging in style while laying stress on “Don’t worry. Be happy.” The lively video, where doctors dance to some popular tunes from Tamil movies like Nanban, and yet-to-be-released Master, is pepped up with positive messages like ‘hope is everything’, ‘stay awake and stay aware’ and ‘be happy’. One doctor was so impressed with the idea that he shook his leg from his hotel room. The initiative was taken by three friends -- Dr. Sai Surendar, head of the Department of Emergency Medicine, Dr. Rela Institute, Dr. T Deepashree, Head of Department, Interventional Radiology, Rela Institute, and Dr. K Meena, Senior Consultant, Emergency Medicine, Gleneagles Global Hospital – who worked the phones to get the consent of doctors for the shoot.  Dr. Sai Surendar told DH that the video was brought out to lift the spirits of doctors and other health care professionals who are under extreme stress in the times of COVID-19 as they do not even get to meet their loved ones regularly. “We have to live with this Coronavirus for a long time and till then the only vaccines that are available are positive thinking, positive vibes, and social distancing. And what better way to convey than dancing to the tunes,” he said. At the end of the video, celebrities like Khushboo Sundar, Radhika Sarathkumar, Suhasini Maniratnam, and Madhavan appear to salute doctors and frontline workers who are battling COVID-19. And the doctors thank the housekeeping staff, who keep the hospitals clean round-the-clock, in the video.   Dr. Deepashree said many doctors are so “heavily involved” in treating COVID-19 patients that they do not give enough priority to their mental health and even five minutes of dancing would bust their stress. “There is a stereotype image of doctors that they are serious people. We are humans too. We can sing and dance like any other human and that is what we have demonstrated here by expressing ourselves. And people can take a cue from us and join us in fighting the battle against COVID-19,” she said. Dr. Meena said doctors who work at the COVID-19 ward are stressed about infecting their loved ones at home as they treat a lot of people every day. “And wearing the PPE is not easy as one cannot eat, drink water or do anything in the attire for six hours. During the journey back home, we are worried about our family. But this video has helped all of us relieve our stress by shaking our legs,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dancing-away-the-covid-19-blues-in-doctors-style-838754.html
17-05-2020||South||4 die of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu; toll rises to 78||After a marginal dip in the number of fresh cases below the 500 mark for the past two days, the state recorded 639 new cases on Sunday, which included people who had arrived from other states. Chennai continued to constitute the majority of positive cases at 480, taking the total cases till date to 6,750.   With the latest cases, the cumulative tally in the state has breached the 11,000 mark to touch 11,224. Eighty one of the 639 new cases included people who had arrived from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the bulletin said. A total of 634 people were discharged on Sunday, taking the total to 4,172 till date, it said. On Saturday 939 people were discharged. Tamil Nadu had reported 477 positive cases on Saturday and 434 on May 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/4-die-of-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu-toll-rises-to-78-838768.html
17-05-2020||State||Karnataka extends coronavirus lockdown till May 19||Karnataka government has extended the lockdown in the state till the midnight of May 19. An order to the effect was issued by Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar on Sunday evening, as detailed guidelines by the central government on the extension of the lockdown was still awaited. According to directions by the Ministry of Home Affairs, the third phase of the lockdown is in effect till Sunday midnight. Owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, the centre had imposed a 21-day lockdown beginning March 24, which was subsequently extended till May 3.  However, since the number of cases in the country continued to rise the lockdown was further extended till May 17. It is learnt that the Cabinet Secretary of the central government will hold a meeting with chief secretaries of all states later in the day to formulate new guidelines on the lockdown based on various parameters. The letter by the Chief Secretary directed all department heads, deputy commissioners and superintendents of police to ensure that all lockdown regulations be imposed strictly "until further orders or till the 24:00 hrs of May 19, whichever is earliest."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-may-19-838713.html
17-05-2020||State||Half of Karnataka's COVID-19 cases in north, central region||More than half of Karnataka’s COVID-19 cases are in 14 districts of north and central Karnataka.   According to the medical bulletin released by the State government on May 17, Karnataka has recorded 1,147 positive cases of coronavirus, of which 616 (53.7%) were reported in north and central Karnataka and in terms of death also, the regions have recorded 19 (51.35%) of 37 cases in State.     In terms of active cases also, the 14 districts have 376 (62.6%) of the 600 cases and only 221 (43.42%) of 509 patients who are discharged from hospitals after recovery in Karnataka are from this region. The 14 districts include Belagavi (Total cases: 114), Kalaburagi (104), Davangere (89), Bagalkot (71), Bidar (55), Vijaypur (54), Uttara Kannada (42), Dharwad (26), Ballari (18), Shivamogga (14), Gadag (12), Chitradurga (9), Yadgir (5) and Haveri (5).  Koppal and Raichur have so far remained in green zone without recording a single case since the outbreak of the pandemic in India. In the first 17 days of May, the 14 districts have reported 271 cases and majority of these cases were reported after the Union government permitted movement of stranded labourers, tourists, students, pilgrims and others to reach their home towns. Majority of these cases have a travel history to Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Ajmer, and Delhi.      With 114 positive cases, Belagavi is the second capital for COVID-19 in Karnataka. However, its recovery rate is improving with 54 patients already discharged. As on Sunday, there were 59 patients receiving treatment at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences, the district COVID-19 centre. Majority of the cases were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi. Belagavi city, Hirebagewadi, Kudachi, Sankeshwar and three villages surrounding Belagavi reported the highest number of cases. In spite of the high number of cases, Belagavi district reported only one death.  Kalaburagi, which reported the first death related to COVID-19 in the entire country, continues to be the district with the highest number of deaths: seven. Bengaluru Urban too has reported seven deaths. Kalaburagi, Bengaluru are followed by Dakshin Kannada district with five deaths, Davangere with four and Vijaypur three. Bagalkot and Gadag are the only other north Karnataka districts which have recorded one death each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/half-of-karnatakas-covid-19-cases-in-north-central-region-838794.html
17-05-2020||State||Karnataka to come out with lockdown 4.0 guidelines on Monday; 55 new cases reported||The existing guidelines will continue until further orders or till May 19 midnight, which ever is first, the state government's order said. According to official sources, the extension for the short period was done as the state government was waiting for lockdown 4. 0 guidelines from the centre. The state will come out with its measures for the next phase of lockdown on Monday, following the centre deciding to extend the lockdown till May 31 with a new set of guidelines, giving states and union territories powers for delineation of Red, Green and Orange Zones as per COVID-19 situation, they said.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has convened a meeting of Ministers and senior officers at 11 am on Monday to discuss the guidelines issued by Government of India for lockdown 4.0 at Vidhana Soudha, the state secretariat here, his office said in a release. The steps to be taken and the guidelines to be issued for the state will be discussed and finalised in this meeting, it said. The nationwide lockdown was initially imposed from March 25 to April 14, then extended to May 3 and again to May 17 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. Meanwhile, a 54-year-old man from Udupi became the 37th CIVID-19 fatality in Karnataka. The man with cardiac issues was admitted to a private hospital in the district and died due to cardiac arrest on May 14. He tested positive for COVID 19 on Saturday, the department said in its bulletin. "As of May 17 evening, cumulatively 1,147 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 37 deaths and 509 discharges," it said. Out of 600 active cases, 587 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 13 are in Intensive Care Units. Thirteen patients who have recovered, were discharged on Sunday. Out of the 55 new cases, 22 are from Mandya, 10 from Kalaburagi, six from Hassan, four from Dharwad, three each from Yadgir and Kolar, two each from Dakshina Kannada and Shivamogga, and one each from Udupi, Vijayapura and Bhatkal in Uttar Kannada.  While 40 of these cases are those with inter-state travel history from neighboring Maharashtra, mostly from Mumbai, nine are contacts of patients already tested positive, one each with travel history from Tamil Nadu, with a history of SARI and from containment zone in Kalaburagi, the bulletin said. Three other patients' contact tracing or investigation is underway. At least 10 out of these 55 cases are children. Bengaluru urban district still tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 216 infections, followed by Belagavi at 114 and Kalaburagi 104. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with total of 122, followed by Mysuru 88 and Belagavi 54. A total of 1,45,398 samples were tested so far, out of which 5,374 were tested on Sunday alone. So far 1,43,444 samples have reported as negative, of them 5,228 tested negative on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-come-out-with-lockdown-40-guidelines-on-monday-55-new-cases-reported-838841.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Two more test COVID-19 positive in Kolar, tally now 9||An undertrial at the KGF prison and a truck driver from Mulbagal tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday taking the number of cases to 9 in the district. After the revelations, the district administration quarantined over 70 people, including police officials, prison’s authorities and undertrials. The Champions Reefs police in KGF taluk had arrested a person from Sosaipalya on May 14 in connection with an attempt to burglary at a closed gold mine shaft at Marikuppam. After he was remanded in judicial custody, the police had subjected him for medicals tests. Reports of his throat swabs and blood samples on Sunday revealed that he had COVID-19. The prison’s authorities had kept at a barrack with five undertrials. They came in contact with five officials of the prison. About 9 policemen of the Champions Reef police station were involved in his arrest and till he was sent to the prison. He was also in contact with six of his family members. The 49-year-old truck driver, who had transported vegetables from APMCs at Waddahalli in Mulbagal and Kolar to Chennai also tested positive. He was quarantined at Mulbagal government hospital after he fell ill four days ago. The health department officials are tracing those who came in contact with him. “Two people who tested positive on Sunday were admitted at SNR district hospital. Those who had come in contact with them have been quarantined,” deputy commissioner C Satyabhama said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-kolar-tally-now-9-838767.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||15 injured in group clash||About 15 members of two families were injured in a group clash over a piece of land at Holerahalli in the taluk. A purposed video showing the attack and women being chased has gone viral. The families of Chikka Venkateshappa and Ashok had dispute over a piece of land at the village. Members of the two families brandished lethal weapons and sticks attacking each other on May 15 when the revenue department officials had gone to the village for survey, said the police. Women were chased and attacked. Some of them fell on the ground crying for help. Chikka Venkateshappa fractured his hands, while Ashok was attacked brutally. Backbones of two women were fractured, added the police. Complaint and counter complaints have been lodged with the Vemagal police||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/15-injured-in-group-clash-838770.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lack of home physiotherapy services: Lockdown delays recovery of knee surgery patients||The patients who had knee surgery are facing tough time due to lack of home physiotherapy services during the coronavirus lockdown. The pandemic has cut short home visits of physiotherapists, whose post-operative care is crucial for patients to recover from their surgeries. People who had knee surgeries before the COVID-19 onset are struggling without the service as building complexes have refused entry to the physiotherapists. Hospitals like Hosmat have 10 physiotherapists travelling from MG Road, Whitefield and Kengeri to their patient’s place for therapy sessions. “In a few gated communities, physios are not allowed. So, patients visited the hospital at least once a week,” Dr Sherin George, head of physiotherapy at Hosmat Hospital, told DH. "In the case of some patients, we saw that the stiffness had set in post-surgery due to lack of physiotherapy. Such patients will take a long time to recover." Prior to the lockdown, people who had total knee replacement surgeries, anterior cruciate ligament surgeries (to keep the knee from sliding forward) and posterior cruciate ligament surgeries (to keep the knee from sliding backward) in February and early March  - need physiotherapy for two to three months. “Since we can’t take the equipment to them, they rely on weight cuffs and bands available in the market,” Dr Sherin said. Dr Thomas Chandy, CMD and chief of orthopaedics at Hosmat, said the hospital has physiotherapists doing home visits once or twice a day. “They would easily do 30 trips a month,” he said. The hospital witnessed a 70% drop in the number of surgeries during the lockdown, which is now beginning to improve. The number of home visits by their physiotherapists also fell by 50% since elective surgeries had dropped, but patients who had the surgeries before the lockdown need care. Online rehab hub A start-up called SuVitas is providing a solution by launching an online rehab hub for medical conditions, including post-surgical rehab for various neurological and orthopedic conditions such as stroke, head/spine injuries, joint replacements and fractures. The company offers one-on-one sessions or group therapy sessions and webinars. “We have been working to provide the services virtually for the past six months,” said Dr Vijay Janagama, director of new initiatives at SuVitas, adding that the surging need for the services has prompted them to go full-fledged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lack-of-home-physiotherapy-services-lockdown-delays-recovery-of-knee-surgery-patients-838797.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Hunt on for man-eater leopard after woman mauled to death||Rising cases of man-leopard conflict have panicked villagers in Magadi taluk on the western outskirts of Bengaluru. Days after a leopard killed a three-year-old boy at Kadirayyana Palya, a 62-year-old woman was found mauled to death by a big cat on Friday.  The back-to-back incidents prompted the forest department to launch a massive search operation to trap the animal.  A forest official in Magadi said the woman, Gangamma, was sleeping outside her home in Motagondanahalli when the leopard mauled her to death. It then dragged her body to a farmland, leaving different body parts along the way. The boy had been mauled to death under similar circumstances.  Although forest officials had trapped a leopard on Wednesday, they are not sure if it was the same animal that killed the child. They had kept six cages to trap the leopard. The department has formed special squads and deployed one of them to track the leopard’s movements by using camera traps. On Saturday, the chief wildlife warden appealed to the villagers to not step out alone after 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hunt-on-for-man-eater-leopard-after-woman-mauled-to-death-838799.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Stock clearance: Restaurants offer 30% discount on beer||This is the kind of weekend beer lovers have been waiting for. The drinks would begin to flow from the taverns and waterholes, and would flow unbelievably cheap as many restaurants, hotels and pubs are offering big discounts to clear their old stock. However, here is a word of caution: check the stock to ensure it is not expired, as some stores have been accused of selling outdated stock. With the state government allowing hotels and restaurants to retail vend beers from Saturday, many joints that have old stocks are using the discount sales as a way of clearing them. Beers have up to 30% discount based on the date of expiry. Even bestselling brands like Corona and Kingfisher are going for a discounted price. A five-star hotel in East Bengaluru is selling a can of beer for Rs 25. “Since our products last for just four days, we have cleared the stock by selling them cheap,” said the hotel’s manager. Some outlets have announced discounts for the next three days. “There is a huge stock of Corona Extra beer. So, we are giving 30% off. Budweiser and other brands were sold out by afternoon, within hours of opening (the sale),” said the bar in-charge at a five-star hotel in Central Bengaluru. A request from restaurants, pubs and bar owners to clear the existing beer stock –considering its short shelf life — prompted the state government to allow the sale until they exhaust the stock or before May 17, whichever comes first. The joints are allowed to only service customers who would carry away the drink and are barred from serving the spirit inhouse for fear that people could violate the social-distancing norms. Meanwhile, some people have complained that shops are getting rid of expired beer stock. Sharankumar, with the username @shanblg, sent a tweet to the police and chief minister with photos of the expired beer cans and bottles. In one post, he posted the picture of a beer can bought from a wine store at St Johns Road which had May 2 as the expiry date. He posted another picture of a bottle bought from a store on MG Road that had May 3 as the expiry date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stock-clearance-restaurants-offer-30-discount-on-beer-838815.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Migrant workers return from Ballari, Hubballi by Shramik trains||A total of 1,452 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh left for their hometowns by Shramik Special train, which departed from Ballari on Sunday. The migrant workers were eking out their livelihood by doing odd jobs in Ballari, Torangal and other parts of the district. These migrants were medically examined at government model higher primary and high schools in Torangal on Friday and Saturday. Certificates were also issued to them. A total of 835 tickets were issued to the passengers. The seat numbers were mentioned on the back of the tickets. The authorities of the district administration and police personnel were directing the passengers to their respective seats. The exercise began at 7 in the morning. The migrant workers hailed from Agra, Alighar, Azamgarh, Lucknow, Allahabad and various other places in Uttar Pradesh. They were stranded without jobs following nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 epidemic. The passengers were provided with biscuit and bread packets, water bottle and also a separate food kit to sustain themselves during the journey. Sanitiser was sprayed on the hands of the passengers as soon as they entered the railway station. The Red Cross distributed masks for them. On the other hand, another team of  1,450 migrant workers left for their home states by Shramik Special train from Hosapete. Medical examination was conducted on these passengers at Hosapete and Torangal on Saturday. They were brought to railway station by buses belonging to Jindal company. Assistant Commissioner Shaikh Tanveer Asif said that the passengers comprised workers from all taluks except Ballari and Siruguppa. He said more number of people had registered their names for journey back home and arrangements would be made for their travel.  Train from Hubballi As many as 1,446 residents of Uttar Pradesh, who were stranded in Dharwad and neighbouring districts boarded the special train arranged by the the stated government at Hubballi Railway Station on Sunday. A majority of the passengers of the Sharamik Express were labourers, stranded tourists, students and others. The train left Hubballi at 12:25 pm and is expected to reach Azamghar via Lucknow on May 19. A second train, with equal number of passengers is expected to travel from Hubballi railway station on May 18. Only those persons who have registered online (on Seva Sindhu portal) are permitted to travel. Tickets for the travel were issued at the bus stand during the medical screening on May 16 by the district administration.  Apart from these two trains, the SWR has readied two more trains to Uttar Pradesh on May 20 and 21. A train to Jarkhand will leave Hubballi on May 19. The special trains to Katihar in Bihar, scheduled for May 17 and 18 from Hubballi, will now start on May 20 and 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/migrant-workers-return-from-ballari-hubballi-by-shramik-trains-838816.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cocoon auction resumes at Ramangara silk market||The e-auction of silkworm cocoons was conducted without any hurdles at the government cocoon market here on Sunday. The auction on Saturday was postponed till Sunday as reelers did not participate as a mark of protest seeking the government to fulfil their demands. Irate farmers dumped their cocoons on Bengaluru-Mysuru highway and staged a protest. Though the meeting of deputy commissioner and legislator with reelers and farmers’ leaders yielded results, it was already evening. Hence, a decision was taken to postpone the auction till Sunday. The e-auction began at 10 am with the participation of large number of reelers. There were two lots for the auction. About 352 lots of mixed breeds of cocoons weighing 14,726 kg and 168 lots of another breed weighed 13,119 kg were auctioned. The mixed breeds fetched Rs 227, while the bivoltine cocoon Rs 2417. “The cocoons fetched better rates for farmers,” deputy director of the market Munibasaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cocoon-auction-resumes-at-ramangara-silk-market-838817.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Less dengue cases a silver lining to COVID-19||The number of dengue cases in March and April were 50% lesser than the corresponding period last year, according to officials of the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP). There have been only 1,613 dengue cases in the first five months of 2020 and zero deaths. In the whole of last year, there were 18,183 cases and 17 deaths. Officials say source reduction activity, for preventing dengue, is on in both rural and urban areas, despite the burden of COVID-19 duty. It has not been possible to hold meetings in this regard at the community level, but officials are making the best use of social media. Dr Mahamood Shariff, Research Officer, NVBDCP, told DH, “Though ASHAs are preoccupied with COVID-19 duty, our 6,000-odd junior female and male health assistants are going house to house and conducting inspection for water stagnation points. In January this year, the cases were higher than last year, but in March and April, cases have come down by 50%.” Less exposure Shariff says people are not moving about and exposing themselves to potential breeding places of mosquitoes. While the junior female assistants conduct house to house survey once in three days, the junior male assistants conduct inspection once in a week. “They look for water stagnation points and ask people to drain out water. We are giving them Rs 300 every month for additional work,” he said. Dengue is a viral disease spread by the bite of an infected Aides mosquito. High-grade fever is one of the most common symptoms. Alert ASHAs “Since ASHAs are conducting house-to-house survey for COVID-19 symptoms like cold, cough and fever, if a suspected dengue case with high-grade fever is found, the person is immediately tested,” the officer said. As there is no specific vaccine and treatment for dengue, cases are managed symptomatically and the focus is on getting the white blood cell count up during recovery. While retro-orbital pain, arthralgia (joint pain), common myalgia (muscle pain) and rashes are some of the milder symptoms, vomiting, haematemesis (vomiting blood) and bleeding gums are the severe symptoms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/less-dengue-cases-a-silver-lining-to-covid-19-838818.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress arranges 16 buses from Karnataka to Kerala||Congress has so far arranged 16 bus services from Karnataka to Kerala for Malayalis stranded in Karnataka to return home, Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said in a statement. Congress leaders of Karnataka, led by KPCC president D K Shivakumar, initiated arranging the buses on rent from the state transport corporation. In order to ensure social distancing, only 27 passengers were allowed in each bus and the service was offered free. The buses started operating from May 11. Only seven buses were allowed permission to enter Kerala and hence the passengers in ten services were dropped at the border as informed earlier, Ramesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-arranges-16-buses-from-karnataka-to-kerala-838819.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Administrative approval for Navali dam DPR||Following a Cabinet decision, the Water Resources Department has granted administrative approval to prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR) for Navali Balancing Reservoir. Water Resource Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that silt accumulation has reduced the storage capacity of Tungabhadra dam by 31 TMC, and the balancing reservoir would help in optimising the use of water. Jarkiholi said that the government has worked out a new strategy to address the storage problems of Tungabhadra reservoir caused by silt accumulation. While the total storage of the dam was 130 TMC of water, silt accumulation has reduced its capacity by 31 TMC of water. Balancing reservoir at Navali will ensure optimum utilisation of water. Directions have been issued to release Rs 14.30 crore towards preparation of the DPR. Desiltation of the TB dam has been pending for many years and the government has taken up this cause to help farmers, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/administrative-approval-for-navali-dam-dpr-838821.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Man in quarantine electrocuted in Raichur district||A 35-year-old man who was under quarantine was electrocuted at Gunjalli village in the taluk on Sunday. Bharaiah came in contact with a live wire while answering nature’s near the compound wall of the government high school where he was quarantined. Bharaiah was a worker who had migrated to Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh and was in quarantine as a precaution against COVID-19, ever since he returned to his village. The wire had snapped from an under-construction building of the adjoining residential school due to heavy winds. The Yaragera police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/man-in-quarantine-electrocuted-in-raichur-district-838823.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||All board exam time tables to be out on Monday||The time table of all board exams, including Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) and classes 10 and 12 examinations of other boards, will be announced on Monday. Both Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE) and Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) will announce the time table for classes 10 and 12 examinations on Monday. The state government will announce the exam time table for SSLC and one remaining subject of II PUC on Monday. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that he would convene a meeting with department officials to finalise SSLC exam dates on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-board-exam-time-tables-to-be-out-on-monday-838826.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Worries mount as COVID-19 expenses deplete Karnataka's relief fund||The State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) appears to be depleting rapidly as the expenses incurred to tackle COVID-19 are increasing by the day. Till date, the state has spent Rs 255 crore from SDRF and the expenses are expected to rise further in the coming months due to the increase in cases. Considering that SDRF funds will be utilised for any disaster during the upcoming monsoon season and also for drought relief, authorities fear that the funds allocated for the financial year, Rs 1054 crore, would be insufficient. The funds are being spent for quarantine centres, cluster containment measures, protective equipment for health workers, procurement of ventilators, PPE kits, basic screening equipment and others. Growing requirement of quarantine centres due to the return of Kannadigas from abroad and different states of India has also caused the expenses to surge. As of May 15, Karnataka was running 23,900 quarantine centres with the number expected to grow in the coming days. Of the overall SDRF outlay of Rs 1054 crore, 75% - 790.5 crore will be released by the Centre, while the state has to mobilise the remainder of the funds. The first instalment of Rs 395 crore was released by the Centre in early April, of which around Rs 189 crore was spent for COVID-19 expenses in the first five weeks of 2020-21. This, along with Rs 65 crore of the 2019-20 SDRF outlay, was spent for COVID-19 purposes. Authorities note that a significant chunk of the SDRF funds are annually released to compensate for flood and drought relief. Noting that parts of Karnataka are perennially affected by either floods or drought, sources say additional allocation of SDRF may be required for the second half of the 2020-21 fiscal. When contacted, T K Anil Kumar, Revenue Secretary (Disaster Management) said that the government currently had enough funds and the state could approach the Centre for additional allocations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/worries-mount-as-covid-19-expenses-deplete-karnatakas-relief-fund-838829.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt's rule will deny aid to lakhs of drivers: associations||Lack of documents, eligibility restrictions and stricter rules on fitness certificate are likely to deny the government’s Rs 5,000 aid to lakhs of drivers of buses, maxi cabs and other passenger transport vehicles. In a circular issued on Saturday, the Transport Department laid down the procedures for applying for the subsistence a week after the state govt announced the scheme to help about 7.5 lakh drivers in Karnataka. All applications have to be submitted through the Seva Sindhu web portal. Only taxi and autorickshaw drivers, who have obtained driving licence and fitness certificate as on March 24, will be eligible to apply. Maxi cab drivers will not be eligible for the aid, the notification said. Besides Aadhaar card, driving licence and registration number of the vehicle, each beneficiary has to provide fitness certificate of the vehicles. “The portal will open on Wednesday,” anofficial said. Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association questioned the exclusion of the bus drivers. In a press release, president of the association Radhakrishna Holla noted that thousands of people working in private buses have not been paid for the last two months and excluding them from the scheme leaves them in a crisis. Tanveer Pasha, leader of Ola, Uber Taxi Owners and Drivers’ Union, said the post-lockdown operation of taxis would be a big challenge and the government’s strict rules will deny subsistence to many. “Most of the drivers don’t own a vehicle registered in their name. Owners employ them. To deny them the aid because they are poor and don’t own a vehicle is not only unscientific but also very cruel,” he said. He said that private transport providers will have challenges in the coming days as people will start to avoid such services. “We need to install new facility like partitioning the passengers’ segment and disinfecting the cabs after every trip. Installing such devices will cost up to Rs 4,000. If the government withholds even the aid announced already, how can we expect any other help?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govts-rule-will-deny-aid-to-lakhs-of-drivers-associations-838831.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karwar COVID-19 ward uses 100 PPEs per day||The COVID-19 ward at the medical college consumes 60 to 100 personal protection equipment (PPE) per day. Moreover, it also generates 50 kg of biomedical waste and 10 kg of solid waste. An exclusive vehicle is attached to collect the wastes from the ward. A total of 29 people, including six children, are under treatment at the ward. About 20 medical staff work in shifts changing the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits thrice daily. Around 100 PPE kits are used in the ward for various purposes. The ward has separate place for the staff to remove the PPE kits. The staff dump the PPE kits in a tray. Those collecting the trays also wear the PPE kits. The PPE kits and all materials used by the patients are packed in yellow colour bag. After spraying hypochlorite all over the bag, it is packed in two other bags to ensure that kits and materials contain three layers, said Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Mohammad Roshan. Steel plates and glasses are given to the patients which are washed by patients themselves. This has helped contain the spread of novel coronavirus and reduce the quantity of solid waste, he said. “The solid wastes are packed in blue colour bag. It will be ready for the disposal after spraying the hypochlorite,” he said. The trays containing the PPE kits are kept at the entrance of the ward. The team collecting these kits are barred from entering inside. The bags, trays, water bottles and leftovers of the patients are dumped in the vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karwar-covid-19-ward-uses-100-ppes-per-day-838834.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||AIISH to resume its clinical services from today||Mysuru, DHNS: The All India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH) will resume its clinical OPD services from Monday (May 18). The services were suspended for the public from March 25 due to nationwide lockdown. The institute had come out with online assistance for any type of therapy or educational assistance. Sudden disruptions in receiving clinical services for persons with special needs had an impact on the families and the individuals themselves. Since April 27, AIISH had been helping the caretakers through its WhatsApp groups and various otheronline services. People also made use of Tele-Center for Persons with Communication Disorders (TCPD) which was established in the year 2009. The Center provides services through distance mode on various platforms such as video-conferencing, e-mode, tele-mode etc. Through video conference, the experts managed to provide services including therapy to more than 150 people with more than 700sessions. Those willing to avail of free tele-assessment and tele-therapy services can contact 9986980236 or 9902122165. E mail ID – aiishtelecenter@gmail.com, a press release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/aiish-to-resume-its-clinical-services-from-today-838838.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Safety of pregnant women a priority: B Sriramulu||Health Minister B Sriramulu said on Sunday that an estimated 82,000 women were due for delivery over the next six months and that measures had been taken to safeguard them from COVID-19. The pregnant women were being tested for coronavirus in a manner that does not cause discomfort to them. The minister was addressing the gathering after a felicitation programme for Corona warriors and distribution of kits for the poor. Noting that that Coronavirus was here to stay, he said those coming to the state from outside would have to undergo mandatory test for COVID-19. The same holds good for those coming out of containment zones, the minister said.  He sought people’s co-operation in the battle against the virus. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ease lockdown restrictions in the green and yellow zones of the state, Sriramulu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/safety-of-pregnant-women-a-priority-b-sriramulu-838839.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Institutional quarantine not needed for Covid-19 health workers: DC||Deputy commissioner Y S Patil on Sunday clarified that 14-day institutional quarantine was not necessary for health workers involved in the treatment of COVID-19 patients as chance of they contracting novel coronavirus were very less. He chaired a meeting with health department officials to contain COVID-19 here. Quoting a circular issued by the additional chief secretary of the health department, the deputy commissioner clarified that medical officers, junior and senior health assistants, nurses, laboratory technicians and Group D employees worked wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. Hence, there were less chance of they contracting the virus. They need not be subjected for institutional quarantine.  “It is improper to subject the asymptomatic staff involved in the treatment of COVID-19 patients for institutional quarantine. The health workers may test their temperature and symptoms daily and submit reports. They may work at the COVID-19 wards as usual,” he said. Patil said that those hospitals that were not handling the COVID-19 patients might follow guidelines issued by the government. The medical officers and staff concerned should work as per plan. They had done wonderful job so far and should continue the same spirit. “As many as 10,097 migrant labourers have returned to the district. They are being subjected to the institutional quarantine. About 2,886 migrant workers have returned from Goa. Out of 2,741 people, throat swabs of 2,608 of them are negative for novel coronavirus. Reports of 80 people are awaited,” the deputy commissioner said. The district administration was monitoring 2,292 people who had returned from various states and countries. A total of 1,269 people had completed 28-day isolation period. About 983 people were between the reporting period of 1 and 28 days, he said. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Govinda Reddy, additional deputy commissioner Dr Audram, district surgeon Dr Sharanappa Katti, district surveillance officer Dr M B Biradar and Dr Mukund Galagali were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/institutional-quarantine-not-needed-for-covid-19-health-workers-dc-838851.html
17-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown 4.0: Regular trains suspended||The regular train services remain suspended and only Shramik Special other Special Rajdhani Express trains, parcel and freight services will operate during lockdown 4.0, the Railways said. The Railways will continue to suspend the operations of regular mail/express and suburban railway services. It has already cancelled all the tickets booked in regular mail and express trains till June 30, said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-40-regular-trains-suspended-838852.html
17-05-2020||West||One more COVID-19 case in Goa; state tally rises to 16||A woman passenger who travelled to Goa in a Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Rajdhani train on Saturday has tested positive for coronavirus, taking the total number of such cases in the state to 16, a health official said on Sunday. The woman's samples came out positive in the TrueNat (rapid) testing, the official said, adding that her samples have also been sent to the virology lab of the state-run Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) for final confirmation. Out of 323 passengers of the train who arrived at Madgaon railway station in South Goa district on Saturday, the woman is the third person to have tested positive for the coronavirus infection. On Saturday evening, samples of two men who alighted from the same train came out positive for coronavirus in the TrueNat test. Their final test report at GMCH also confirmed COVID-19, the official said. Results of samples of 56 more passengers were awaited, he said. All the passengers who alighted from the Delhi- Thiruvananthapuram train at Madgaon railway station on Saturday were taken to the district hospital for testing, and later quarantined at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Margao city, the official said.     In all, the district hospital has tested over 500 samples drawn from different sources since Saturday, he said.   Goa, which was earlier declared a green zone, has reported 16 coronavirus cases since May 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-more-covid-19-case-in-goa-state-tally-rises-to-16-838579.html
17-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Maharashtra releases 7,200 prisoners to curb overcrowding||Authorities in Maharashtra have released over 7,200 prisoners so far to check overcrowding in jails amid the coronavirus pandemic, officials said on Sunday. Around 10000 more will be released shortly, they said. In a bid to decongest state jails due to coronavirus outbreak, the state prisons department has so far released over 7,200 prisoners across the state on either temporary bail or parole, an official said. Following the Supreme Court directives to states and Union territories to set up a panel to consider the release of prisoners on parole to avoid overcrowding in jails to check the spread of coronavirus, the state government had said that around 11,000 prisoners in Maharashtra, whose sentence period is less than seven years, would be released temporarily. "The pre-lockdown population in the 60 prisons across the state was over 35000 and so far we have released over 7200inmates temporarily to decongest the jails," an official from the prisons department told PTI. In all, around 17000 jail inmates would be released on temporary bail or parole, he said.  A high-powered committee appointed by the state government recently decided to release 50 per cent prisoners from various jails across the states and this figure is around 17000, he said. The committee's decision came after over 100 inmates and staff of central Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail tested positive for COVID-19. The pre-lockdown population of Arthur Road Jail was 2300, of which around 700 prisoners were released, he said. There are 1572 inmates in the jail now, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-releases-7200-prisoners-to-curb-overcrowding-838606.html
17-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra govt extends lockdown till May 31||Much on expected lines, Maharashtra, on Sunday, extended the coronavirus lockdown till May 31, in order to control the spread of the virus, under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the state government said in a statement. On Sunday afternoon, Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta, in a notification said: "It is further directed that all earlier orders shall be aligned with this order and remain in force up to and inclusive of May 31, 2020. The calibrated phase-wise relaxation or lifting of lockdown orders will be notified in due course."   "Lockdown 3.0 ends today. Lockdown 4.0 will come into effect tomorrow and will be valid till May 31. There will be some relaxations in the fourth phase," he said. "The green and orange zones will get more relaxations, in terms of starting more services. As of now only essential services are operational," he said. Maharashtra has recorded 30,706 COVID-19 cases of which 22,479 are active. The death toll is 1135, while 7,088 patients have been discharged after recovery. In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1898 and the powers, conferred under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Chairperson, State Executive Committee, issued direction to extend the lockdown till 31 May 2020 for containment of COVID-19 epidemic in the State and all Departments of Government of Maharashtra shall strictly implement the guidelines issued earlier form time to time, according to the statement.  Over the last two days,  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held a series of meetings with his ministerial colleagues, senior leaders including NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and top officials.    (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-govt-extends-lockdown-till-may-31-838609.html
17-05-2020||West||Aaditya Thackeray disagrees with Sanjay Raut on use of stadiums as COVID-19 facilities, cites monsoon||Senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday supported the Mumbai civic body's move to take over some premises of the Wankhede stadium here for converting it into a COVID-19 quarantine facility and suggested making a similar facility at the Brabourne stadium. However, Maharashtra Cabinet minister and Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray disagreed with Raut's suggestion, saying grounds of stadiums have mud base and they won't be usable during monsoons. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday directed the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) to hand over some premises of the Wankhede Stadium in south Mumbai to the civic body to create facilities in connection with the novel coronavirus outbreak. Welcoming the BMC's move, Raut in a Twitter post on Sunday said, All resources need to be utilised in Mumbai to fight against #Covid_19India. Good call on taking up Wankhede stadium to develop a quarantine facility. Suggestion to @OfficeofUT-why not take over Brabourne stadium as well? It has much-needed facilities @PawarSpeaks @AUThackeray." However, Raut's suggestion was turned down by Aadtiya Thackeray. Sanjay ji, we cant take the grounds of the stadiums or playgrounds because they have a mud base and they wont be usable during monsoons. An open space with a solid/ concrete base is usable and its being done already," tweeted the minister, who is son of Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. "Had it not been for our monsoons, it is very usable," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aaditya-thackeray-disagrees-with-sanjay-raut-on-use-of-stadiums-as-covid-19-facilities-cites-monsoon-838619.html
17-05-2020||West||In 2 months, Maharashtra's coronavirus death toll jumped from 1 to 1,135||On March 17, a 64-year-old man, with a foreign travel history, died in Mumbai's Kasturba Hospital. The demise of the senior citizen was the first COVID-19 death in Maharashtra.  Exactly,  two months later, on May 16,  the deaths in Mumbai stands at 696 and Maharashtra at 1,135. Statewide,  on an average,  the deadly pandemic is claiming 18 to 20 lives a day.As regards the number of positive cases,  Mumbai and Maharashtra has 18,555 and 30,796 cases, respectively. The first two positive cases that were detected in Maharashtra was in Pune on March 9.  Maharashtra is now the worst-affected state with nearly 30 percent of the cases and deaths in India.  Mumbai continues to be the COVID-19 hotspot of India. The Maharashtra government's Public Health and Medical Education departments as well as the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation is expecting a big spike in Mumbai cases during the end of May and first week of June.  While Mumbai will reel under the big spike,  the south west monsoon will make an entry, that brings in  a new set of problems in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR).     Mumbai has 24 municipal wards and in five of the wards, the positive cases are very high. The worst-hit area is Asia’s biggest slum cluster of Dharavi and surroundings of Dadar and Mahim (G/North Ward) with the largest chunk of over 1,300 cases. Then, it is the Worli-Prabhadevi area (G/South Ward) with over 1,200 cases, Byculla and vicinity (E Ward) with more 1,100 cases, Andheri west (K/West Ward) with over 1,000 and Wadala-Antop Hill-Matunga (F/North Ward) with more than 1000 cases. Besides Mumbai, the other worst-hit are Pune Division with 212 deaths (4149 cases), Nashik Division with 78 fatalities (1,256 cases), Thane-Raigad with 72 deaths (4,638 cases). Next are Akola Division with 28 fatalities (466 cases), Aurangabad Division with 26 deaths (966 cases), Kolhapur Division with 5 fatalities (173 cases), Latur Divison with 5 deaths (101 cases), and Nagpur Division 3 fatalities and (361 cases). The BMC, Maharashtra government  along with private sector, is creating massive isolation and quarantine facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-2-months-maharashtras-coronavirus-death-toll-jumped-from-1-to-1135-838629.html
17-05-2020||West||TV actor Manmeet Grewal commits suicide due to financial crisis amid COVID-19 pandemic||TV actor Manmeet Grewal, who worked on shows like "Aadat Se Majboor" and "Kuldeepak", committed suicide after struggling with dwindling finances amid lockdown, family friend-producer Manjit Singh Rajput said. Grewal, who was originally from Punjab, hanged himself on Friday night at his Kharghar residence here where he lived with his wife. He was 32. Rajput, who had known Grewal for nearly seven years, said the actor was facing "financial crisis" and wasn't able to earn due to the lockdown.  "He was going through a major financial issue and he was also in depression. The added pressure of not being able to repay loans amid this (no work phase) got to him. His wife is completely shocked and devastated," Rajput told PTI. The producer said last rites of the actor were performed on Saturday.  Grewal was working on projects like a webseries and some commercials, which were put on hold due to the nationwide lockdown amid the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tv-actor-manmeet-grewal-commits-suicide-due-to-financial-crisis-amid-covid-19-pandemic-838657.html
17-05-2020||West||8-10 more train passengers have tested positive: Goa minister||Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Sunday said "eight to ten" passengers who alighted from the Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram special train at Madgaon have tested positive for the novel coronavirus, and this is apart from the three who were detected with the infection on Saturday. He said the samples were tested using the Truenat method and they have been sent for confirmation to the virology lab in Goa Medical College and Hospital. "All passengers travelling with the ones who tested positive have been quarantined for 14 days after which they will be subjected to another round of tests," Rane said. He said advertisements have been released in the newspapers to recruit new MD and MSC (Microbiology) staff in GMCH along with additional technicians. "We will install five Truenat machines, one each at district hospitals in Margao and Mapusa, and three in sub-district hospital in Ponda," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/8-10-more-train-passengers-have-tested-positive-goa-minister-838661.html
17-05-2020||West||One lakh beds soon for COVID-19 treatment in Mumbai: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation will soon increase the bed capacity for COVID-19 treatment at its facilities to one lakh in view of the rising number of cases of the disease in the city, civic commissioner I S Chahal said on Sunday. He also said that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is not going to take over premises of the Wankhede stadium for quarantine facility, as open grounds will not be useful for the purpose during the upcoming monsoon.  "The BMC has already increased its bed capacity to 50,000. We will soon achieve the capacity of one lakh beds," Chahal told reporters. On reports of the BMC's move to take over some premises of the Wankhede stadium for quarantine facility, he said, "We are not taking over the cricket stadium or any other open space because in Mumbai it sometimes rains continuously for a week. It will not be useful at all for the administration to take care of people." "We need to think before taking over any ground for COVID-19 treatment ahead of the monsoon. Even Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had instructed me to consider monsoon challenges before making any plans for a new facility (for COVID-19 patients)," he said. Chahal said some parking lots in the city were a better option to put up beds for patients. The parking facility near the Mumbai airport can be used to put up 50,000 beds. Another facility in Aarey area has the capacity for at least 1,000 beds. Two parking lots near Santacruz and Breach Candy Hospital would also useful for putting up beds for COVID-19 patients or isolation purpose, the official said.  "An 800-bed facility set up at the MMRDA ground in Bandra-Kurla Complex will be operational from Monday. The appointment of required officials is done. By Tuesday, patients will start being admitted there, Chahal said. Some private hospitals, government hostels and other such facilities have already been taken over by the BMC. "The ICU facilities of these private hospitals will soon be used for treatment of COVID-19 patients. This will help in containing the rising number of deaths, he said. Asked about restructuring the COVID-19 containment zones in areas falling under the civic limits, Chahal said there are 690 containment zones in Mumbai at present and most of the cases are being reported from there. There are some 1,500 buildings where one or two people tested positive for coronavirus, but the entire 15 to 20- storey building was earlier declared as a containment zone. It required additional police staff also. "Hence, we changed the definition from the entire building to floor and its sanitisation is undertaken by the BMC. It reduced the requirement of police officials in such places and they were deployed at other places for better use. Nearly 3,000 police officials have been shifted to slum areas as there is more need for security deployment there, he said. The official also informed that managements of housing societies in the city have been given the responsibility to ensure people do not move out, he said. Chahal also said that BMC's ambulance strength has been increased from 80 to 350. "Besides, we brought some 50 doctors here from Wardha last week. We are getting 100 doctors from Ambejogai (tehsil in Beed district), while nearly 2,000 doctors have committed to volunteer in the fight against coronavirus, he said. The only problem is availability of sweepers and cleaners in state-run and private hospitals. The current attendance of the staff is merely 40 per cent, he said. "If the BEST (civic body's transport arm running buses) service is improved, more people can come to work, Chahal said. Till Saturday, Mumbai reported 18,555 COVID-19 cases and 696 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-lakh-beds-soon-for-covid-19-treatment-in-mumbai-bmc-838672.html
17-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Two cops killed in encounter with Naxals||In a shocking incident, at least two policemen were killed in an encounter with Maoists in the jungles of Gadchiroli district on Sunday. The two policemen were from the Quick Response Team and special security forces personnel.  According to Gadchiroli police, the incident occurred around dawn when the security forces were carrying out a combing operation in the Koparshi forests in the Maoist-infested Bhamragad tehsil. Around 6 am, the outlawed Maoists started firing at the police party. In the fierce gun-battle two policemen Dhanaji Honmane and Kishore Atram were martyred. The police said the security forces may have succeeded in inflicting heavy casualities in the Maoists, including at least 4-5 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-two-cops-killed-in-encounter-with-naxals-838700.html
17-05-2020||West||Gujarat: Locals pelt stones at cops in containment zone; 68 arrested||Residents of a COVID-19 containment zone in Gujarat's Rajkot district pelted stones at police and damaged some vehicles when the security personnel tried to stop them from removing barricades placed in the area, an official said on Sunday. Nearly 68 people were arrested after the incident that took place in Jangleshwar locality of Rajkot around Saturday midnight, he said, adding that police lobbed tear gas shells and baton-charged the rioters to disperse them and bring the situation under control. Locals pelted stones at policemen and damaged vehicles when the security men tried to stop them from removing barricades placed in the area designated as 'red zone', due to a large number of coronavirus cases found there, an official from Bhaktinagar police station said. People of the locality were upset as local authorities were not removing barricades in their area, even as barricades in some other areas under containment zone were being removed, Bhaktinagar's police inspector V K Gadhvi said. Police lobbed six teargas shells and baton-charged the mob to control the situation, he said. Nearly 68 people were later arrested and booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 147, 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to public servant) and 353 (assault on public servant ), among others, he said. Security was stepped up in the area to maintain law and order, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-locals-pelt-stones-at-cops-in-containment-zone-68-arrested-838711.html
17-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Liquor worth Rs 76,000 seized from four trucks in Maharashtra||Police have seized liquor worth Rs 76,000 being transported in four trucks without valid permit during the lockdown in Maharashtra's Palghar district, an official said on Sunday. Five persons have been arrested in this connection, he said.  HIGHLIGHTS:  Temporary layoffs reduce company costs, prop up economy Costly schemes only realistic for matter of months Belgium study shows a fifth of workers on scheme could lose jobs Permanent shifts to economy likely from COVID-19 Temporary unemployment schemes operating across Europe could struggle to save the jobs of leisure and travel sector workers facing drawn-out or partial recoveries from the COVID-19 pandemic, even if they help industries that rebound quickly. Short-term unemployment or furlough schemes have taken in a quarter of Britain's workforce, nearly two-thirds of those employed by France's private sector and many millions across Europe. Championed by Germany, where it is known as kurzarbeit, the schemes typically provide at least 80% of pay for workers for whom there is no work now, but a swift return is expected after a limited period. During patrolling, the Valiv police under Vasai division intercepted four trucks on Friday night and seized the stock of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) from the vehicles, police spokesperson Hemant Katkar said. Five persons, all residents of Mumbai, were arrested and booked under provisions of the Maharashtra Prohibition Act, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-liquor-worth-rs-76000-seized-from-four-trucks-in-maharashtra-838716.html
17-05-2020||West||Bihar, West Bengal not giving required clearance to run trains: Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday alleged that West Bengal and Bihar are not issuing required clearances to run trains at a number desired by the state government, saying they are "very slow" in responding. He also said a total of 20 lakh migrants, most of them from Bihar and West Bengal, have registered themselves with the Maharashtra government so far for travelling back to their native states in special trains. Deshmukh's statement came close on the heels of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal accusing some Opposition-ruled states, including West Bengal, of reluctance to requisition trains for migrants settled in other states. "The state Home department has received an enrolment of some 20 lakh people, most of them to Bihar and West Bengal, who have expressed their wish to return to their home states," Deshmukh told reporters. "However, the problem is that states like West Bengal and Bihar are not issuing required clearance for running the trains," he said. Deshmukh further said that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP president Sharad Pawar had already spoken to CMs of Bihar and West Bengal, "but they are very slow in responding". The senior NCP leader said the minimum requirement of trains for Maharashtra alone is around 800. "If all the migrant labourers to be sent back, we would need more than 1,000 trains," the home minister said. "Going by the current speed at which migrants are enrolling themselves (to travel back), daily 50 trains will have to be run from all the major stations. At least ten trains have to be run daily to Bihar and West Bengal," he said.  However, the governments of West Bengal and Bihar are not giving permissions to run trains at a number desired by the Maharashra government. "When we informed the governments of West Bengal and Bihar that the registered number of migrant labourers in Maharashtra can fill up to 25 trains each, we got the permission to run one or two trains only. It is sad to see the plight of the migrant labourers," he said. Deshmukh said the state Home department has been in touch with various governments seeking their approvals for repatriation of migrants in special trains. He said the state government has been footing the train fare of migrants and also providing them food and water for journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bihar-west-bengal-not-giving-required-clearance-to-run-trains-deshmukh-838744.html
17-05-2020||West||Goa worried about trains bringing in COVID-19 positive persons; tally at 18 plus: CM||Worried by inbound trains "importing" COVID-19 positive persons into the state, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said, that there was a need to control inbound trains services into Goa, especially from red zones and said that the government was working out a fresh strategy to prevent active coronavirus persons from entering the state. Sawant, while speaking to reporters, also said, that the Goa government would issue fresh guidelines for Lockdown 4.0 on Monday, even as the tally of active COVID-19 cases in the state, reached 18 plus.  "There are currently 18 active cases in Goa. It can increase by three to four. We are waiting for some confirmatory tests of passengers who have come by train," Sawant told reporters. Expressing concern about inbound railway passengers and drivers of trucks carrying essential commodities, "importing" coronavirus infections entering the state, Sawant also said, that the central government had agreed to his request of canceling the Goa halt of the Rajdhani Express from next week onwards. On Saturday and Sunday, the Rajdhani Express brought in 288 and 368 passengers to Goa's Madgaon railway station respectively. While, the batch of Sunday's arrivals have not been tested, more than six persons who arrived from the national express by train on Saturday have tested positive.  "We have to control those coming in by train. With trucks coming in from red zones, the drivers could test positive. We are working out a detailed strategy to efficiently manage the entry of persons coming into Goa. Because as of now we have no community transmission," the Chief Minister said. All passengers who shared the compartment with the persons who later tested positive for COVID-19 have been quarantined in government facilities as a precautionary measure, Sawant said. The Chief Minister also said that Goa's only designated COVID-19 hospital had a capacity to handle 100 positive patients and nearly 60 asymptomatic patients. "In case people need ventilators, around 25 persons can be accommodated at the COVID-19 hospital itself. We also have other options ready. If people's entry from outside Goa is controlled, then cases in Goa will not increase," Sawant said, adding that the state still had not witnessed any "community transmission".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-worried-about-trains-bringing-in-covid-19-positive-persons-tally-at-18-plus-cm-838760.html
17-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Maharashtra records alarming spike with 2,347 new cases||On the day India extended announced Lockdown 4.0, Maharashtra recorded an alarmingly high spike of 2,347 COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday. Previously, a jump of 1,606 cases and 1,602 cases was recorded on May 16 and May 14, respectively. On Sunday, 63 deaths were reported taking the progressive total to 1,198. Similarly, with the addition of 2,343 positive cases, the progressive tally has shot to 33,053.  In Mumbai, the worst affected city in India and the financial capital, 1,571 new patients were added, that too is the biggest spike so far. A total of 600 patients were discharged taking the total to 7,688 who had been treated and are back home. Of the 63 COVID-related deaths, 38 deaths were recorded in Mumbai, 9 in Pune, 6 in Aurangabad city, 3 in Solapur city, 3 in Raigad, 1 was recorded in Thane district, 1 in Panvel city, 1 in Latur and 1 in Amaravati city.   Out of the 63 deaths,  44 were men and 19 women. 34 of them aged over 60 years, 22 were from the age group 40 to 59 years and 7 were aged less than 40 years. 41 out of 63 patients (65%) had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, etc. Out of 2,73,239 laboratory samples, 2,40,186 were negative and 33,053 have been tested positive for COVID-19 until Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-records-alarming-spike-with-2347-new-cases-838773.html
17-05-2020||West||Gujarat: COVID-19 patient found lying dead at bus stand, inquiry ordered||In yet another incident of negligence in handling the COVID-19 pandemic, a 67-year old coronavirus infected person was found dead at a bus stand in Ahmedabad, few hours after he was discharged from civil hospital. His body lying unattended at the bus stand in the wee hours of Friday, located few metres from his house, was first spotted by the security guard of the bus stand who informed the police which sent the body to a government-run hospital for post-mortem. Within few hours of the post-mortem, the body, wrapped in a plastic sheet, was handed over to his family for final rites. As the reports of this incident surfaced, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani ordered an inquiry into the incident. Rupani has assigned former principal secretary, health, J P Gupta to probe and submit the report in 24 hours. According to police, Ganpat Makwana, a resident of Danilimbda, was found dead at a bus stand close to his house at around 3 am on Friday. The CCTV footage, police said, showed him entering the stand at around 12 am. According to police, the security guard informed the authorities and they took him to VS Hospital. At the hospital, a note was found in his pocket that had a phone number. The hospital officials dialed the number and asked the receiver to come to the hospital. Police said that Makwana's relatives came to the hospital and identified him. They told hospital officials that Makwana was had been admitted to Asarwa civil hospital on May 13 after he had developed some symptoms. When contacted, MM Prabhakar, officer on special duty for COVID-19 at civil hospital, told DH, "He was tested positive and had mild symptoms. That's why we sent him for home quarantine as per new guidelines and protocols. He was taken in a city bus along with three or four other patients. He asked to be dropped near his house and that he would walk from there. We don't know what happened afterwards." Ganpat's 45-year-old son Kirit said, "I was asked to come to VS hospital where I found my father dead. I had no idea how he reached there. I was not informed by civil hospital, Asarwa, where he had been admitted. I was told by the hospital staff to bring plastic sheets to wrap him for cremation." He added that he bought plastic sheets worth Rs 1,500 and the hospital authorities handed over the body wrapped in the sheet for cremation. This is not the first case of alleged negligence in handling the pandemic that has created controversy at the hospital. Earlier on May 14, the family of another COVID-19 patient got a rude shock when they were informed that their relative passed away eight days ago on May 6. "We are in shock. A police team came with certificates informing us that my maternal uncle Mahesh Solanki, 59, had passed away and that too eight days ago while we kept thinking all these days that he was alive and would be discharged. We haven't got any explanation from the hospital behind this negligence. Whenever we went to the hospital to check on his health, the hospital staff always said that he was doing fine," said Mukesh Rathod. In another incident, the body of a cancer patient went missing from the same hospital where a patient had gone for COVID-19 testing, The body was finally found on May 13 in the morgue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-patient-found-lying-dead-at-bus-stand-inquiry-ordered-838784.html
17-05-2020||West||Maharashtra bearing entire railway ticket fare of migrant workers: Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||The entire cost of tickets of migrant labourers travelling out of Maharashtra on Shramik Special trains is borne by the state government, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Sunday and dismissed as "factually incorrect" Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's "claim" that the Centre is footing 85 per cent of the ticket fare. "I am shocked to find out the claim of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman that the Centre was bearing 85 per cent of the ticket expenses of migrant labourers. It is not factual. The Indian Railway administration has not borne the 85 per cent cost in any way. Her claim is not true," Deshmukh said in an official statement. He said the Maharashtra government was bearing the entire ticket fare of migrant workers. "The entire cost of the ticket for every migrant labourer being sent back to their home states is borne by the Maharashtra government. The labourers who went home earlier had to pay for their tickets," Deshmukh said. He said the migrant labourers lacked money to pay for their tickets since they have lost means of livelihood amidst the coronavirus-induced lockdown. "It was our humble request to the Railways to allow these people to return to their home states free of cost but it was turned down," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bearing-entire-railway-ticket-fare-of-migrant-workers-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-838791.html
17-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Over 20,400 liquor home delivery orders placed on Sunday in Maharashtra||As many as 20,485 people placed orders for home delivery of liquor across the state on Sunday, an top official of the excise department said. The home delivery of liquor has been started in Maharashtra from May 15. "The total orders delivered at home in the last three days is 34,187. The state has been reporting daily average revenue generation of Rs 42 crore through liquor sale," state excise commissioner Kantilal Umap told PTI. There are 10,791 liquor shops in the state, of which only 4,713 are operational at present, he added. "On May 15, the first day of the liquor home delivery service, the excise department reported 4,875 home deliveries. The figure doubled on Saturday with 8,268 such deliveries. Sunday's figure is 20,485," he said. With this, 34,187 orders of home delivery have been completed so far, Umap said. "The excise department also received some complaints about people facing hurdles while operating iOS system to access its portal for obtaining online liquor consumption permit. The department is working on fixing it," he said. Of the 36 districts in Maharashtra, liquor shops are opened in non-containment zones of 27 districts.  Gadchiroli, Wardha and Chandrapur are the three 'dry' districts, while Aurangabad, Beed and Parbhani have so far not started liquor shops. The local authorities in Mumbai city, Mumbai suburban and Osmanabad districts have kept the liquor shops shut citing possible violation of physical distancing norm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-over-20400-liquor-home-delivery-orders-placed-on-sunday-in-maharashtra-838827.html
17-05-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: MP-bound truck with 51 migrants intercepted in Pune||A truck ferrying 51 migrants to Madhya Pradesh was intercepted near Chakan in Pune on Saturday by RTO personnel, an official said. They had paid Rs 3,500 each to get to MP amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, he said. "They got back Rs 2,500 back but the remaining amount had been paid to an agent who is yet to be identified. The truck was intercepted on Pune-Nashik highway. The labourers had got in at Moshi. All 51 have been sent to a migrant relief camp," the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO official said. Mayur Ugle, village development officer of Chandoli, where the relief camp is located, said the 51 have said they paid Rs 3,500 each to the driver. "When we asked him to pay back the money, he could pay only Rs 2,100 per person as Rs 1400 per head has been given to an agent," he said. Ajay Mudrankit, a senior assistant with the panchayat samiti said arrangements have been made to transport the labourers in buses to the MP border. Ayush Prasad, the Chief Executive Officer, Pune Zilla Parishad said that RTO has booked a case against the truck driver. "I have asked them to file a separate case so that the labourers get back rest of their money as well," he said. Vinod Sagare, deputy RTO, Pimpri Chinchwad said 10 such goods carriers have been intercepted so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-mp-bound-truck-with-51-migrants-intercepted-in-pune-838856.html
