18-05-2020||In Perspective||Nuclear numbers game: What’s on China’s mind?||On May 9, 2020, Hu Xijin, editor of Global Times, the mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist Party, published an article prodding his country to expand its nuclear arsenal “in a relatively short time span” to 1,000 nuclear warheads and “at least” 100 DF-41 intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs). Current Chinese nuclear holdings stand at 290 warheads, as per the 2019 edition of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists. China’s ‘White paper on National Defence’, released last year, reiterated that the country keeps “its nuclear capabilities at the minimum level required for national security.” Since 1964, China’s nuclear deterrence has rested on the idea of sufficiency to inflict unacceptable damage. So, should the call for a radical expansion of nuclear numbers by an individual merit attention? Expectedly, the Chinese spokesperson has described it as just one view that highlights freedom of speech in his country. But, the expression of a diversity of views on nuclear issues is not a hallmark of China. In fact, the country cleverly manipulates opacity, deception and ambiguity as part of its deterrence strategy. So, is something playing out here? After all, Xijin is a known hard-line nationalist and has been editor for over 10 years of the Chinese and English editions of Global Times. China has also been in the process of expansive strategic modernisation -- induction of multiple independently targetable re-entry vehicles (MIRVed) missiles, hypersonic delivery systems, long-range submarine-launched ballistic missiles on a new class of SSBNs, enhanced space-based ISR (intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance), navigation and communication, etc. In this process, an increase in the warhead numbers has never figured. Rather, by not adding to its arsenal, China has actually belied American stockpile forecasts. So, why did Global Times, a medium that has been used in the past to launch trial balloons to gauge opinion, publish this piece now? Some decoding may be prudent. The first purpose of the article could simply be to signal deterrence. At a time when China is under significant pressure from many countries on its role in the raging pandemic, it may be drawing attention to its nuclear capability to deter the possibility of military action in its areas of concern, such as the South China Sea. Interestingly, a ‘leaked’ report of China’s Ministry of State Security to President Xi Jinping was recently cited by the media for emphasizing a high anti-China sentiment which could lead to an armed confrontation with the US. In such an environment, a call to expand the nuclear arsenal could be muscle-flexing of potential capabilities. Undoubtedly, China has the financial capacity and fissile material stockpile to accelerate warhead production, if it so decides. And, Xijin argues for it pointing to US “strategic ambitions and bullying impulse against China”.  Secondly, the article may be building a narrative on a decision that has already been taken to increase the nuclear arsenal. Some surge in China’s nuclear numbers is inevitable given that it now deploys MIRVs on its ICBMs. Depending on how many warheads each missile carries, varying from three to 10, there will be the need for additional warheads. But the requirement may go beyond this in case China thinks it necessary to prepare a bargaining position for nuclear arms control negotiations that it may be obliged to join in the future. China has traditionally been dismissive of such demands on the grounds that its arsenal compares poorly in size with that of the US and Russia. It may now be resizing itself to present an even match. Thirdly, China may be delivering a message that it is not scared of joining an arms race. President Trump has often expressed that he would pull Russia and China into nuclear overspending and debilitate them. China may be showing its own readiness to pick up the gauntlet. In fact, ironically, given the ravaging effect of Covid-19 on most economies, China may find itself in a better position than others to support ambitious military spending.    Lastly, the nuclear expansion recommendation may reflect the growing influence of contemporary Western nuclear thinking that advocates nuclear war-fighting on Chinese opinion-makers. Xijin writes, “If the US initiates a nuclear war with China, it must not have any chance of winning -- that’s the kind of nuclear deterrent China must secure.” Customarily, China’s nuclear strategy has not associated the term ‘winning’ with nuclear war. But, with the US Nuclear Posture Review of 2018 recommending that Washington should build capability to fight limited nuclear wars with low-yield weapons against military targets, China may be succumbing to the same temptation. It is to be expected that any move by China, or even expression of intention, to expand its nuclear arsenal would evoke concern in India. An expanding number gap would be perceived as placing India at a disadvantage. Such thinking, however, would be missing the basic fact that numbers in the nuclear game do not matter beyond a point. In fact, China has traditionally believed in the same dictum. Xijin’s advocacy of nuclear expansion is overlooking the point that nuclear deterrence best rests on the idea of punishment and assuredness of retaliation. Chinese and Indian nuclear thought has long been rooted in this wisdom and supported credible minimum deterrence. Nuclear weapons, by their nature, ensure mass destruction and hence even a few suffice to inflict damage that no rational State could find acceptable or even manageable. There should be no requirement for India to follow suit or enter into a competition of nuclear bean-counting, a wasteful enterprise. Given the blow by the coronavirus to the economy, it will be imperative to rationalise spending in the coming years. Of the defence allocations that it can afford, India would be well advised to focus on nuclear forces survivability than on number additions. (The writer is Distinguished Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/nuclear-numbers-game-what-s-on-china-s-mind-839213.html
18-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Kalyana Karnataka region reports 21 COVID-19 positive cases||Mumbai returnees continue to haunt the region with 19 out of 21 positive cases reported on Monday being the returnees from the national financial capital.   While Kalaburagi and Raichur districts reported six positive novel coronavirus cases each, five returnees were found to be positive in Yadgir district.  The test result of a 13-year-old minor boy came back positive. He came in contact with Patient-939.  While infection has been confirmed in two Maharashtra returnees in Koppal, one who came back from Tamil Nadu tested positive for the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-kalyana-karnataka-region-reports-21-covid-19-positive-cases-838984.html
18-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Six-month-old tests positive for COVID-19 in Kalaburagi ||All of them had recently returned from Mumbai either by Shramik Seva train or the buses. With this, the number of positive cases shot up to 110 in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/six-month-old-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-kalaburagi-838986.html
18-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Mandya sees 17 fresh COVID-19 positive cases; Hassan reports 4||With this, the total number of cases has gone up to 88, in Mandya.  All the positive cases have a travel history of Mumbai, Maharashtra. All the 17 are male, including five children below 10 years. All are being treated at the designated COVID-19 hospital in Mandya.  It may be mentioned that Mandya district reported 22 cases on Sunday. This has sent shock waves among the people of the district. They have alleged that the rise in cases in Mandya district is due to Mumbai returnees. The district administration has made all necessary arrangements and the migrants are being directly sent for quarantine from the check posts. Meanwhile, Hassan too reported four fresh novel coronavirus cases on Monday. All the four cases have travel history to Mumbai, Maharashtra. The total number of cases in Hassan is 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-mandya-sees-17-fresh-covid-19-positive-cases-hassan-reports-4-838989.html
18-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Man arrested for wife's murder||Police arrested a man in connection with the murder of his wife, in Aluru Siddapura Gram Panchayat limits, on Sunday. Kumara from Jenukurubara Haadi in Malambi village is the arrested. He had allegedly murdered his wife Nagi on May 16 and had been absconding since then. He was arrested by the police in the forest area of Kodagu-Hassan border. He was hiding in the forest since Saturday night. Carrying out an operation, the CCB police of Shanivarasanthe arrested him. According to the police, Kumara has admitted his crime. Further investigations are on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-arrested-for-wifes-murder-839063.html
18-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru hospital clarifies on treating Bhatkal girl||A Mangaluru-based private hospital has clarified that a 6-year-old girl from Madina Colony was treated for a fractured elbow, only after informing the Dakshina Kannada district health officials as she came from a 'COVID-19 hotspot'. Reacting to a report in DH and a few other newspapers, which said that the girl's family had 'faked her identity' to avail treatment in Mangaluru, the hospital said, as soon as the woman and her daughter came to the hospital on May 11, they had clearly mentioned that they had come from Bhatkal, and also produced their Aadhar cards. At no point of time had they hid the facts, a statement from the hospital said. On admission, the girl and her mother were kept in isolation and the matter was reported to the district health officials the same day. "The throat swab of both, the child and its mother, were sent for COVID-19 test on May 11 evening itself. The next morning, the girl was operated upon and her fractured elbow was set right," the hospital said. The girl recovered, and the swab tests of both, the girl and her mother, came negative for COVID-19. Considering their reports, the girl was discharged on May 13, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-hospital-clarifies-on-treating-bhatkal-girl-839157.html
18-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid: 17 fresh cases in Mandya; 4 in Hassan||The spike in Covid cases continued with 17 fresh cases in Mandy, and four in Hassan on Monday. The Mumbai returnees continue to haunt the people of both the districts. With this, the total number of cases has gone up to 89 in Mandya and 30 in Hassan. The 17 patients include six women and 11 men. All are being treated at the designated Covid hospital in Mandya. Two people were discharged on Monday. In all, 21 people have been recovered and discharged, as on Monday. The number of active cases is 68. Mandya district reported 22 cases on Sunday. This sent shock waves among the people of the district. They alleged that the rise in cases in Mandya district is due to Mumbai returnees. The district administration has made all necessary arrangements and has taken precautions and migrants are directly sent for quarantine from checkposts. Meanwhile, Hassan reported four fresh cases on Monday. All the four cases have travel history to Mumbai, Maharashtra. The total number of positive cases is 30. Three members of the same family from Channarayapatna have tested positive for Covid 19 in Hassan district. They had come to the district on May 12. One case is from Holenarasipur taluk. A 17-year-old youth from Mumbai returned to district on May 14. They have been shifted to the isolation ward in the district hospital. All have a travel history to Mumbai, and had come to the district in private vehicles, according to Deputy Commissioner R Girish. The DC explained that 44 hostels have been identified for quarantine. In all, 1,304 people have returned from other states, and have been shifted to quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-17-fresh-cases-in-mandya-4-in-hassan-839165.html
18-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru: MCC presents Rs 878 cr budget||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) presented a surplus budget of Rs 7 crore for the year 2020-21, with a total revenue of Rs 878 crore and expenses of Rs 871 crore. The size of the budget is more, compared to the previous budget, with an additional Rs 130 crore funds. Chairperson for Tax, Finance and Appeals standing committee K Nirmala presented the budget at a general meeting here on Monday. Nirmala said, “The MCC has decided to implement online system for tax collection. With the new initiative, it will get more revenue and it will be helpful to the citizens as tax payers need not wait in queues to pay the tax.”  She proposed to fix prorate charges for new drinking water and underground drainage (UGD) system on the lines of Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB). The BWSSB collects fee based on the size of the structure and the MCC can follow the procedure. A proposal will be sent to the state government in this regard, she said, adding that it will generate more revenue to the MCC. Nirmala said, “The MCC has plans to procure nine Hitachi, an excavator for nine zones of the MCC and Rs 2 crore is earmarked for the purpose. While Rs 8 crore is allocated for development and beautification of prime circles, Rs 2 crore is reserved to convert Sewage Farm into a park and Rs 4 crore is kept for purification of contaminated water.” While Rs 2 crore is kept for construction of water tanks, another Rs 2 crore is reserved for the development of ‘Water Park’ at Vani Vilas Water Works (VVWW). In addition, Rs 3 crore is reserved to develop a unit to convert used cooking oil into bio diesel and another Rs 3 crore is earmarked for the development of burial grounds.    Other projects include multi-level parking facility near sub-urban bus stand, development of D Devaraj Urs Road, pink toilets for women among others. The MCC aims to collect Rs 157 crore through property tax collection, Rs 86 crore as drinking water and UGD charges, Rs 9 crore through City and Town Planning, Rs 8 crore through trade license. The MCC aims to get more than Rs 300 crore from state government and through other sources. A majority of the corporators, irrespective of political party, welcomed the budget. Corporator M V Ramprasad suggested the MCC authorities to make sure that all programmes proposed in the budget will be implemented. Ward 47 corporator Shivakumar demanded to allot Rs 5 lakh to the family members of martyred soldiers. The MCC has decided to give away Rs 1 lakh. Mayor Tasneem, Deputy Mayor C Sridhar and Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-mcc-presents-rs-878-cr-budget-839167.html
18-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||MCCI for ‘No Mask-No Business’ policy||With the industries being allowed to perform business, members of Mysore Chamber of Commerce and Industries (MCCI) have decided to practice ‘No Mask-No Business’ policy. The members decided not to do business with the people not following the lockdown guidelines to combat COVID-19. In a press conference, Federation of Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI) ex-president Sudhakar S Shetty said that the cases of COVID-19 have declined in the district, following the efforts of the authorities concerned. "Thus, in order to ensure safety of the people, the MCCI has come up with certain guidelines that will promote 'Swaccha Mysuru-Swastha Mysuru', in line with the earlier tags of 'Cleanest city' and also healthcare hub fame." he said. All businessmen and their employees in the district, must follow government orders and should wear mask compulsorily at work and public places. Entrepreneurs and their employees must not tolerate the customers visiting them without wearing masks. Shetty said that business establishment owners must ensure social distance at work place and all persons must be screened before entering the establishments. Sanitiser and hand wash is compulsory for any people entering business establishments. He urged the shopkeepers to maintain hygiene and clean their respective business establishments. According to him, more than 45,000 people are involved in various business and there are more than 4,000 business units in Mysuru. Shetty said the district has a total of 15,000 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).   "It is inevitable to follow the rules and lockdown guidelines, without fail, for the welfare of the state and business sector. We have to ensure that lockdown will not be extended due to COVID-19. With collective efforts, it is possible to contain the spread of COVID-19,” Shetty said. Shetty thanked the district administration, Police, Health department and Asha workers for their efforts to contain COVID-19.   MCCI president A S Satish and Hotel Owners' Association president C Narayana Gowda were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcci-for-no-mask-no-business-policy-839168.html
18-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||2nd chapter of COVID-19 saga begins in Mysuru||Even as Mysureans were celebrating the recovery of 90 COVID positive persons, without any casualty, a second chapter in the coronavirus or COVID-19 saga is opened with the detection of a new case, after a gap of 18 days, on Monday. It has to be noted that the last COVID-19 positive case was detected on April 29 and the 89th and 90th patients were discharged on May 15. It has to be noted that a recovered patient, who was also a severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) patient, died later. The patient detected on Monday, a 46-year-old man, is designated as Patient (P) 1225. He has a inter-state travel history and had arrived in KR Nagar from Mumbai. His family members were residing in KR Nagar and hence, he had come alone. Immediately after he arrived at the border of KR Nagar, he was shifted for institutional quarantine. Following two tests, as per protocol, his infection was confirmed on Monday. As on Monday evening, there are 701 persons, with inter-state travel history, who are under institutional quarantine in their respective taluk headquarters. Thus, the chances of more such detections are expected over the next couple of weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2nd-chapter-of-covid-19-saga-begins-in-mysuru-839170.html
18-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Heavy rain lashes DK, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu||Heavy rain coupled with lightning and thunder lashed different parts of Dakshina Kannada district on Monday. Following incessant rain, stormwater drains overflowed. The rain also came as a relief for people reeling under sweltering heat. Waterlogged roads in different parts of Mangaluru caused a lot of inconveniences, particularly to motorists. Seeding vehicles splashed muddy water even on motorcyclists. The clouds were so dark that the drivers were forced to switch on the headlights while driving in the morning. India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted heavy rains in the district on May 18 and May 19 due to Cyclone Amphan in the Bay of Bengal and had issued a yellow alert in the district. The road leading from Mount Carmel School in Maryhill to Venkataramana temple in Konchady was flooded. Vehicle users were seen wading through the flooded road. Due to faulty drainage networks, rainwater mixed with sewage water and overflowed in the drains at Arekerebailu near Gujjarakere and entered a few houses in the vicinity. Many trees were uprooted in Harekala, Innoli, Deralakatte and other areas and disrupted power supply on Monday morning. Owing to the lack of drains, rainwater was seen flowing on the road in rural areas. MLA U T Khader visited the rain-affected areas in Ullalkere, Hosagadde and Babbukatte areas. Heavy rains also damaged rice stocked in KPT, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-rain-lashes-dk-udupi-chikkamagaluru-kodagu-839172.html
18-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Wishes pour in for former PM Deve Gowda on his 87th birthday||Former prime minister and Janata Dal (Secular) supremo H D Deve Gowda turned 87 on Monday as Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi among others greeting him on the occasion. The JD(S) patriarch kept his birthday celebrations a low-key affair due to the coronavirus outbreak and the consequent lockdown. Gowda had three days ago appealed to his followers not to gather to celebrate his birthday as the current situation warranted social distancing and staying at home. The unprecedented situation also saw Gowda missing out on offering prayers at the famous hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara on his birthday, a routine he had been following for over three decades. Modi in a tweet said: "Birthday wishes to our former PM Shri H D Devegowda Ji. Praying for his long life and good health." Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa too wished Gowda, praying that he constantly receives the blessings of God. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: "My best wishes to Shri H D Deve Gowda ji on his birthday. I pray that he be blessed with good health and happiness always." Former chief minister and Congress legislature party leader in the state Siddaramaiah too took to Twitter to greet Gowda. "Best birthday wishes to Shri H D Devegowda. Wishing him good health & long life." With temples and other religious places closed for public in view of the COVID-19 lockdown, Gowda apparently could not keep up his practice of visiting the Tirumala temple in Andhra Pradesh on his birthday this year. After offering prayers at the temple on turning 86 last year, the veteran leader had said he had been visiting the ancient shrine for the last 35 years on his birthday. Gowda had served as the 11th Prime Minister of the country from June 1, 1996 to April 21, 1997. He was also a former chief minister of Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/wishes-pour-in-for-former-pm-deve-gowda-on-his-87th-birthday-839148.html
18-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||‘Restrict entry of outsiders into district’||District in-charge secretary Uma Mahadevan on Monday directed the district administration not to permit those trying to enter the district from outside unnecessarily. She chaired a meeting with heads of various departments here. “COVID-19 is quickly spreading in the district due to those visiting the district from other districts and states. Hence, the entry of people from other places into the district should be banned. Drivers and cleaners of vehicles should be subjected for tests without fail. They should be told to wear masks without fail,” she said. Effective measures should be taken to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. Measures at the checkpoints in border areas should be tightened. Those who had come in contact with COVID-19 patients should be quarantined, she directed. “The patients should be treated cautiously. It is the duty of the district administration to ensure that the patients recover at the earliest. A 93-year-old person in Kerala recovered fully due to efforts by the doctors which should be model for doctors in the district,” she said. “The government has relaxed lockdown guidelines. Shops should be open between 7 am and 7 pm. There should be social distancing in front of shops. People should be directed to buy essentials in large quantities,” she said. The entire village should be declared as containment zone if a COVID-19 case was reported. In urban areas, 100 metre radius from the house of the patients might be declared as the containment zone. There should be more focus on maintaining cleanliness in the containment zones, she said. “There were complaints of lack of basic amenities as quarantine centres. However, the basic amenities have been provided,” she said. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer H V Darshan, additional deputy commissioner Shivaswamy, superintendents of police Karthik Reddy and Mohammad Sujeetha and assistant commissioner Somashekhar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/restrict-entry-of-outsiders-into-district-839100.html
18-05-2020||Main Article||Time for doctors to introspect||A silver lining amidst the dark clouds that have enveloped the country is an improvement in the general health of the people. It may seem an irony that while on the one hand, the number of COVID-19 cases continues to rise, there is a fall in the number of heart attacks, strokes and even deaths. According to BBMP data, the number of deaths in the city due to medical causes during March 2020 was 4,716, compared to 5,400 in March 2019, and 3,327 during April 2020 compared to 4,806 in April 2019. What accounts for such a trend? Possible explanations could be reduced pollution, thanks to clean air, less work-related stress, spending relaxed time with family, and not eating out, thereby avoiding junk food. And, of course, not to forget, the forced holiday from that beloved addiction, the bottle. According to a senior consultant in a private hospital, trauma cases, respiratory diseases, gastrointestinal and pancreatic cases triggered by binge drinking have come down. So have infections flaring up from communicable diseases because of physical distancing and frequent hand washing. Emergency admissions to hospitals have reduced by 50%. It’s time for doctors to introspect and reflect on the entire system of healthcare. There is no doubt that the medical community is doing a commendable job in combating COVID-19 and providing relief to the afflicted. Exposing themselves to risk, doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff have risen to the occasion to serve the people. However, questions need to be asked about the type of procedures followed and the cost of providing services, particularly in private hospitals. According to a recent survey, COVID-19 patients admitted to a private hospital across the country generated claims worth Rs 42,200 on an average per patient per day while a Deccan Herald survey in Karnataka revealed that the cost per patient in COVID-19 designated hospitals ranged from Rs 10,000-20,000 per patient per day for non-ICU treatment, and in respect of ICU, an additional 55%. A Gurgaon hospital billed Rs 6.7 lakh for a particular patient, but the insurance company cut it down by 50% as it found many expenses avoidable. In another shocking case, a hospital submitted a claim for 1,300 pairs of gloves for a single patient for a period of one week. When the insurer brought this to light, the hospital withdrew the claim with a request not to publicise it. A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court regarding overcharging for COVID-19 patients in private hospitals. Many attempts have been made by various state governments to regulate the functioning of private hospitals. In 2000, the Andhra Pradesh government enacted the Clinical Establishments Act, but it took five years to frame the rules and was never able to enforce the law. Karnataka passed a law in 2017 to deal with medical negligence and overpricing. After a strike by 60,000 private sector doctors, the law was restricted to only those covered by government-sponsored health insurance schemes. It is heartening to see that Public Health Foundation of India president Dr Srinath Reddy has called upon the medical profession to introspect, with a pertinent observation that “in the lockdown period, people are not coming to us and seem to be doing better.” He goes on to add: “We were overdoing with our medicine, soliciting patients and looking for disease. Performance-linked payment in large hospitals was driving overtreatment.” That aptly sums up the state of affairs in the sphere of private medical care in India. This is not to suggest that private hospitals should not make profits or to underestimate their investments in health infrastructure, modern equipment, professional manpower and other requirements to provide services. But a line has to be drawn between making a reasonable profit after meeting costs, and overcharging. How can one explain a hospital charging Rs 4,500 per set of PPE (personal protective equipment) when the prescribed cost is Rs 2,000? Subjecting patients to unnecessary procedures reflects lack of human consideration, apart from being a clandestine method of overbilling. Looking ahead, it is important to take note of the fact that technology will play an increasingly important role in processing medical information, diagnosing diseases and perhaps prescribing medicines, too! Artificial Intelligence and biometric data may monitor our health 24/7. Yuval Noah Harari, the noted Israeli historian in his latest book ‘21 Lessons for the 21st Century’ makes an interesting observation: “People will enjoy the best healthcare in history, but for precisely this reason, they will probably be sick all the time. There is always something wrong somewhere in the body…By 2050, diseases may be diagnosed and treated long before they lead to pain or disability. As a result, you will always find yourself suffering from some ‘medical condition’ and following this or that algorithmic recommendation.” The future of our health seems to depend a lot on how doctors harness technology. More the machines and more the tests, higher the cost. Medical insurance companies will play a significant role in determining costs, along with doctors. Government’s intention may be to provide affordable and quality healthcare for all. The central and state governments have introduced a number of schemes in this direction. However, given the inadequacies of our public health system and the huge resources required to meet the health requirements of a vast population, it is inevitable for the private sector to play a vital role. The challenge before the medical community is to move from a system that overemphasises curative services to one that promotes prevention and well-being. As a learning from the COVID-19 crisis, doctors may like to recall the following parts from the Revised Hippocrates Oath: “I will apply for the benefit of the sick all measures required, avoiding those twin traps of overtreatment and therapeutic nihilism…I will remember that warmth, sympathy and understanding may outweigh the surgeon’s knife and chemist’s drug.” (The writer is a former Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/time-for-doctors-to-introspect-839212.html
18-05-2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus: Mysuru reports 1 COVID-19 positive case after 18 days||It has to be noted that the last COVID-19 positive case was detected on April 29 and Patients 89 and 90 were discharged on May 15. A recovered patient, who was also a severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) patient, died later.  The case detected on Monday is that of a 46-year-old man and he is designated as P1225. He has an inter-state travel history and had arrived in KR Nagar from Mumbai. His family members were residing in KR Nagar and had hence come alone. Immediately after he arrived at the border of KR Nagar, he was shifted for institutional quarantine. Following two tests as per protocol, his infection was confirmed on Monday. As on Sunday evening, 685 persons, with inter-state travel history, are under institutional quarantine in their respective taluk headquarters. The chances of more such detections are expected over the next couple of weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/coronavirus-mysuru-reports-1-covid-19-positive-case-after-18-days-838998.html
18-05-2020||National||Centre requests states to approve more Shramik special trains||The Centre on Sunday requested the states to give quick clearances to Shramik Special trains to help migrants to reach their home states at the earliest. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba in his video conference with state Chief Secretaries requested to co-operate in  running Shramik special trains. In the conference, which was also attended by Railway.Board chairman V K Yadav, the cabinet secretary also asked the states to make District Collector and Superintendent of Police for responsible officers for  safety and wellbeing of migrant labourers. Yadav also assured that more special trains can be started if the States provide quick clearances. The railways, which started operating Shramik special trains on May 1, so far operated more than 1100 trains and ferried mpre than 15 lakh people including migrant workers. The railways is not act as carrier and receiving states and sending states were responsible for the transportation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-requests-states-to-approve-more-shramik-special-trains-838872.html
18-05-2020||National||Four arrested in connection with killing, robbing minor boy in outer north Delhi||Four people have been arrested in connection with killing and robbing of a 16-year old boy, whose body was recovered by police from under the railway track bridge near Mukarba Chowk in outer north Delhi, officials said on Sunday. The accused were identified as, Monu Ghutna, 21, and Ajay, 20 while the other two as Dutta Kamle and Bajrang were also nabbed, they said.  The body of the minor boy was found under the railway track bridge, near Mukarba Chowk on May 11, police said. During investigation, it was revealed that on the day of the incident, the minor boy, along with his three friends Sandeep, Soolchand and Rajbind, was going home. Around 12:30 am, while walking along the railway track, they were attacked by three unknown men who were carrying pistol and knife, said Gaurav Sharma, Deputy Commissioner of Police (outer north).  The three accused robbed Rs 4,000 and three mobile phones from the victims. Meanwhile, when one of the victims resisted, they attacked them with knife and caused sharp injuries to the minor boy and his friends, he said. The minor boy died on the spot due to the injuries, while the remaining three victims managed to escape, the DCP said.  Later, the receiver of one of the mobile phone Dutta Kamle was arrested and on his instance, the accused Ajay and Monu were nabbed and the pistol used in the offence was seized. Three robbed mobile phones and other articles were also recovered, he added.  Accused Monu was previously involved in a robbery case while Ajay was previously involved in two cases, including a case of stabbing, the police said, adding that efforts are being made to nab the third accused involved in the killing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-arrested-in-connection-with-killing-robbing-minor-boy-in-outer-north-delhi-838879.html
18-05-2020||National||TMC leaders target BJP, retweet photo of dead COVID-19 patient on Ahmedabad street||Two senior TMC leaders on Sunday retweeted a post shared by Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani about the alleged discovery of the body of a coronavirus patient on street in Ahmedabad in Gujarat, ruled by the BJP. The development comes amid the ongoing war of words between the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over fighting the COVID-19 pandemic and the alleged suppression of death figures by the West Bengal government.   TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee, who had earlier questioned centre’s silence on the COVID-19 situation in Gujarat, shared Mevani's tweet and an accompanying picture. The senior minister in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet said in the tweet: "The ugly face of Gujarat model could no longer be hidden. No wonder, India has fallen 10 ranks in Democracy Index in @BJP4India's rule." Chief national spokesperson of TMC Derek O'Brien too retweeted Mevani's post but did not make any comment. In a tweet posted on Sunday, Mevani said: "Bloody what the hell is going on? Gunawant Makwana, a 70 year old Covid-19 patient was admitted at Ahmedabad Civil Hospital on 10th May and now his body is found on the street! Yes, bloody on the street! Mr. Rupani take moral responsibility and step down. This is just criminal." When contacted, Chatterjee told PTI: "This incident has unmasked and exposed BJP. I have nothing else to say." The two parties are at loggerheads over several issues like alleged fudging of actual number of coronavirus positive cases by the West Bengal government, alleged disparities over the total number of deaths due to the contagion, and return of migrant labourers by train. The TMC had alleged BJP West Bengal unit was doing cheap politics even during a pandemic like coronavirus when the state is singlehandedly fighting to contain the spread and strengthening state machineries. A senior BJP leader said as the TMC's gameplan to hide the actual alarming scenario about the spread of COVID-19 in Bengal fell flat, the ruling party is resorting to diversionary tactics and spreading falsehood in their tweets. "Many bodies were disposed of without the knowledge of their family members by the Bengal government which tried to suppress real death figures for days. What about that?," the leader said, adding that the authenticity of the purported picture in the tweet by Mevani was not proved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-leaders-target-bjp-retweet-photo-of-dead-covid-19-patient-on-ahmedabad-street-838897.html
18-05-2020||National||Delhi Police turns prankster to teach lockdown violators lesson||To teach a lesson to four men after they were found roaming outside unnecessarily during the lockdown, a few Delhi Police personnel played a prank with them by asking them to carry a "fake dead body" of a COVID-19 patient, officials said on Sunday. A policeman, who was wearing a personal protective equipment (PPE) kit, pretended to be dead.   The matter came to light after a video of the act surfaced online on Sunday. The video was shot in east Delhi's Mandawali area. However, senior officers did not appreciate the act and warned the officials against repeating it, they said.  After scolding the four men for roaming around unnecessarily, the policemen told them that since they have violated the lockdown norms, they will be punished.  As a punishment, the policemen were seen purportedly asking the four men in the video to carry the "fake body" on their shoulders and take it to the cremation ground. After hearing this, the men tired to escape but were caught by police, who then dragged them towards the "fake body".  Seeing the body, the men pleaded to policemen. However, the four were made to pick up the "fake body". They carried the "fake body" for some distance but were later stopped by the police who warned them against violating the lockdown norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-turns-prankster-to-teach-lockdown-violators-lesson-838898.html
18-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 18, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-18-2020-edition-838899.html
18-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 18||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,00,172 as of May 18. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 3,143   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 34,109 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-18-838900.html
18-05-2020||National||DH Toon: MGNREGS push to make migrants 'atma nirbhar'?||The Government on Sunday announced an additional allocation of Rs 40000 crore for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), a scheme launched by former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh, in order to generate more livelihood opportunities in the villages and ease the distress caused by the COVID-19 crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-mgnregs-push-to-make-migrants-atma-nirbhar-838901.html
18-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0: What rules changed, relaxations allowed? Here are answers to all your questions||Here are the answers to all your questions: What is 'Lockdown 4.0'? On March 24, 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day nation-wide lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus outbreak. India follows several countries in its measures to curb the pandemic, which was the first lockdown. Prime Minister then extended the coronavirus lockdown till May 3, which was dubbed as 'Lockdown 2.0'. This lockdown was further prolonged till May 17 which became 'Lockdown 3.0' and now, as the government aims at a staggered re-opening of the country while maintaining the norms such as social distancing, the fourth extension till May 31 is called 'Lockdown 4.0'. Who issues the guidelines for the lockdown? The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issues the guidelines for the lockdown. Are guidelines different during a lockdown compared to normal life? Well, of course. Guidelines during a lockdown instruct people on all matters from whether you are allowed to leave your house, to whether an MNC is allowed to function and with what percentage of attendance. Are masks compulsory even now? Masks are made mandatory in all public places, by the Union Health Ministry. All the states and UTs are to strictly abide by this law. Not wearing masks will attract penalties which are specified by the state.  Is spitting in public prohibited? Spitting in public places is been banned, and a fine will be imposed over violation. State governments need to strictly enforce it, as per instructions from the Health Ministry. How would that be determined for an area? By Lockdown 3.0, all areas of state districts were segregated into containment, red, orange and green zones. In the Lockdown 4.0, states will categorise the areas into red, orange and green zones.  Colourful... but what are red, orange and green zones? According to the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, states can categorise districts or municipal corporations as red or orange zones.  "States may, however, also choose to categorise a sub-division or ward or any other appropriate administrative unit as red/orange/green zone after detailed analysis at their end, duly taking into consideration the geographical spread of cases, contacts and their zone of influence in terms of disease spread," the ministry said. With the commencement of the third phase of lockdown, the Union Health Ministry listed 130 districts across the country in the red zone, 284 in the orange zone and 319 in green zones based on the incidence of cases of COVID-19, doubling rate, the extent of testing and surveillance feedback. Districts were earlier designated as hotspots/red-zones, orange zones and green zones primarily based on the cumulative cases reported and the doubling rate. In containment zones, only essential activities shall be allowed. A district will be considered under green zone if there have been no confirmed cases of COVID-19 so far or there is no reported case since last 21 days in the district, according to the letter.  Now, what is a buffer zone? A buffer zone is an area of spread in a 5-kilometre radius (7 Kms in rural areas) of a containment zone. How do I find out the zone I am in? You either look at your state or city's municipal corporation pages to avail the zone details. You can also look at your district magistrate's Twitter handle or Facebook account to find out the list of the zone under which your area falls. Can I leave my home now? That depends. If you are in a containment zone or a red zone, you may not be allowed to leave your residence. Otherwise, in the other zones, the state governments and the district magistrates will decide upon the level of movement within and outside the zones. Can I shift from a red zone to an orange or green zone? You cannot. The residents of a red or containment zone cannot move out of their zones, nobody may enter the zones as well.  What about my office? The private offices can operate in non-containment zones. The guidelines for offices to work will be listed by the state governments and the DMs (district magistrates). Are educational institutions such as schools and colleges open? No. Since children are advised to stay home, schools, colleges and other educational institutions including tuition classes, coaching centres will remain shut until further notice in all zones. The govt will launch PM eVIDYA programme immediately for multi-mode access to digital/ online education. Under the PM e-Vidya programme, there will be 12 DTH channels introduced, with one each dedicated to classes 1 to 12. Will I be allowed to use my bike/car or any other personal vehicle? There is a likely chance of you being allowed to take out your bike or car or other vehicles (not helicopters or aeroplanes), if you are not in a containment zone. You need to check the rules listed by your state government or DM. The number of people who can ride at one time will also be decided by the state. Can my driver, house help or neighbour drive me to my office/destination? Will I be allowed to take them to my workplace? Yes, provided they are not from a red zone which may be risky for the passenger. This facility is prohibited in a containment zone. Also, check with your workplace regarding the norms to follow within the office. For the details on travelling with others in the car, look into the info provided by your state government, DM and Resident Welfare Association (RWA). Will be able to fill petrol or diesel for my vehicle? Definitely, yes. All petrol pumps, LPG and oil agencies will continue to be open. What if I need to take a cab, auto or book one via Ola/Uber? The same rules apply to them as well. Unless you are in a containment zone, the restrictions for using cabs and autos will be eased. What if I need to use public transport like buses? Some states have allowed buses to run, such as in Tamil Nadu in certain areas. You will have to check with the state government or DM's regulations enlisted for knowing the routes and norms to follow inside a bus. Can I use my city's Metro line? Unfortunately, metro lines are not allowed to open and will remain closed until further notification from the Centre. Can I walk around in my area? Walking will be permitted under the guidelines issued by the state and DM. Walking in groups will be prohibited and social distancing norms are to be followed in public at all times. Movement is allowed between 7 am to 7 pm in any zone - containment, red, orange or green.  Can I take my grandparents/kids out for a walk? People older than 65 years of age, or younger than 10, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women are not allowed to venture out of their residences, as they are highly susceptible to the infection. Can I go out with my friends? A group of less than 5 people are allowed to walk together. If you are planning to use vehicles such as bikes, every induvial must have their own as more than one person on atwo-wheeler is not allowed in certain areas. Curfew timings are from 7 am to 7 pm as movent is prohibited beyond these timings. Check the regulations issued by your local DM or state government to know further details. What if I need to see my friends, relatives or others? The Resident Welfare Association (RWA) will make a decision about allowing visitors inside a zone, barring containment zones. Nobody is allowed within the containment zone or permitted to leave. Can we now go to restaurants? Restaurants are still closed irrespective of the zone. Take-away or delivery services will be available, nevertheless. Can order food online? Yes, delivery services and takeaways are allowed. Can I order other requirements online such as books, electronic devices or clothes? No, e-commerce services via online delivery platforms such as Amazon, Flipkart, BigBasket are not allowed until further instructions. Can we go to malls? Malls and restaurants and shops in the malls will remain closed irrespective of the zone, as these are crowd-pulling zones. Does that mean multiplexes, theatres and drama/concert halls are closed as well? Cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes and drama/concert halls will remain closed regardless of which zone they are in, till further instructions are sent by the Centre. What about gyms, swimming arenas, sports stadiums? Cricket stadiums are open but only for matches without crowds. Gyms, public swimming pools will remain closed. Will marketplaces to get vegetables be open? Yes, marketplaces will be open for public, but masks are mandatory for everyone, both customers and vendors. Social distancing norms cannot be violated.  Can I go to the beach or a monument/heritage site? Since such public places will attract a huge crowd that will be tough to control, beaches, monuments, heritage sites and such public places will be closed. Are temples and other places of worship open? All the religious places will remain closed for the public. Religious congregations are also strictly prohibited. Can I go to coffee shops? As coffee shops will fall under the category of restaurants, they will also be closed. Take-away and delivery services can be availed from the shops. What about essentials? Grocery shops, milk vendors, newspaper circulation are allowed to stay open. Proper sanitisation must be done from time-to-time to ensure customer and vendors’ safety. I need to repair my phone. Will stand-alone non-essential services be open? Such non-essential services are allowed to open in non-containment zones. Refer the state governments and DMs rules for knowing the type of shops and state and districts they are permitted in. What about in-house repairs or services? Can I call a mechanic to my house? Yes, provided your RWA has permitted to allow mechanics, workmen and labourers inside in non-containment zones. Are funeral rituals, processions allowed? Yes, but the number of people who take part in the funeral-related gathering must not go over 20 people. What about salons, beauty parlours, local barbershops? That depends on the regulations put forth by the state governments and DMs. Can we conduct marriage ceremonies? Marriage ceremonies can be held, but the maximum number guests attending the function must not exceed 50. Can we leave our cities/towns/states/districts to other regions, like say from Delhi to Noida or Gurgaon? Or from Tamil Nadu to Karnataka? This depends on the states you prefer to travel from and to. Some states have agreed to open interstate travel. So going from Delhi to Noida or Gurgaon is possible. But restrictions are imposed between Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. So travel is not possible. Shramik Special trains are running for migrant workers between states. Special 'Rajdhani model' trains from Delhi to 15 major cities since May 12, for interstate travel. Few states such as Maharashtra want a complete stop to inter-state and inter-district transportation, as the number of cases is very high in the region. Have domestic flight services resumed? Domestic flights have still not resumed services and are instructed not to open operations till May 31, i.e the end of lockdown 4.0. Can I buy alcohol? Can I buy liquor online? Several states have opened government-owned alcohol shops. Few states such as Karnataka have allowed pubs, such as Karnataka, also to sell liquor, but no other activities are allowed within these spaces. Chattisgarh, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu launched delivery of liquor via an online platform.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-40-what-rules-changed-relaxations-allowed-here-are-answers-to-all-your-questions-838911.html
18-05-2020||National||Indian govt will soon take decision on OCI visa issue: Minister||In a bid to allay fears of OCI cardholders over the temporary suspension of their long-term visas, Indian Minister of State for External Affairs, V Muraleedharan, said his government will soon take an appropriate decision on it. He also invited members of the Indian diaspora to invest in the country in view of the recent economic reforms announced by the government. Participating in a virtual panel discussion with Indian-Americans on COVID-19, organised jointly by the Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) and the Bihar Jharkhand Association of North America (BAJNA), Muraleedharan was flooded with queries over the OCI card issue. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was aware of it and will take an appropriate decision soon. A large number of Indian citizens whose children are OCI (overseas citizen of India) cardholders and several people of Indian origin having the card are unable to travel to India, even for emergency reasons, because of the temporary suspension of their long-term visa. “This is step-motherly treatment with people of Indian origin and against the very ethos and spirit behind it,” said Jaipur Foot USA chairman Prem Bhandari. India’s top leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Home Minister Amit Shah, are personally aware of it and they have no doubt whatsoever about the Indianness of the overseas Indian community, Muraleedharan said in response to a question. “I understand the agony of the OCI cardholders. Please do not have any ill will,” he said, assuring the participants that the prime minister will take appropriate decision on this issue soon. Muraleedharan urged the diaspora to invest in India given the opportunity being offered by the major economic reforms announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. “Perhaps, India has never had such an economic reform. This is a great opportunity for the Indian diaspora to come and invest in India,” he said. The announcements by Sitharaman in the last five days are a clear indication of how and what the Indian diaspora should look for, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-govt-will-soon-take-decision-on-oci-visa-issue-minister-838915.html
18-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi greets former PM Deve Gowda on birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday greeted former premier H D Deve Gowda on his 87th birthday, praying for his good health and long life. Gowda, who was the prime minister between June 1996 and April 1997, was born in 1933. "Birthday wishes to our former PM Shri @H_D_Devegowda Ji. Praying for his long life and good health," Modi tweeted. Best wishes to our former Prime Minister Shri HD Deve Gowda Ji on his birthday. I pray for his long and healthy life. The prime minister also wished Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot on his birthday. "Greetings to Union Minister Shri @TCGEHLOT Ji on his birthday. May Almighty bless him with a long and healthy life," Modi wrote on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-former-pm-deve-gowda-on-birthday-838927.html
18-05-2020||National||Important to implement environmental rules to sustain gains of lockdown: Prakash Javadekar||To sustain the environmental "gains" of the coronavirus lockdown during normal times, it is important that the states and the union territories should strictly implement relevant rules governing pollution, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar has said. Due to the unforeseen situation arising out of COVID-19, there has been a significant reduction in industrial activity, vehicular movement and construction activities due to which air and water quality have improved, he said in a letter to the states and the UTs, urging them to strive for this benchmark in normal times too. "As normal life will resume, it would become more and more challenging to sustain current environmental gains but we have a chance to prove that we can have a much improved environment even during normal activities. "This is a challenge which will have to be met by state authorities by strict enforcement of environmental norms and rules and regulations governing pollution. We must look at the quantum improvement in things like waste management, industrial discharge, river quality and emission levels," Javadekar said. He said various reports have pointed out that there has been a significant improvement in the air and the water quality besides the reduction in noise pollution during the lockdown. "This is the benchmark that we need to strive for even in the normal times with majority of our activities going on," the minister said in the letter. He said there was a need for creating more environmental awareness among the people who can appreciate a qualitative change in environmental health through better lifestyle management. "I look forward to work with you to drive the idea of sustaining development in conjunction with conservation of environment, based on the foundation of sustainable lifestyle management rooted in Indian philosophy of living in harmony with nature. I request you to ask all concerned departments to implement all the relevant rules, monitor them and try to sustain the gains," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/important-to-implement-environmental-rules-to-sustain-gains-of-lockdown-prakash-javadekar-838930.html
18-05-2020||National||Record jump of 5,242 COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, tally reaches 96,169; death toll touches 3,029||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 3,029 and the number of cases to 96,169 in the country on Monday, registering an increase of 157 deaths and a record jump of 5,242 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 56,316, while 36,823 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said.  "Thus, around 38.29 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. The total confirmed cases include foreign nationals too, the ministry said. Of the 157 deaths deaths reported since Sunday morning, 63 were in Maharashtra, 34 in Gujarat, 31 in Delhi, six in West Bengal, five each in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, four in Tamil Nadu, three in Punjab and one each from Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka and Odisha. Of the 3,029 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 1,198 deaths. Gujarat comes second with 659 deaths, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 248, West Bengal at 238, Delhi at 160, Rajasthan at 131, Uttar Pradesh at 104,Tamil Nadu at 78 and  Andhra Pradesh at 50. The death toll has reached 37 in Karnataka, 35 in Punjab and 34 in Telangana. Haryana has reported 14 fatalities due to the disease. Jammu and Kashmir has 13 deaths, while Bihar has registered eight and Kerala and Odisha each have reported four deaths. Jharkhand, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh each have recorded three COVID-19 fatalities each, while Assam has reported two deaths. Meghalaya, Uttarakhand and Puducherry have reported one fatality each, according to the data shared by the ministry. According to the ministry's website, more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities, the existence of multiple disorders in the same person. According to the health ministry data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 33,053, followed by Gujarat at 11,379, Tamil Nadu at 11,224, Delhi at 10,054 Rajasthan at 5,202, Madhya Pradesh at 4,977 and Uttar Pradesh at 4,259.  The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 2,677 in West Bengal, 2,407 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,964 in Punjab. It has risen to 1,551 in Telangana, 1,262 in Bihar, 1,183 in Jammu and Kashmir, 1,147 in Karnataka and 910 in Haryana. Odisha has reported 828 coronavirus infection cases so far, while Kerala has 601 cases. A total of 223 people have been infected with the virus in Jharkhand and 191 in Chandigarh. Tripura has reported 167 cases, Assam 101, Uttarakhand 92, Chhattisgarh 86, Himachal Pradesh 80 and Ladakh 43. Thirty-three COVID-19 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.           Goa have reported 29 COVID-19 cases, while Meghalaya and Puducherry have registered 13 cases each.   Manipur has seven cases. Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Dadar and Nagar Haveli have reported a case each till how.   "410 cases are being reassigned to states," the ministry said on its website, adding "our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR".   State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-jump-of-5242-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-tally-reaches-96169-death-toll-touches-3029-838934.html
18-05-2020||National||Maharashtra: Auto driver uses money saved for his wedding to feed migrants||In a novel gesture, a 30-year-old auto-rickshaw driver, who saved Rs 2 lakh for his marriage but postponed the ceremony due to the lockdown, is now using the money to feed migrant labourers and those in distress on Pune streets. Akshay Kothawale is not just stopping at that, but also helping senior citizens and pregnant women by offering them free rides to clinics in his vehicle, and also going around the city creating awareness on how to stay protected against the coronavirus. With the help of his friends, Kothawale is using the money he saved for his wedding to prepare food for nearly400 people every day. They then go around the city streets and distribute the food among migrant labourers and poor people. Talking to PTI, Kothawale, who comes from a humble background, said he feels happy to be able to help others in this time of crisis. "While working as an auto-rickshaw driver, I could save around Rs 2 lakh for my marriage, which was scheduled on May 25. But, due to the lockdown extension, we thought it would not be appropriate to have the ceremony now, so my fiancee and I decided to postpone the marriage," he said. During the lockdown, Kothawale was pained to see several poor people, specially migrant labourers, facing hardships due to no work and no income. "I saw several people on roads who could not even afford to have one meal and were struggling to survive. I and some of my friends then thought of doing something to help the daily wagers and needy people," he said. "I decided to use my savings for the cause and some of my friends also chipped in," said Kothawale, who is a resident of Timber market area in the Maharashtra city. They then set up a kitchen and started preparing 'chapatis and sabji' (flat bread and vegetables), which they have been distributing at places where migrant labourers and needy people gather. "Using my auto-rickshaw, we distribute one-time meal among people at Maldhakka Chowk near the railway station, Sangamwadi and Yerawada areas," he said. Since his cash flow is also drying up fast, Kothawale and his friends have now decided to replace 'chapati-sabji' with 'pulao', masala rice or sambhar rice, he said. "But, we are continuing distribution of food among the migrant labourers and those in need," he said.  The group intends to continue providing food to people at least till May 31 with the help of the funds they have. Kothwala has also put up a loudspeaker on his auto- rickshaw through which he and his friends have been creating awareness among people about the coronavirus and how to stay protected against it. The group has also distributed masks and sanitisers to roadside dwellers. "Amid the lockdown, I am also offering free rides in the auto-rickshaw to senior citizens and pregnant womenwho need to visit a doctor," Kothawale said. During the Sangli-Kolhapur deluge last year, he and his associates had sent food and other relief material for the flood-affected people, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-auto-driver-uses-money-saved-for-his-wedding-to-feed-migrants-838949.html
18-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Citizens ask MPs to help migrants get home safe||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation in India. In today’s episode, DH Journalist Varsha Gowda talks to citizen activist Tara Krishnaswamy about the Call-your-MP campaign over helping migrants go home safe. DH Business Journalist Samiksha Goel presents a lowdown on the stimulus package announced over the week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-citizens-ask-mps-to-help-migrants-get-home-safe-838950.html
18-05-2020||National||Restrictions under Sec 144 extended in Chhattisgarh for 3 months||The Chhattisgarh government has extended restrictions imposed in all districts of the state under CrPC Section 144 for the next three months in a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus, an official said on Monday. The state Home department issued a notification to this effect late Sunday evening, a public relations department official said. As per reports submitted by collectors of all 28 districts, the situation is yet to be brought under complete control and there is still a possibility of spread of the coronavirus infection in several places, he said quoting the notification. "Therefore, in view of the present circumstances and proposals by district collectors, it is inevitable to extend the period of Section-144, which bars assembly of four or more people, for next three months to contain the transmission of COVID-19," the notification said. Restaurants, hotel bars and clubs will remain closed in the state till May 31, while sports complexes and stadiums will continue to be shut till further orders, the official said. Soon after the notification was released, Raipur Collector S Bharthi Dasan issued an order on Sunday night that Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) will remain effective in the district till August 16 or further orders.  Strict action will be taken against those found violating the prohibitory orders, the official said. On Sunday, 25 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the state, taking the number of such cases to 92. Out of these, there are 33 active cases in the state while 59 people have been discharged so far after recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/restrictions-under-sec-144-extended-in-chhattisgarh-for-3-months-838953.html
18-05-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll in Delhi rises to 160; cases cross 10,000-mark||The coronavirus death toll in Delhi mounted to 160, while the total number of COVID-19 cases in the national capital crossed the 10,000-mark on Monday, authorities said. As many as 299 fresh cases were recorded while the total number of active cases stood at 5,409. In a bulletin issued on Monday, the Delhi health department said, the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 160, and the total number of cases has climbed to 10,054. It, however, added that the cumulative death figures refer to fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals.  On Sunday, the total number of cases stood at 9,755, including 148 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-in-delhi-rises-to-160-cases-cross-10000-mark-838955.html
18-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Centre lists parameters for states to delineate red, orange, green zones||Parameters laid down by the Union Health Ministry such as active COVID-19 cases, doubling and fatality rates and cases per lakh population have to be taken into consideration by states and union territories while categorising areas into red, orange or green zones. The ministry also issued guidelines for delineation of containment and buffer zones and outlined actions that have to be implemented in those areas to break the chain of transmission of the disease. In a letter to states and union territories, Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan said states may categorise districts or municipal corporations into hotspots, red, orange and green zones. They, however, may also choose to categorise sub-division, ward or any other appropriate administrative unit into the colour-coded zones after detailed analysis at their end, duly taking into consideration the geographical spread of cases, contacts and their zone of influence in terms of the disease spread, the letter said. This comes after the Ministry of Home Affairs issued guidelines for the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown, giving power to states and union territories to delineate red, green and orange zones as per the COVID-19 situation taking into consideration the parameters shared by the union health ministry. In her letter, Sudan elaborated that demarcation of the zones would be based on total active cases, cases per lakh population, doubling rate calculated over a seven-day period, case fatality rate, testing ratio (number of tests per lakh population) and sample positivity rate.  The benchmarks or thresholds for critical and desirable levels for total active cases would be more than 200 and zero or no reported case in the last 21 days, respectively. For active cases per lakh population, the critical threshold would be when more than 15, while for doubling rate calculated over a seven-day period, the critical level would be less than 14 days and desirable when more than 28 days. As for case fatality rate, more than six per cent would be considered critical and less than one per cent desirable. The critical threshold for testing ratio (number of tests per lakh population) would be less than 65 while the desirable level would be more than 200, according to the letter. Sample positivity rate would be considered critical if it is more than six per cent while less than two per cent is desirable. The health ministry, however, underlined that the benchmarks or thresholds for critical and desirable levels are dynamic and may be revised by the Centre as per the evolving situation at the field level. The letter mentions that the guidelines are issued following the video conference of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers on May 11, and taking into consideration the feedback received from them.   "The most important task once the zones are identified is field action in terms of implementation of containment plan of action. This entails identification of containment and buffer zones inside the red, orange and green zones from where cases have been primarily reported. "A containment operation (large outbreak or cluster) is deemed successful when no case is reported in last 28 days from containment zone," the letter stated. According to the guidelines, containment zones are delineated based on mapping of cases and contacts, geographical dispersion of cases and contacts, the area having a well-demarcated perimeter and enforceability of perimeter control.     "It is reiterated that this is the primary area where intensive action is to carry out with the aim of breaking the chain of transmission. This area should, therefore, be appropriately defined by the district administration/local urban bodies with technical inputs at the local level." "The effective containment, it is advisable to err on the side of caution," the letter said. The guidelines stated that once the containment zone is delineated the perimeter will be defined and there would be strict perimeter control with the establishment of clear entry and exit points. No movement should be allowed except for medical emergencies and essential goods and services, no unchecked influx of population to be allowed and people transiting to be recorded and followed through integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP). Stringent action needs to be initiated within these containment zones in terms of an active search for cases through physical house-to-house surveillance by special teams formed for the purpose, testing of all cases as per sampling guidelines and contact tracing, identification of local community volunteers to help in surveillance, contact tracing and risk communication and strict enforcement of social distancing, among others, it said. Sudan said a buffer zone also has to be delineated around each containment zone. "Buffer zone will be primarily the area wherein additional and focused attention is needed so as to ensure that infection does not spread to adjoining areas. For effective containment, it is of paramount importance that the buffer is sufficiently large," the letter stated.  The focus areas of action in the buffer zone include extensive surveillance for cases through monitoring of ILI/SARI cases in health facilities, among others, the guidelines stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-lists-parameters-for-states-to-delineate-red-orange-green-zones-838956.html
18-05-2020||National||Six container trucks carrying over 500 migrants seized in UP's Muzaffarnagar||Six container trucks carrying over 500 migrant workers from Yamuna Nagar in Haryana to Bihar and West Bengal were seized here, police said on Monday. The trucks were intercepted at a check-post in the Miranpur area Sunday evening, they said. The migrants were shifted to shelter homes, police said, adding they will be sent to their respective home districts later. The migrants said they paid Rs 2,500 each to the container owners for the journey, police said. The owners are being interrogated, they added. According to official sources, over 3,300 migrant workers in the district have been sent in buses to their homes so far. In neighbouring Shamli district, 18,530 migrant workers were sent to their homes, District Magistrate, Shamli, Jasjit Kaur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-container-trucks-carrying-over-500-migrants-seized-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-838968.html
18-05-2020||National||CBSE releases exam schedule, ask students to carry sanitisers||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday released a date sheet for the remaining board exams for Class 10 and 12, with Class 12 students appearing for the Home Sciences examination on July 1. Class 10 examination will be held only in Delhi North-East which was the centre of riots in the last week of February, forcing deferment of the examination. Physical distancing would be the norm to be followed, the CBSE announced and asked students to carry their own bottles of sanitizers to the examination centres. Students have also been directed to wear face masks to the examination centres and parents have to ensure that their wards are not sick.  For Class 12, the Home Science exam will be held on July 1, followed by both courses of Hindi the next day, Sanyam Bhardwaj, the Controller of Examination, CBSE said. The exam for Business Studies has been scheduled on July 9, followed by Biotechnology on July 10, and Geography on July 11, he said. The Class 10 and 12th board exams are being conducted for the remaining 29 papers from July 1 to July 15 at various centres. “The Class 10 exams will be staggered on four dates, starting July 1. The first paper will be of Social Sciences, while the next day students will be required to appear for the Science exam,” Bhardwaj said. On July 10, exams will be conducted for both courses of Hindi and on July 15 for both courses of English.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-releases-exam-schedule-ask-students-to-carry-sanitisers-838982.html
18-05-2020||National||Challenges being tackled to welcome Indian students for next academic year: France||France said on Monday it was making all efforts to address logistical and planning challenges to welcome Indian students for the next academic year, as it highlighted strong people-to-people ties as the core of the strategic partnership between the two countries. As the COVID-19 pandemic brings about lockdowns and suspended events, France proposed several innovative ways to foster the cooperation with India across the scope of their bilateral relations. The French embassy in India said in a statement the crisis will be turned into opportunities to boost the partnerships in education, research and culture. "Logistical and planning challenges are being actively tackled to welcome Indian students for higher studies for the next academic year. Thanks to a strong social and public healthcare system, France has taken care of its foreign students on an equal footing with French students, ensuring their safety and well-being. Visas and scholarships have been extended wherever necessary," it said. For new students, the embassy said France is fully geared up to enable the commencement of the academic year through virtual classrooms, if necessary. "France has also augmented its proportion of scholarships by 50 per cent - equivalent to Rs 10 crore - for this academic year. These scholarships will be awarded regardless of whether a student starts the semester in India or France, as Indian students are still keen on following their dreams in France," the statement said. The embassy said it will organise a virtual version of its bi-annual 'Choose France Tour' at the end of September for the intake of students for the 2021 academic session. This will enable a greater number of French institutions to interact with Indian students, reaching aspiring scholars from all over India, it said.  "At the core of the strategic partnership between India and France lie strong people-to-people ties. As France and India gradually emerge from their lockdowns, enhanced exchanges will pave the way for a new world," said Emmanuel Lenain, the Ambassador of France to India. "Trusted global scientific collaboration is the need of the hour since no country can achieve a breakthrough alone. Our country recognises that education will play a critical role in shaping a post-pandemic world, and thus reiterates that Indian students and researchers are welcome in France,” he said. On the cinematic front, while the Festival of Cannes will be missed, the film market will be held online in June - as will upcoming professional meetings for the film industry, the statement said. On the artistic front, in these difficult times, the embassy said it is continuing collaborations with its Indian partners. “India will remain the Guest of Honour Country at the 2021 Paris Book Fair, for which preparations are underway," the statement added. "The French Institute in India, through its #ifionline programme, is bringing France to Indian homes like never before through films, documentaries, museum visits, online training, dance and music performances," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/challenges-being-tackled-to-welcome-indian-students-for-next-academic-year-france-838991.html
18-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Centre tones down mandatory clause on Aarogya Setu app||The earlier guidelines, which became redundant as per the new order on lockdown issued by National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), had mandated that all employees attending work in offices should mandatorily download the app. Employers were asked to ensure strict compliance or face jail term under the Disaster Management Act.  However, the Lockdown 4.0 guidelines said, "With a view to ensuring safety in offices and workplaces, employers on best effort basis should ensure that Aarogya Setu is installed by all employees having compatible mobile phones." Though the Centre has diluted the provisions, the states still can impose such restrictions as they are allowed to impose stricter measures in their respective jurisdiction. Over ten crore people have downloaded the app. While there is easing of app requirement for office-goers, the Centre has maintained that its Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for migrant workers' movement and passengers in trains and flights still continue to be in operation and those mandate the use of the app. With the Centre giving states more power to deal with infection zones, it has now omitted the reference of the use of the app in containment zones. Again, states can decide to either impose the mandatory use of the app in containment zones or any other zone depending on the ground situation. The new guidelines also said, "District authorities may advise individuals to install the Aarogya Setu app on compatible mobile phones and regularly update their health status on the app. This will facilitate timely provision of medical attention to those individuals who are at risk." This time the government has also made efforts to take into account that several people do not have smartphones and cannot download such apps. This has led to the insertion of the coinage 'compatible' mobile phones.  The Centre prescribing the mandatory use of Aarogya Setu app had also reached the doorsteps of Kerala High Court where a petitioner questioned the government move. The High Court had then asked the Centre about the practicality of the move and said the petitioner had some valid concerns. The app had attracted criticism from privacy rights activists, who said making it mandatory came even as the country does not have a privacy law. Security concerns of the app were also raised though the Aarogya Setu team rejected it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-centre-tones-down-mandatory-clause-on-aarogya-setu-app-838992.html
18-05-2020||National||MHA says states can't dilute Lockdown 4.0 guidelines||The home ministry has said no state or Union Territory will dilute the guidelines issued for the nationwide lockdown that will continue till May 31. In a communication to the chief secretaries of the states and Union territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said the guidelines for the fourth phase of the lockdown were issued after taking the views of the states, following a video-conference held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers on May 11. "As emphasised in my earlier letters, I would like to reiterate again that States and Union Territories cannot dilute restrictions imposed vide the aforesaid guidelines issued by MHA. States and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain other activities in various zones, or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary. "I would urge you to ensure compliance of the new guidelines and direct all concerned authorities for their strict implementation," Bhalla said in his letter to the chief secretaries on Sunday night. He said under the new guidelines effective from Monday, the states and Union territories will categorise "red", "orange" and "green" zones taking into consideration the revised guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday. Inside the "red" and "orange" zones, containment and buffer zones will be identified by the district administration and local urban bodies with technical inputs at the local level and by taking into consideration the health ministry guidelines. Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control shall be maintained and no movement of persons will be allowed across the zones, except for medical emergencies and maintaining the supply of essential goods and services, the letter said. The home secretary said a limited number of activities will continue to remain prohibited throughout the country. The ongoing nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus was extended till May 31 by the National Disaster Management Authority on Monday. New guidelines on lockdown measures have been issued in supersession of the earlier lockdown orders, except the Standing Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued on movement of persons. In order to facilitate the movement of persons, various modes of transport have already been opened up in accordance with the SoPs issued by the MHA and all other activities will be permitted, except those specifically prohibited under these guidelines. However, only essential activities shall be allowed in the COVID-19 containment zones, as mentioned earlier. The lockdown announced by the prime minister came into effect on March 25 for 21 days initially. It was first extended till May 3 and then again till May 17. On Monday, the lockdown was extended till May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-says-states-cant-dilute-lockdown-40-guidelines-838996.html
18-05-2020||National||Tamil Nadu will not face impact of cyclone 'Amphan' but situation being monitored: Govt||The Tamil Nadu government said on Monday the state will not face the impact of cyclone 'Amphan' but it was constantly monitoring the situation along with the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Revenue Minister R B Udhayakumar said satellite images of the storm have been released. "It has come to be known that there will be no impact of this storm on Tamil Nadu. However, we, along with the IMD are constantly monitoring regarding the cyclone," he was quoted as saying in a release. Constant updates will be shared with the public in this connection, he added. Cyclonic storm 'Amphan' is likely to intensify into a super cyclone by Monday evening and hit the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts as a very severe cyclone with a wind speed up to 185 km per hour on Wednesday, the Union Home Ministry had said earlier. Udhayakumar further said there was no warning regarding "high temperature" even as the peak period of the summer season is currently underway in the state. According to the daily observation data (8.30 am on Monday) of the Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai, five places in the state sizzled in excess of 40 degree Celsius, with the central district of Tiruchirappally recording the maximum of 41.1 degrees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-will-not-face-impact-of-cyclone-amphan-but-situation-being-monitored-govt-839000.html
18-05-2020||National||Faculty member in AIIMS' orthopaedic department tests positive for COVID-19||A faculty member in the orthopaedic department of the AIIMS here has tested positive for coronavirus, following which contact-tracing has been initiated, sources said. The wife of the faculty member has tested negative for COVID-19, they said. "He has tested positive for coronavirus, following which contact-tracing has been initiated. So far, 10 persons, mostly staff from his office, have been advised self-quarantine," a source said. According to AIIMS medical superintendent Dr D K Sharma, as many as 92 healthcare personnel, including one faculty member, two resident doctors, 13 nursing staff, three technicians, 11 hospital attendants, 12 sanitation workers and 45 security guards, have tested positive for COVID-19 over the past two months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/faculty-member-in-aiims-orthopaedic-department-tests-positive-for-covid-19-839004.html
18-05-2020||National||Congress making fun of migrants: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday shifted blame for the road accident in Auraiya, in which 26 migrant labourers were killed, on the Congress governments in Punjab and Rajasthan, saying the party is like the proverbial cat that seeks salvation after killing 100 rats. Speaking to a news channel, Adityanath said, "In the unfortunate accident that took place in UP's Auraiya, the Congress leadership should understand that one truck (involved in the accident) was from Rajasthan, while the other was coming from Punjab. A hefty amount of money was taken from the migrant labourers, who were returning to Bihar and Jharkhand. What were they (Congress) doing then? You will exploit people and then put up an honest face. "The (Hindi) idiom '100 chuhe khaakar, billi Haj ko chali (a cat seeking salvation after consuming 100 rats)' fits on the Congress today. This is the shameful face of Congress. I condemn the Congress leadership for making fun of the migrant labourers. Twenty-six migrant workers were declared dead, after a trailer truck carrying sacks of lime along with people rammed into a stationary truck with many migrant workers sitting in it, near a roadside eatery on the national highway in Auraiya on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-making-fun-of-migrants-yogi-adityanath-839008.html
18-05-2020||National||Spiritual leader Dev Prabhakar Shastri dies in Katni, Madhya Pradesh||Noted spiritual leader Dev Prabhakar Shastri, popularly called 'Daddaji', died on Sunday night at 'Daddadham' in Katni in Madhya Pradesh from lung and kidney ailments. He was 82, and is survived by three sons and two daughters. He was undergoing treatment in Delhi and was brought here by actor Ashutosh Rana and former Madhya Pradesh minister Sanjay Pathak after his condition deteriorated, said Daddaji Shishya Mandal spokesperson Sanjeev Shrivastava. His last rites were performed on Monday at Daddadham, he added. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijaywargiya, MP Congress chief Kamal Nath and senior leader Digvijaya Singh were among those who paid tribute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spiritual-leader-dev-prabhakar-shastri-dies-in-katni-madhya-pradesh-839019.html
18-05-2020||National||Don't dilute lockdown restrictions, states can impose harsher measures: MHA||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked states to not dilute any restrictions imposed as part of the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown 4.0 that will be in place till May 31. In a letter to the states, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said the guidelines have been issued after taking into consideration the views of the state governments following the video conference held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Chief Ministers on May 11. Bhalla said the states and union territories will now categorise red, orange, and green zones by following the revised guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoFHW) on Sunday. Inside the red and orange zones, district administration or the local urban bodies will also identify containment and buffer zones using technical inputs at the local level by adhering to the guidelines issued by the MoFHW (Ministry of Family Health and Welfare). Strict perimeter control will be maintained in containment zones, where no movement of people would be allowed except for medical emergencies and for maintaining the supply of essential goods and services.  "A limited number of activities will continue to remain prohibited throughout the country. In order to facilitate the movement of persons, various modes of transport have already been opened as per SOPs(Standard Operating Procedures) issued by the MHA. All other activities will be permitted except those which are specifically prohibited under these guidelines," Bhalla said. "I would like to reiterate again that state/union territories cannot dilute restrictions imposed vide the guidelines issued by MHA. States/UTs based on their assessment of the situation, may prohibit certain other activities in various zones, or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary," he added.  He also asked states to widely publicise their guidelines to avoid confusion among people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-dilute-lockdown-restrictions-states-can-impose-harsher-measures-mha-839022.html
18-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Auto driver uses money saved for wedding to feed migrants||In a noble gesture, a 30-year-old auto-rickshaw driver, who saved Rs 2 lakh for his marriage but postponed the ceremony due to the lockdown, is now using the money to feed migrant labourers and those in distress on Pune streets. Akshay Kothawale is not just stopping at that, but also helping senior citizens and pregnant women by offering them free rides to clinics in his vehicle, and also going around the city creating awareness on how to stay protected against the coronavirus. With the help of his friends, Kothawale is using the money he saved for his wedding to prepare food for nearly400 people every day. They then go around the city streets and distribute the food among migrant labourers and poor people. Talking to PTI, Kothawale, who comes from a humble background, said he feels happy to be able to help others in this time of crisis. "While working as an auto-rickshaw driver, I could save around Rs 2 lakh for my marriage, which was scheduled on May 25. But, due to the lockdown extension, we thought it would not be appropriate to have the ceremony now, so my fiancee and I decided to postpone the marriage," he said. During the lockdown, Kothawale was pained to see several poor people, specially migrant labourers, facing hardships due to no work and no income. "I saw several people on roads who could not even afford to have one meal and were struggling to survive. I and some of my friends then thought of doing something to help the daily wagers and needy people," he said. "I decided to use my savings for the cause and some of my friends also chipped in," said Kothawale, who is a resident of Timber market area in the Maharashtra city. They then set up a kitchen and started preparing 'chapatis and sabji' (flat bread and vegetables), which they have been distributing at places where migrant labourers and needy people gather. "Using my auto-rickshaw, we distribute one-time meal among people at Maldhakka Chowk near the railway station, Sangamwadi and Yerawada areas," he said. Since his cash flow is also drying up fast, Kothawale and his friends have now decided to replace 'chapati-sabji' with 'pulao', masala rice or sambhar rice, he said.  "But, we are continuingdistribution of food among the migrant labourers and those in need," he said. The group intends to continue providing food to people at least till May 31 with the help of the funds they have. Kothwala has also put up a loudspeaker on his auto- rickshaw through which he and his friends have been creating awareness among people about the coronavirus and how to stay protected against it. The group has also distributed masks and sanitisers to roadside dwellers. "Amid the lockdown, I am also offering free rides in the auto-rickshaw to senior citizens and pregnant womenwho need to visit a doctor," Kothawale said. During the Sangli-Kolhapur deluge last year, he and his associates had sent food and other relief material for the flood-affected people, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-auto-driver-uses-money-saved-for-wedding-to-feed-migrants-839025.html
18-05-2020||National||TN CM K Palaniswami fumes at Centre over 'unreasonable' riders to nod for more borrowing||In a rather unusual outburst against the Centre, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Monday said the conditions put forth by the Union government for additional borrowing were onerous, unreasonable, lacked consensus and above all not in keeping with the spirit of co- operative federalism. Flagging electricity distribution reform as 'politically sensitive,' the Chief Minister strongly opposed snapping free power supply to farmers and made it categorical that the mode of disbursement of subsidy should be left to the State governments and batted for "greater latitude" to states to implement reforms. One of the conditions of the Centre to states to increase their borrowing limit was discontinuation of free electricity to farmers. The Centre, as part of the conditions, has asked states to switch to Direct Benefit Transfer instead. Free power distribution to farmers is among the initiatives over which both the Dravidian majors -AIADMK and DMK- have vied with each other to take credit for helping the peasants. Drawing Prime Minister Narendra Modi's attention to the "onerous conditions attached to the additional borrowing limits," approved for States by the Finance Ministry, he said in a letter that States sought the additional borrowing limit, beyond 3 per cent of GSDP mainly because of the significant shortfall in revenues due to the lockdown. "There are also large additional expenditure commitments. These are borrowings by the state government, which have to be repaid from future tax revenues of the states. They are not grants from the Centre. To attach needlessly demanding conditionalities to the additional borrowing requirements appears to be unreasonable," Palaniswami said. Aggressively pushing a reform agenda on which "a consensus is yet to be developed, at a time when States have approached the Centre for additional borrowing out of sheer desperation, is not in keeping with the spirit of co-operative federalism," he said taking a firm position. Ideally, a consensus should have been evolved by the Centre following detailed deliberations with the States on proposed reforms, the Chief Minister said adding reforms may have been linked to special Central COVID-1 grants, and not to additional borrowing by the State. "Linking the Central government's power under Article 293 (3) of the Constitution to permit additional borrowing by the States to conditionalities, is unprecedented," he said. As per the Constitutional provision "a State may not without the consent of the Government of India raise any loan..." In some of the four major areas of reform required by the Centre to avail additional borrowing, the state government has already undertaken reforms without expecting any financial assistance. There are, however, some areas, like "power distribution reforms, which are politically sensitive. These issues have been repeatedly raised by me in communications to the Prime Minister as well. I have raised the issue in the context of the proposed changes in the Electricity Act. Our government is strongly opposed to the idea of removing the free power supply to farmers. It has been our stand that the mode of disbursement of subsidy should be left to the State governments themselves," he said. Since a consensus was yet to emerge on these issues, the Chief Minister requested the Prime Minister to instruct the Finance Ministry to remove the requirements to reform the power sector from the proposed conditionalities and also to "allow greater latitude to states in implementing a reform agenda." Also, Palaniswami said, "imposing needlessly onerous conditions on borrowings will constrain the state governments in finding funds to meet essential expenditure in the wake of a serious financial situation. I am confident you will appreciate and understand the difficulties that states face at this time and instruct that the necessary changes be made to the relevant guidelines."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tn-cm-k-palaniswami-fumes-at-centre-over-unreasonable-riders-to-nod-for-more-borrowing-839026.html
18-05-2020||National||Former bureaucrats raise concerns over Central Vista revamp project in letter to PM||Sixty retired bureaucrats have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, raising concerns over the Central Vista redevelopment project, which is likely to cost around Rs 20,000 crore, calling it an "irresponsible" move at a time when enormous funds are required strengthen the public health system. In the letter, also marked to Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, the former bureaucrats said there was no parliamentary debate or discussion that preceded the decisions taken with regard to the project. Moreover, the redevelopment plans were not substantiated by any public consultation or expert review, it said.  The selection of the firm and the processes employed to do so leave a lot of questions unanswered, the letter added. "In the post-COVID-19 scenario, when enormous funds are required for strengthening the public health system, to provide sustenance to people and to rebuild the economy, taking up a proposal to redesign the entire Central Vista at a cost of at least Rs 20,000 crores, a figure likely to escalate significantly, seems particularly irresponsible. "It seems like Nero fiddling while Rome burns," it said. Signatories to the letter include retired IAS, IPS and IFS officers. Former DDA vice-chairman V S Ailawadi and former Prasar Bharti CEO Jawahar Sircar are also among them. The Central Vista redevelopment project envisages constructing a new Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat and revamping of the nearly 3.5-km-long stretch from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to the India Gate. The letter said construction and redesign on the scale planned in the redevelopment project would significantly affect the heritage nature of this precinct and destroy it "irrevocably". The former civil servants also pointed that the redevelopment planned will, moreover, cause severe environmental damage.  "This precinct is at the core of the congested capital of Delhi, and acts as the lungs of the city, with its dense mature tree canopies serving as a repository of bio diversity and the vast lawns of the Vista as a watershed for the city between the Ridge and the Yamuna," it said. Constructing a large number of multi-storeyed office buildings, with basements, in this open area will create "congestion and irreversibly change and damage the environment". "Delhi already suffers from enormous environmental pollution. To plan something which will increase this pollution many, many times, not merely during the construction phase but also subsequently, is clearly a thoughtless and irresponsible act," the letter further said. The former bureaucrats also pointed out that the Central Vista serves at present as a recreational space for the whole city as families throng the area on summer nights to sit around in the open air and enjoy the occasional ice-cream – "innocent and inexpensive pleasures" which they will be deprived of once the vista's character undergoes a change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-bureaucrats-raise-concerns-over-central-vista-revamp-project-in-letter-to-pm-839029.html
18-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Stranded Indians in US ask India to operate more evacuation flights||Thousands of Indians, including students, stranded in the US for weeks due to the COVID-19 related travel restrictions, are urging the government to operate additional flights to evacuate them and add more departure cities like Houston and Dallas with sizeable Indian populations. The worst affected people by this humanitarian crisis are the students, and emergency medical tourists, who need evacuation badly to avoid further financial strain. There are around 30,000 students alone in the Houston Consular region, comprising eight US states with top universities.  Many students have left just before the lockdown and those who could not are ready to go after their semester exams last week. An Indian national, who lost his close family and is desperately wanting to be home said, “If Air India can fly and charge exorbitant prices in the name of helping stranded Indians, then why doesn’t India let private airlines fly. "This is not a help, instead, it’s robbing people, charging round trip fare for one way and still not letting the deserving people go,” he said. One of the netizens, Prasad Bhalekar tweeted that if India was really worried, then one has to plan according to that. "Please show the real percentage (5 to 10 per cent Phase I & II) of evacuation to Indians." he tweeted. Alia, an Indian in New York, who is an Overseas Citizen Of India (OCI) card holder, just lost her father and has been awaiting permission to board the evacuation flight. “My father passed away in Mumbai on April 26 and the elderly mother is helpless and in need of medical care. Please help me get to Mumbai urgently. There is no reply from the Indian Embassy in the US. Please help,” she said. “At the time of a pandemic, who would like to leave their home and visit India, if this was not an emergency," another OCI passport holder said. Dipti, from Faridabad, Haryana, is in Houston with her young brother for his treatment at the Medical Center since January.  She is “eagerly waiting" for a positive response for evacuation in phase II, as her four-year-old son is away from her in India for the past 80 days. The Indian Embassy and consulates are working round the clock and facing challenges to cater to all emergencies, helping cancer patients, pregnant women, students, stranded tourists, laid-off workers and persons wanting to go home due to deaths in the family and expired visas. Consulate helplines receive over 10,000 emails and calls daily. Consulate officials said that they are not just helping with flights but also offering assistance by helping students with accommodation and essential services as their university and college dormitories closed down in March. From May 9 to May 15, Air India operated commercial flights from the US to India facilitating the return of stranded Indian nationals. Consul General of India in Houston, Aseem Mahajan, told PTI in an interview that, “We are facing a unique humanitarian crisis that has taken everyone unawares and impacted all. Every situation is critical and needs attention and we are making sure there is timely help available for all. "Around 260 passengers have flown from our 8 states; destinations covered so far are Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad, Delhi from Chicago," he said. "In phase II, we are covering Uttarakhand, Punjab, Himachal - through New York - Bangalore, and Kochi from San Francisco. Flights to Delhi, Bhubaneswar, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad will be from Chicago”. “The proportion of all consulates is the same. The reason for special flights from San Francisco, Chicago and New York is because Air India hubs are there. The closest hub for our Consular area comprising 8 states; Texas, Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Colorado and Nebraska, is Chicago,” Mahajan said. “At this point, we have the constraint of sending people only to some destinations that have domestic flights and quarantine requirements. The constraints are internal in India due to no domestic travel until May 31 for now," he said. "Also, at this point, nothing can be said about the resumption of commercial flights," Mahajan said. A total of seven flights from the US will be a part of the second phase break down. Two flights are scheduled to depart from San Francisco, one from DC, two from Chicago and other two from New York. Mahajan said "it has been a relentless and non-stop work” to coordinate the repatriation exercise and we are making sure not even one seat on the flight goes vacant” since a large number of Indians are stranded in the US due to various reasons and they are “desperate” to go home. Priority is being given to stranded passengers, terminally-ill patients, passengers with medical concerns and students. As of now, the flights are limited to Indian nationals only, who would have to reimburse the Indian government for the one-way ticket. The Consulate has no discretion to make exceptions for the OCI cardholders or Indian-Americans needing to fly back to India. All passengers on arrival in India will be medically screened and would have to download and register the Aarogya Setu app. Further, all passengers will need to undergo a 14-day mandatory quarantine on arrival in India in institutional facilities on payment basis as per the protocols framed by the Government of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-stranded-indians-in-us-ask-india-to-operate-more-evacuation-flights-839070.html
18-05-2020||National||Lockdown effect: Man sells wife’s mangalsutra to return home in Bihar||Fifty days after lockdown, when Sarvesh Kumar in Rajasthan went to his employer to ask for his salary dues so that he could return to his home state Bihar, he was shooed away by his boss. With no work and no cash in hand, Sarvesh had no idea how he would survive. Until his wife (in Bihar) called him up on his mobile. “Sell the mangalsutra you took to Rajasthan to get it repaired. With that money, purchase a cycle and drive down to Bihar,” Sarvesh’s wife told him. “When my husband will die due to hunger, what will a suhagan (married woman) do with a mangalsutra?” Sarvesh’s wife convinced her in-laws at Araria in Bihar when someone pointed out the essence of ‘mangalsutra’ for a ‘suhagan’ woman. Sarvesh did exactly what his better-half suggested. He purchased a cycle and is now pedaling on way to Araria in eastern Bihar, a 1400 km drive from his workplace in Rajasthan. There are many people like Sarvesh, who have not been able to travel by several Shramik Special trains being run from one State to another. One such person is Harishankar, who waited for days to board a train in Ambala but eventually left for Sitamarhi in a truck along with his wife Rita and two children.  Arvind Kumar’s case is all the more heart-rending. A physically-challenged person, he is walking on his one foot, with a stick and a friend to support him. Arvind has covered around 600 km from Satna (in Madhya Pradesh) to Patna and is on way to Bhagalpur, around 300 km more to be covered. Taking note of the many migrant workers preferring to use other modes of transportation instead of trains to reach their home state, the railway officials, say the labourers should have some patience and every stranded person will get a chance to travel by train.  “Altogether 69,650 persons will leave for Bihar on May 18 by 43 Shramik Special trains, the highest number on any particular day,” said Information and Public Relations Department (IPRD) Secretary, Anupam Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-effect-man-sells-wife-s-mangalsutra-to-return-home-in-bihar-839071.html
18-05-2020||National||Auraiya accident victims sent home by trucks with dead bodies||Uttar Pradesh's government was left red-faced after reports that the migrant workers, who were injured in Saturday's road accident in Auraiya district, were sent home by trucks on which the bodies of the dead workers were also kept. One of the injured posted a video on the social networking sites showing the workers sitting in a corner in the trucks and the dead bodies, which were wrapped in black polythene, in another corner. Taking cognisance of the video, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren blasted his UP counterpart Yogi Adityanath and directed the state officials to arrange ambulances to carry the dead bodies and buses for the injured workers. An embarrassed UP government then swung into action and transferred the dead bodies into ambulances at Prayagraj, about 300 km from Auraiya, late on Sunday night. ''The dead bodies were not kept on ice...they were just wrapped...it was difficult to drive owing to the foul stench emanating from the dead bodies,'' the driver of one of the trucks said. The opposition parties attacked the UP government for what they termed its 'insensitivity'. ''The workers deserve humanitarian treatment,'' BSP supremo Mayawati said. Congress leader Pramod Tewari also slammed the state government and demanded a judicial probe into the incident. Twenty-six migrant workers, including women, were killed and over two dozens injured, in a collision between two trucks in Auraiya district in the wee hours on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/auraiya-accident-victims-sent-home-by-trucks-with-dead-bodies-839079.html
18-05-2020||National||J&K reports two more COVID-19 deaths, tally touches 15||Two COVID-19 patients died in the Valley on Monday taking the toll in Jammu and Kashmir to 15. A 75-year-old man from south Kashmir’s Anantnag district and a 65-year-old lady died at the Chest Diseases hospital in Srinagar due to COVID-19, health officials said. The deaths come a day after a 29-year-old woman with underlying ailments died at the same hospital. She was the youngest victim of the dreaded disease in J&K so far. With the latest fatality, 15 persons have died due to the disease so far in J&K - 13 of them in Kashmir and two in the Jammu division. Srinagar district has reported five of the deaths, highest in any district, followed by Baramulla three Anantnag two while one each has been reported from Bandipora, Budgam, Kulgam, Udhampur, and Jammu districts.  Earlier in the day, five doctors and 19 policemen were tested positive for COVID-19 in Jammu and Kashmir taking the tally of total positive cases in the Union Territory beyond 1,200.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-reports-two-more-covid-19-deaths-tally-touches-15-839086.html
18-05-2020||National||Monsoon amidst COVID-19, Kerala keeps fingers crossed||Amidst the crisis over COVID-19, Kerala is keeping fingers crossed as yet another monsoon is in the offing. Kerala witnessed massive destruction in the last two monsoons, claiming 433 lives in 2018 and 104 in 2019. With experts warning of excessive rainfall during this monsoon also, Kerala is gearing up to face yet another calamity by enhancing the weather alert systems and initiating a plan for relief camps by following the social distancing and quarantine norms. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the state was facing a major challenge as weather experts predict the chances for excessive rainfall during this monsoon also, amidst the high caution prevailing over COVID-19. Apart from initiating flood mitigation measures like clearing weeds and garbage from rivers and drains, the state government also initiated plans for setting up relief camps, taking into consideration the prolonging COVID-19 threats. The state is planning to have four types of relief camps; general camps, camps for aged people and those suffering from diseases, camps for those with COVID-19 symptoms and camps for those in home quarantine in connection with COVID-19. At present over 60,000 persons are in home quarantine in Kerala and the figures and increasing drastically with arrival of hundreds of persons from other states and countries.  In order to enhance the weather alert systems, the Kerala Disaster Management Authority have decided to seek service of private weather agencies namely, Skymet, IBM Weather Company, Earth Networks and Windy. While this raised many eye brows, government justified the decision citing inordinate delay on the part of India Meteorological Department in setting up automated weather stations. Even as the state witnessed around 420 landslides over the last two years and unauthorised encroachments and human interventions in catchment areas were found to be the key reasons, not effective calamity mitigation steps have been initiated so far. Rehabilitation of the landslide affected were also progressing in snail's pace. A series of queries made by opposition MLAs in the last session of the Assembly in March regarding the relief measures and assistance to the calamity hit remained unanswered. Resettlement plans for places like Puthumala in Wayanad that witnessed major landslide was getting delayed owing to hurdles in land acquisition and now due to COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-amidst-covid-19-kerala-keeps-fingers-crossed-839102.html
18-05-2020||National||Seven of family killed in paint shop fire in Gwalior||Four women and three children were killed in a fire which broke out in a three-storey building that housed a paint shop on the ground floor in Gwalior’s Inderganj area on Monday. A powerful blaze ripped through the building where round 25 people were living. The property is owned by Hariom Goyal, who is critical. The paint shop was owned by three brothers who lived along with their family on the upper two floors. The fire was probably caused due to a short circuit on the ground floor where several paint cans were stocked. Gwalior range ADGP Rajababu Singh said there was no provision for an emergency exit which made rescue operations difficult. Air Force fire tenders were also pressed into service to put out the fire. Five people were charred to death much before rescue operation began. The deceased were identified as Aryan 10, Shubi 13, Arti 37, Shakuntala 60, Aaradhya, 4, and Priyanka 35. Hariom, 50, Saket, 36 and Gaurvi 7 were hospitalised in critical conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seven-of-family-killed-in-paint-shop-fire-in-gwalior-839105.html
18-05-2020||National||Congress slams Modi government's financial package||Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram on Monday(May 18) shredded Modi government’s financial package claiming that the actual financial outgo amounted to merely 0.91% of the GDP and it has left several sections “high and dry”. Chidambaram, addressing a press conference through a video link, termed the financial package as “hopelessly inadequate” and a “thorough disappointment” and asked Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to reconsider it. “We will plug this narrative that the actual fiscal stimulus package amounts to only Rs 1.86 lakh crore, which is 0.91% of the GDP. We will continue to press our point of view through our state units,” the senior Congress leader said. Chidambaram also slammed the Modi government saying the package had fallen way short of expectations of the poor, vulnerable and migrants. “I don’t think the government is concerned about the poorest of the poor. This is an elitist government largely guided by the privileged sections...this government is complacent and smug because elections are four years away,” he said. Chidambaram also accused the Modi government of being opportunistic in pushing reforms by sidestepping Parliament.  He said Congress has also decided to start political action to compare the promises made by the Centre and its delivery, to put pressure on the Centre so that parliamentary scrutiny of the package could be done at the department related standing committees. “How can they announce this bogus Rs 20 lakh crore package and use institutions to propagate this number without calling the Parliamentary committee to scrutinise this number," he said. “They say they will use Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana to build low-cost housing for migrant workers. Do they have Alladin’s lamp, that you rub the lamp and low-cost housing comes up overnight,” Chidambaram said.  The former Finance Minister said there can be no fiscal stimulus package without additional expenditure over and above the budgeted expenditure. “We note that the Finance Minister acknowledged that Additional Expenditure must be financed by Additional Borrowing. The true value of the fiscal stimulus package will, therefore, be known when we know what is the Additional Borrowing in 2020-21 to finance the Additional Expenditure over and above the Expenditure Budget of Rs 30,42,230 crore. The truth cannot be hidden for long,” Chidambaram said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-slams-modi-governments-financial-package-839108.html
18-05-2020||National||Parcel trains may become a permanent feature of Indian Railways||Parcel trains introduced by Indian Railways to transport essential commodities during COVID-19 lockdown period may be permanent feature in coming days as the Railway Board is working on this direction. The Railway Board has asked the feedback from all its Zones about running fixed time table based parcel trains with stoppages at major stations in different routes. At stoppages these trains can unload or book goods. The Board also asked the zonal commercial divisions about the possible stoppages about the trains where maximum goods can booked or unloaded. At present one or two parcel vans being attached to each passenger carrying trains and parcel booked that route will be transported. Once separate parcel trains operate permanently, the practice of the parcel vans attached to passenger trains can end, said an official from railways. Parcel trains are different from freight trains. Freight trains begin its journey from one station and will end in destination station and in between there were hardly any stoppages to unload goods. Moreover there is no fixed time table for freight trains. During lockdown period, the parcel trains became lifeline for nation as the railways is operating more than 500 parcel trains transporting for perishable commodities including fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy products and seeds for agriculture purpose. It also notified routes with fixed time table to run parcel trains. "These parcel trains have been given en-route stoppages at all feasible locations, so that maximum possible clearance of parcels can be done," said the official. Both government agencies including Department of Posts, and private agencies including companies like pharma have utilised the services of parcel trains. The fixed time table parcel trains will be national transporter effort to maximise its revenue future days said the official. The railways suspended its passengers trains services from March 22 and operating only freight and parcel train services. Since May 1 it operating Shramik Special and since May 12 it is running 15 Special Rajdhani trains on select routes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parcel-trains-may-become-a-permanent-feature-of-indian-railways-839110.html
18-05-2020||National||25% expats registered to return due to job insecurities: Goa Official||Around 25% expats from Goa, who have registered to return to their home state have lost or are in the fear of losing their jobs abroad, Goa's Non Resident Indian Commissioner Narendra Sawaikar said on Monday. Sawarikar, whose Commissionarate of NRI Affairs handles affairs related to Goan expats, also said that on return, the expats would be incorporated in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's plans of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Around 5,200 people have registered for return on the NRI Commissionarate's portal. "Those who contacted us are some who have been sacked from their jobs in February and March. Some are on 50% salaries. Some have been informed about a possible job loss. There is uncertainity about jobs, therefore they want to return," Sawaikar told reporters here. "Almost 25% persons could be jobless because of circumstances there," Sawaikar also said. The official said, that all data about stranded expats was had been passed on to the central government, which incorporate into the Vande Bharat mission which is underway for repatriating stranded expats back to India. Sawaikar also said, that the 5,200 expats would be brought back to India in a staggered manner. Goa has a large expat population working mainly in the oil-rich middle-east region as well as on board cruise liners. The NRI Commissioner also said that nearly 1,200 Goans who have availed of a Portuguese passport, thanks to a special bilateral arrangement between India and Portugal have also sought return to Goa, but added that in absence of a dual citizenship provision, it would be up to the central government to decide on the issue. "Around 1,200 have registered, who are original Goans with Portuguese passports. We do not have dual citizenship. Once they have taken another passport, whatever is the law, the due procedure will follow depending on central government decision," Sawaikar also said. "Central government has also not given any permission regarding Overseas Citizens of India. As and when a decision is taken, due processes will follow," he also said. The coastal state of Goa, a Portuguese colony for over 450 years gained independence from Portuguese rule in 1961. The departing Portuguese, however, had offered Goan natives of choosing Portuguese citizenship. The privilege of availing of Portuguese citizenship was later granted to Goans who had lived in Portuguese-ruled Goa, as well as their off-springs up to three generations down the line. Thousands of Goans have used the opportunity to migrate to Portugal and subsequently to the UK, thanks to the easy access across countries under the aegis of the European Union. A significant number of expat Goans have also availed of the 'Bilhete de Identidade', the Portuguese national identity card, which takes the applicant a step closer towards obtaining the Portuguese passport. Rough estimates suggest that up to 30,000 Goans are living in the United Kingdom and other European countries, using the Portuguese citizenship route.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-expats-registered-to-return-due-to-job-insecurities-goa-official-839115.html
18-05-2020||National||106 more test positive for COVID-19 in Jammu and Kashmir, tally rises to 1,289||The number of COVID-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir rose to 1,289 after 106 more people, including 55 policemen and five doctors, tested positive for the deadly virus on Monday. On Saturday the Union Territory had reported its largest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases, with 108 new infections. 55 policemen - all from south Kashmir’s Anantnag district and five doctors - were among the cases detected on Monday, officials said. Of the fresh cases, 12 are from Jammu while 94 are from Kashmir region. J&K has so far reported 15 COVID-19 deaths. So far, 609 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovery while 665 are Active Positive cases, they said. The coronavirus outbreak was reported in Jammu and Kashmir on March 7, when two persons tested positive for the deadly infection. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest COVID-19 case density areas in the country which is over 100 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is 70. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/106-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-jammu-and-kashmir-tally-rises-to-1289-839119.html
18-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi reviews cyclone Amphan response preparedness||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Monday chaired a high-level meeting to review the response preparedness against cyclone Amphan, developing in the Bay of Bengal. The prime minister took full stock of the situation and reviewed the measures as well as the evacuation plan presented by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), a statement from the Prime Minister's Office said. During a presentation on the response plan, the NDRF director general informed that 25 NDRF teams have been deployed on the ground, while 12 others are ready in reserve. Twenty-four other NDRF teams are also on standby in different parts of the country, the force chief told the meeting, the statement said. Cyclone 'Amphan' intensified into a super cyclonic storm on Monday and is likely to move across the northeast Bay of Bengal, and cross the West Bengal and Bangladesh coasts between Digha and the Hatia island on May 20, the IMD has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-reviews-cyclone-amphan-response-preparedness-839124.html
18-05-2020||National||One virtual court can hear 40 cases through video-conferencing in a day: SC||The Supreme Court Monday observed that one virtual court (VC) can hear as many as 40 matters through video-conferencing in a day. The apex court has been holding hearings through video conferencing since March 25 due to the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). It had suspended the entry of advocates and other staff into the high security zone on the basis of their proximity cards, till further orders. A bench comprising Justices R Banumathi, Indu Malhotra and Aniruddha Bose, after concluding hearings on the cases listed today, observed that 40 matters, instead of 20, can be easily heard by a bench through video conferencing if the arguing counsels leave the virtual courtroom (screen space) just after finishing their cases. Justice Banumathi said that she will talk to Chief Justice S A Bobde on the issue. As per earlier standard operating procedures (SOPs) notified by the apex court, only few urgent matters were getting listed for hearing before the virtual courts (VCs). The fresh SOP issued on Sunday by the top court stated that fresh cases, which could have been listed for hearing before the pandemic-triggered lockdown, will be listed and heard first. After the exhaustion of this pool of fresh matters, the short category matters will be listed, the circular on fresh SOP said. The fresh SOP assumed significance as the apex court has decided to postpone its summer vacation by five weeks and declared that it would remain functional from May 18 to June 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-virtual-court-can-hear-40-cases-through-video-conferencing-in-a-day-sc-839126.html
18-05-2020||National||ICMR revises coronavirus testing strategy, returnees with ILI symptoms will be tested within 7 days||Revising its strategy for COVID-19 testing, ICMR said on Monday that returnees and migrants who show symptoms for influenza-like illness will be tested for coronavirus infection within seven days of ailment and stressed that no emergency clinical procedure, including deliveries, should be delayed for lack of testing. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in its revised strategy for coronavirus testing in India also added that all hospitalised patients who develop symptoms for influenza-like illness (ILI) and frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation of COVID-19 having such signs will also be tested for coronavirus infection through RT-PCR test. Besides, asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case are to be tested once between day five and day 10 of coming in contact, the new document stated. Asymptomatic contacts of a confirmed case were being tested once between day five and day 14. An official said, "The apex body for health research revised its strategy in view of a spurt in coronavirus cases in the country. The new strategy aims to contain the spread of infection more effectively and to provide reliable diagnosis to all individuals meeting the inclusion criteria of COVID-19 testing."  The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 3,029 and the number of cases climbed to 96,169 on Monday, registering an increase of 157 deaths and a record jump of 5,242 cases in 24 hours since Sunday 8 am. "ILI case is defined as one with acute respiratory infection with fever more than or equal to 38 degrees Celsius and cough while a SARI case is defined as one with acute respiratory infection with fever more than or equal to 38 degrees Celsius and cough and requiring hospitalisation," the ICMR stated.  Till now, people with ILI symptoms living within hotspots or containment zones, patients of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and symptomatic healthcare workers were being tested for coronavirus infection as per the guidelines. All asymptomatic individuals with a history of international travel in the last 14 days and all symptomatic contacts of laboratory-confirmed case were also being tested. "No emergency procedure (including deliveries) should be delayed for lack of test," the ICMR said, adding all testing in the categories is recommended by real time RT-PCR test only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-revises-coronavirus-testing-strategy-returnees-with-ili-symptoms-will-be-tested-within-7-days-839127.html
18-05-2020||National||Virtual courtroom is difficult, says Indu Malhotra as video link breaks in middle of hearing||A Supreme Court judge on Monday expressed her dissatisfaction with the functioning of virtual court after video link broke down during the hearing of a matter. "Virtual courtroom is difficult" said Justice Indu Malhotra as the bench had to hear a petitioner over a WhatsApp call. Justice Malhotra was sitting in a bench presided over by Justice R Banumathi and comprising Justice Aniruddha Bose. After the case discussion among judges, Justice Malhotra suggested that 40 matters can be easily heard by the bench instead of 20, that were listed before the bench. She further suggested that each counsel should argue and leave the courtroom. On this, Justice Bhanumathi said, "I will talk to the Chief Justice." The top court has been conducting hearing through video conferencing in urgent matters since March 23, in an effort to contain spread of Covid-19 pandemic. Instead of regular hearings system, the top court resorted to hearing through video conferencing to adhere to social distancing norm, mandatory to check spread of infection. It was akin to open court with access to media as well. It was contended that the virtual courts system could not be said to be negating the principles of fairness that were sacrosanct to the administration of justice nor was it failing to adhere to requirements of an ‘open court’ system. On April 6, the top court passed a Suo Motu order authorising all the courts in the country to adopt measures required to ensure robust functioning of the judicial system through the use of video conferencing technologies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/virtual-courtroom-is-difficult-says-indu-malhotra-as-video-link-breaks-in-middle-of-hearing-839128.html
18-05-2020||National||Govt withdraws order of mandatory wage payment during lockdown||Government has withdrawn the order mandating employers to pay full wages to all employees even when the industrial and commercial units were shut during COVID-19 lockdown. According to the guidelines issued on Sunday for lockdown 4.0, all orders barring six Standard Operating Procedures for people's movement in specific circumstances have been withdrawn. “Save as otherwise provided in the guidelines annexed to this order, all order issued by the NEC (National Executive Committee] under Section 10(2)(I) of the Disaster Management (DM) Act, 2005, shall cease to have effect from 18.05.2020,” the order said. The order on payment of wages during lockdown has not been included in the new guidelines and ceases to be in operation, much to the relief of employers. Along with this, the order barring landlords to demand rent during lockdown has also been withdrawn. According to the order issued on March 29, employers, be it in the industry or in the shops and commercial establishments, shall make payment of wages of their workers, at their workplaces, on the due date, without any deduction, for the period their establishments are under closure during the lockdown.    The same order had also said that states will ensure adequate arrangements of temporary shelters and provision of food for the poor and needy, including migrant labourers stranded due to the lockdown. Aggrieved employers had approached the Supreme Court against the government order on paying salary. The Supreme Court had asked the government not to take coercive action against private companies till it decides on the petition.  The Ministry of Labour and Employment had also earlier asked employers not to cut salaries or retrench people in a number of letters to private establishments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-withdraws-order-of-mandatory-wage-payment-during-lockdown-839131.html
18-05-2020||National||Amid rise in COVID-19 cases, Kerala to resume public transport, liquor sales||On Monday (May 18), 29 more persons, including 21 who came from abroad, seven from other states, and one health worker, were tested positive in Kerala taking the active cases to 130. However, the government has decided to relax the lockdown norms. It has announced to allow inter-district travel without passes between 7:00 am and 7:00 pm and start public transport services within districts by restricting the number of passengers to half of the seating capacity of the vehicle. Also, it will now allow liquor sales through retail outlets and take away liquor sales from bars, and clubs based on online booking systems are some of the relaxations. The state also decided to hike transport bus fares with a 50 percent hike in minimum fares until the restrictions are lifted.  So far, 104 persons who came from abroad and other states have tested positive in Kerala, while 473 persons with symptoms are quarantined at hospitals and 67,316 people remain at in-home quarantine. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that special task forces will be formed in all areas of the state to ensure that people use masks. Stringent action is being taken against those not wearing masks and violated quarantine. On Monday alone 1,344 incidents of people not wearing face masks were reported and 16 persons were found to have violated quarantine norms. Cases were also registered against three persons who came down from Abu Dhabi by concealing the fact that they have COVID-19 infection.  In four-wheeler taxis, only two persons apart from the driver would be allowed, while three persons would be allowed in private cars. Only one passenger would be allowed in autorickshaws. In the case of families, it can go up to three. Travel of persons aged above 65 and children below ten would be restricted. Liquor sales would resume as and when the online queue system is set in place. Barbershops would be also allowed to function with regulations, said the Chief Minister. Earlier decision to conduct the pending SSLC and Higher Secondary examinations by this month-end would be held as per schedule, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-kerala-to-resume-public-transport-liquor-sales-839132.html
18-05-2020||National||Nagaland to give 4,095 stranded people Rs 10,000 each for not returning during coronavirus lockdown||Nagaland will provide one-time assistance of Rs 10,000 each to 4,095 people, who are stranded in rest of the country and decided not to return home during the lockdown. An official statement issued by Nagaland government said 4,095 registered their details online through iamstranded.nagaland.gov.in till Saturday evening, the deadline to do so, while agreeing to the state government's appeal. It said 1,382 people from the state, who remained stranded in rest of the country already returned and were under quarantine. Chief Secretary Temjen Toy on Monday issued an order with partial modification of the Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) whereby all persons entering the state from Monday onwards, irrespective of place of origin of journey shall undergo 14 days institutional quarantine at designated centres. "Persons above the age of 60 years, children below the age of 10 years, parents and pregnant women and accompanying spouses shall be thoroughly screened and on the advice of the medical team at the quarantine centre be sent for mandatory home quarantine for 28 days with active surveillance," said a statement. One person from Nagaland's commercial town Dimapur tested COVID-19 positive in Guwahati in neighbouring Assam, where he came after undergoing treatment in a private hospital. This led Nagaland government to seal the colony of his residence and take up strict monitoring in order to prevent the spread of coronavirus. A total of 952 samples have been sent for tests so far of which 914 tested negative while reports of the rest were pending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nagaland-to-give-4095-stranded-people-rs-10000-each-for-not-returning-during-coronavirus-lockdown-839134.html
18-05-2020||National||Kerala CM flays entry ban by Karnataka||CM Vijayan said that already such a matter was brought to the centre's attention and in view of the fresh move by Karnataka, the matter would be taken up with the centre again. He said that as per the lockdown norms, a person getting permission to travel from one state to another needs to take permission from the source and destination states only. Hence, Karnataka shall not impose any restrictions on the movement of people coming to Kerala from other states through Karnataka.  Kerala had earlier approached the SC against Karnataka denying permission for patients from Kasargod to hospitals in Mangaluru when there was a spike in COVID-29 cases in Kasargod. Even as patients were subsequently allowed to go, many alleged of being treated with improper medical care.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-cm-flays-entry-ban-by-karnataka-839135.html
18-05-2020||National||Making all efforts to ensure safety of health workers: Jammu and Kashmir govt||Hours after five doctors in three hospitals in Srinagar tested positive for COVID-19, J&K government on Monday said they are taking all efforts to ensure safety of the healthcare professionals dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. Three doctors from the SMHS, one from SKIMS Medical College Hospital and one from Dental College tested positive for the disease late Sunday night. Most of them had come in close contact with a COVID-19 patient of Srinagar who died on Sunday. So far 21 health care workers, including 13 doctors, have been infected with COVID-19 in Jammu and Kashmir since the first case was reported on March 7. An official spokesperson said that the government has been regularly issuing guidelines and ensuring its implementation for use of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) by the healthcare professionals, while dealing with the COVID-19 suspects / patients. The healthcare professionals are being regularly trained through video conferencing, webinar, Zoom app, etc. regarding the use of PPEs and their protection from the COVID infection, he said. Most of the doctors and other healthcare professionals have been trained in using PPE kits while dealing with COVID-19 positive patients. Union Territory of J&K is ensuring that all the supplies required for the personal protection of healthcare professionals are not only provided to each and every healthcare institution, but sufficient stocks are also maintained, so as to ensure that there is no shortage of supplies, the spokesperson added. Giving details of stocks, he said, at present 83,110 PPE kits, 94,221 N-95 masks, 9,79,168 triple layer masks, 1,87,360 sanitizers and 1,31,975 viral transport media (VTM) are available for use in Health and Medical Education Department, J&K.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/making-all-efforts-to-ensure-safety-of-health-workers-jammu-and-kashmir-govt-839138.html
18-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: In Delhi, AAP-BJP blame game over migrants' plight||Senior AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh alleged that the current situation pertaining to migrants had "exposed" the BJP and it had become clear that they are an anti-poor and pro-rich party.  "BJP is blind towards the massive exodus of poor migrant labourers which is happening across India. These poor migrant labourers are grieving from trauma, hunger, poverty and unemployment," Singh said in a statement. Singh said the only way to solve this issue was by running more trains. Indian Railways can carry 2,30,00,000 people per day, but the BJP government is not at all serious about the issue, he claimed.  "The BJP government can provide luxury flights for the people who were stuck in other countries but they cannot arrange trains or buses for these poor people," he said. BJP's Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Bidhuri, however, blamed the AAP for being responsible for the exodus of migrant workers from Delhi. Bidhuri alleged that the AAP government had failed to stop migrant workers from leaving Delhi and could not distribute free ration provided by the Centre among the poor. "Delhi government could not provide the ration to the poor. Union Food minister Ram Vilas Paswan himself said that only 1 per cent of the ration issued by the Centre for April was given by the Delhi government to the poor people," he claimed. Bidhuri also blamed the AAP government in Delhi for failing to arrange transport for migrant workers to go back to their home states. He claimed that the Central government was paying 85 per cent of the cost for operating the trains for migrants and remaining 15 per cent was borne by concerned states. "Delhi government  has been proved complete failure in sending migrant workers home. Its website for registration of migrant workers was stopped, forcing them to leave for their home states on foot," he said. Bidhuri also alleged that the Aam Aadmi Party government had failed in tackling the coronavirus epidemic, which he said was one reason for large number of migrant labourers leaving for their homes in different states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-in-delhi-aap-bjp-blame-game-over-migrants-plight-839142.html
18-05-2020||National||Lockdown 4.0: More staff to attend central govt offices||Central government offices will function with just around half of its staff during COVID-19 lockdown 4.0 but biometric attendance system will continue to remain suspended. All officers in the rank of Deputy Secretary and above would be attending office, while only 50 per cent of staff below the rank of Deputy Secretary will be attending work till May 31. The rest of the staff will work from home and should be available over phone, according to an order issued by Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT). "All Heads of Department shall also ensure that the 50 per cent of the officers and staff who attend office observe staggered timings," it said. The first of staff would work from 9 AM to 5:30 PM, the second from 9:30 AM to 6 PM and third from 10 AM to 6:30 PM. So far, only 33 per cent staff below the rank of Deputy Secretary were allowed to come to office, while all senior officers were coming to workplaces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-40-more-staff-to-attend-central-govt-offices-839145.html
18-05-2020||National||Amid lockdown, Assam release endangered pygmy hogs in to the wild||Amid the COVID-19 lockdown, wildlife conservationists in Assam released 14 captive-bred pygmy hogs in the jungles of Manas National Park, giving a boost to the conservation efforts in saving the world's smallest and rarest pig species in the wild. The original stock of the critically endangered pigs was captured from Manas, 24 years ago for conservation breeding owing to the threat posed to the wild existence of the mammal, mainly due to increasing human activities. "This is a significant milestone in the effort to save one of the most endangered mammals in the world through conservation breeding.  The iconic species now return to their home, where the original population still survives, albeit dramatically declined. With this, the number of pygmy hogs reintroduced into the wild has reached 130 (62 males, 68 females), which is more than their current original global wild population," a statement issued by Pygmy Hog Conservation Programme (PHCP) said on Monday. The captive-bred pygmy hogs were released in the Bhuyanapara range of Manas National Park, bordering Bhutan between May 14 and 17. PHCP is a collaborative project involving Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust, IUCN/SSC Wild Pig Specialist Group, Assam forest department, Ministry of Environment Forests and Climate Change, Govt of India, EcoSystems-India and Aaranyak, a biodiversity conservation group in Assam. The captive breeding project of PHCP began using six wild hogs captured from the last surviving population of the species in Manas in 1996 and currently holds almost the entire global captive population of the species, it said. The pygmy hog (Porcula salvania) belongs to a unique genus that has no close relative. It stands about 25 cm from the ground and weighs 6 to 9 kg. It differs from young wild boars in having a rudimentary tail (2-3 cm) and a more spindle-shaped body. It lives in small (4-8) groups that construct thatch ‘houses’ (nests) to live in, and not just to farrow like other pigs. The species was originally found in the narrow belt of tall alluvial grasslands that runs across the southern edge of the Himalayas in the Indian subcontinent. According to wildlife conservationists, pygmy hog is an indicator species for the health of tall wet grassland habitat across the southern foothills of the Himalayas, which has seen a lot of destruction over the years.  Earlier, 35 hogs (18 M, 17 F) were released in Sonai-Rupai Wildlife Sanctuary, 59 (26 M, 33 F) in Orang National Park, and 22 (11 M, 11 F) in Barnadi Wildlife Sanctuary, all in Assam. Parag Jyoti Deka, project director, PHCP, said, “tracking both wild and released animals is normally achieved by monitoring their nests, droppings or foraging marks and through radio telemetry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-lockdown-assam-release-endangered-pygmy-hogs-in-to-the-wild-839150.html
18-05-2020||National||Stranded in Sri Lanka for 2 months, over 2400 Indians waiting for update on evacuation flight||Stranded for over two months in a foreign land, over 2,400 Indians in Sri Lanka are still making rounds of the high commission in Colombo with no announcement yet about their possible evacuation from the island nation. Adding to their woes are dwindling finances, homesickness and uncertainty about when they will be back home with their families. The government launched the 'Vande Bharat Mission' on May 7 to bring back home Indians stranded in various countries due to coronavirus-related travel restrictions. Sri Lanka is not among the countries for which evacuation flights have been announced so far.  According to the Sri Lanka Tourism and Development Authority, over 2,400 Indians are stranded in the country due to the lockdown and travel restrictions imposed in view of the global pandemic. "I am stuck in Colombo since two months. With limited financial support, I am struggling for my survival every day in this country. I have contacted the Indian High Commission in Sri Lanka in this regard but the response from them is to wait for further phases of evacuation by Indian government, which is really painful and heart-breaking," Vineeta, a Noida based techie, told PTI over phone from Colombo. Vijay Pal Singh and his wife wanted to take some time off their hectic work schedules and planned a vacation to Sri Lanka, leaving their kids with the grandparents. However, the vacation turned out to be much longer than what they desired. "We had plans to take a break and spend time with each other, hence we left the kids back but our four-day break has now become a really long wait to be back home with our children. We have been forced to take time off work because we are not even in a position to work remotely from here," Singh said. Satendra Mishra, who went to Sri Lanka on a tourist visa, said, "Till now no plans for evacuation from Sri Lanka have been announced. We are a group here and we are running out of savings to survive. Every morning we wake up to see a positive answer to our queries but there has been no news yet". Under phase one of the mission, the government has evacuated a total of 6,527 Indians from the Gulf region as well as countries like the US, the UK, the Philippines, Bangladesh, Malaysia and the Maldives. In the second phase of the evacuation mission, the government will bring back people from Canada, Oman, Kazakhstan, Ukraine, France, Tajikistan, Singapore, the US, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, Qatar, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Japan, Kuwait and Italy. The government has also announced that Indians will also be evacuated from Nepal, Nigeria, Belarus, Armenia, Thailand, Ireland, Germany, Georgia and the UK. Chennai resident Ramakrishnan Srinivasan said, "We have contacted the Indian High commission in Sri Lanka. They are trying their level best to send us back. But so far there has been no favourable reply. Unless they get government orders from India what can they do". As per the government's policy for evacuation, Indians having compelling reasons to return like pregnant women, elderly people, students and those facing the prospect of deportation are being brought back home. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus which has infected over 96,000 and killed 3,029 people till date, according to the Union Health Ministry. During this time operations of all international and domestic flights have been ceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stranded-in-sri-lanka-for-2-months-over-2400-indians-waiting-for-update-on-evacuation-flight-839151.html
18-05-2020||National||SC to pronounce judgement on Arnab Goswami's plea for quashing fresh FIR on Tuesday||The Supreme Court is to pronounce its judgement on Tuesday on Republic TV's Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami's plea for quashing of FIRs lodged against him for allegedly promoting enmity by his programmes, including the one related to Palghar killings of Hindu priests. A bench of Justices D Y Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah had on May 11 reserved its order on two writ petitions filed by him. The court had then extended protection granted to Goswami on April 24 from any coercive actions. He sought quashing of a fresh FIR lodged by Mumbai police against him on May 2. The court had noted  the contents of the FIRs previously lodged against him were verbatim, as senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Goswami, sought an independent probe by the CBI into the matter. The court had said it would pass its judgement and till then, the petitioner would remain protected against any coercive actions by the police. Salve had submitted that the Maharashtra police were trying to stifle an unpleasant voice. The real purpose is to teach a journalist lessons by asking him very silly questions during the investigation in the case. During the questioning, they wanted details of editorial process, editorial workings and decision making process  He was repeatedly asked whose money was invested in the channel (Republic TV), the counsel pointed out. "The CEO of the company was questioned for over six hours. What does the CEO of a company got to do with a news telecast that purportedly caused communal problems," Salve had asked. "What are they trying to get at? Who owns the company?  Who is the real owner of the company. This is not a defamation case that you are seeking damages," Salve had said. He had submitted that there has to be balance between freedom of speech and sanctity of criminal investigation. This could have a chilling effect on the freedom of press. He had said the matter should be probed by the CBI. He also maintained there was a political problem between the state (Maharashtra) and the Centre and Goswami has been caught in a crossfire. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for the Centre submitted that 12 hours of questioning of a citizen in such type of case, was really disturbing. He also said there should be an independent probe into the matter. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal for the Maharashtra government had said Goswami made allegations against the Congress party. This is purely communal violence, he had asserted. He had said Goswami should stop this communal violence and communal mongering. He was required to follow decency and morality and others, Sibal had said. During the hearing, the bench at one point of time suggested the petitioner to approach the Bombay High Court, saying his plea for quashing the fresh FIR could be considered along with a petition for anticipatory bail. The court had on April 24 granted Goswami interim protection of three weeks in over 100 FIRs registered across the country. However, it had asked him to cooperate in one FIR initially registered in Nagpur and subsequently transferred to Mumbai. The cases were triggered after Goswami on April 21 questioned Congress president Sonia Gandhi's silence in lynching of two Hindu seers and their driver in Palghar on April 16. However, on May 2, a fresh case was lodged against him with Pydhonie Police Station, Mumbai, based on a complaint filed by one Irfan Abubakar Shaikh with regard to a programme in "fake migrant crisis in Maharashtra in relation to gathering in Bandra". The Maharashtra government also approached the top court to restrain Goswami from "abusing" interim protection of three weeks granted to him on April 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-pronounce-judgement-on-arnab-goswamis-plea-for-quashing-fresh-fir-on-tuesday-839153.html
18-05-2020||National||Two out of Goa's 35 active COVID-19 cases from Karnataka; 33 from Maharashtra: Pramod Sawant||Two out of the 35 persons currently in quarantine in Goa, after being detected positive for COVID-19 are from Karnataka, while 33 have come to the coastal state from Maharashtra, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. Sawant also said, that not a single person who has been detected positive for COVID-19 in Goa since April 3 and also ruled out community transmission in the state, even as the state's COVID-19 count shot to 35 in a matter of five days. "As of now Goa has 35 positive cases all of which are imported. 33 cases are from Maharashtra. Two cases are from Karnataka," Sawant told reporters on Monday. The Chief Minister also said that in almost all the instances, the now-quarantined persons were tested postive either at the state's road borders or as soon as they were tested after alighting from inter-state trains in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-out-of-goas-35-active-covid-19-cases-from-karnataka-33-from-maharashtra-pramod-sawant-839154.html
18-05-2020||National||After Delhi Jamaat, returning migrants & Koyambedu escalating Andhra Pradesh's COVID-19 cases||After the wave of cases connected to the Tablighi Jamaat, the returning migrants and Chennai’s Koyambedu market is spiraling the COVID-19 case numbers in Andhra Pradesh. The state has till Monday(May 18) morning reported a total of 2,432 positive cases, including 150 migrants who returned from various states in the last two weeks. Out of these 150 cases, 101 are from Maharashtra alone – which is the worst affected state in the country. 26 are those returned from Gujarat; 11 from Rajasthan, Odisha – 10 and one each from Karnataka and West Bengal. 25 of them have recovered. A DH analysis shows that in the last eight days (May 11 to 18), AP has recorded 337 new positive cases, out of which 123 are migrants and 139 are people who have returned from the Koyambedu vegetable market. Thus, the two new COVID-19 case counting heads have contributed to over 85 percent of AP’s total fresh cases of just over a week. The state’s aggressive testing – 4,658 tests per million population as of Monday – helped in revealing many infected people thus containing them from becoming super spreaders. The daily new cases figures in AP were in the 80s continuously for several days the before last week. While new case figures of last week declined to under 50, with Fridays’ exception of 57, Koyambedu connection is now keeping the health machinery edgy.  21 out of the 36 new cases on Thursday (May 14) and 28 out of 57 cases on Friday (May 15) are from Koyambedu.   While Kurnool and Guntur are the worst affected districts because of the Nizamuddin event; Koyambedu has hit Chittoor and Nellore, Tamil Nadu border districts, the most.    63 out of AP’s 139 Koyambedu cases are from Chittoor district alone which shares a very long, porous border with Tamil Nadu. About 800 people, with suspected Koyambedu connections, were tracked and tested in Chittoor alone.  With Koyambedu cases reported from half of AP’s 13 districts, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy has directed officials to be on high alert ensuring screening, quarantining for the market returnees. Koyambedu, a massive vegetable bazaar in Chennai, has become the single largest source of COVID-19 cases in Tami Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-delhi-jamaat-returning-migrants-koyambedu-escalating-andhra-pradeshs-covid-19-cases-839158.html
18-05-2020||National||India's COVID-19 count crosses one lakh mark; Ministry of Health seeks solace in improving recovery rate||India’s COVID-19 count surpassed the one lakh mark on the back of a sharp spike of 14,000 cases in three days to settle at 1,00,126 on Monday, but the Health ministry sought solace in the rapidly improving recovery rate and the “lower” number of cases per one lakh population. Experts said the sharp increase in numbers on Sunday and Monday came 14 days after easing of restrictions on May 3, referring to the 14-day cycle of the virus. The confirmed cases of COVID-19 touched 96,169 following two massive hikes of 4,987 cases on Sunday and 5,242 cases on Monday. 36,824 persons have recovered from the disease, putting the recovery rate at 38.29%. A separate DH COVID Tracker put the total number of COVID-19 cases at 1,00,126 and the death toll at 3,151 at 9.30 pm on Monday. Despite the galloping numbers, the health ministry claimed that the aggressive and early measures taken by the government have so far shown encouraging results. WHO statistics show that the US which has more than 1.4 million confirmed cases of COVID-19 had approximately 431 positive cases per lakh of population, while the number was 195 per lakh for Russia, which has 2.81 lakh infections. The ministry said India with 96,169 confirmed cases of COVID-19 on Monday morning, had 7.1 cases per lakh population. Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research on Monday revised the testing guidelines, making COVID-19 tests mandatory for returnees and migrant workers who show symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) within seven days of the ailment. The ICMR said that no emergency clinical procedure, including deliveries, should be delayed for lack of testing. All hospitalised patients who develop symptoms for ILI and frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation of COVID-19 having such signs will be tested through RT-PCR test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-count-crosses-one-lakh-mark-ministry-of-health-seeks-solace-in-improving-recovery-rate-839159.html
18-05-2020||National||Jammu and Kashmir govt notifies domicile rules for jobs, other privileges||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday issued a notification specifying the conditions for obtaining domicile certificates necessary for applying for government jobs and other privileges in the newly created Union Territory (UT). Under the Domicile Rules all those persons and their children who have resided for 15 years in J&K or have studied for seven years and appeared in class 10th or 12th examination in an educational institution in the UT are eligible for grant of domicile. Children of central Government officials, All India service officers, officials of PSUs and autonomous body of Central government, public sector banks, officials of statutory bodies, officials of Central universities and recognized research institutes of the Central government, who have served in the Union territory for a total period of ten years will also be eligible for domicile status. Besides, all those migrants and their children who are registered with Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner will be granted a Domicile certificate. Children of those residents of Jammu and Kashmir who reside outside the Union territory in connection with their employment of business or other professional or vocational reasons have also become eligible for grant of domicile status. The details of the notification were shared with the media by government spokesman Rohit Kansal at a press conference in Jammu. The domicile rules notified now replace the erstwhile J&K permanent resident rules that stood abrogated along with the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A. The rules provide a simple and time bound procedure for the issuance of the Domicile certificate so that no one is put to any inconvenience. There shall be a timeline of 15 days for issuance of the certificate after which the applicant shall be free to approach an Appellate Authority. The decision of the Appellate Authority shall be binding upon the issuing authority and the orders are to be complied within seven days, failing which the defaulting officer shall be liable for a penalty of Rs 50,000 out of his salary. The rules have a provision that applications for grant of Domicile Certificate can be submitted either physically or electronically online. The Competent Authority can also issue domicile certificate(s) electronically. Kashmiri migrants can get the Domicile certificate on production of either a PRC or certificate of registration of migrants. As a result of the new rules and procedure, West Pakistan Refugees (WPRs), Safai Karamcharis and children of women married outside Jammu and Kashmir who were earlier deprived shall also be now eligible for Domicile certificate.  WPRs were part of the Parliamentary electoral roll but not that erstwhile state electoral roll. They will now be covered under the 15 year residence rule or their children under the 7 year/ class 10/12 rule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-govt-notifies-domicile-rules-for-jobs-other-privileges-839174.html
18-05-2020||National||Amphan: India facing second super cyclone, says NDRF chief||Super cyclone Amphan will make landfall on May 20 between Digha in West Bengal and Hatia island in Bangladesh, chief of the National Disaster Response Force, S N Pradhan, said on Monday. Addressing a hurriedly convened press conference, Pradhan said the NDRF was not taking Amphan lightly as it is only the second time that India is facing a super cyclone. He said this is a very significant incident as this is the second super cyclone after the first hit Odisha in 1999. The landfall of cyclone Amphan would be on May 20 between Digha in West Bengal and Hatia Island in Bangladesh, he said. The director-general of the NDRF said his force has dedicated a total of 53 teams, including those on standby, for cyclone-affected states of Odisha and West Bengal. "It is a dual challenge as the cyclone is striking in the time of COVID-19 outbreak; we are taking all precautions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amphan-india-facing-second-super-cyclone-says-ndrf-chief-839175.html
18-05-2020||National||India has done well in dealing with coronavirus pandemic: Harsh Vardhan||India took all the necessary steps well in time to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday, asserting that the country has done well in dealing with the disease till now and is confident of doing better in months to come. Prime Minister Narendra Modi personally monitored the situation and ensured a preemptive, proactive and graded response, leaving no stones unturned to contain the deadly virus from spreading, Vardhan said addressing the 73rd World Health Assembly via video conferencing. "India took all necessary steps well in time, including surveillance at points of entry, evacuation of nationals stranded overseas, massive community surveillance through robust disease surveillance network, strengthening of health infrastructure, capacity building of over two million frontline human resources, risk communication and community involvement," he said. "I think we did our best and we did well. We are learning and we are confident of doing better in the months to come," Vardhan added. The minister stood up towards the end of his speech to hail the efforts of the COVID-19 warriors around the globe. His remarks come after India on Monday joined nearly 120 countries at the crucial conference of the World Health Organisation in pushing for an impartial and comprehensive evaluation of the global response into the coronavirus crisis as well as to examine the origin of the deadly infection.  The two-day 73rd session of the World Health Assembly (WHA) of the WHO began in Geneva amid growing calls including by US President Donald Trump to investigate how the virus originated in China's Wuhan city and subsequent action by Beijing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-done-well-in-dealing-with-coronavirus-pandemic-harsh-vardhan-839189.html
18-05-2020||National||Uddhav asks locals to join Maharashtra's build up story||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday appealed to the "locals" to come forward and help in the progress and development of the state post the COVID-19 crisis. Thackeray's statement assumes significance in wake of migrants leaving to their home states because of COVID-19 and the lockdown. “Around 50,000 manufacturing industries have already started in the state with 20,000 more expected to resume operations soon in the Green Zones. Wherever there is a shortage of labour, I call upon the locals to step ahead and help them to make the state self-sufficient,” Thackeray said. Last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week exhorted the country to embrace ‘atmanirbhar’ in the post-Corona world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uddhav-asks-locals-to-join-maharashtras-build-up-story-839190.html
18-05-2020||National||Super cyclone Amphan hurtles towards West Bengal, Odisha||Centre on Monday warned of extensive damage in coastal parts of West Bengal and Odisha as super cyclone Amphan, packing wind speed of 220-230 kmph, is moving to make a landfall on Wednesday. Amphan (pronounced as Um-Pun) is the first super cyclone to hit India in 21 years, prompting the Centre to rush National Disaster Response Force teams to West Bengal and Odisha to help the state authorities sensitising the people and carry out evacuation. “The super cyclone is expected to make a landfall on May 20 afternoon between Digha and Hatia Island packing wind speed of 165-175 kmph,” India Meteorological Department Director General Mrutyunjay Mohapatra told reporters here. Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the situation and directed that all necessary measures be taken to complete evacuation of people from areas in cyclone path and maintain adequate quantities of essential supplies. The cyclone is expected to cause extensive damage to property and infrastructure in East Medinipur, South and North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Kolkata districts of West Bengal and Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Bhadrak, Balasore, Jajpur and Mayurbhanj districts of Odisha, Mohapatra said. “23 NDRF teams have been sent to West Bengal and 13 teams have been kept ready in Odisha. Some teams are in transit, they will reach either Monday night or Tuesday. Teams are helping in awareness drive, sensitisation and evacuation,” NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said. In 1999, a super cyclone had ravaged large parts of Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal with people still having bitter memories of the natural disaster. The storm had kicked up gale winds with speed reaching 180-190 gusting to 210 km/hr over West-Central and adjoining central parts of South Bay of Bengal on Monday morning. These were expected to accelerate to 220-230 km/hr gusting to 255 km/hr over the northern parts of Central Bay adjoining North Bay from Monday evening, and further to 230-240 km/hr gusting to 265 km/hr in the night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/super-cyclone-amphan-hurtles-towards-west-bengal-odisha-839196.html
18-05-2020||National||India says WHO must reflect 21st century realities||India on Monday called for reforms in the World Health Organization (WHO), stating that it would welcome efforts to make all international institutions reflect the 21st century realities.   “In congratulating all those who are striving to save humanity (from the COVID-19 pandemic), we welcome efforts to make all international institutions more reflective of 21st Century realities,” Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare, said, while participating at the 73rd session of the World Health Assembly. “India will always stand with such efforts to foster meaningful and broad-based change”, he said. He said that therapeutics, diagnostics and vaccines for the whole world was the “only way out” to contain the pandemic. “Global collaboration is paramount. Governments, industry and philanthropy must pool resources to pay for the risk, the research, manufacturing and distribution, but with the condition that the rewards should be available to everyone, regardless of where they have been developed,” said the Health Minister. The World Health Assembly consists of the Health Ministers of the 194 member states of the WHO. It is a forum that governs the WHO and sets the international health policy. The assembly generally has its annual sessions in Geneva, but it is being held through video-conference this year in view of the COVID-19 crisis. The conclave started on Monday and will conclude on Tuesday.    “The 73rd session of the World Health Assembly is the first ever virtual health assembly, it is unprecedented, but it’s also perhaps the most important one ever; because as we sit and discuss here, the pandemic continues to kill thousands of people and also causing a deep global recession,” said Dr Harsh Vardhan. The WHO’s response after the COVID-19 outbreak, first reported at Wuhan in China in December 2019, has since long been under the scanner. The United States launched a tirade not only against China, but also against the WHO, with President Donald Trump, himself, accusing it of “severely mismanaging and covering up the spread” of the COVID-19 virus from the communist country. The US also suspended funding to the WHO.  The virus so far infected 46.19 lakh people and killed over 3.11 lakh around the world.  India so far refrained from joining the US-led campaign against China or the WHO. It has been maintaining that the “question” on the role of the agency could be revisited after containing the pandemic around the world. “This is the time when humankind must come together. Today, I urge upon all governments, industry and philanthropy to prioritise the long term and pool their resources, to ensure everyone benefits,” the Union Health Minister said, presenting New Delhi’s view on the issue.  “On our part, India is playing a key role in fostering bilateral and regional partnerships. Under our Prime Minister’s able leadership, India has supplied essential medicines to 123 nations as an expression of solidarity.” New Delhi, however, is of the view that the WHO, like other intergovernmental institutions, is based on last century’s model and “driven more to balance competing individual interests, rather than advance the collective interests of all human kind”. India wants an international conversation to enhance capabilities of the WHO and other institutions to respond to future threats to biosecurity. Dr Harsh Vardhan on Monday concluded his speech at the World Health Assembly with a standing ovation for all those who were on the forefront of the battle against the COVID-19 virus around the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-who-must-reflect-21st-century-realities-839221.html
18-05-2020||National||India has 7.1 COVID-19 cases per lakh population as against 60 globally: Health Ministry||It also said the recovery rate of coronavirus cases in India stood at 38.39 per cent.  Referring to data from WHO situation report, the ministry said 45,25,497 COVID-19 cases have been reported till Monday which is about 60 cases per lakh population. Among the countries with very high load of coronavirus cases, the USA, with 14,09,452 instances of the infection so far, has around 431 cases per lakh population. Russia has reported 2,81,752 cases and has around 195 cases per lakh population, it said. The UK has so far reported 2,40,165 cases which is 361 cases per lakh population while Spain with 2,30,698 instances of the disease has about 494 cases per lakh. In Italy has 2,24,760 total cases and about 372 cases per lakh population and Brazil with 2,18,223 cases has 104 cases per lakh population.  Germany which has registered 1,74,355 instances of the infection has around 210 cases per lakh population, Turkey with 1,48,067 cases has 180 cases per lakh population, France with 1,40,008 cases has around 209 cases per lakh population and Iran with 1,18,392 cases has 145 cases per lakh population. The Union health ministry, in a statement, said, "Aggressive and early measures so far have shown encouraging results." India registered 157 deaths and a record 5,242 cases in 24 hours till Monday 8 am The number of active COVID-19 cases now stands at 56,316 with 36,824 being cured of the disease. A total of 2,715 patients are reported to have recovered in the last 24 hours. "We presently have a recovery rate of 38.29 per cent, the ministry said. It had on Sunday issued guidelines to the states for categorising areas into red, orange and green zones on the basis of parameters such as total active cases, cases per lakh population, doubling rate calculated over a seven-day period, case fatality rate, testing ratio (number of tests per lakh population) and sample positivity rate. This comes after the Ministry of Home Affairs issued guidelines for the fourth phase of the nationwide lockdown, giving power to states and union territories to delineate red, green and orange zones as per the COVID-19 situation taking into consideration the parameters shared by the union health ministry.  ]||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-71-covid-19-cases-per-lakh-population-as-against-60-globally-health-ministry-839232.html
18-05-2020||National||SIT set up to probe all cases of violence in JNU in January: Police to Court||The Delhi police on Monday told a court here that an Special Investigating Team (SIT) has been constituted to investigate all the incidents of violence which happened in the JNU campus in January this year in which students and teachers were injured. The incidents of violence had taken place on January 3, 4 and 5. Metropolitan Magistrate Vipul Sandwar was hearing a plea filed by Professor Sucharita Sen, who suffered head injuries during the attack by masked people inside the campus on January 5, seeking registration of FIR in a case. The court had earlier directed the crime branch of Delhi police to file a status report in a case. In its report, the crime branch said that the incident of January 5 was related to those that took place on January 3 and 4. "During investigation various students and teachers, security personals and other persons who got injured or witnessed the incident were examined. CCTVs footage of the Cameras installed in JNU Campus have been collected,” the police said in its status report filed before the court. It further told the court that some of the teachers and students have also filed separate complaints at police station Vasant Kunj (North) regarding the incident of violence and they have been transferred to Crime Branch by the local police.  “The applicant Ms Sucharita Sen was also injured in the incident at Sabarmati T- Point on January 5, 2020 and she filed a separate compliant at PS Vasant Kunj (North) on February 6, 2020. This complaint has been transferred to the Crime Branch. During investigation, statement of Ms Sucharita Sen has been recorded on February 20, 2020 in which she has reiterated her version mentioned in her complaint.  “Her statement under section 161 of CrPC has also been recorded.  MLC (Medico-legal case) of Ms Sucharita Sen has been collected from AIIMS which shows the nature of injuries as 'Simple Blunt',” the report said. It further added, “The investigation of the case is in progress and all efforts are being made to identify all the attackers/ assailants and conclude investigation in a time bund manner.” The court will pronounce it's further order on Tuesday. The court had sought the status report after taking on record another status report filed by the officials of Vasant Kunj North in pursuant to an earlier order. The report filed by police had said that an FIR was filed in the matter which has now been transferred to the crime branch along with the present complaint filed by Sen. In her submission, Sen claimed that no action has been taken so far and that the case that was transferred to crime branch was a separate FIR. In her plea, Sen had told the court that the lodging of an FIR was urgent since investigation could take place only after the case is registered. The court had in February directed the Station House Officer (SHO) concerned to file an action taken report (ATR). The plea, filed by Sen, had sought lodging of FIR into wanton acts of violence suffered by Sen at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) campus. It claimed that the complainant (Sen) had to approach the court on account of inaction on the part of the police authorities despite "clear and cogent" facts and underlying material placed by her before the investigating agency. On January 5, masked men armed with sticks and rods attacked students and teachers and damaged property on the campus, prompting the administration to call in police which conducted a flag march. At least 28 people, including JNU Students'' Union president Aishe Ghosh, were injured as chaos reigned on the campus for nearly two hours. Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Senior Union ministers and JNU alumni S Jaishankar and Nirmala Sitharaman had condemned the violence. According to police in its status report, prior to that on January 3, 2020, at “the students of the anti-registration group (JNUSU) broke inside the main server room where facility for computerization and information services is located. They disrupted the online services, heckled the staff and prevented the students from registering themselves for the new semester.”  A complaint regarding this disruption was filed by the JNU administration with PS Vasant Kunj (North) and a case was registered.    “Again on January 4, 2020, some students affiliated to JNUSU against registration entered the server facility room from the rear side and damaged the fiber optic cables and wiring, thereby totally disrupting the online registration services,” the report said. In this regard the JNU administration filed a complaint at P.S. Vasant Kunj North and a case, was registered for the same, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sit-set-up-to-probe-all-cases-of-violence-in-jnu-in-january-police-to-court-839235.html
18-05-2020||National||305 new cases, 7 deaths: Rajasthan faces highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases, 2nd largest fatalities on a day||Rajasthan on Monday suffered double jeopardy on COVID-19 front with 305 persons testing positive in the highest single-day spike in infections till date and seven persons dying of it in the second largest fatalities on a single day. The state had recorded 242 positive cases on Sunday, while 12 persons had died of it on May 5, as per official data on COVID situation in the state. The number of cases in the state stands at 5,507 and fatalities at 138, the figures reveal. On Monday, two more deaths were reported from Jaipur and one each from Udaipur, Pali, Jalore, Nagaur and Kota. Of the 305 fresh cases, Dungarpur recorded the maximum of 64 cases, followed by Jaipur 47, Jodhpur 35, Bhilwara and Jalore 25 each, Udaipur 21, Jaisalmer 12, Barmer 11, Rajsamand 10, Bharatpur, Sikar, Bikaner, and Sirohi six each, Chittorgarh and Dausa five each, Banswara and Pali four each, Dholpur three, Jhunjhunu, Kota, Nagaur and Tonk two each, Ajmer one and one BSF jawan was found positive. A total of 3,218 COVID-19 patients have recovered, while 2,803 have been discharged, said officials, adding there 2,151 active cases in the state. Entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and search and screening are underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/305-new-cases-7-deaths-rajasthan-faces-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-2nd-largest-fatalities-on-a-day-839251.html
18-05-2020||National||14-day quarantine mandatory for people coming from abroad: Rajasthan Health Minister||All Rajasthan natives returning back to the state from abroad will have to stay in quarantine for 14 days before proceeding to their homes, Health Minister Raghu Sharma said on Monday. He said as per the government guidelines, passengers coming from abroad will be quarantined wherever they will land. For this, nearby hotels have been identified, he said, adding that people can stay in the quarantine for 14 days in a hotel as per their paying capacity. Medical checkup of every person coming from abroad will be done, he said, adding they can go home only after spending the quarantine period. He said better quarantine facilities will be provided for migrant Rajasthanis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-day-quarantine-mandatory-for-people-coming-from-abroad-rajasthan-health-minister-839255.html
18-05-2020||National||28 media house employees, 11 workers linked to Chinese phone-making units test COVID-19 positive||Twenty-eight employees of a media house and 11 linked to two Chinese phone-manufacturing companies tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi National Capital Region (NCR) on Monday, officials said. Nine workers of Oppo and two construction workers at the factory site of its sister concern Vivo in Greater Noida tested positive for the infection. Eight of the Oppo workers are in Gautam Buddh Nagar while one is in neighbouring Ghaziabad district, the officials said. Of the 28 employees of Noida Sector 16A-located Zee Media who have tested positive for COVID-19, 15 reside in Gautam Buddh Nagar while 13 are in Delhi, Faridabad and Gurgaon, according to officials. The Zee Media said in a statement it initiated “mass testing” after one of its employee was detected with the COVID-19 infection last Friday. Specific areas on the premises of Oppo and Vivo in Greater Noida and Zee Media office in Noida have been sealed for sanitisation work, Gautam Buddh Nagar District Magistrate Suhas L Y said in statement. Meanwhile, the number of cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar adjoining Delhi in western Uttar Pradesh rose to 286 on Monday with the detection of 31 new patients, excluding those from Ghaziabad, Delhi, Faridabad and Gurgaon. Among other patients in Gautam Buddh Nagar are five contacts of a man from Sector 5 Harola village, who was earlier detected with the infection and a 40-year-old woman from Sector 78 Noida, he added. "Total 1,679 test results were obtained on Monday of which 1,648 were negative and 31 positive. Total 286 positive cases have been recorded so far. Three patients were discharged on Monday, taking the number of recoveries so far to 194 and active cases are 87," he said in a statement.   Referring to the spread of COVID-19 from a 39-year-old man in Zee Media, he said, "The man lives in Delhi's Laxmi Nagar but works at Zee Media office in Sector 16A Noida. "He was found COVID-19 positive on May 15. His 51 contacts were tested at Max Lab in Delhi. His 15 contacts, who are employees in the same organisation, residing in Gautam Buddh Nagar have tested positive," he added. Another 13 contacts of the man who reside in Delhi, Faridabad and Gurgaon have tested positive for coronavirus and the administrations of their respective districts were doing the needful, as per protocols. Gautam Buddh Nagar has so far recorded five deaths -- all males aged above 60, according to officials. The number of samples collected till Monday stood at 8,245, according to the official statement. Oppo has got 3,321 employees tested for COVID-19 at a private lab in Gurgaon, Haryana and result of 1,581 of them have been sent to the health department, Gautam Buddh Nagar, while others were awaited, it stated. Vivo got 18 employees tested at a private lab in Gurgaon, Haryana and results of 16 of them were negative, while two were positive, the administration said. A Vivo spokesperson said, “No Vivo employee has tested positive till date and we are taking all precautionary measures adhering to all government guidelines.”   “Our current operational factory, 15 kms away from the construction site, is running at 30 per cent of its capacity as per the norms stated by Greater Noida authorities," the spokesperson added. Oppo said in a statement that it places the safety of all its employees and citizens at the forefront. “We had not only undertaken COVID-19 tests for all employees at the manufacturing facility in Greater Noida but also suspended all operations at the plant. We are undertaking stringent measures to keep the employees safe," the company said. Oppo also said that it has started screening more than 3,000 workers who have to join work and also approached the government for the test.  In a statement shared on Twitter, Zee Media said last Friday one of its employees tested positive for COVID-19. “As a responsible organization, we initiated mass testing of all those who could have been in direct or indirect contact with the said individual,” it said. “So far, 28 of our team mates have tested positive. Fortunately, most of them are asymptomatic and not complaining of any discomfort. We believe this is because of early diagnosis and pro-active intervention,” it added in the statement. “We are following the best practices to break the cycle and contain the infection, in coordination with all government and health authorities. All health protocols and official guidelines are being followed. Our office, newsroom and studios have been sealed for sanitisation. The Zee News team has been shifted to an alternative facility for the time being,” Zee Media said. Meanwhile, the testing of the rest of the employees will continue, it said, adding the group has 2,500 employees. “Since Noida has a lot of containment zones, aggressive testing, isolation and treatment is the only way to ensure the safety of our team mates,” it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/28-media-house-employees-11-workers-linked-to-chinese-phone-making-units-test-covid-19-positive-839257.html
18-05-2020||National||Babri Masjid case: CBI court asks UP chief secy to provide video-conferencing facility to conclude trial||A special CBI court directed its office on Monday to write to the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary to make the facility of video-conferencing available in the court room in order to continue and conclude the trial proceedings in the 1992 Babri Masjid demolition case. The case involves ex-chief minister Kalyan Singh, BJP leaders L K Advani, M M Joshi, Vinay Katiar, Uma Bharti and VHP leader Champat Rai among others. In his order, special judge S K Yadav mentioned that the Supreme Court had on May 8 directed the special court to continue the trial proceedings through video-conferencing as there was difficulty in procuring the physical presence of witnesses and accused persons owing to the lockdown imposed to combat coronavirus. "For compliance of the SC direction, it is incumbent upon the chief secretary to provide video-conferencing facility in the court room, for which he was already intimated on May 14, 2020 but nothing has been done so far," the special court said. The Supreme Court had directed the special court to conclude the trial proceedings by August 31. Earlier, the trial had to be completed by April 20, but it could not be done due to closure of courts in the wake of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Hence, on an application of the special court, the SC extended the time till August 31. The special court has recorded the prosecution evidence and has to record the statements of accused persons under section 313 of the CrPC before calling the defense for its stand. Meanwhile, the special court allowed the cross examination of three prosecution witnesses in this week only and hence, asked the CBI how it would ensure the presence of the witnesses through video-conferencing. The proceedings of the trial are going on a day-to-day basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/babri-masjid-case-cbi-court-asks-up-chief-secy-to-provide-video-conferencing-facility-to-conclude-trial-839258.html
18-05-2020||National Politics||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray takes oath as an MLC||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday took oath as a member of the Legislative Council. At a function held at Vidhan Bhawan in south Mumbai, Council Chairman Ramraje Naik Nimbalkar administered the oath to Thackeray and others who were elected unopposed to the Upper House on May 14. They include Council Deputy Chairperson and Shiv Sena leader Neelam Gorhe, four candidates of BJP Ranjitsinh Mohite Patil, Gopichand Padalkar, Praveen Datke and Ramesh Karad, NCPs Shashikant Shinde and Amol Mitkari and Rajesh Rathod of the Congress. The nine seats fell vacant on April 24. The 288-member Legislative Assembly was the electoral college for the biennial elections to the nine seats. With this election, 59-year-old Thackeray, who is also the president of Shiv Sena, makes his debut as a legislator. He was sworn in as chief minister on November 28 last year and required to become a member of either House of the legislature before May 27. Thackeray's son Aaditya is a member of the Legislative Assembly and also a minister in the three-party alliance government led by him||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-takes-oath-as-an-mlc-838976.html
18-05-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi offers buses to ferry migrant workers home; Yogi accepts after verbal duel||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday accepted Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's offer of one thousand buses to ferry the stranded migrant workers home from Rajasthan and Delhi borders after a verbal duel with the Congress leader. UP additional chief secretary, home, Avaneesh Awasthi asked Priyanka to furnish the registration numbers of the buses and the details of the drivers. Earlier, Priyanka said that the Rajasthan government had arranged one thousand buses to ferry the stranded migrant workers home from its borders but the UP government did not grant permission. ''We are ready to help...UP government is neither arranging buses nor is ready to take our help,'' she tweeted. Adityanath, however, rejected the Congress claims and said that the UP government had sought the registration numbers of the buses arranged by the Congress but the latter had not so far provided the same. ''Congress should not indulge in politics in times of crisis,'' he said.    UP Congress president Ajai Kumar Lallu, later in the evening, displayed a list of Rajasthan government buses along with their registration numbers and said that his party had been trying to provide the list to the state government for the past three days without success. Thousands of migrant workers had been stranded on UP's borders with Rajasthan. The workers had turned violent on Sunday and clashed with the UP cops after they refused to allow them entry into the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-offers-buses-to-ferry-migrant-workers-home-yogi-accepts-after-verbal-duel-839059.html
18-05-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi takes dig at PM Modi for 'U-turn' on MGNREGA||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday for his "U-turn" on the MGNREGA scheme, and thanked him for understanding its vision and allocating an additional budget of Rs 40,000 crore for it. "The prime minister has approved an additional budget of Rs 40,000 crore for the MNREGA scheme created during the UPA era. We express our gratitude to him for understanding the vision of MNREGA and promoting it," he said in a tweet in Hindi.  Gandhi also used the hashtag -- "ModiUturnOnMNREGA" -- while putting out a video clip of the prime minister's speech in Parliament after he assumed power in 2014. "MGNREGA is a living monument of your failures," Modi had said about the scheme in his speech in Parliament, while noting that even after 60 years of the independence, the Congress had to send people to dig up ditches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-takes-dig-at-pm-modi-for-u-turn-on-mgnrega-839068.html
18-05-2020||National Politics||BJP workers, independent voices critical of handling of COVID-19 in opposition-ruled states targeted : Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Monday accused opposition parties of "unfairly" targeting his party’s workers and independent voices on social media for criticising the handling of the COVID-19 crisis in states where they are in power. Nadda said this is "unacceptable" in a vibrant democracy and asserted that his party stands with every BJP worker, supporter and well-wisher, who are being targeted by those "scared of their unprincipled politics getting exposed".  "In the last few days, it has been observed that in opposition-ruled states, the state machinery has been used unfairly to target BJP workers and independent voices on social media, critical of the local government's handling of COVID. In a vibrant democracy, this is unacceptable," he tweeted. "We will defend your right to free speech and resist these tyrannical forces in the democratic framework," Nadda assured BJP workers and well-wishers. Culture of debate and criticism of those in public life is an integral part of a democratic process, the BJP chief said, adding that using state agencies to silence dissent is unbecoming of those in power.   "The opposition should adhere to political arguments, when questioned on their failing," he said. There have been incidents of police cases in states like Maharashtra and West Bengal, both ruled by opposition parties, over alleged "fake" reports related to coronavirus developments. The Opposition has said that criminal cases have been registered in BJP-ruled states as well, including in Gujarat, over media reports that did not go down well with governments there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-workers-independent-voices-critical-of-handling-of-covid-19-in-opposition-ruled-states-targeted-nadda-839080.html
18-05-2020||National Politics||Economic package neither helps in fighting COVID-19 nor help people: Yechury||Dubbing the Rs 20 lakh crore package as "Modi Covid Care" that neither helps in fighting the pandemic nor in addressing people's problems, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury on Monday said the Centre is "washing its hands off" its responsibilities and now putting the ball in states' courts without assisting them financially. Yechury said the CPI(M) has already given a call to Opposition to come together against the Centre's move depriving states its legitimate dues and financial share and would once again invite all those willing to join them at a time the government is moving ahead with "surrendering" national interests by privatising even core and sensitive sectors. "The Prime Minister gave an illusion that the lockdown will contain the pandemic. He announced lockdown unilaterally with short notice. Now, he has told the states that it is up to you to take care of people. This is duplicity and Modi is known for that. The agitation will continue and grow," Yechury told at a digital press conference. He said the extra spending from the government is less than Rs 2 lakh crore in the total package of Rs 20 lakh crore announced over a period of last five days and there was no such announcement that put money in the hands of people to drive demand. There was no package for states too, he said. Claiming that the government decision defied "common sense", he said the package announced by the Modi government through Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was not going to build 'Atma Nirbhar Bharat' (Self Reliant India). It is not going to provide much needed immediate relief for people, he added. "Loans are not the answer. Economy can be revived only when you generate demand and this can be achieved only when you put money in the hands of people. What is needed is large-scale public investment. Through the so-called reform measures, national assets are being sold. The harsh reality of the so-called package from Modi government is that everything is for the cronies, nothing for the deserving," he said. He said the CPI(M) have already presented an alternative economy revival plan during Covid-19, which included giving Rs 7,500 to each non-income tax paying individuals, free food for the poor and free travel of stranded migrant workers. "There is no self reliance without people's welfare. The new spending the package woefully inadequate as it is less than 1% of the GDP," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/economic-package-neither-helps-in-fighting-covid-19-nor-help-people-yechury-839123.html
18-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Yashwant Sinha on dharna at Rajghat, demands use of armed forces to help migrants reach home||Former Union minister Yashwant Sinha sat on a dharna at the Rajghat here on Monday, demanding that the armed forces be deployed to help migrant workers reach their homes. Sinha was joined by AAP leaders Sanjay Singh and Dilip Pandey who demanded proper arrangements for moving stranded migrant workers back to their states. Sinha, a former BJP leader and a trenchant critic of the Narendra Modi government, said civilian authorities, be it central or state dispensations, have "failed" migrant workers who have been compelled to walk on roads, with some even dying in the process. "Our simple demand is that the responsibility be given to the armed forces and paramilitary forces that they should, with all resources at their command and with whatever civilian resources they can commandeer, send these migrant workers to their homes with dignity," he said. Sinha said he will continue with his dharma until his demands are met. Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh alleged that the BJP just cares about the rich and it has left the poor to fend for themselves. "The government has no strategy because it has no will to help the migrants. The BJP is an anti-poor government. You can call people from abroad but not help the migrants walking on the streets. The ongoing crisis has proved that," he said. AAP MLA Dilip Pandey said the government should show some sensitivity towards the migrants. "The government has capacity to run 20,000 trains daily and ferry 2.3 crore people daily across the country. It should use this capacity to help people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-yashwant-sinha-on-dharna-at-rajghat-demands-use-of-armed-forces-to-help-migrants-reach-home-839155.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Two more COVID-19 deaths, 140 fresh cases in Rajasthan||Rajasthan on Monday recorded two more deaths due to coronavirus and 140 new cases of the virus, officials said. The number of cases in the state stands at 5,342 and deaths at 133. The deaths were reported in Kota and Nagaur, additional chief secretary (health), Rohit Kumar Singh, said.  Of the 140 fresh cases, Dungarpur recorded 64 cases followed by 22 in Bhilwara, 21 in Jaipur, 15 in Udaipur, four each in Banswara and Bikaner, three in Dausa, two each in Kota, Nagaur and Rajsamand and one case in Sikar.  A total of 3068 patients have recovered and 2,666 have been discharged. There are 2,131 active cases in the state, the officials said. Entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and massive screening and search is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-covid-19-deaths-140-fresh-cases-in-rajasthan-838964.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi's COVID-19 cases tally breaches 10,000-mark with 299 new infections||With this, Delhi has reported 10,054 cases since the first case was detected on March 2. The national capital had crossed the 1,000-mark on April 11 and it took just 38 days to add another 9,000 cases. May alone has seen 6,539 or 65.03% of the total cases reported in the capital.  The latest medical bulletin also added 12 more deaths to the official toll, taking the total to 160. According to the bulletin, 283 people have been discharged in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 4,485. There are 5,409 people still under treatment, including 2,250 in home isolation. A total of 1.39 lakh samples have been tested so far, including 3,936 fresh samples. On May 14, Delhi had reported 472 cases, the highest rise for a single day while on May 15, 425 cases were recorded, on May 16, it was 438 and 422 on May 17. Delhi had crossed the 1,000-mark on April 11 when it registered 1,093 cases. It had taken eight days from April 19 (2,003 cases) to cross the 3,000-mark. It took just five days from April 27 (3,108 cases) to add another 1,000 cases to cross the 4,000-mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhis-covid-19-cases-tally-breaches-10000-mark-with-299-new-infections-838971.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir Landslide Deaths: FIR against construction firm for negligence||The Jammu and Kashmir police has registered an FIR against a construction firm for alleged unplanned excavation of the Jammu-Srinagar national highway that triggered landslides leaving two people dead, officials said. The landslide on Saturday in Seri Ramban also damaged nine vehicles, mostly trucks and excavators engaged in an ongoing four-laning highway project. A case under under section 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others)  304 A (causing death by negligence) of IPC was registered against the construction company on Sunday at Ramban police station, police officials said.  However, no arrest has been made so far.  The 270-km Jammu-Srinagar national highway has become a nightmare for commuters due to the pathetic condition of the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-landslide-deaths-fir-against-construction-firm-for-negligence-838973.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||MP: Seven killed in fire at shop-cum-residential complex||Seven people, including four children and three women, were killed after a fire broke out in a shop-cum-residential complex in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior city on Monday, police said. Four persons also received burn injuries in the incident, they said. The blaze erupted at around 10 am in a paint shop on Roshni Ghar road in Inderganj area and soon spread to houses located above it, Additional Superintendent of Police Satyendra Singh Tomar said. The paint, which was highly inflammable, acted as a catalyst for the fire, the official said. The victims, who were on the second floor of the complex, got trapped after the flames engulfed the entire structure, he said. Four children belonging to two families and three women were killed in the incident. Four others were seriously injured and admitted in a hospital, the official said. The 'Rangwala' paint shop belonged to three brothers - Jagmohan Goyal, Jaikishan Goyal and Hariom Goyal, another police official said. The victims belonged to the Goyal family, he said. Firefighters managed to control the blaze after about two hours, the official said. The cause of the fire was not yet clear, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-seven-killed-in-fire-at-shop-cum-residential-complex-838985.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Five doctors, including four who treated COVID-19 victim, test positive for coronavirus in Kashmir||Five doctors, including four who treated a woman who died of COVID-19, have tested positive for coronavirus in Kashmir, officials said on Monday. They said five doctors tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday night, taking the number of healthcare workers affected by the deadly virus in the valley to 16. A senior doctor at the Chest Diseases Hospital, a designated COVID-19 hospital, said four of the doctors who tested positive for the disease were treating a COVID-19 positive woman who died of comorbidities on Sunday. The 29-year-old woman from Habbakadal was suffering from Ludwig's angina and operated upon at the SMHS hospital here, before testing positive for the novel coronavirus. Three doctors from the SMHS, one from SKIMS Medical College Hospital and one from Dental College tested positive for the disease on Sunday. "No one is immune to the infection. Please take precautions. The entire health department is at the service of all," leading pulmonologist Dr Naveed Shah said while urging people to follow the COVID-19 advisories. The total number of coronavirus cases stands at 1,188 in Jammu and Kashmir, including 13 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-doctors-including-four-who-treated-covid-19-victim-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-kashmir-838994.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||NGT seeks report on plea alleging encroachment of govt land in Bhopal||The National Green Tribunal formed a committee on Monday to look into a plea alleging construction on encroached government land and discharge of untreated sewage at a village in Bhopal in violation of environmental norms. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed that a joint committee comprising representatives of Bhopal Municipal Corporation, state pollution control board and the District Magistrate look into the issue and submit a compliance report. "Since it is stated that the Municipal Corporation is not cooperating, let the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation take appropriate action against the person responsible for not complying with the directions of this tribunal," the bench said in a hearing held through video conferencing. The NGT said that the order is an executable and binding decree and its violation is a criminal offence, and if the Municipal Corporation does not cooperate, the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation may be held personally accountable. The direction came after perusing a report filed by state pollution control board which showed encroachment by the complainant himself. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Bhopal resident Hardesh Kira alleging violation of environmental norms by Raj Homes Colony by raising constructions on encroached government land and discharging untreated sewage at Kauluva village in Bhopal. The state pollution control baord in its report said that a nala (public drain) is passing from two sides of complainant's house which has no boundary wall. "The complainant filled the nala stretch at back side of his house up to boundary wall of Raj Home Pvt. Ltd. Now complainant has encroached the land of old nala path by filling it intermittently and said that he is the occupier of this encroached nala land," the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-seeks-report-on-plea-alleging-encroachment-of-govt-land-in-bhopal-839002.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus pandemic dead give this New Delhi gravedigger sleepless nights||Death had not fazed gravedigger Mohammed Shamim up to now, but since the grip of the coronavirus crisis has tightened in New Delhi, a shiver runs up even his spine each time he sees a hearse pull up at the cemetery he tends. "I've been burying the dead for the last two decades. But until now, I've never been scared for my own life," he said. The Indian capital has become one of the country's COVID-19 hotspots, with media reports based on graveyard records saying there are 450 dead -- triple the official tally. Shamim says he alone has dug graves for 115 bodies at the cemetery's designated area for coronavirus dead, about 200 metres away from the others. Despite the third-generation gravedigger's experience, his family has now started complaining about his job at the Jadid Qabristan Ahle Muslim cemetery, and Shamim has moved his four daughters to his parents' house to reduce the risk of them catching the disease. "They are scared. Sometimes I lie to them that I don't touch the bodies," said the 38-year-old. Shamim gets a call an hour before the hearse arrives. That is when he becomes nervous. He prepares the relatives, asking them to put on protective suits, gloves and masks for the burial ceremony, before the family says a prayer and lowers the corpse -- usually wrapped in cloth or plastic sheeting -- into the grave. The mourners then throw their protective gear into the hole before a mechanical earth-mover fills it in. Some of the bodies of coronavirus victims arrive without relatives to help with the burial, so Shamim said he has often defied orders to stay away. "People just refuse to come help with the burial. What can you do? I have to step in," he said, describing "heartbreaking" scenes, like when only a wife and a small child came to the funeral of one man. At a recent burial, Shamim had to find gloves for a small group who had turned up just with plastic bags for protection. He finally found two pairs and gave one glove each to the four people who were lowering the body. "I understand it's never easy to bury the dead, but some families don't follow the rules at all. So many times I have had to beg the hospital workers who accompany the body for gloves," Shamim said.  The gravedigger has been so worried about the pandemic that he has twice been tested for the coronavirus, and paid for one himself of them despite his meagre wages. He said he has had help from the cemetery management committee and city authorities, but nothing from the government. "I am way too low for them to bother about." With the number of victims growing in Delhi and his services in greater demand, Shamim says he worries now if his breathing changes or he has a stomach upset. "I always felt safest around the dead and most vulnerable in the outside world. Now I find it difficult to sleep at night," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-pandemic-dead-give-this-new-delhi-gravedigger-sleepless-nights-839010.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi University to be closed till May 31; all varsity employees asked to download Aarogya Setu app||Delhi University has urged its employees to download the Aarogya Setu app on their phones and announced that the varsity will remain closed till May 31 in view of extension of the lockdown to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. During this period, the e-learning process will continue and departments and colleges are requested to provide basic reading material to students through their respective websites, the varsity said in its order dated May 17.  "The university shall remain closed for a further period of two weeks with effect from May 18 for containment of COVID-19 pandemic. Further, all the employees are requested to install Aarogya Setu app in their compatible mobile phones," the order said. The ongoing nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus was extended till May 31 by the National Disaster Management Authority on Sunday. The lockdown announced by the prime minister came into effect on March 25 for 21 days initially. It was first extended till May 3 and then again till May 17. On Sunday, the lockdown was extended till May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-to-be-closed-till-may-31-all-varsity-employees-asked-to-download-aarogya-setu-app-839015.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||3.5 magnitude earthquake hits HIimachal's Chamba||An earthquake of 3.5 magnitude shook Himachal Pradesh's Chamba district on Monday, an official said. No loss of life or property has been reported so far, he said. "An earthquake measuring 3.5 on the Richter scale was recorded at 7.53 am. The epicentre was at a depth of 5 km, northeast of Chamba district. Mild tremors were felt in adjoining areas." Shimla Meteorological Centre Director Manmohan Singh said. Most parts of Himachal Pradesh, including Chamba, fall in the seismic sensitive zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/35-magnitude-earthquake-hits-hiimachals-chamba-839033.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Beheaded body of Dalit man found in Fatehpur, 3 fingers also chopped off; at least 8 held: Police||The Police on Monday said the beheaded body of a 22-year-old Dalit man has been found here with three fingers also chopped off, following which at least eight people have been detained. Malwa Station House Officer Sher Singh Rajput said the body was found on Sunday in a field at the Chakki village. He said that on Sunday Pramod Kumar had gone to his vegetable farm around 12.00 noon. "And around 2.30 pm, the beheaded body of the Dalit youth was found in the farm," he said. Kumar’s mobile phone is missing, he said. "It seems that he was beheaded after putting his neck on a brick. A blood-stained brick has been found from the spot," the officer said. The SHO added that three fingers of Kumar’s right hand are also chopped off. Citing family members, police said his father is a teacher in a school in Agra, but he was here because of the lockdown. The family members claimed they had no enmity with anyone in the village. "A case has been registered against unknown people and 8-10 people have been detained in this connection. They are being interrogated. More than three people are likely to be involved in the incident," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/beheaded-body-of-dalit-man-found-in-fatehpur-3-fingers-also-chopped-off-at-least-8-held-police-839034.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||With 47 new patients, total 4,511 coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh||With 47 more people being confirmed positive for coronavirus, the number of cases of the disease rose to 4,511 in Uttar Pradesh on Monday, officials said. "A total of 4,511 cases have been reported so far in the state from 75 districts, of which 1,763 are active while 2,636 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. Till now, 112 deaths have been reported so far in the state," Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said. Of the total 112 fatalities, Agra has reported the maximum number of deaths in the state at 24. It is followed by 19 in Meerut, 11 in Moradabad, eight each in Aligarh and Kanpur, five in Gautam Buddha Nagar, four each in Firozabad, Mathura and Jhansi, two each in Mainpuri and Ghaziabad. Besides these, one death each was reported in Lucknow, Varanasi, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Basti, Bijnor, Prayagraj, Jalaun, Sant Kabir Nagar, Pratapgarh, Amroha, Bareilly, Shrawasti, Azamgarh, Etah, Kanpur Dehat, Mahoba and Lalitpur. Prasad said as many as 6,247 COVID-19 tests were conducted across the state on Sunday, adding that the state is also increasing pool testing facility. "We are emphasising on surveillance and over 3.23 crore people have been surveyed by 79,825 teams in UP. Those having symptoms (of COVID-19) have been given required treatment," Prasad said. He said the Aaroga Setu app was used and alerts are being sent to people. "We have made 17,447 calls on the basis of alerts generated by the app and 109 people have been quarantined."  The official said migrant workers coming from other states are been monitored by the health workers. Of them, 466 people had shown symptoms of coronavirus and their samples have been sent for testing, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-47-new-patients-total-4511-coronavirus-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-839077.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Buses with 20 passengers, opening of markets in Delhi during lockdown 4.0||Substantially opening up the national capital during lockdown 4.0, Delhi government on Monday announced plying of buses with maximum 20 people, opening of shops in markets by following odd-even scheme and allowing construction activities but barring builders from bringing labourers from outside the city. However, inter-state travel will be allowed only for medical professionals, nurses and para-medical staff, sanitation personnel and ambulances without any restriction, leaving office-goers from neighbouring Noida and Ghaziabad (UP) and Gurugram (Haryana) in trouble. As per Centre's guidelines, inter-state travel can be allowed only if both states mutually consent to it. The announcement came on a day Delhi crossed 10,000 mark in COVID-19 cases. With 299 cases, the number of cases has now touched 10,054, out of which May alone reported 6,539 or 65.03 per cent of the total cases. Delhi had reported the first COVID-19 case on March 2. Till now, 160 people have lost their lives to COVID-19. The national capital had crossed 1,000 mark on April 11 and it took just 38 days to add another 9,000 cases. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said Delhi Metro, shopping malls, educational institutions, hotels, cinema halls, large gatherings and religious places will remain shut till May 31 as instructed by the Centre. Delhi government will also not allow opening of barber shops, spas and salons with the new lockdown guidelines leaving such things to the discretion of the states. In Delhi, autos, cycle-rickshaws and e-rickshaws are allowed to ply with one passenger while taxis and cab aggregators can operate with two passengers. Maxi-cab can ply with five passengers while mini-buses can have a maximum of 11 passengers. All these vehicles should be disinfected after every trip. No pillion rider is allowed on a two-wheeler, while four-wheelers can ply with two passengers other than the driver. Cab aggregators cannot offer car-pooling facility to customers. Buses can ply with 20 passengers, who will be allowed in after a screening. At bus stops as well as inside buses, social distancing has to be followed. Government and private offices can start opening with full attendance but Kejriwal suggested that work from home should be allowed as far as possible. While shopping malls will remain shut, markets and market complexes are allowed to open. While essential shops can open every day in these facilities, non-essential shops will have to follow odd-even scheme. All standalone shops, nehigbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes can open every day. In a boost for construction sector, builders are allowed to re-start activities but they cannot bring labourers from outside Delhi. The workers should be residing in the capital. Inter-state travel is allowed. All industries can also start functioning, Kejriwal said. Amid complaints that domestic helps were not allowed in several apartments, the Delhi guidelines also said Resident Welfare Associations will not prevent any person from performing their services and duties. "COVID-19 pandemic is not ending in one or two months. Till a vaccine is discovered, it will be there. We will have to live with it. At the same time, lockdown cannot be permanent. During the lockdown, we made preparations. Now, Delhi has enough hospitals ready, we have hospital beds, ventilators, PPE kits, oxygen and testing kits. Now we have to slowly open up economy. We cannot do it at once," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/buses-with-20-passengers-opening-of-markets-in-delhi-during-lockdown-40-839106.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Auraiya tragedy: Death toll climbs to 27 as man succumbs to injuries||The death toll in the road accident in Uttar Pradesh's Auraiya involving migrant workers returning home rose to 27 with another man succumbing to injuries on Monday, police said. Auraiya District Magistrate (DM) Abhishek Singh said the bodies of all the victims were sent back in ambulances, adding that a video clip circulating on the social media showing bodies being sent by truck with migrants was fake.  A total of 24 migrant workers were killed and 36 injured when a trailer truck carrying sacks of lime and 43 people rammed into a stationary truck with a number of migrant workers sitting in it, near a roadside eatery on the national highway in Auraiya at 3.05 am on Saturday. Two of the injured persons died subsequently. The Auraiya police said the accident involving a trailer truck and a mini-truck occurred near the Shivji Dhaba in Tikauli village, with both the vehicles falling into a ditch by the roadside. "A total of 27 migrant labourers have died in the accident, while 33 sustained injuries," a police officer said. A case has been registered against the drivers, owners and transporters of the vehicles under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Epidemic Act and Motor Vehicles Act at Auraiya's Kotwali police station. On Sunday, Auraiya Superintendent of Police Suniti suspended a sub-inspector and seven constables for negligence in discharging duty in connection with the accident. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had on Saturday directed the suspension of the station house officers (SHOs) of two police stations -- Fatehpur Sikri (Agra) and Indirapuram (Ghaziabad) -- after the accident. Meanwhile, the DM said the bodies of all the victims, who died either on the accident spot or in the hospital, were sent by ambulances according to the protocol. Reacting to a video clip that has gone viral on the social media showing bodies being taken in a truck with some migrants sitting in it, he said it was fake. Strict action would be taken against those behind it, the DM added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/auraiya-tragedy-death-toll-climbs-to-27-as-man-succumbs-to-injuries-839114.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Yashwant Sinha taken into police custody while on dharna at Rajghat over migrant workers’ plight||Former Union minister Yashwant Sinha sat on a dharna at the Rajghat here on Monday, demanding that the armed forces be deployed to help migrant workers reach their homes. Sinha was joined by AAP leaders Sanjay Singh and Dilip Pandey who demanded proper arrangements for moving stranded migrant workers back to their states. They were, however, picked up Delhi Police later in the evening and taken to a nearby police station. "We have just been arrested by the Delhi Police," Sinha tweeted. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said protestors have been removed from the venue as of now.   We have just been arrested by the Delhi Police. Police sources said they are likely to be released. Sinha, a former BJP leader and a trenchant critic of the Narendra Modi government, said civilian authorities, be it central or state dispensations, have "failed" migrant workers who have been compelled to walk on roads, with some even dying in the process. "Our simple demand is that the responsibility be given to the armed forces and paramilitary forces that they should, with all resources at their command and with whatever civilian resources they can commandeer, send these migrant workers to their homes with dignity," he said. Before being taken into custody by the police, Sinha said he will continue with his dharma until his demands are met. Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh alleged that the BJP just cares about the rich and it has left the poor to fend for themselves. "The government has no strategy because it has no will to help the migrants. The BJP is an anti-poor government. You can call people from abroad but not help the migrants walking on the streets. The ongoing crisis has proved that," he said. AAP MLA Dilip Pandey said the government should show some sensitivity towards the migrants. "The government has the capacity to run 20,000 trains daily and ferry 2.3 crore, people, daily across the country. It should use this capacity to help people," he said. AAP leaders later protested against the police decision to break up their dharna and detain them. Sanjay Singh asked if it is a crime to protest for the rights of migrants. The politicians who spread hatred are not arrested by police but those who fight for the rights of poor migrants are taken into custody, Pandey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-yashwant-sinha-taken-into-police-custody-while-on-dharna-at-rajghat-over-migrant-workers-plight-839160.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: 50-year-old man held for sharing mother’s nude pics on WhatsApp||A 50-year-old man was arrested for allegedly sharing nude pictures of his elderly mother with their relatives on WhatsApp as he wanted to blackmail her into handing over the ownership papers of their ancestral house, police said on Monday. The accused identified as Deepak Tiwari (50) was on Sunday produced in the court of the additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM), which sent him to judicial custody. The dispute over the house in Shivpura area under Dadabari Police Station of the city arose after the accused’s father and the victim’s husband passed away around 20 days ago, circle in charge (CI) at Dadabari Police Station Tarachand said. In her police complaint, the 75-year-old woman said on May 13, she was performing a ‘hawan’ ceremony for her husband at her home when her son came there and sprayed some substance over her. She started feeling itchy and rushed to the bathroom to take a bath. Her son clicked the photos secretly and forwarded them to their relatives on the popular messaging platform, police said. The victim approached the police the next day on Thursday and lodged a complaint after she was informed about the incident by her relatives who had received the photos. Tiwari was arrested on Saturday. By blackmailing and defaming her, the son wanted to mount pressure on the woman so that she transfers the ownership of the house to him, police said citing the woman’s complaint. Tiwari was booked under sections 509 A, 509 B of the IPC (outraging a woman’s modesty ) and section 67 of the IT act, Tarachand said, adding that the pictures were not found in the accused’s phone as he had deleted them after sometime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-50-year-old-man-held-for-sharing-mother-s-nude-pics-on-whatsapp-839183.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Andhra Pradesh: Cop watches as 6-year-old girl mops college room floor; DGP orders probe||A video of a six-year-old girl allegedly mopping the floor of a room of a state-run college in Nellore district in the presence of a head constable has gone viral, prompting the Andhra Pradesh DGP Gautam Sawang to order an inquiry and initiate disciplinary action against the policeman. The incident happened at the intermediate spot valuation centre at the government junior college at Atmakuru and according to police the girl was asked to clean the floor by her father, who was engaged to do the work. After the video of the incident was telecast by local news channels, the DGP instructed Nellore District Superintendent of Police to inquire and initiate disciplinary action against the "errant" police head constable. According to an official release, the DGP said it is extremely unfortunate that though awareness is being created regarding Child Labour Prohibition Act, greater sensitisation and orientation is needed within the police department. "Will not tolerate such incidents. More training and sensitising of police personnel against use of child labour is needed," Sawang said, adding very soon a special drive will also be conducted against child labour in households. The top cop said the incident is punishable under section 14 of the Child Labour Prohibition and Regulation Act 1986 and a person liable under this section can be subjected to imprisonment of three months extending up to one year or fine up to Rs 20,000 or both even if the person is the father of the child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/andhra-pradesh-cop-watches-as-6-year-old-girl-mops-college-room-floor-dgp-orders-probe-839192.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Yogi govt ‘shaming humanity’ by its inhuman attitude towards migrant workers: SP chief||SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday accused the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh of “shaming humanity” by its “inhuman” attitude towards migrant workers returning home to flee huger and joblessness. “The BJP government is shaming humanity with its act. Due to its attitude, migrant labourers from not only UP but other states also are angry. It has raised question mark on its functioning," Yadav said in a statement here.  "The situation has become serious due to the closing of state borders. The labourers are stranded hungry and there is no one to hear them. They are begging before policemen for getting entry in the state. Those who are stranded mid-way are being misbehaved by the police," he said. "Due to the short-sighted decisions of the BJP government, the life of migrants have become hell," Yadav said, claiming that labourers were lathi charged in Mathura with similar incidents replicating themselves in Saharanpur and Jhansi. He said this "inhuman government" sent back labourers of Jharkhand, who died and injured in Auraiya incident, in the same open truck. "A father had to come to take the dead body of his son spending Rs 19 thousand," he said. He said his party demands Rs 10 lakh compensation to the family of labourers, who died in road mishaps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-govt-shaming-humanity-by-its-inhuman-attitude-towards-migrant-workers-sp-chief-839211.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Khan Market, Connaught Place to open from Tuesday following odd-even rule||Commercial hubs like Khan Market and Connaught Place will open from Tuesday following the odd-even formula prescribed by the Delhi government but several major markets such as Sadar Bazaar and Chandni Chowk, which are highly congested, will remain closed. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced the opening of shops in markets on an odd-even basis and warned that if social distancing norms are not maintained by a shopkeeper, his or her shop will be closed and action will be taken. "We will open on Tuesday and follow the odd-even directive as per the government's order. Connaught Place has been set up in such a way that it will not be difficult to ensure social distancing measures. "We are however, disappointed with the odd-even restrictions. Rather than applying same rule to all markets , the government should take decision market wise," Atul Bhagava, President, New Delhi Traders Association (NDTA) said. Sanjeev Mehra, President, Khan Market Traders Association, said, "Though we have our reservations against the formula and the guidelines, we will resume operations from Tuesday." "The shops in Sarojini Nagar markets will open from Tuesday. We met police officials on Monday and decided that each of the eight gates at the market will be manned by a policeman and a market representative carrying sanitizers and thermal screening device," said Ashok Randhawa, president Sarojini Nahar Market Traders Association. "There are 600 shops in the market. Besides there are around 900 street vendors. We will ensure strict implementation of social distancing. Some shopkeepers wanted to keep the market closed till May 31 but majority supported opening shops at the earliest because they are facing financial hardships due to complete lockdown for past two months," Randhawa added. The markets have been closed since March 24 when a nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the spread of COVID-19. Manohar Lal Kumar, Chairman Bhartiya Udyog Vypar Mandal, Sadar Bazar, said the market will not open on Tuesday and further course of action will be decided. "We will discuss the Delhi government's order and decide on opening the shops on Tuesday. There are provisions like timing and social distancing norms that need to be looked in," he said. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) also opposed the odd-even formula for opening shops, saying the government should not keep the base of odd-even for markets since it will be a setback for the traders.  "The odd-even concept can not work smoothly for business operations. Traders in Delhi are dependent upon each other for procurement of goods and in the event of odd-even scheme, the business activities will not be able to resume in a smooth manner. "Even from the point of consumers, it is very inconvenient as it will deprive the consumers from their choice since half of the shops will be closed for each day," CAIT Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal said. Sanjay Bhargava, president Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal said that their association had decided four days back that the shops will remain closed till May 31. "The reason being, there are containment zones in the area and it will be very difficult to maintain social distancing norms due to space crunch in the congested area."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-khan-market-connaught-place-to-open-from-tuesday-following-odd-even-rule-839225.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||Over 1,500 migrants booked for lockdown violation in UP's Balrampur||Over 1,500 migrants have been booked for lockdown violation in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur district, police said on Monday. Thirty-seven FIRs were registered against 1,547 persons for violating lockdown norms and not following the protocol, they said. Balrampur SP Dev Ranjan Verma said over 50,000 migrants have come in the district from other states and they have been kept under home quarantine. Verma said the FIRs were lodged after receiving information that migrants were not following lockdown orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-1500-migrants-booked-for-lockdown-violation-in-ups-balrampur-839236.html
18-05-2020||North and Central||UP: 2 migrants killed, 20 injured as vehicle carrying them overturns on Agra-Lucknow Expressway||Two migrant labourers were on Monday killed and 20 others injured when the vehicle carrying them from Delhi to Azamgarh overturned in Behda Mujawar area on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway, police said. The incident occurred near Gauria Kalan, Superintendent of Police Vikrant Veer Singh said. Those killed were identified as Ramji (28) and Surendra Kumar Anchal (40). The injured have been hospitalised where their condition was stated to be stable. Taking note of the incident Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced Rs 2 lakh compensation to the family of those killed and Rs 50 thousand to each to the injured. The chief minister also directed the district authorities to ensure best possible treatment to the injured. On Saturday, a trailer truck carrying sacks of lime and 43 people rammed into a stationary truck with a number of migrant workers sitting in it on the national highway in UP's Auraiya. The death toll in the road accident rose to 27 with another man succumbing to injuries on Monday. A total of 36 labourers were injured in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-2-migrants-killed-20-injured-as-vehicle-carrying-them-overturns-on-agra-lucknow-expressway-839249.html
18-05-2020||Opinion||A case for defensive pessimism during COVID-19||While optimism, supported by facts or rhetoric alone, can be crucial to the collective spirit of cheer called upon during the pandemic, it needs tempering with an approach that is more humble, heuristic, and potentially, more helpful. This approach is the idea of defensive pessimism, formally identified as a cognitive strategy by American academic Nancy Cantor and her students in the mid-1980s. Defensive pessimism involves imagining negative outcomes to events as a form of prefactual thinking. Such negative thoughts lower a person’s expectations significantly with respect to an event and how they aim to profit from it. Defensive pessimists soften the blow of failure by expecting to fail from the start, and thus, do not suffer from the disillusionment of success before or during an action or sink into great levels of despair and disappointment when lofty promises or ambitions do not come to pass. Thinking like a defensive pessimist A key difference between defensive pessimism and mere pessimism (which can, in some cases, morph into depression and hopelessness) is the presence of reasonable motivation in the former. Defensive pessimists will not imagine the utterly baffling – like the sky collapsing upon their heads – or the incredibly improbable – like a truck running them over – as they plan to head out once social distancing measures are relaxed. However, they will exhaustively go through the checklist of feasible concerns – infection from not wearing masks or gloves, exchanges with asymptomatic carriers while socialising, presence of the virus on outdoor surfaces - and take active precautions against them. The danger is attuned as a default setting for a defensive pessimist in the midst of a global pandemic. While a skeptic may question before acting, an alarmist and deluded optimist may act before questioning (for opposite reasons), and a cynic only questions and never act, a defensive pessimist will act as if the answer were negative to all pertinent questions. The government said that the COVID-19 curve is flattening, does that mean I can meet my friends and brace for outings in a few weeks’ time? Since the local grocery is now open 24*7, surely it must be safe to go out and shop regularly instead of binge shopping for days at a time? The virus disproportionately affects the old, so as a youngster, I shouldn’t be concerned, right? For defensive pessimists, the answer to all such queries is a resounding no. Defensive pessimism does not suspend logic, it simply creates a paradigm where one grows oblivious to the apparent advantages of a scenario, focusing solely on the costs. Whether such a focus is accurate or merited becomes immaterial, as to be proved wrong is to benefit and to be proved right is to be protected. A useful analogy to defensive pessimism can be found in clinical psychologist Jordan Peterson’s take on God: “I don’t know if God exists, but I behave as if he does.” Similarly, defensive pessimists cannot be logically convinced about the worst eventuality that they conjure up in their heads, but they prepare as if the worst will transpire. Thus, defensive pessimists engage in a curious form of cognitive dissonance that separates theoretical opinion from practical belief. Defensive pessimism is a fundamentally compulsive mechanism, urging the actor to take measures to mitigate potential damage. The agency plays a vital role as defensive pessimism allows one to be in control of the small factors that often come together to deliver a large consequence. Defensive pessimists do not sit back and leave things to chance, for they take chance to be inherently capricious and conniving. Throwing caution to the wind is, therefore, not their modus operandi, which comprises meticulous, and at times strenuous, assessments of situations before participating in them.  Not a solution for all Defensive pessimism during COVID-19, of course, is not for everyone. Those vulnerable to acute and frequent bouts of anxiety must not look for recourse in negative thinking as it can lead to self-handicapping or psychological masochism, whereas inveterate optimists cannot be converted to a polar opposite school of thought in a matter of months. But, for a large number of us who keep swinging between radically contrasting versions of “nothing is impossible”, defensive pessimism provides a path that challenges pivotal facets of the prevalent herd mentality that falsely equates negative cognition with personality weakness or mental disorder, championing positivity for the sheer sake of it. As the world begins to recover from COVID-19 and the virus gradually recedes to bring the horizon of normality into sharper focus, gung-ho attitudes can only serve to exacerbate our peril. What we need during our collective convalescence is not a swift leap to what we used to be, but slow and measured steps to getting life back on track.  Defensive pessimism allows for such a transition to take place because it does not harbour a rosy vision of the future. It sees a post-pandemic planet not as a return to paradise but as a place that is still prone to pitfalls and prejudices, and thus warrants strict caution. By making us aware that things can go wrong at every turn, defensive pessimism is the perfect antidote for today’s times, when a large part of our misery is a direct product of an anthropocentric hubris that could only consider how things would always go right. (Priyam Marik is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture, and sport. He is also a published poet who can be found sampling new cuisines, debating and cheering for FC Barcelona when he's not writing)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-case-for-defensive-pessimism-during-covid-19-838924.html
18-05-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus Lockdown: Immediate support needed for agriculture||In the midst of what is likely to be a year for the struggle for existence for farmers, the Union government decided to opt for changes in the legal framework and encourage contract farming – which will have a medium and long-term impact rather than provide immediate succour.  Hopefully, the government will provide succour before the start of the next agricultural season. The government has done well to support petty commodity production and commercial crops but decided that it would rather prefer market-oriented measures that focus on private participation to public investments in agricultural infrastructure. If the package is the last of the support measures before the onset of the next season, the farmers may be faced with an existential crisis.  Agriculture and allied activities are not simply another occupations in India: It employs nearly 55 percent of the total workforce though contributes only about 18 percent of the country’s GVA. The net sown area is about 140 million hectares or about 43 percent of India’s total geographical area of which net irrigated area is about 69 million hectares. A total of 22 crops along with sugarcane have some sort of fair and remunerative price support mechanism. There are 146 million operational holdings of which small and marginal farmers (or those with less than 2 hectares) comprised about 86.21 percent while medium (2 to 10 hectares) were 43.61 percent and large holdings (more than 10 hectares) were 0.57 percent of the total holdings.  Farmers’ troubles Every year, the start of the monsoon is the beginning of the travails of small and marginal farmers. It starts with the hunt for capital for inputs. Borrowing from the banks using the crop loan window is an important annual chore. Borrowing from the local fertiliser and pesticide shops is usually the norm rather than an exception. Informal lenders are an important source of credit for consumption and often for agricultural inputs. Due to the lockdown and resultant shutdown in the mobility of labour, along with the shutting of market access, farmers producing vegetables and commercial crops are staring at huge losses. To this, post the first showers of monsoon rains, they now need to repay their crop loans and mobilise additional money for inputs to start their agricultural operations in the new season.  The lack of measure (till date) to reschedule old loans and concurrently offer new loans for the season means that most, if not all, the marginal and small farmers have to depend on alternative sources of credit – usually informal lenders. Invariably, the overall tightness in credit availability will mean that there will be an inevitable rise in the interest rates for borrowings from informal lenders unlike previous years. Thus, the fate of the small and medium farmers in the near future will be dependent on the monsoons, output and farm gate prices. Any crop failure due to erratic monsoon or collapse in agricultural prices during the next harvest season will be an unmitigated disaster. The inevitable result of these developments is that farmers are likely to see smaller amounts of disposable income this year due to higher interest accrued due to borrowing from the informal markets – if the crop loans from the formal banking sector are not rescheduled and fresh loans disbursed. Hopefully higher levels of indebtedness will not lead to loss of land to moneylenders. Unfortunately, our history is replete with times when losing land to lenders was an immediate consequence of a major disruptive economic event.  Ironic as it may seem, the only factor that has the potential to change this down cycle for the farmers is the likely pressure on rural wages due to the massive return of migrant labourers to the villages that is presently underway. That may reduce the cost of cultivation. The conundrum could not have been worse: Either the incomes of the small and marginal farmers or that of agricultural labourers’ collapse. The rise in rural poverty may be a lasting impact of COVID-19.  Possible solution Since the government has already announced that the number of Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) will be increased substantially, a possible solution to the immediate problems faced by the farmers is the conversion of existing 2.36 crore KCC accounts (which comprise of individual cultivating households whose outstanding crop loan total to Rs.4.136 lakh crores in March 2019) into term loans and granting of fresh credit for the forthcoming season. The interest cost on this may amount to about Rs 40,000 crores. Ideally, it would be of great help to farmers if the government meets this interest cost. This will save money for the farmers – money which can be deployed elsewhere or at least save them from more borrowings.  S Ananth is an independent researcher based in Andhra Pradesh. Views are personal Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-lockdown-immediate-support-needed-for-agriculture-839009.html
18-05-2020||Right in the Middle||Along the shores of Nicobar||One of the privileges of serving in the military is the chance to visit locations that are otherwise not easy to access. I still remember my trip to Car Nicobar, the restricted southernmost territory of the country, in the middle of the Bay of Bengal. About 25 years ago, I was on a mission to rectify a technical glitch on the radar in the eye of the island. It was May, and monsoon was approaching. Soon after our propeller aircraft took off, we noticed thick dark clouds encircling us. There were soldier’s families on board and the crew kept pressing warning bells to alert the passengers about air-pockets and air turbulences. Unlike the modern aeroplanes, the Air force transport cum cargo planes in those days did not have advanced amenities and I could see the children fearfully clinging as the aircraft twisted and turned in the air. The crew told us that the volcano on Barren Island was live and the pilot could take a detour to avoid the volcano ash. After four odd hours of choppy flying that included a short break at Port Blair for refuelling, we landed on the reclusive emerald island. My return journey was delayed, never to miss a chance for exploration, I decided to fully utilize my extended stay. Bicycle tour with my friends along its pristine coastline was a fun-filled pastime. I would get up early, peddle along the eastern sands and view the fireball rising out of the sea, come back to the western shore by dusk to witness the sinking sun creating the magic over patches of clouds. The island looked strikingly flat with very few highlands and so very ideal for cycling, a feature that would tragically amplify the magnitude of the devastation of the islet in the tsunami, years later. Nature is at its best on the island. The sapphire sea, the silvery silent beaches, the verdant interiors and the simplicity of Nicobarese can instantly transport a visitor to a world of blissful purity. I saw tribal youth (engaged in subsistence fishing) crouching neck-deep in calm coral waters holding a spear in their hands, waiting for their catch. The villagers lived in huts raised on poles and reared pigs under the structure. A Tamilian settler from the mainland used to run a small tea shop outside the camp and I was not surprised to get a bowlful of chutney for a couple of Dosas, for I had seen fallen coconuts lying uncared everywhere--the only surplus item for the island dwellers who live with bare essentials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/along-the-shores-of-nicobar-839214.html
18-05-2020||Second Edit||When parents sit in the classroom||Online classes for students is bringing to the fore new problems and unforeseen challenges. It appears that parents are putting teachers under immense pressure, even bullying them. This is unfortunate. Online teaching has been put in place to deal with a crisis situation on account of COVID-19. To contain the spread of the coronavirus, governments have shut down schools. Schools have taken to online teaching as children will not be able to go to school for at least a few months. Teaching online is not a skill that many of our teachers have. They have received no training for it and have had to pick up skills in recent weeks, on the job. Many teachers are reportedly finding teaching online impersonal and challenging as they are unable to gauge how students are reacting to them. Teachers are able to better gauge them during in-person classes. That is not possible currently in technology-mediated teaching and learning at a distance. On top of that, knowing that parents are now present in the virtual classroom and are watching, monitoring and evaluating them must be a disconcerting experience to many teachers and is likely to be negatively impacting their teaching skills. However, while the medium of teaching is different and poses new challenges, online classes have allowed parents to catch a glimpse of what and how their children are being taught. And several parents are shocked by what they have seen. In some cases, children are being taught by people with scant knowledge of the subject matter or who are low on teaching skills. Understandably, parents would be upset if they found teachers with poor pronunciation and spelling abilities teaching their children how to read and write. After all, they are paying exorbitant fees to schools for their children’s education. Over the years, many schools have lowered teacher recruitment standards, preferring to prioritise costs, and that may be getting exposed in some cases. Several teachers have quit their jobs as they are fed up of the excessive scrutiny and criticism they are being subjected to by “overly watchful” parents. This does not augur well for schools, teachers or for students. Schools may need to take responsibility and perhaps open up a dialogue between themselves, teachers and parents. Perhaps parents must show some patience as the transition occurs, back off a bit and allow teachers some space. While challenges are to be expected during a period of transition to online teaching and learning, underlying problems have been festering for a long time. Schools must proactively address them. Parental concern is understandable, and schools must welcome constructive criticism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/when-parents-sit-in-the-classroom-839208.html
18-05-2020||South||Completed transportation of Styrene Monomer (SM) inventory from Vizag to South Korea, says LG Polymers||LG Polymers on Monday said it has completed transportation of its inventory of deadly Styrene Monomer (SM) from Visakhapatnam to South Korea. It has shipped the entire stock lying at its Visakhapatnam plant and styrene tanks that were at the local port there, said LG Polymers, a step down firm of South Korean Petro giant LG Chem, said in a statement. "There is now no SM left at the LG Polymers plant in Vizag," LG Polymers Managing Director Jeong Sunkey said. Besides, an eight member team sent by the South Korean company from its Seoul headquarter to investigate the Visakhapatnam gas leak incident and rehabilitate the victims of the tragedy that killed at least 11 people and forced the evacuation of thousands has started its work. It has commissioned a special task force consisting of more than 200 people to actively support the bereaved victims and families. "This team has been visiting people at the hospitals and their homes. Food and medical services have been organised for the returning residents. Various support activities such as supplying medical and household goods and sanitation of homes will be continued," it said. LG is also is working closely with related authorities to analyze the cause of the incident, prevent a recurrence, and support damage recovery in a prompt and expedient manner. "Additionally, in collaboration with related institutions, we are devoting our resources to analyse the cause of the accident, prevent re-occurrence, and most importantly provide assistance to the families of the deceased and injured," said Sunkey, adding "Our immediate focus is to provide assistance to the people in the local area to help them continue with their normal lives as soon as possible". LG has set up Suraksha Hospital and will take care of all residents’ health check-ups and future treatment. "We will continue to do our best to ensure life is returned to normal," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/completed-transportation-of-styrene-monomer-sm-inventory-from-vizag-to-south-korea-says-lg-polymers-838987.html
18-05-2020||South||India's 'superfood' jackfruit goes global||Green, spiky and with a strong, sweet smell, the bulky jackfruit has morphed from a backyard nuisance in India's south coast into the meat-substitute darling of vegans and vegetarians in the West. Part of South Asia's diet for centuries, jackfruit was so abundant that tonnes of it went to waste every year. But now India, the world's biggest producer of jackfruit, is capitalising on its growing popularity as a "superfood" meat alternative -- touted by chefs from San Francisco to London and Delhi for its pork-like texture when unripe. "There are a lot of enquiries from abroad... At the international level, the interest in jackfruit has grown manifold," Varghese Tharakkan tells AFP from his orchard in Kerala's Thrissur district. The fruit, which weighs five kilogrammes (11 pounds) on average, has a waxy yellow flesh when ripe and is eaten fresh, or used to make cakes, juices, ice creams and crisps. When unripe, it is added to curries or fried, minced and sauted. In the West, shredded jackfruit has become a popular alternative to pulled pork and is even used as a pizza topping. "People love it," Anu Bhambri, who owns a chain of restaurants in the US and India, explains. "The jackfruit tacos have been a hit at each and every location. The jackfruit cutlet -- every table orders it, it's one of my favourites!" James Joseph quit his job as a director at Microsoft after spotting Western interest in jackfruit "gaining momentum as a vegan alternative to meat".   The COVID-19 crisis, Joseph says, has created two spikes in consumer interest. "Coronavirus caused a fear for chicken and people switched to tender jackfruit. In Kerala, lockdown caused a surge in demand for mature green jackfruit and seeds due to shortage of vegetables due to border restrictions," he explains. Global interest in veganism was already soaring pre-pandemic, buoyed by movements such as Meat Free Mondays and Veganuary, and with it the business of "alternative meats". Concerns about health and the environment -- a 2019 UN report suggested adopting more of a plant-based diet could help mitigate climate change -- mean consumers are turning to brands such as Impossible and Beyond Meat for plant-based replications of chicken, beef, and pork. But they are also using substitutes long popular in Asia such as soy-based tofu and tempeh, and wheat derivative seitan, as well as jackfruit. This boom has meant more and more jackfruit orchards have sprung up in the coastal state. "You get a hard bite like meat -- that's what is gaining popularity and like meat it absorbs the spices," comments Joseph. His firm sells jackfruit flour which can be mixed with or used as an alternative to wheat and rice flour to make anything from burger patties to local classics such as idli. Joseph worked with Sydney University's Glycemic Index Research Service to establish any health benefits. "When we did a nutritional analysis, we found jackfruit as a meal is better than rice and roti (bread) for an average person who wants to control his blood sugar," he adds. India has one of the highest diabetes rates in the world and is expected to hit around 100 million cases by 2030, according to a study by The Lancet.   As global warming wreaks havoc on agriculture, food researchers say jackfruit could emerge as a nutritious staple crop as it is drought-resistant and requires little maintenance. Tharakkan has not looked back since he switched from growing rubber to jackfruit on his land, and has a variety that he can cultivate year-round. "When I cut down my rubber trees everyone thought I had gone crazy. But the same people now come and ask me the secret of my success," he smiles. In Tamil Nadu and Kerala alone, demand for jackfruit is now 100 metric tonnes every day during the peak season yielding a turnover of $19.8 million a year, says economics professor S. Rajendran of the Gandhigram Rural Institute. But there is rising competition from countries such as Bangladesh and Thailand. Jackfruit's newfound international fame is a massive turnaround for a plant that while used in local dishes, has long been viewed as a poor man's fruit. Each tree can yield as 150-250 fruits a season. In Kerala, where it is believed to have originated, deriving its name from local word "chakka", Tharakkan recalls it was not unusual to see notices in private gardens asking people to take away the fruit for free because they were so plentiful, they would simply rot and attract flies. And while India's jackfruit growers -- like the wider agriculture sector -- have been hit as the nationwide coronavirus lockdown causes a shortage of labour and transport, international demand shows no sign of slowing. Sujan Sarkar, the Palo Alto-based executive chef of Bhambri's restaurants, believes even meat-eaters are becoming jackfruit converts. He adds: "It's not only vegetarians or vegans, even the meat-eaters, they just love it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indias-superfood-jackfruit-goes-global-839001.html
18-05-2020||South||Over 125 Indian prisoners deported from Bahrain shifted to naval quarantine facility||Over 125 Indian prisoners who were pardoned by the Bahrain government while being serving sentences in the Gulf nation were deported to India by a special flight and shifted to a naval quarantine facility here, official sources said on Monday. The Gulf Air flight carrying 127 deported Indian citizens landed at the Cochin International Airport at 6.45 pm on Sunday. The flight returned to Bahrain with its 60 citizens stranded in Kerala due to COVID-19 pandemic, Ernakulam District administration officials said. The deportees were shifted to the naval quarantine facility at School for Naval Airmen (SFNA) after completing all formalities based on the COVID-19 protocol, they said. The deportees were brought from CIAL by special KSRTC buses under the aegis of the district administration and handed over to naval authorities at the naval base here. A Defence spokesman said as per the directives of Government of India, the deportees were to be initially quarantined in a Military base - at Kochi Naval Base where they would be regularly monitored by trained naval health professionals. After the mandatory 14-day quarantine period, the deportees would be handed over to care of state agencies for their further transfer to their home stations. The Navy's quarantine facility at Kochi with a 200 bed capacity was set up in March 20 and has been serving as a transit quarantine camp for naval personnel returning to Kochi for duty after leave. The camp is being managed by trained naval doctors and personnel from the Southern Naval Command. Meanwhile, 347 Indians stranded in the UAE due to the COVID-19 pandemic arrived here on Sunday evening in two special Air India Express flights from Dubai and Abud Dhabi, Ernakulam district administration officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-125-indian-prisoners-deported-from-bahrain-shifted-to-naval-quarantine-facility-839003.html
18-05-2020||South||LG Polymers will not be allowed to function as usual as the same location, says Andhra Pradesh CM||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday indicated that LG Polymers plant at Visakhapatnam will not be allowed to function as it used to in the past even as he maintained that culprits responsible for the gas leak will be booked. Speaking through video conference with officials and some of the victims, Reddy blamed the previous N Chandrababu Naidu-led government for allegedly according permission to the company for expansion. "We will not spare anybody. Whoever is responsible for the incident,action will certainly be taken against them. Once we get reports from all the committees including those constituted by the centre, we will seek answers from the company.The answers will be examined by the experts," Jagan said. As many as 12 people were killed when styrene vapours leaked from the LG Polymerss plant on May 7, while several hundred fell ill after inhaling the poisonous chemical at RR Venkatapuram near Visakhapatnam. "Whatever action is recommended by the committees, those proceedings will be implemented transparently. We will not allow such a situation that the company will undertake the same activities at the same location in future. That is why that raw material Styrene has also been sent back," Reddy said. LP Polymers in a statement on Monday said it successfully completed the transportation of the Styrene Monomer (SM) inventory within the plant as well as in the styrene tanks that were at the port. "There is now no SM left at the LG Polymers plant in Vizag. Additionally, in collaboration with related institutions, we are devoting our resources to analyse the cause of the accident, prevent re-occurrence, and most importantly provide assistance to the families of the deceased and injured. Our immediate focus is to provide assistance to the people in the local area to help them continue with their normal lives as soon as possible," Jeong Sunkey, Managing Director of LG Polymers, said. There had been an unequivocal demand from people of Venkatapuram and surrounding villages that the plant be completely shutdown as it posed a threat to their lives. The state government has announced Rs one crore to the kin of the deceased as ex-gratia and different packages to victims depending on the severity of ailments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lg-polymers-will-not-be-allowed-to-function-as-usual-as-the-same-location-says-andhra-pradesh-cm-839020.html
18-05-2020||South||Vizag cops beat up doctor for creating 'nuisance': Report||Visakhapatnam police recently beat up a doctor, tied his hands and dragged him on the road for allegedly creating nuisance in public and abusing the state government in an inebriated condition, according to multiple media reports.  A video of bare-chested Dr K Sudhakar being kicked by a police constable and floored on the road went viral on social media. According to reports, the police constable tied Dr Sudhakar’s hands behind his back and beat him up before bundling him into an auto-rickshaw to take him to the police station, in the presence of bewildered onlookers. This drew criticism from the opposition parties. Telugu Desam Party, CPI and other parties claimed that it reflected the law and order situation in the state. According to the report, the police commissioner told reporters that the police control room had received a call stating that a person was creating nuisance on the highway at Akkayyapalem area. The police rushed to the place and ascertained that the person who was creating nuisance was Dr Sudhakar of Narsipatnam government hospital, presently under suspension. “Sudhakar was in a drunken state and he behaved rudely with the police. He snatched the mobile phone from a constable and threw it away,” the commissioner said. “The doctor is apparently suffering from some psychological problems,” the police commissioner said. Visakhapatnam police commissioner R K Meena later announced that the constable who behaved rudely with the doctor was placed under suspension, pending an inquiry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-cops-beat-up-doctor-for-creating-nuisance-report-839030.html
18-05-2020||South||Wayanad's giant jackfruit eyeing entry into Guinness book||A massive jackfruit, weighing over 52 kg and 117 cm long, is eyeing to enter the Guinness record book. The fruit was found in a private plantation at Kappattumula in nearbyMananthavady and is likely to replace the existing Guinness record of the heaviest jackfruit globally. Another giant jackfruit, weighing 51.500 kg, from Kollam, is also vying for the record books. As on date, the worlds heaviest jackfruit according to the Guinness came from India, the fruit weighed 42.72 kg and was 57.15-cm long with a circumference of 132.08 cm. The 52-kg ripe fruit attracted the attention of residents who plucked it carefully and informed the panchayat officials. The panchayat informed the Department of Agriculture as to verify the claim and officially inform the Guiness World Record authorities. Agricultural officer K G Sunil said necessary documentation was completed on Monday and it would be sent to the Guinness authorities. The fruit, weighing 52.360 kg, is 117 cm long and has a circumference of 77 cm, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wayanads-giant-jackfruit-eyeing-entry-into-guinness-book-839061.html
18-05-2020||South||Temples, houses suffer damage in storm in Kerala||Several houses and a temple in Kerala suffered damages in heavy storm. Kerala State Disaster Management Authority officials said that the storms were reflection of cyclone Amphan. According to local sources the storms accompanied by rains started since the late hours of Sunday. A portion of a tiled-roof of Vaikom Mahadeva Temple got damaged. There were no casualties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/temples-houses-suffer-damage-in-storm-in-kerala-839111.html
18-05-2020||South||Telangana eases COVID-19 restrictions from Tuesday except in containment zones; CM Rao rubbishes PM Modi's package||The Telangana government has extended the COVID-19 lockdown till 31 May, in accordance with the Centre’s latest pandemic strategies. However, according to Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, all shops, including hair salons, except in the containment zones in the state can be opened from Tuesday. E-commerce is also allowed. Night curfew will continue all over the state. Except the containment zones, rest of the state is in green now, the Chief Minister declared after a special cabinet meeting on Monday to discuss the fresh guidelines and decide the further strategy to be implemented in the state. Rao has been extending the lockdown period beforehand not waiting for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s extension announcements. On May 5, Rao had announced Telangana lockdown till May 29. The TRS chief has strongly criticized the Modi government’s relief and self-reliance package, calling it “useless and bogus.” “Centre’s attitude towards the states has been feudal, against federal spirit. Badly affected by the COVID-19, this is not what we had expected. The Centre treats us like beggars,” Rao stated while disapproving the FRBM alterations as impractical for the state. Telangana has till Sunday night reported a total 1551 cases. While 992 recovered, 34 are dead because of the virus infection and comorbidities. “Altogether 1452 families are in the containment zones, whose essential requirements would be taken care of by the government,” Rao said. Intrastate RTC buses will operate from Tuesday, except in Hyderabad. While Hyderabad Metro will remain closed, autos, cabs are allowed in the capital. In Hyderabad, which is continuing to report cases, 50 percent shops on one day and other 50 percent the other day are allowed to open. Government and private offices, industries, manufacturing units can operate fully with COVID-19 precautions in place. All religious places, meetings, festivals will remain closed  No political rallies, educational institutions, malls, cinema halls, pubs-bars, parks, stadiums, swimming pools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-eases-covid-19-restrictions-from-tuesday-except-in-containment-zones-cm-rao-rubbishes-pm-modis-package-839179.html
18-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu has done 3.37 lakh coronavirus tests, highest in India, says govt||While three women died and 536 people tested positive for coronavirus on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 11,760, the Tamil Nadu government asserted that the state has done 3,37 lakh tests so far, the highest number in the whole country. The three women, aged between 53 and 70 years, died here at government hospitals. Two of them died on Sunday and another today. Of the 536 new cases, 46 were from Maharashtra, and 304 were men and 232 women, a health department bulletin said. As on date 7,270 were the active cases, it said. So far, 11,760 people have tested positive, of which 4,406 have been discharged following recovery. As many as 234 went home today alone after overcoming the illness. On May 15, the number of recovered people was 359 and it was 939 and 634 on Saturday and Sunday respectively.  Health Minister C Vijayabaskar, meanwhile, refuted DMK president M K Stalin's allegation that the Tamil Nadu government had reduced the volume of tests. "An opinion that tests have come down is not acceptable and it is entirely wrong. In the whole of India, we are doing the highest number of tests. We make early diagnosis, treat people, facilitate their recovery and bring down the number of deaths," he said, adding such best practices to tackle COVID-19 were even lauded by a Central team. No particular number is predetermined by the government for carrying out testing for any given day. "Is it possible to do so?," he asked, adding all RT-PCR tests are barcoded and no single test can be underplayed. Also, the testing data was being uploaded real-time in Central government portals. Stalin had alleged that the government had cut down the number of tests to 8,270 on May 16 as against 14,102 on May 7. "We have done the highest number of tests in India. So far 3,37,841 tests have been done in Tamil Nadu (from February 1), which is the highest. In Chennai city alone we have carried out 85,000 tests," he said. Today, 11,121 samples have been tested. Remarks that tests have come down in Tamil Nadu are both not true and anguishing and "in the name of criticism, leveling accusation is not acceptable," he said. Doctors, paramedics and technicians involved in the testing process do painstaking work and it calls for praise, he said. Tests were being done as per protocol and several factors like the number of people arriving from foreign countries, other states or districts, testing of contacts and those with severe acute respiratory infection and influenza-like illness together make up the aggregate number of tests daily, he said and indicated that there may some variance. On an average, for the past ten days, 12,536 tests were being done every day, he said and added that it must not be assumed that tests have come down by merely looking at some variance in the number of tests for specific days. "No one is left out of testing and the exercise is being done as per Central government guidelines. The new challenge is the arrival of people from other states," he said. Clusters like the Koyambedu market and another related to a conference in Delhi were managed well by aggressive testing, he pointed out. Also, "now we have 61 testing facilities, of which 39 are in government hospitals and 22 in private centres and there is no scope for reducing tests intentionally," he said, adding such a big testing capacity was a "huge achievement." The State-run King's Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research here was the second facility to undertake tests in the country after the National Institute of Virology in Pune, he claimed. According to the bulletin, Chennai continued to be on the top of the list of virus cases with a count of 7,117, of which 5,460 are active cases and 56 people died as on date here. Of the total of 1,961 people who arrived from abroad, 13 have tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-has-done-337-lakh-coronavirus-tests-highest-in-india-says-govt-839180.html
18-05-2020||State||'Lesser number of KSRTC buses to ply betn Tumakuru-Bengaluru'||Though the state government has announced that KSRTC buses will hit the roads from Tuesday, Tumakuru division might not be able to function fully and resume all services.  There are 1,800 KSRTC drivers and conductors working in the district and many of them have gone to their native places because of the lockdown. Because the government order came on Monday afternoon, many of them may not be able to report for duty on Tuesday.  Besides, those employees who report for duty on Tuesday have to be screened for COVID-19 before getting to work and produce a health certificate. This will cause additional delays. Of the 620 buses, the depot is planning to run only 150 buses on Tuesday. More buses to Bengaluru Before the lockdown, nearly 1.50 lakh passengers were traveling between Tumakuru and Bengaluru for work, schools and colleges. Buses would arrive and depart in intervals of five minutes. As that kind of 100% service (260 trips) is not possible, Tumakuru KSRTC will deploy the maximum number of services for the Tumakuru-Bengaluru route said Divisional Controller Gajendra. "We expect 15,000 people to travel on Tuesday. So we will deploy 50 buses on the Bengaluru route. But the bus will leave as soon as 30 passengers board the bus to maintain social distancing norms," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lesser-number-of-ksrtc-buses-to-ply-betn-tumakuru-bengaluru-839169.html
18-05-2020||State||Blessing in disguise: Road accidents decline sharply during lockdown||Though COVID-19 lockdown has been trouble for all people across the district, there is a silver lining in the dark cloud. Indirectly, it has come as a boon and saved the lives of people who were fated to die in road accidents.  Remarkably and truly, the lockdown has come as a blessing in disguise for motorists because most of them stayed home in the morbid fear of contracting a Coronavirus infection. It is estimated that nearly 200 accidents were being reported in a month in Tumakuru district. Among them, nearly 50 road accident deaths were being reported in the district each month. Hundreds were getting injured. Falling numbers In April, 15 accidental deaths and 31 non-fatal accidents were reported. Before the lockdown, the same numbers were four times higher. In March 53 accidental deaths and 136 non-fatal accidents were reported.  But since the lockdown was announced, all kinds of two-wheelers, autos, goods carriers, cars, vans, buses, lorries stayed off-roads. Automatically, the number of accidents and accidental deaths plummeted sharply in the district. Because Tumakuru is a fledgling metropolis with industrial suburbs, the daily addition of new vehicles is increasing and so is the traffic density. The fact that it is close to Bengaluru and a national highway passes through it is also a cause for the high accidental death rate. Many people shuttle between Tumakuru and Bengaluru using the highway for daily work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/blessing-in-disguise-road-accidents-decline-sharply-during-lockdown-839171.html
18-05-2020||State||'Strict action against illegal sale of liquor'||The district administration had organised a phone-in programme related to the issues of the excise department. Janardhan from Somvarpet said that liquor is being sold illegally in some rural areas in the district and urged the officials to initiate action against the violators. Deputy commissioner (excise) P Bindushree stated that strict legal action has been initiated against those who had illicit liquor and those who are carrying out the illegal sale of liquor. "Raids on the illegal activities will continue", she said. Nanjappa from Siddapura conveyed a similar issue. The official said that permits of two liquor shops have been scrapped for violating rules during the lockdown. This apart, several other cases have been registered in this connection, she said.  Umesh from Chowdlu village gave a complaint about the sale of illicit liquor. The official assured him of initiating appropriate action. Excise inspectors Yashwanth Kumar, R N Chaitra, Bhagya and M P Sampath Kumar were present in the phone-in programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/strict-action-against-illegal-sale-of-liquor-839186.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Ramanagar witnesses third leopard attack in two weeks||Leaving Forest Department officials on their toes, yet another leopard attacked livestock in the wee hours of Monday at Katamaanadoddi in Ramanagar taluk. This is the third leopard attack in less than two weeks in the vicinity. On Sunday, forest officials had caught two leopards after a 62-year-old lady was mauled by a leopard on Saturday. Similarly, last week, a leopard had killed a three-year-old boy in Magadi taluk of Ramanagar district.   On Monday early morning at around 3:00 am, a leopard sneaked into Katamaanadoddi village and attacked a calf that was locked up inside a cattle pen. Range Forest Officials revealed to DH that the cattle pen belonged to a farmer Desappa. “The six-month-old calf has been severely injured and profusely bleeding from the neck. The leopard may have tried to drag the calf away. However, the family of the farmer disturbed by the weak bleating of the calf, switched on the lights, prompting the leopard to disappear into the dark,” an official said quoting villagers. On Sunday, the forest officials had caught two leopards—a male and a female—near Sidaganapalya and Bodaganapalya. Following the killing of a 62-year-old at Kottagaanahalli village, a Forest Department personnel had kept cages at 11 places across Magadi taluk. Both the leopards were caught just a kilometre away from the spot of killing. Similarly, the villagers from Dasappanapalya, four kilometres from the spot, had rescued two leopard cubs and handed them over to the Forest Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-ramanagar-witnesses-third-leopard-attack-in-two-weeks-838938.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Buses, autos, cabs to start from May 19, says Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||“To facilitate easy movements of citizens, services of the BMTC, KSRTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC will start from Tuesday morning, except in containment zones. Even private buses can ply,” Yediyurappa said, after discussing the Centre's Lockdown 4.0 guidelines with his Cabinet colleagues and officials.   “The only condition is that only 30 people should travel in one bus so as to ensure social distancing,” the CM said.  He also clarified that bus fares will not be hiked. “I know there will be losses incurred. The government will bear the losses,” he said.  Auto rickshaws, taxis and maxi cabs (six-passenger vehicles) will also be allowed to operate. “Auto rickshaws and taxis will have a driver and two passengers. Maxi cabs will have a driver and three passengers,” Yediyurappa said.  All parks in the state will be open 7 am to 9 am and 5 pm to 7 pm.  Starting Tuesday, all shops except malls and theatres can open. “This includes salons,” the CM said.  All relaxation will cease to exist every Sunday, the CM said. “Every Sunday will be a complete lockdown. There’ll be no shops and the movement of people. It’ll be a complete rest day,” he said.  The existing curfew from 7 pm to 7 am will continue on all days, which means public transport services will not be allowed during this time.  Trains will run within the state, but interstate trains will not be allowed till May 31, the CM said.   It is mandatory for citizens to wear masks in public. “Not wearing a mask will be penalised,” Yediyurappa said.  On the classification of zones, Yediyurappa said the government's main focus was containment zones. “We're particular about containment zones. In the Karwar district, for example, Bhatkal will be a containment zone and no other taluk will have restrictions,” he said.  However, the government will review the relaxation based on how things pan out. “States have been given the freedom, so we can withdraw or modify as necessary,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-buses-autos-cabs-to-start-from-may-19-says-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-838980.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka gets more COVID-19 cases from Maharashtra||The import of COVID-19 cases from neighbouring Maharashtra, the state with the highest number of COVID-19 cases in India is now Karnataka's biggest challenge. To begin with, the state already had a policy of keeping those from five high-risk states in a mandatory 14-day quarantine. This includes Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, and Kerala. On Monday (May 18), a whopping 84 new cases were reported till noon in the state, 56 of which were those who had a travel history to Mumbai (54), Raigad (1), and Solapur (2) in Maharashtra. These 56 cases are currently residing in various districts of the state in Hassan (4), Raichur (6, one from Solapur, five from Mumbai), Koppal (2, one from Mumbai, one from Raigad), Vijayapura (4), Davanagere (one from Solapur), Kalaburagi (6), Yadgir (5), Uttara Kannada (7), Mandya (17), Vijayapura (5), Kodagu (1), Mysuru (1), and Belagavi (1). Mysuru and Kodagu no longer coronavirus-free Mysuru that had all its 90 COVID-19 patients recover and discharged recently, now has one case of COVID-19 who travelled from Mumbai. Similarly, Kodagu, which had not seen a single case in the past two months saw a woman returning from Mumbai testing positive. Koppal (3, one from Chennai, one from Mumbai, one from Raigad) and Raichur (6, one from Solapur, five from Mumbai) that were in the green till Sunday evening saw a surge of Coronavirus cases. Update on Shivajinagar, Bengaluru BBMP Commissioner BH Anil Kumar on Sunday had released a video saying there is no community transmission in Shivajinagar and that all cases are contacts of P653. True to his claim, on Monday, this cluster got bigger with 16 of P653's secondary contacts testing positive.  Two more cases from Bengaluru are those with a travel history to Dabaspete, Nelamangala, and Chennai, Tamil Nadu. In all, 18 cases were reported from the state capital on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gets-more-covid-19-cases-from-maharashtra-838990.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Talks for Krishna river watersharing agreement with Karnataka and Maharashtra soon: Jarkiholi||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that soon high-level meetings of representatives from Karnataka and Maharashtra will be held in Bengaluru to come to an agreement regarding the sharing of river Krishna waters and resolve the drinking water scarcity being faced during summer. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a meeting in Belagavi on Monday (May 18), Jarkiholi said, discussions will be held with his Maharashtra counterpart regarding sharing of river Krishna waters and dates for the meeting were yet to be scheduled. After talks, decision regarding sharing of waters and agreements will be made known. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has been working towards protecting the interests of farmers, hence he has been giving stress for irrigation schemes and projects and we have been working as per his aspirations. I have been visiting all the dams in the state and holding talks with officials. Next week dams in Mysuru division will be inspected, he said. He also said that irrigation projects have been expedited in all the 18 assembly constituencies in the district. Jarkiholi said that talks have to be held with Central Water Commission at New Delhi regarding irrigation projects of the state including Mahadayi project and convince regarding the needs. Due to the coronavirus crisis, flight services were not available, hence myself have been thinking to proceed to the national capital by road. He said COVID-19 could be controlled by following guidelines of government and health personnel and all need to adhere to them. Jarkiholi also stated that Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar being the in-charge minister of the district facilitated him to tour the state during the lockdown period and understand irrigation projects and problems across the state. As District Incharge Minister Shettar has been discharging the responsibility successfully. --||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/talks-for-krishna-river-watersharing-agreement-with-karnataka-and-maharashtra-soon-jarkiholi-839014.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka drivers protest delay in aid distribution||Taxi and auto rickshaw drivers on Tuesday held a protest against the delay in the distribution of Rs 5,000 aid to driver communities nearly two weeks after the Karnataka state government announced the scheme. Leaders of the various taxi and auto rickshaw drivers association sat in front of the the entrance to the office of the Tarnsport Commissioner in Shantinagar and held a mock 'pooja' as 'last rites' for the scheme.  "It has been 11 days since the state government announced that Rs 5,000 financial aid will be given to drivers but there are no indication that we will get it. We are protesting against the state government's false promise," said Tanveer Pasha, leader of an Ola and Uber drivers union. Pasha alleged that though the state government announced that 7.75 lakh drivers in Karnataka will get the aid, only Rs 20 crore has been released as yet.  Though lockdown rules restrict protests and gatherings, drivers said lack of employment and earnings has pushed them to the edge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-drivers-protest-delay-in-aid-distribution-839021.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka SSLC exams from June 25, PUC English exam on June 18||The postponed examinations for Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) will be held from June 25 to July 4, as the government has finally put an end to the uncertainty. The examinations, which were earlier scheduled to be held from March 27, were postponed due to COVID-19 pandemic. On Monday, the state Department of Public Instructions released the revised time table for the exams. Addressing a press conference, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, "We are taking all necessary precautionary measures to conduct the examinations by taking additional class rooms to ensure proper social distancing during examinations." Examinations will be held at 2,879 examination centres across the state where more than 8.50 lakh students will appear for the same. "The Karnataka state scouts and guides have come forward to distribute masks to students writing SSLC examinations and various other organisations are willing to provide masks. Every student will get at least two masks and wearing mask is mandatory during examinations," said Suresh Kumar. Each examination centre will be equipped with enough sanitiser dispensers and thermal checking machines. "In case any student found to be ill or have fever, cough or cold, then special arrangements will be made for such students to write exams in an exam hall," explained minister. Students who have shifted to their home towns during the lockdown can write exams from the nearest centre, where they are staying currently. Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board is gathering details of such students. This will be applicable for students who were staying at SC/ST and Murarji Desai hostels.    PUC English exam on June 18 The examination for English of Second-year Pre University College course will be held on June 18. The students who travelled to their native places and are finding it difficult to reach the city where they enrolled for exams will be allowed to write exams from the place where they are residing currently. The Department of PU Education is collecting details of such students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sslc-exams-from-june-25-puc-english-exam-on-june-18-839039.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka reports biggest single day spike with 84 cases, total infections at 1,231||Karnataka has reported its biggest-ever spike with 84 new COVID-19 positive cases, taking the total number of infections to 1,231, the health department said on Monday. With 37 deaths and 521 discharges, there are 672 active corona cases in the state, the department said in its mid-day situation report. Among the 84 cases, Bengaluru urban, Mandya, Uttara Kannada constitute major share, while cases have also been reported from Hassan, Raichur, Koppal, Vijayapura, Gadag, Ballari, Davangere, Yadgir, Bidar and Belagavi. Most of the cases which tested positive have an inter state travel history to Maharashtra, followed by contacts of patients already tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-with-84-cases-total-infections-at-1231-839073.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC admits consideration plea by K'taka against stay on CBI probe on BJP worker's murder||The Supreme Court on Monday (May 18) admitted a plea by the Karnataka government for consideration against the High Court's order that stayed the CBI probe into the 2016 murder of BJP worker Yogeshgouda Goudar with a needle of suspicion pointing towards former Minister and senior Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni as an accused. A bench of Justices R Banumathi, Indu Malhotra, and Aniruddha Bose issued notice to accused Basavraj Shivappa Muttagi and others, after hearing Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and state government counsel Shubhranshu Padhi. The court tagged the state government's petition along with a pending plea by the CBI against the High Court's order of November 21, 2019. The court had earlier on February 21 stayed the High Court's order which had suspended the CBI probe into the matter. It had then allowed the central investigation agency to continue its probe.  In its special leave petition, the state government said the HC's interim order stalled the entire proceedings more particularly the objective of conducting a fair and transparent investigation in the light of serious allegations made against higher police officials and involvement of politicians. "The interim order of stay may lead to the destruction of fresh evidence, intimidation of witnesses, etc," it contended. The CBI has taken over the investigation into the matter in September 2019 on a recommendation made by the Karnataka government after the change in the dispensation. The state police had already completed its probe and filed its charge sheet against the prime accused Muttagi. Goudar, member district Panchayat, Dharwad was hacked to death on June 15, 2016 at his gym, allegedly by accomplices of Muttagi after sprinkling chilli powder on his face.  The victim's mother, Tungamma, has sought CBI probe into the killing, alleging the police shielded the real culprits including the then Minister of Mine and Geology since they did not investigate into receipt of an anonymous letter, a day before the murder, as well as the CCTV footage immediately after the incident from the building where Goudar was hacked to death. They also claimed the police did not investigate the suspicious movement of a black Hyundai Accent car which came from KCD circle towards Saptapur Circle at Dharwad and again returned to the said circle as the accused persons were seen making the sign at the time of the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-admits-consideration-plea-by-ktaka-against-stay-on-cbi-probe-on-bjp-workers-murder-839113.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Grape farmers unhappy with compensation amount||The State government’s announcement of compensation to grape farmers has not gone well with the farmers in the region. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa recently announced Rs 25,000 for grape farmers for one hectare and Rs 15,000 for farmers engaged in the cultivation of flowers. According to farmers, it takes about Rs 5 lakh to cultivate grapes in new garden, while around 2 lakh is needed for the cultivation in old gardens. This includes expenses incurred at various stages. Many farmers are dependent on tankers for irrigation due to water scarcity. Most of the borewells have dried up as the region has been reeling under successive droughts. Farmers are engaged in Bangalore Blue (black grapes), Dil Kush, Sharath and Krishna varieties of grapes in the district. About 40,000 tonnes of fruits grown in 2,500 acres should have been sold by now. Though the horticulture department officials claim that about 80% of the grapes have been sold, farmers beg to be different. They claim that about 50% of the yield is yet to be sold. This season, the farmers could not transport their produces due to lockdown and subsequent restrictions on movement of vehicles. As prices dipped sharply and there were no buyers, many farmers freely distributed the fruits. Some of them made efforts to find customers in Bengaluru. Some others sold the fruits for whatever meagre amounts the fruits fetched. One kg Dil Kush variety would normally fetch between Rs 70 and Rs 80. It  was sold between Rs 7 and Rs 10. As against Rs 100, the Krishna variety was sold for around Rs 50 this year. There were no buyers for the Bangalore Blue variety. It was normally sold between Rs 40 and Rs 50. Some farmers dumped the fruits in dumping yards. Some of them sold one kg for just Rs 4. At present, one kg is sold between Rs 25 and Rs 30. “More investment is needed for commercial crops. The government knows the investments made by farmers. The government claims to protect our interests. Should such claims be trusted as the truth is totally opposite,”  says Venkataram, a farmer from Arasanahalli says. “I bought 20 tankers of water daily for my grapes garden. I spent Rs 10,000 only to buy water,” D N Maesh, a farmer, says. He adds,” The compensation isn’t enough even for one day wage given to a labourer. Even if the government announces compensation of Rs 50,000, the investment will not recovered.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/grape-farmers-unhappy-with-compensation-amount-839137.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka reports highest single-day spike of 99 cases; tally jumps to 1,246||Karnataka recorded a biggest single-day spike of 99 new positive cases of coronavirus, taking the number of infections in the state to 1,246, the government said on Monday, as it allowed buses, autos and cabs to operate with the COVID-19 induced lockdown entering the fourth phase. Continuing with the recent trend of those with the history of travelling from other states adding to Karnataka's tally, most of the cases that tested positive on Monday were those who with a travel history to Maharashtra recently, and currently under quarantine. "As of May 18 evening, cumulatively 1,246 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 37 deaths and 530 discharges," the health department said in its bulletin. Out of 678 active cases, 666 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 12 are in ICU. Twenty-one patients, who have recovered, have been discharged on Monday. The 99 new cases include, 24 from Bengaluru urban, 17 from Mandya, ten from Kalaburagi, nine from Uttara Kannada, among others. Majority of 99 cases are those with inter-state travel history from Maharashtra, followed by contacts of patients already tested positive and from containment zone from Bengaluru Urban. Following the recent spike in COVID-19 infections, Karnataka today said people from states like Gujarat, Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu will be allowed entry in a staggered manner and special cases will be on request.  "We have decided not to allow people from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu till May 31, but in stages (staggered manner)," Chief Minister Yediyurappa told reporters here. According to sources, the decision follows the recent arrival of a large number of people from these states, especially Maharashtra and Gujarat and ther testing positive in quarantine, leading to a spike in the number of infections in the state. Meanwhile, easing restrictions further, as the COVID-19 induced lockdown enters the fourth phase, the state government allowed public transport services to operate in the state from Tuesday, except in containment zones. The government has also decided to do away with colour coding of districts into- red, orange and green zones, and instead focus on containment for monitoring. "Lockdown will continue till May 31, in containment zone, there will be strict restrictions, if any one violates law, we will book criminal cases against them," Yediyurappa said after meeting with top ministers and officials. All the four state transport corporations buses and also private buses have been permitted to run their services, with only 30 passengers, except in containment zones, from tomorrow morning. Wearing of face-masks and maintaining physical distancing are mandatory.  Auto and taxis were also given green signal to ply on roads, but there should be only three passengers, including driver. In maxi-cabs, the maximum number should be four passengers, including driver. Trains can operate within the State but not inter-state services till May 31. Salons can also pull up their shutters. Parks have been allowed to function from 7 am to 9 am and from 5 pm to 7 pm. Further stating that night curfew would continue from 7 pm to 7 am, the Chief Minister said "there would be a complete lockdown on Sundays." Bengaluru urban district still tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 260 infections, followed by Belagavi 116 and Kalaburagi 114. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with total 122 discharges, followed by Mysuru 88 and Belagavi 62. A total of 1,51,663 samples were tested, out of which 6,265 were tested on Monday alone. According to the health department,1,49,566 samples have returned as negative so far, and out of them 6,122 reported negative today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-99-cases-tally-jumps-to-1246-839152.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No more red-orange-green, only 'containment' zones in Karnataka now||Beginning Tuesday, the state government will do away with red-orange-green colour categorisation of districts based on the number of COVID-19 cases reported. Instead, the government will identify 'containment zones' that will be stringently monitored.  Speaking to reporters on Monday, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said the district-wise classification of red, orange and green zones will no longer exist. "Once the lockdown is lifted, there is no relevance to such a classification," he said. Instead, the government will strictly monitor smaller areas with a high number of cases.  At the same time, the government is in the process of redefining a 'containment area'. "At present, a 100-metre area has been cordoned off in such zones. In an urban area, we feel this is too much. The government might look at categorising specific apartments of buildings for instance. In rural areas, the government is likely to consider classifying taluks as containment zones," he explained. No movement of private or public transport will be allowed within containment zones, he added.  In his order, Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar has stated that taluks or wards will be categorised into red, orange and green “only for the purpose of better monitoring. These zones shall not be for the purpose of imposing any further restrictions on activities...” The containment zones will have intense contact tracing, house-to-house surveillance and other clinical interventions as required, Bhaskar stated.  Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said the government's main focus is containment zones. “We are particular about containment zones. In Karwar (Uttara Kannada) district, for example, Bhatkal will be a containment zone and restrictions won't apply to any other taluk.”   He said strict measures will be in place in containment zones and criminal cases will be booked against those indulging in unlawful activities. There are about 126 containment zones currently. However, this is a dynamic number as a zone might be added or dropped from the list depending on the cases reported, according to officials.    As on May 18, in the Bengaluru municipal area, there are 19 containment zones in the wards of Vasanth Nagar, Hampi Nagar, Byrasandra, Yeshwanthpur, Deepanjali Nagar, Bilekahalli, Hagaduru, KR Market, Padarayanapura, Hongasandra, Beguru, BTM Layout, Shivajinagar, Malleshwaram, HBR Layout, Herohalli, Mangammanapalya and Hoodi.  Going forward, the state government will also evolve a separate strategy for tackling the virus in urban and rural areas, Sudhakar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-more-red-orange-green-only-containment-zones-in-karnataka-now-839176.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mobile fever clinic launched||MLA G B Jyotiganesh flagged off the ‘fever clinic bus’ designed by the Tumakuru KSRTC division here on Monday. “The intention of introducing a special bus is to bring down the number of people coming to the hospital to get tested. The fever clinic bus is jointly designed and built by KSRTC, Health Department, and the district administration,” the MLA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mobile-fever-clinic-launched-839191.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||State gets Rs 1,201 cr for groundwater recharge||The Union government has sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs 1,201 crore to the Minor Irrigation department under Atal Bhoojal scheme and this money would be utilised for recharging groundwater in 41 taluks of the state. Speaking at a state-level meeting on implementation of Atal Bhoojal scheme at Chikkanayakanahalli on Monday, Minor Irrigation Minister J C Madhuswamy said that the Union government has sought information from the department about new measures for water conservation. He directed the officials of the Minor Irrigation department to conduct a research at grass root level on recharging groundwater and water conservation measures and submit a report to the Centre. He said that farmers who use high quantity of water for growing crops should be identified and they should be educated on conservation measures. The minister said that the Union government has launched a new scheme titled “Jal Jeevan” under which all houses in Gram Panchayat limits would be provided piped water supply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/state-gets-rs-1201-cr-for-groundwater-recharge-839193.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Drivers perform ‘last rites’ of scheme; protest delay in aid||Taxi and auto-rickshaw drivers on Tuesday held a protest against the delay in the distribution of the one-time monetary assistance of Rs 5,000, nearly two weeks after the state government announced the scheme.  As the lockdown rules prohibit protests and gatherings, drivers held a mock "funeral" of the scheme which has "died" before taking off. Police who arrived on the scene were told that it was not a protest but a religious event with fewer than 50 people.  Office-bearers of various taxi and auto-rickshaw drivers' associations sat on the doorsteps of the office of the transport department commissioner in Shanthinagar.  Manjunath M, the president of Adarsh Auto and Taxi Drivers' Union, said more than half of the drivers would not be able to get the aid because they wouldn't get the fitness certificates of their vehicles on time. Besides, scores of drivers saw their earnings drop since January and hardly had any money to buy gas. "Making such documents mandatory will only lead to their exclusion," he said.  The drivers suggested that the transport department had laid down elaborate conditions so as to deny them the monetary assistance and return the funds to the government saying "eligible beneficiaries did not come".  "It's been 11 days since the government announced the financial assistance but there are no signs that we are going to get it. We are protesting against the government's false promise," said Tanveer Pasha, who leads an Ola and Uber drivers' union.  Pasha alleged that although the government announced that 7.75 lakh drivers will get the aid, it has released only Rs 20 crore so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/drivers-perform-last-rites-of-scheme-protest-delay-in-aid-839194.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kolar dist admin told to restrict entry of outsiders||District in-charge secretary Uma Mahadevan on Monday directed the district administration not to permit those trying to enter the district from outside unnecessarily. She chaired a meeting with heads of various departments here. “Covid-19 is quickly spreading in the district due to those visiting the district from other districts and states. Hence, the entry of people from other places into the district should be banned. Drivers and cleaners of vehicles should be subjected for tests without fail. They should be told to wear masks without fail,” she said. Effective measures should be taken to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. Measures at the checkpoints in border areas should be tightened. Those who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients should be quarantined, she directed. “The patients should be treated cautiously. It is the duty of the district administration to ensure that the patients recover at the earliest. A 93-year-old person in Kerala recovered fully due to efforts by the doctors which should be model for doctors in the district,” she said. “The government has relaxed lockdown guidelines. Shops should be open between 7 am and 7 pm. There should be social distancing in front of shops. People should be directed to buy essentials in large quantities,” she said. The entire village should be declared as containment zone if a Covid-19 case was reported. In urban areas, 100 metre radius from the house of the patients might be declared as the containment zone. There should be more focus on maintaining cleanliness in the containment zones, she said. “There were complaints of lack of basic amenities as quarantine centres. However, the basic amenities have been provided,” she said. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer H V Darshan, additional deputy commissioner Shivaswamy, superintendents of police Karthik Reddy and Mohammad Sujeetha and assistant commissioner Somashekhar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kolar-dist-admin-told-to-restrict-entry-of-outsiders-839197.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||2 more Covid-19 patients recover in Tumakuru||Two patients Covid-19 patients (P-591 and P-592) who were being treated at the district hospital were discharged on Monday following their recovery. With this, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the district is down to four. As many as 7,379 throat swab samples were sent for tests by the hospital of which 6,483 samples tested negative. On Monday, 245 samples were sent for tests and the reports of 847 samples are awaited.  It may be recalled that a total of 11 positive cases of the pandemic were reported in the district, of which two died and five have recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2-more-covid-19-patients-recover-in-tumakuru-839198.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP worker murder: SC admits plea against stay on CBI probe||The Supreme Court on Monday admitted a plea by the Karnataka government, against the High Court’s order that stayed the CBI probe into the 2016 murder of BJP worker Yogeshgouda Goudar.   Former minister and senior Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni is an accused in the case. A bench of Justices R Banumathi, Indu Malhotra and Aniruddha Bose issued notice to accused Basavraj Shivappa Muttagi and others, after hearing Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and state government counsel ShubhranshuPadhi. The court tagged the state government’s petition, along with a pending plea by the CBI against the High Court’s order of November 21, 2019. The court had, on February 21, stayed the High Court’s order which had suspended the CBI probe. It had then allowed the central investigation agency to continue its probe. In its special leave petition, the state government said the HC’s interim order stalled the entire proceedings, more particularly the objective of conducting fair and transparent investigation in the light of serious allegations made against higher police officials and of involvement of politicians. “The interim order of stay may lead to destruction of fresh evidence, intimidation of witnesses, etc,” it contended. The CBI took over the investigation into the matter in September 2019, on a recommendation made by the Karnataka government, after the change in dispensation. The state police had already completed its investigation and filed a charge sheet against the prime accused Muttagi. Goudar, a Dharwad ZP member, was hacked to death on June 15, 2016, at his gym, allegedly by accomplices of Muttagi, after throwing chilli powder on his face.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-worker-murder-sc-admits-plea-against-stay-on-cbi-probe-839201.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Reviving Karnataka tourism will require at least 18 months: C T Ravi||The COVID-19 lockdown has hit several sectors hard, especially tourism. Karnataka, with its ‘One State, Many Worlds’ motto, has a steep challenge to scale in reviving the sector. Tourism Minister C T Ravi tells Bharath Joshi that reviving tourism is difficult, but not impossible.   What has the lockdown done to Karnataka’s tourism? Tourism has stopped 100%. Tourism contributes 14.8% to our gross state domestic product (GSDP). By that calculation, the total loss in the sector is about Rs 7,000 crore. There are some 3.5 million people dependent on tourism, which includes hotels, taxis, tourist guides, travel agents and the hospitality sector as a whole.   It can be argued that promoting tourism wouldn’t make sense given that COVID-19 will still be around.  It appears so because there’s no mindset to travel right now. Even those who had booked their tickets in advance have cancelled. This is the reality. Travel has collapsed due to the fear of the coronavirus. But why is this fear there? Will the fear last forever? It must go away after some time. When one moves from light to darkness, it’s scary at first, and then you get used to it.  What’s the government’s plan to revive tourism in a post-COVID world?  Well, immediately, no tourist will come from other states or countries. So, there’s no need for us to attract them. We have conceptualised the ‘Love Your Native’ (sic) plan. We want to slowly change the mindset of people in favour of tourism. The key is to drive home the message that there’s safety and hygiene, especially when there’s more awareness on personal safety and health. You know, people complied with the lockdown and started wearing masks not because we asked them to, but because they wanted to be safe themselves. Also, we need to learn to live with this (virus).  So, what exactly is this campaign?  In Chikkamagaluru, which I represent, there’s Mullayanagiri, Kemmangundi, Ballarayana Durga, Hebbe Falls, Sirimane Falls…80% of people haven’t seen all this. Once they start coming to these places, local homestays and small businesses will start operations. Likewise, many people of Ballari haven’t seen Hampi, people in Bagalkot haven’t seen Badami, Aihole and Pattadakal, Raichur people haven’t seen Malliabad Fort, Chitradurga has its fort and the Shanti Sagar...this will help revive tourism by 30%.  What comes after that?  The second plan is to attract inter-district tourists under the ‘Nodu Baa Nammoora’ concept. When it comes to tourism, Karnataka has everything except snow...beaches, adventure, nature, heritage, culture. There are no beaches in North Karnataka, whose people can go to the coast. In exchange, people from the coast can head to the north for its heritage and culture. We expect this to revive tourism by 50%. The ‘Love Your Native’ (sic) and ‘Nodu Baa Nammoora’ campaigns will be run for about six months after the lockdown, by which time we expect the fear of the virus to have gone away. That’s when we will promote inter-state tourism, with an assurance to people on safety and hygiene. In the fourth phase, we will look at international tourists. We will attract them through MICE (meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions).   How long will it take for tourism to return to normal? It’ll take a minimum of one-and-a-half years. I think that’s the time required for the global scenario to change. So, until then, we will focus on survival, before we get into revival. We can also promote our tourist destinations virtually. Virtual tours will create curiosity, besides generating a very small share of revenue. One day, those who take these virtual tours will come here.  What about infrastructure development at tourism destinations? There’s an economic crisis because of the lockdown. There’s no clarity on what the revised budget will look like. Also, there’s no clarity on how much we will get from the Centre. We do have an advantage: Our advertising spend of about Rs 80-100 crore can be used under the capital head for infrastructure development. But then, it was with great difficulty that we paid the April and May salaries to employees of the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and Jungle Lodges. I don’t know about the June and July salaries.  Clearly, Kerala and Goa are eating into Karnataka’s tourism potential.  Internationally, Karnataka isn’t very well known. People know Goa, Kerala and even Bengaluru. They don’t know Hampi or Belur-Halebidu, which have been branded differently. Four-fifths of all travel itineraries are prepared by travel agents. If there’s nothing in it for them, someone on a 5-day tour will end up seeing only Agra, or Kerala if that person comes south. So, our targeting needs to be proper. Now that the Centre has allowed airport development under public-private partnership, connectivity will improve, which in turn will promote tourism. NRI Kannadigas, with whom I spoke recently, also stressed on the need for direct flights, besides the lack of familiarity with what the state has to offer in tourism.  What happened to the development of masterplans for 21 destinations?  There’s a problem with coordination between departments. The Department of Archaeology, Museums & Heritage will not permit something planned by the Public Works Department. Also, our approach needs to change. Right now, we release the budget first and then plan. If you have Rs 200 crore distributed to 30 things, nothing gets done. Instead, we should take up works commensurate with the budget and do them properly. So, my plan is to come up with a comprehensive plan and attract private investment.  What can we expect in the new tourism policy? We’ve been doing our homework on the new policy with all stakeholders for the last one year. But we aren’t in normal circumstances anymore. With the COVID-19 crisis, we’ll have to think differently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/reviving-karnataka-tourism-will-require-at-least-18-months-c-t-ravi-839219.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC resumes bus service with riders||After a gap of two months, the KSRTC will resume services from Tuesday but all buses will be run with a timetable to ensure that passengers reach the destination by 7 pm. In a release, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) said it will run 1,500 buses to destinations across the state but the last service of the day will end early. For example, the last bus to Mysuru will leave Bengaluru at 4 pm, while for Shivamogga there will be no services after 12 pm and to Mangaluru after 11.30 pm. There will be no inter-state bus operations. To ensure social distancing, a bus will carry a maximum of 30 passengers, who will be allowed inside the bus only if they have face mask and after a thermal screening. There will be no changes in the fare. Passengers will be allowed to board the buses only at bus stations. The corporation will not operate any air-conditioned buses. The passengers have to carry identity card. The buses will not be stopped en route for refreshments and therefore passengers should carry water and food, the release advised. In view of the lockdown restrictions, the corporation will not operate buses on Sunday. Similarly, there will be no buses in containment zones.The KSRTC has begun advance online ticket booking for the next 30 days. Passengers can visit www.ksrtc.in for booking and more details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-resumes-bus-service-with-riders-839241.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Interstate travellers may add to state’s Covid-19 woes||The state’s burden of COVID-19 from interstate travellers could increase to at least 436 cases within the next five days, by Friday. This is up from the 174 such cases currently registered in the state since May 14. The projections were made using a formula employed by the state COVID war room to determine future cases, using a specifically calculated district-wise average compounded daily growth rate.  The largest projected increase will be in Mandya. Currently, the district has 57 interstate COVID cases. By Friday, that number could be 161, out of a total projected COVID caseload of 255 for the district for May 22. When asked why Mandya was witnessing such high numbers of interstate cases, a state war room officer explained that many of the cases were people of Karnataka origin who had settled in Mumbai. “Many people are trying to escape Maharashtra and are coming to Mandya where they have relatives,” the officer said. The next highest increase will likely be in Hassan with 100 total interstate COVID cases. Currently, the district has 21 such cases. Other districts which could potentially see increases are Yadgir (up to 60 cases), Kalaburagi (up to 30 cases), Uttara Kannada (up to 41 cases). Interestingly, Bengaluru Urban will potentially not see any increase. On Monday, the city witnessed its first two interstate COVID cases, when two unrelated 43-year-old men, who had come from Chennai and Vellore, tested positive for the disease. In all, Monday’s new COVID milestone for Karnataka with 99 cases, includes 65 people who had returned to Karnataka from other states. According to data from the Health and Family Welfare department, the spike is pronounced from May 15, after a government inter-district travel authorized the free movement of people within Karnataka, contingent of travellers obtaining a permit from the Seva Sindhu website and being screened at various inter-district checkpoints. However, the sharp upswing in cases has prompted a change, explained Dr M K Sudarshan, a senior member of the State Covid Task Force. “The chief minister’s decision today (May 18) not to accept any more ‘migrants’ from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, could potentially curb the spike, but it will take a week for us to see the effects,” he said. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi clarified that the move was done with the best interests of the state. “Although the Centre has asked for free movement of interstate travellers, they have also left the decision to allow such travellers to the states. Our decision is to block visitors from these four states until May 31,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/interstate-travellers-may-add-to-state-s-covid-19-woes-839244.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees a whopping 99 new cases in a single day||Karnataka saw a whopping 99 new cases on Monday and 64 of them were from Maharashtra’s Mumbai, Pune, Solapur and Raigad. According to Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar, some 75,000 people from other states are under mandatory 14-day quarantine  in the state currently. If this trend continues, the doubling rate of the state will increase exponentially.  “A majority of the 75,000 interstate travellers we have quarantined are from Maharashtra. The exact figures are difficult to get as the situation keeps changing and is dynamic,” said Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health. Sudhakar told DH, “We wouldn’t like to have travellers from highly infected states which is why we have restricted entry of people from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.”  64 of those who had a travel history to Maharashtra, 57 are from Mumbai, two from Raigad, two from Solapur, and three from Pune in Maharashtra. These 64 cases are currently residing in various districts of Karnataka - Hassan (4), Raichur (6, one from Solapur, five from Mumbai), Koppal (2, one from Mumbai, one from Raigad), Vijayapura (4), Davanagere (one from Solapur), Kalaburagi (seven from Mumbai, three from Pune), Yadgir (6), Uttara Kannada (7), Mandya (17), Vijayapura (5), Kodagu (1), Mysuru (1), and Belagavi (1).   Fears allayed Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner B H Anil Kumar on Sunday released a video saying there was no community transmission in Shivajinagar and that all cases are contacts of P653. True to his claim, on Monday, this cluster got bigger with 16 of P653’s secondary contacts testing positive. P653 is a housekeeper at a Covid-designated hotel in Shivajinagar.  Two more cases from Bengaluru are those with a travel history to Dobbespet, Nelamangala, and Chennai. In all, 18 cases were reported from the state capital on Monday. With this, the state has reported 1,246 cases in total. There are 678 active cases. 530 patients have recovered, while 37 have died and one has committed suicide. The state has tested more than 6,000 samples in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-a-whopping-99-new-cases-in-a-single-day-839245.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy rainfall forecast in coastal, south interior districts||Coastal Karnataka and parts of south interior Karnataka received widespread rain on Sunday evening. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) attributed the rain, which intensified on Monday, to a cyclonic circulation over parts of the Arabian Sea (Comorin area) off the coast of Kerala. The weather department said the sudden convergence of wind over the peninsular region was due to Super Cyclone Amphan, which is set to barrel into the east coast. The IMD issued an Yellow Alert for coastal Karnataka and Malnad, warning of moderate to heavy rainfall in the next few days.   “Areas in these regions are likely to receive between 64 mm to 115 mm of rainfall over the next two days,” an official from IMD told DH. Officials at the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) said that Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada along with Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru have been alerted about possible heavy rains. Dr GS Srinivasa Reddy, Director, KSNDMC, said, “Coastal districts have already been witnessing heavy downpour since Monday morning. This will continue for another two days depending on the cyclonic movement along the east coast.” Due to intense lightning and thunder activity on Sunday night, a 25-year-old youth died near Katapadi of Shirva in Udupi district. Until Monday evening, Haleyangadi and Surathkal in Dakshina Kannada district had received  83 mm and 82.5 mm of rainfall, respectively. Several other areas in Udupi also witnessed heavy rainfall of about 60 to 70 mm rainfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-rainfall-forecast-in-coastal-south-interior-districts-839247.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt hikes medicos’ stipend, 7th pay panel for staff||Recognising them as “COVID Warriors”, the state government has increased the stipend for medical students, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar announced on Monday. The previous revision was done five years ago, and the community was demanding a hike in their stipend.  According to a government order in this regard, the stipend for house residents has been increased to Rs 30,000 from existing Rs 20,000, for first year PG students -- Rs 45,000 (from Rs 30,000), for second year students -- Rs 50,000 (from Rs 35,000) and for third year students -- Rs 55,000 (from Rs 40,000).  Also, those pursuing first year of super specialty courses will now get Rs 55,000 (from Rs 40,000), second year -- Rs 60,000 (from Rs 45,000) and third year -- Rs 65,000 (fromRs 50,000). Senior residents who are performing compulsory government service, will also get a revised stipend of Rs 60,000 (from Rs 45,000), while fellowship students will get Rs 60,000 (from Rs 30,000).  The annual cost of the student stipend would be Rs 256 crore, he said. The government has also brought the remuneration of medical college staff on par with the 7th pay commission, increasing their overall salaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-hikes-medicos-stipend-7th-pay-panel-for-staff-839248.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rs 30 lakh relief for drivers, conductors||The Transport department has announced a relief of Rs 30 lakh for drivers and conductors of the Road Transport Corporations, in case of death due to COVID-19 transmitted while on duty. The decision came ahead of the resumption of transport services in Karnataka with social distancing norms in place. In a release, DyCM and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi said that the amount will be provided as relief to the families of drivers or conductors in the event of death. Sanitisers and masks will be provided to its staff, he said, urging travelers to follow precautionary measures such as wearing masks during travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rs-30-lakh-relief-for-drivers-conductors-839253.html
18-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||People from Gujarat, Maharashtra, TN not allowed: CM||While the Centre has permitted inter-state travel, Karnataka has decided not to allow inside its borders people from Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu due to the high prevalence of Covid-19 in these states. “We have decided not to allow people from Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu till May 31, but they will be allowed in stages or phases,” Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Monday.  “Institutional quarantine for those coming from other states will continue,” the CM said. “Only necessary travel will be allowed and traveling for other reasons will not be permitted.” According to Yediyurappa, trains will run only within the state. “Outside trains won’t be allowed till May 31,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/people-from-gujarat-maharashtra-tn-not-allowed-cm-839254.html
18-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Migrants pelt stones at police, public in Gujarat's Ahmedabad||Nearly 100 migrant workers gathered on a busy road connecting IIM Ahmedabad with Vastrapur area here on Monday and pelted stones at police and people passing by during the lockdown, an official said. A local claimed the migrant workers were demanding that they be allowed to go back to their native places. Police lobbed teargas shells to disperse the rioters and detained several suspects, an official from the city police control room said. Nearly 100 migrants suddenly came on the road in the morning and engaged in indiscriminate stone-pelting, he said. They hurled stones at the police and people passing by in vehicles, he said. On getting information about the incident, a large police force was rushed to the spot. The police lobbed teargas shells to disperse the mob and brought the situation under control, the official said. Combining operation was underway at a labourers' settlement nearby to nab the culprits hiding in the area, he said, adding several suspects were detained from the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-migrants-pelt-stones-at-police-public-in-gujarats-ahmedabad-838957.html
18-05-2020||West||Indian Navy's NavRakshak to help in fighting COVID-19||A PPE protects health care workers from COVID-19 by minimising their exposure to a biological agent or a virus. But it is hard to imagine the state of professionals wearing a multi-layered coverall PPE while treating COVID-19 patients and working like this from six to 12 hours in hot and humid weather conditions. The NavRakshak PPE, with its innovative fabric material, has added new hopes to the medical world and health care professionals since it is made from the perspective of healthcare workers.  “When it comes to PPE, everyone is concerned only about the water, blood, body fluid-resistant levels of the material used in making PPE but the comfort and breathability of such PPE is something few have paid attention to. This PPE is made by a doctor, keeping in mind a doctor’s pain,” said Surgeon Lieutenant Commander Arnab Ghosh from Naval Medical Specialist of Innovation Cell, Institute of Naval Medicine Mumbai, the man behind the conceptualisation of the low-cost PPE. Navrakshak, which translates to a “novel protector”, has two distinctive factors; optimal protectiveness and optimal breathability. Lieutenant Commander Arnab Ghosh said: “As a doctor, I can say, most of the PPE available in the Indian market is ignoring the ‘breathability’ factor. Because of this, the health care workers get easily exhausted due to the prolonged use of substandard, low-quality PPE.” Breathability is the ability of the fabric to permit water vapour to pass through and prevent the entry of water. The comfort properties of a fabric depend on its ability to transmit water and vapour from the body to prevent the accumulation of liquid on the skin. In this way, the thermal energy generated by the body will be transmitted, and vapour moisture will be diffused, resulting in a comfortable condition. In order to meet the unexpected demand due to Coronavirus pandemic, many NGOs and organisations have already been actively involved in procuring and supplying PPE to the aid of hospitals. NavRakshak uses a non-woven advanced quality fabric of specific GSM with a certain stitching technique.The unique character of the fabric which is used is its strong uniform structure that can act as an excellent barrier for liquids, particles, blood and body fluids.Intellectual Property Facilitation Cell (IPFC) of the Ministry of Defence has already filed a patent for the innovative cost-effective PPE developed by Indian Navy to enable rapid mass production of NavRakshak PPE.  “It took me seven days to make this PPE. I had to do extensive research about a wide variety of fabrics, had to study about different medical garments like headgears, gloves etc. Due to the lockdown, it was even difficult for us to obtain raw materials. After much research I arrived at this new technology”, said Lt Cdr Ghosh. A pilot batch of PPE has already been produced at the Naval Dockyard, Mumbai. Innovation Cell, Institute of Naval Medicine, Mumbai and the Naval Dockyard Mumbai have collaborated to design and produce the PPE. The new technology has already been tested by INMAS (Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences) Delhi, a DRDO organisation tasked with the testing and certification of PPE. The PPE passed with 6/6 Synthetic blood penetration resistance test pressure (Government of India mandates minimum 3/6 and above level as per ISO 16603 standard). It is thus certified to be mass-produced and used in clinical COVID situations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navys-navrakshak-to-help-in-fighting-covid-19-838963.html
18-05-2020||West||Doctor adopts 'no touch, no contact' line to examine patients||A 48-year-old doctor, who got infected with coronavirus, has recovered and resumed work at his clinic in Mumbai, but with a caution by adopting a 'no touch, no direct contact' approach with patients. Dr Abdul Khalique, a physician who contracted COVID-19 in March from a patient who returned from Italy, told PTI that he is now back at his clinic in suburban Kalina where he sees over 50 patients every day. To maintain physical distance with patients, he has put up a curtain made of a transparent material at his clinic. After assessing the patient's symptoms by speaking to him/her through the curtain barrier, he prescribes medicines. If required, he examines the patient with a stethoscope only on his/her back and then advises medication. According to Dr Khalique, one of his patients who returned from Italy tested positive for the coronavirus infection on March 24. Later, the civic authorities tested samples of the doctor and his staff in which his result came out positive.  The doctor underwent treatment for 14 days at a hospital and was discharged after recovering. His family members were also quarantined as a precaution. "After I was discharged, people started approaching me to resume work. Hence, I along with my colleague Ujjawala Hadpad re-started the clinic," he said. The doctor has been advising people to stay at home, maintain social distancing, wear masks, wash hands multiple times and use sanitiser to stay protected against the coronavirus infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/doctor-adopts-no-touch-no-contact-line-to-examine-patients-839006.html
18-05-2020||West||COVID-19: A blow to Mumbai's street food industry||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-a-blow-to-mumbais-street-food-industry-839028.html
18-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Maharashtra minister blames overconfidence for infection||Maharashtra minister and senior NCP leader Jitendra Awhad on Monday said he contracted the novel coronavirus infection due to "overconfidence". Awhad, MLA from Mumbra-Kausa, had gone into precautionary quarantine on April 13 after some of his security staff tested positive for the virus, and got himself admitted to a private hospital on April 19 where he was detected with the infection some days later.  Awhad, who said he had pre-existing ailments like hypertension and diabetes, was discharged after recovery on May 10. "It was due to sheer overconfidence I contracted the coronavirus infection. The period between April 23 and 26 was the most crucial in my life. My family was informed that there were little chances of my survival. I was extremely scared for my life. I spent every minute thinking of life and death," he told a news channel.  He said he had even written a note while in ICU which stated that all his property be given to his daughter in case something happened to him. "The disease made me realise that I have been highly reckless about my health and lifestyle. I had completely forgotten there is life outside politics. Now, I realise my life needs to be more disciplined," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-minister-blames-overconfidence-for-infection-839048.html
18-05-2020||West||Maharashtra opposes plea for adopting Kerala model to fight coronavirus||The Maharashtra government has informed the Bombay High Court that it is scrupulously taking all measures to control the spread of COVID-19, and sought dismissal of a petition which said the state government should adopt the 'Kerala model' to tackle the pandemic. The state government, in its affidavit filed on Monday before the Nagpur bench of the high court, said it was implementing strategies as per guidelines of the Government of India as well as recommendations made by the World Health Organisation (WHO). After the first case of COVID-19 was detected in Maharashtra in March, several measures were undertaken, including screening at airports in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur, tracing of all contacts and high-risk contacts, declaring containment zones, collection of samples of high-risk contacts, setting up isolation facilities and so on, it said. "It is submitted that the situation in Maharashtra is different than that in Kerala. The state of Maharashtra is scrupulously implementing guidelines of the Government of India and WHO recommendations in order to control the spread of COVID-19, the affidavit said. Since all efforts are being made by the state government to control the COVID-19 pandemic, the relief sought by the petitioner is uncalled for, the affidavit said and sought dismissal of the plea. The government submitted the affidavit in response to a petition filed by Nagpur resident Subhash Zanwar, who raised several issues pertaining to the COVID-19 pandemic. The petition, filed last month, noted that the number of COVID-19 cases was steadily rising in the state.  It sought a direction to the Maharashtra government to take note of the measures undertaken by the Kerala government. According to the plea, when the coronavirus outbreak happened in March, both Maharashtra and Kerala saw a similar rise in the number of cases. However, the Kerala government has now managed to bring down its cases and flattened the curve, it said. The petition sought for a committee to be formed by the Maharashtra government to study the Kerala model and prepare a report on the measures needed to be taken by the government here to tackle the pandemic. The court will take up the petition for hearing on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-opposes-plea-for-adopting-kerala-model-to-fight-coronavirus-839056.html
18-05-2020||West||Untouched so far, Naxalite-affected Gadchiroli gets first coronavirus cases||Untouched for over two months, the remote and Naxalite-affected district of Gadchiroli in Maharashtra, reported its first set of three COVID-19 positive cases.  The three patients - who had travelled from Mumbai, the worst-affected place in India, had entered Gadchiroli last week.  They along with others were under the mandatory quarantine. Their test reports were available on Sunday night and three of them were found positive. They have been shifted to an isolation ward. Gadchiroli district health officer Dr Shashukant Sambharkar said that the three of them are under treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/untouched-so-far-naxalite-affected-gadchiroli-gets-first-coronavirus-cases-839067.html
18-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Wuhan-type hospital handed over to Mumbai civic body||The first of the Wuhan-type modular hospital at the Bandra-Kurla Complex is ready as Mumbai geared up for a big spike in COVID-19 cases. The hospital has 1,000 beds and it can be scaled up in future. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) formally handed over the Covid Care Centre (CCC) facility to BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in presence of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The hospital,  located in the MMRDA Ground at BKC,  was ready in a fortnight's time. Four such isolation and quarantine facilities have been planned in Mumbai  and  the larger Mumbai metropolitan region. Metropolitan Commissioner RA Rajeev handed over the papers to Municipal Commissioner IS Chahal. Among those present were Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar,  Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat,  Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde,  Mumbai Suburban Guardian Minister Aditya Thackeray and Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta. The hospital has oxygen facilities,  pathological laboratory,  laundry,  cabins for doctors and nurses,  kitchen and pantries - and would be like any other modern hospital. The Jupiter Hospital, Thane, as a part of its CSR activity, has provideed the design and technical guidance for the construction of this hospital,  while MMRDA bore the cost of constructing the hospital. Safety and cleanliness are utmost priority with sewage and bio-degradable waste disposable systems in place. Furniture brand, Nilkamal, has partnered with MMRDA to help set-up a makeshift emergency hospital by supplying 1,000 COVID-19 quarantine beds, mattresses, and other furniture products.  Commenting on the initiative, Ajay Agarwal, VP Operations, Nilkamal Ltd said, “The project was commissioned in record time and with a keen eye on attention to detail. We are grateful to the MMRDA for believing in our capabilities and extending to us an opportunity, to do our bit. We are proud of our team that despite numerous challenges and limitations, we have been able to deliver successfully on this project and well before the timelines. We stand together in solidarity with the Government of Maharashtra, MMRDA and all bodies in this fight against COVID-19.” Nilkamal’s quarantine and isolation beds are already in use at various hospitals across the country in Jharkhand, Solapur, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Thane.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-wuhan-type-hospital-handed-over-to-mumbai-civic-body-839109.html
18-05-2020||West||11 new coronavirus cases in Goa; tally rises to 37||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Goa rose to 37 after 11 more people, including an industrial worker and a woman, tested positive for the disease on Monday, officials said. The new patients included nine who reached Goa by a train from Mumbai on Sunday and a woman who travelled to the coastal state in her car and was quarantined at Vasco, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said. An industrial worker also tested positive for the infection, he said. The worker was brought to the state from outside under licence of the Goa State Industries Association (GSAI) and quarantined at a hotel in Verna in South Goa along with others, officials said. Samples of all the 11 people came out positive in TrueNat (rapid) tests, he said. The worker has been shifted to a COVID hospital in Margao town of South Goa, Rane said. He is the fourth industrial worker to be found infected with the virus in Goa in the last three days. Two workers were found positive for coronavirus on Sunday and one on Saturday. As a part of process to resume industrial activity, GSIA has brought workers from outside Goa and kept them in quarantine facilities as a precaution before sending them at different sites, a senior official of the health department said. Nearly 456 passengers who arrived here by the Mumbai- Goa train were tested since Sunday at a lab set up at Hospicio Hospital in Margao, according to a health department bulletin. Till Sunday, there were 26 active COVID-19 cases in the state, but since Monday morning 11 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 37.  "All these patients have been admitted to a specially-designated COVID-19 hospital in Margao," Rane said. So far, 12 passengers of the Mumbai-Goa train have tested positive for coronavirus, he said. Earlier, six passengers, who travelled to Goa in the Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram special AC train on Saturday, had tested positive for the infection. On May 1, Goa was declared a green zone after all the seven COVID-19 patients previously found in the state recovered. However, the coastal state has witnessed a rise in the number of cases over the last few days. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday claimed there was no community transmission of the infection in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/11-new-coronavirus-cases-in-goa-tally-rises-to-37-839120.html
18-05-2020||West||Controversy over locally made 'ventilators' hits Vjiay Rupani-led Gujarat govt||The Vijay Rupani-led BJP government in Gujarat once again found itself mired in a controversy over the use of locally made "ventilators" on coronavirus-infected persons in several hospitals including civil hospital in Ahmedabad that has 1,200 bed facility only for COVID-19, the largest in the state. The hospital authority has written to the government stating that local "ventilator" Dhaman-1 was not giving "desired results" and therefore, high end ventilators are required immediately. This equipment in question - Dhaman1 - was supplied to the state government on April 4 by a firm Jyoti CNC, based in Rajkot, hometown of Rupani, free of cost. A release issued by the state information department dated April 4, stated, "In the prevalent situation of world-wide fight against pandemic of ‘COVID-19’, a Rajkot based private company has developed an indigenous ‘Ventilator’, a vital and one of the key equipments require for the treatment of Coronavirus patients..." The released quoted chief minister Rupani as saying,  "The Chief Minister said that Rajkot based private company Jyoti CNC had developed the ventilator ‘Dhaman-1’ in very short period of just 10 days. The manufacturing cost of ‘Dhaman-1’ is less than Rs. 1-lakh per piece. This great achievement would add a new feather to Prime Minister Narendrabhai Modi’s dream campaign of ‘Make in India’." A letter written by superintendent of civil hospital, Asarwa, Ahmedabad, J V Modi, addressed to Managing Director of Gandhinagar-based Gujarat Medical Services Corporation Limited (GMSCL) on May 15, letter has revealed that these machines are not fully equipped to be effecting on COVID-19 patients. The letter states, "GMSCL had provided Dhaman-1 and AGV ventilators to civil hospital for treatment of patients but head of Anesthesia department has opined that both ventilators are not able to bring desired results. Therefore, 1200-bed COVID-19 hospital requires 50 high end ICU ventilators immediately and another 50 such ventilators are needed for IKDRC (Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre)." When contacted, Modi confirmed that he wrote the letter and said "I have been writing such letters everyday but don't know why the media is highlighting it. The only issue with Dhamann-1 is that it doesn't have high-flow nasal canula and oxygen flow meter. The machine needs to be upgraded." He also told DH that "some people from the firm came for demonstration for making it more usable. We can't question the firm and its intention at a time when globally there has been a shortage of medical equipments." A day before, principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi had also said in her news briefing that “The ventilator (Dhaman-1) was tested and approved by Electronics and Quality Development Centre (EQDC), Gandhinagar. Our expert doctors also approved it." She had said that accessories like high-flow nasal canula, oxygen flow meter and humidifier needed to incorporated in them to make them more effective. Civil hospital has a dedicated 1,200 bed COVID-19 hospital, largest in the state, where at on Monday 852 patients were being treated. Leader of opposition in Gujarat assembly and congress MLA Paresh Dhanani, tweeted on Monday that, “Someone should make this government understand  difference between Dhaman and ventilator.” Gujarat on Monday reported 35 fresh deaths of COVID19 infected persons, taking the toll to 694, while tally of infected persons rose to 11,746 with 366 new cases reported in last 24 hours. Ahmedabad alone contributes 8,683 cases and 555 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/controversy-over-locally-made-ventilators-hits-vjiay-rupani-led-gujarat-govt-839166.html
18-05-2020||West||BJP announces 'save Maharashtra' protest against state government||The BJP will launch "Maharashtra Bachao" agitation from Tuesday against the "complete failure" of the Shiv Sena-led coalition government in tackling the COVID-19 crisis. Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said that the COVID-19 situation has gone out of hands in Mumbai and rest of Maharashtra because of the government's failure. Fadnavis and other senior leaders, including state unit president Chandrakant Patil, and others held a video conference meeting earlier in the day. "BJP leaders will submit their demands with officials in various talukas and districts as part of the process," Patil said. He said the party leaders and workers will stand outside their houses on May 22 with placards condemning the state government's failure in mitigating the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-announces-save-maharashtra-protest-against-state-government-839177.html
18-05-2020||West||Construction workers, demanding permission to travel back home, go on rampage in & outside IIM-A||A mob of migrant workers on Monday went on a rampage in and around Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, damaged office of a construction site and security cabin near the main entrance of the campus and then went on attacking police and private vehicles near outside the campus. Police said that the angry workers lost their patience after their demand of sending back them home was not heeded by the construction company, which had employed them, and local authority for last many days. The police had to resort to lathicharge and teargas shells to control the violent mob. The FIR lodged by Vastrapur police station mentions names of 35 labourers, mostly from from Jharkhand, as accused and a mob of over 250 to 300 persons for rioting and attacking government servant, damaging public and private properties. The FIR was lodged based on a complaint filed by police inspector S R Gamit. In his complaint Gamit has said, a mob of 250-300 people, all migrant workers, had come out on road near IIM-A (new campus), carrying iron rods, pipes and stones. Gamit has stated that a group of workers entered a construction site inside the campus where they were employed by a firm identified as PSP Limited. “A group of workers entered by forcefully opening the gate and damaged office of the construction site and security cabin with iron rods, pipe and stones. I tried to pacify and asked them not to indulge in violence but they started shouting that “we are not being sent home” and started attacking police vehicles and pelted stones,” Gamit has said in his six page statement. He has said that there were handful of cops at that time who were forced to retreat due to violent behavior of the workers. He said that soon police force from neighbouring six stations reached the site. But, the mob went berserk and started attacking police teams leading to a mayhem. Joint Commissioner of Police, Sector-1, Amit Vishwakarma told DH, "Couple of policemen were injured in the attack which was contained by the police in time. The workers were angry for not being allowed to go back home. Their names have already been registered as travelers." Police detained nearly 100 of them from the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/construction-workers-demanding-permission-to-travel-back-home-go-on-rampage-in-outside-iim-a-839199.html
