19-05-2020||First Edit||As workers return home, expect a surge in coronavirus cases||While the country has crossed the psychological mark of one lakh COVID-19 cases, there are other indicators which should also cause concern and call for greater attention than in the past weeks. There are 10 other countries which have a greater caseload than India, but this should be cold comfort for many reasons. The incidence started late in India and the prolonged lockdown slowed down the spread of infection. It is estimated that the lockdown delayed the reaching of the one lakh-mark by about three weeks. The low number of tests is another reason for the relatively low number of known cases. There is bound to be a surge now with the easing of lockdown restrictions in many states, and the movement of people from foreign countries and between and within states. This has already caused a spurt in cases in most states in the past few days.  There are also reports that the migrant workers returning to their home states, after having been locked up in and near major cities for weeks, have high infection rates. In the latest tests on workers returning from Delhi to Bihar, over 26% of them tested positive. That is, one in four of them is carrying the virus. The rate is much higher than the 7% positive rate in Delhi. The case was the same for migrants who returned from other states. The rate ranged from 3% to 12% for returnees from various states, and it was always higher than the rates of positive cases in the state from where they went to the home state. The figures call for a study of the circumstances and methods of infection among migrant workers. There is a serious humanitarian issue of migrant workers stranded in many states wanting to go home, travelling in trucks or taking to the road. Some states are unwilling to accept them, and many workers are being stopped on the road because they are thought to be carriers of infection. The situation would not have arisen if arrangements had been made for them to go home before the lockdown was imposed or in its early stages or enough facilities had been provided to them so that they would not want to return.  Now, there is a serious problem to be addressed in states like Bihar and UP. Most migrants will go to villages where quarantine facilities are non-existent or inadequate. Social distancing is much more difficult in villages than in cities and public awareness is low. Health facilities are poor. The challenge is to ensure that the disease does not spread in the rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/as-workers-return-home-expect-a-surge-in-coronavirus-cases-839619.html
19-05-2020||Gadag, Haveri, Ballari||61-year-old man dies of COVID-19 in Karnataka's Ballari||The deceased, a resident of Satyanarayanapet of the city, had recently undergone open-heart surgery in Bengaluru. He returned to Ballari on May 4 but was admitted to VIMS due to breathing problem.   He was tested positive for COVID-19 on May 17.  Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul confirmed that the elderly man died in the wee hours of Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gadag-haveri-ballari/61-year-old-man-dies-of-covid-19-in-karnatakas-ballari-839331.html
19-05-2020||In Perspective||Goodwill at stake in Nepal||As India and Nepal continue their battles against the COVID-19 pandemic, the two countries are also engaged in a war of words over a border dispute. The rift emerged after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-kilometre-long link road from Dharchula to Lipulekh in the Indian state of Uttarakhand on May 8. The road will be the shortest route to Mount Kailash, located in the Tibetan plateau in China, which is visited by thousands of Hindu pilgrims every year. Soon after Rajnath Singh tweeted the news, along with photographs of the inauguration through video-conferencing in the presence of Indian Army officers, the news began to trend due to a thread of objections raised by Nepalese living across the world, alleging land encroachment by India and claiming that historically, the stretch from Dharchula to Lipulekh belonged to Nepal. In no time, #GoBackIndia #BackOffIndia were trending on Twitter and Facebook.  Taking cognisance of the matter, Nepal’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs released a press statement in less than 24 hours stating that, “the Government of Nepal has learnt with regret about the ‘inauguration’ yesterday by India of ‘Link Road’ connecting to Lipu Lekh (Nepal), which passes through Nepali territory.” Responding to the objections, the Indian Ministry of External Affairs clarified that, “the recently inaugurated road section in Pithoragarh district in the state of Uttarakhand lies entirely within the territory of India. The road follows the pre-existing route used by the pilgrims of the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra. Under the present project, the same road has been made pliable for the ease and convenience of pilgrims, locals and traders.” Not satisfied with India’s response, Nepalese Foreign Minister Pradeep Gyawali called upon India’s Ambassador in Nepal to hand over a diplomatic note on the matter. It is not the first time that Nepal has raised its objections and disputed India’s border demarcation. Last year, too, Nepal had protested against the release of a new map, alleging that it wrongly depicted Kalapani as Indian territory, which India denied. However, it is the first time that Nepal has used strong language in its protest, indicating the tremendous public pressure on the government in Kathmandu. Nepal has added that it “calls upon the Government of India to refrain from carrying out any activity inside the territory of Nepal.” Notably, in the last five years, India-Nepal relations have plunged to a drastic low due to a number of events, especially after the 2015 blockade episode. For the record, 98% of the boundary with Nepal has been agreed to and signed in 2007, and those stretches under dispute are being worked out through a dedicated task force at the foreign minister-level. However, no recent meeting of the task force has taken place in the last six months due to time-consuming formalities and now the COVID-19 pandemic. Nepal has been citing the 1816 Treaty of Sugauli, where the Kali river was the agreed demarcation for the boundary between India and Nepal. However, the river as the defining point remains contested because both the countries have different positions on its estuary.   Kalapani, Dharchula and Lipulekh regions are strategically critical to India’s border security with China. The region forms a tri-junction between India, China and Nepal where the Indian Army has been guarding its border with China under its sovereign jurisdiction. In 2015, India and China had agreed to open a trading post in Lipulekh. In their joint statement, Prime Minister Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping had stated that Lipulekh should facilitate bilateral trade between the two nations, to which Nepal had objected. Nepal had called it a unilateral move and asked the two countries to involve Nepal, too, but India and China had refused since it was a bilateral matter. Amidst these developments, Nepal is threatening India that it will internationalise the issue, but it will prove to be a diplomatic failure for Nepal for two reasons. One, Kalapani, Dharchula and Lipulekh have been cited as India’s sovereign territories in all its official statements which are available in the public domain on the MEA website. For example, every year, in its notification for the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra, India has categorically cited Lipulekh as Indian territory, with no objection from Nepal then. Hence, raising the issue now raises doubts over the intentions of the Nepalese government, especially at a time when “territorial nationalism” has become a national narrative in Nepal. Second, the road construction from Dharchula to Lipulekh had begun in 2008. It was an open space construction on treacherous high-altitude terrain. With India-Nepal having an open border, it was no secret for the Government of Nepal, but no communications were made in this regard by the later. Therefore, if Nepal still wants to treat this as a dispute, it would be best for it to seek to resolve the matter through bilateral means rather than to internationalise it.   The alleged land dispute raised by Nepal shows a poorly executed diplomatic effort. It is more a war of words on social media than a well-thought strategy to use diplomatic channels to resolve it. With diplomacy considered as the first and last resort of any international dispute, Nepal needs to make use of diplomatic means. With shared socio-cultural and economic relations between India and Nepal, the later has an open channel of communication with India at any time. Unfortunately, with increasing Chinese presence, the people in Nepal seem to be in no mood to settle for ‘special relations’ with India. Hence, it is in the interest of India that it takes Kathmandu into confidence if it is to avoid a two-front challenge in Nepal – one from public pressure in Nepal and the other from increasing Chinese presence in that country.   (The writer is ICSSR doctoral fellow at the Centre for South Asian Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/goodwill-at-stake-in-nepal-839621.html
19-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0: NEKRTC resumes bus operations in Kalyana Karnataka region ||After a gap of two months, the North East Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) resumed its bus operations in Kalyana Karnataka from today. The passengers were seen standing in line to board buses in Hosapete, Ballari, Bidar, Vijayapura and other parts of the region.  They are being allowed into bus stands only after thermal screening. They were also asked to clean their hands with sanitisers before boarding buses.  The officials at bus stands were collecting the details of the passengers.  According to the guidelines, travellers must wear a mask besides maintaining social distancing and a bus should ferry only 30 passengers.  In Bidar, though buses moving towards Bhalki, Aurad and other places are ready to carry the passengers, they have been parked idle in the bus stand in the absence of passengers. In some places, the people who remained indoors for about two months are thronging bus stand to reach their destinations||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/coronavirus-lockdown-40-nekrtc-resumes-bus-operations-in-kalyana-karnataka-region-839349.html
19-05-2020||Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi records 11 new COVID-19 cases, Yadgir one ||All have a travel history to Mumbai in Maharashtra. The death toll in the district stood at seven.   However, neighbourhood Yadgir district recorded one positive novel coronavirus case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/kalaburagi-records-11-new-covid-19-cases-yadgir-one-839418.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0: Inter-district bus services commence from Udupi||The inter-district buses from Udupi commenced on Tuesday. Already, six buses to Bengaluru, two buses each to Shivamogga, Hubballi, Mysuru have left from the district. It may be recalled that the bus services within Udupi district commenced on May 13.  Accordingly, buses are operating to Hebri, Karkala, Kundapura and other areas.  There is a demand for buses to Bengaluru as a large number of people working in Bengaluru had arrived native soon after the announcement of lockdown and now are wishing to return to Bengaluru for work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-40-inter-district-bus-services-commence-from-udupi-839384.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0: Inter-district KSRTC bus services begin in Shivamogga ||After a gap of 55 days, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) operated inter-district bus services from Shivamogga on Monday.  Passengers stood in queues wearing a face mask and followed guidelines of the government. KSRTC bus terminal in charge, Siddesh, told DH that as many as 36 buses have departed from Shivamogga to various districts in the state. People are coming in large numbers to board buses as inter-district bus service has been started after a gap of many days. As many as 18 buses have been operated towards Bengaluru, two towards Arsikere (Hassan district), one towards Chikkamagaluru, five towards Shikaripur, three towards Harihar (Davangere district),  three to Chitradurga, one to Mysuru till noon.  He also made it clear that the buses would be operated depending on people.   It may be mentioned here that the movement of KSRTC buses commenced within the district from April. However, private bus owners decided not to operate service citing loss if they ferry only 30 passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-40-inter-district-ksrtc-bus-services-begin-in-shivamogga-839388.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shramik special train derails near Karnataka's Padil, none hurt||The locomotive of Tirur-Jaipur Shramik Special Express derailed near Padil in Karnataka in the wee hours of Tuesday. No one was injured in the incident. According to sources, the accident relief train rushed to the spot. The restoration work is in progress. It may be recalled that the spot had witnessed landslide in August, which had disrupted train services for several days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shramik-special-train-derails-near-karnatakas-padil-none-hurt-839400.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Maha' link continues to haunt Mandya as district reports 62 new COVID-19 positive cases||The Maharashtra link has turned into a headache for the district administration, as thousands of migrants are entering the district every day. Most of the migrants are to K R Pet and Nagamangala taluks. The district administration has made all arrangements to shift the migrants to quarantine directly from check posts, as a precautionary measure. They are being tested for COVID-19.  The number of positive cases has seen a rise, since a week. The number of positive COVID-19 cases in Mandya district was 36, as on May 14. The spike in the number of cases after that had increased the tally to 89 as on May 18. On Tuesday, 62 cases were confirmed positive, the highest so far. With this, the number of cases stands at 151. This is expected to rise  by evening. Meanwhile, the Hassan district too reported three positive COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. This includes two female and a male, all having a travel history to Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/maha-link-continues-to-haunt-mandya-as-district-reports-62-new-covid-19-positive-cases-839429.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga reports 10 more COVID-19 positive cases; 3 areas declared containment zones||Speaking to media persons, here on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar said though the health bulletin stated that Shivamogga recorded 12 cases, two of them are undergoing treatment in another district. Eighteen primary contacts of these ten persons are also under quarantine.  Among the ten, five have a travel history to Mumbai, two to Kerala and two to Andhra Pradesh. The officials concerned have indulged in tracing contact of the remaining two persons. He said Hallibailu in Thirthahalli taluk, Balekoppa in Shivamogga taluk and Taralaghatta in Shikaripur taluk have been declared as containment zones.  Of the 976 persons who returned to Shivamogga from various states and districts, throat swabs of 810 had been tested. The lab reports of the remaining 166 are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-reports-10-more-covid-19-positive-cases-3-areas-declared-containment-zones-839433.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Primary health care doctor tests COVID-19 positive in Chikkamagaluru||Chikkamagaluru had not recorded any cases of COVID-19 so far. This is the first two cases reported in the district. The 43-year-old man (P1295) tested positive in Mudigere. The contact of the doctor is yet to be traced. While a 27-year-old woman (P1296), who has a travel history to Mumbai has been tested positive. Both are being treated at a designated hospital in Chikkamagaluru.  The district administration has closed the road leading to Sushanthnagara in Mudigere where the house of the doctor is situated. Meanwhile, in Udupi, four persons including an eight-year-old, who travelled from Mumbai to Udupi, tested positive for COVID-19 in the district. With this, the total positive cases registered in the district shot up to 15. All are being treated at a designated hospital in Udupi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/primary-health-care-doctor-tests-covid-19-positive-in-chikkamagaluru-839440.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19: Highest single-day spike in Karnataka with 127 new cases; Death toll rises to 40||In a biggest ever spike in Karnataka, 127 COVID-19 cases were confirmed, taking the total number of infections to 1,373 in the state, where three fatalities have been reported, taking the toll to 40, the health department said on Tuesday. Of the 127 newly confirmed cases, 91 are those with interstate travel history from neighbouring Maharashtra, the department said in its mid-day situation update. The remaining include cases with interstate travel history from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat; also those who are contacts of patients already tested positive, those from containment zones in Davangere, Vijayapura, Bengaluru urban, inter-district travel history to Davangere, and history of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and SARI. Out of the fresh cases, 62 are from Mandya, Davangere 19, Shivamogga 12, Kalaburagi 11, Bengaluru urban 6, Udupi and Uttara Kannada 4, Hassan 3, Chikkamagaluru 2, and one each from Gadag, Vijayapura, Yadgir and Chitradurga. With 40 deaths and 530 discharges, there are 802 active corona cases in the state. The three deaths include- a 61-year-old man from Ballari, who was diagnosed with SARI and had travel history to Bengaluru.  He was a known case of IHD (Ischemic heart disease) with recent history of cardiac surgery. He died today at designated hospital in the district and tested positive for COVID-19. Also, a 65-year-old man from Vijayapura, a known case of HTN (Hypertension), DM (Diabetes mellitus), and IHD was brought dead on May 18 to designated hospital in the district and tested positive for COVID-19. A 54-year-old man from Bengaluru, known case of IHD, was admitted to private hospital in the city and died on May 18. He tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-highest-single-day-spike-in-karnataka-with-127-new-cases-death-toll-rises-to-40-839506.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Woman in quarantine dies of cardiac arrest||A 55-year-old woman, who was quarantined at Morarji Desai Residential School, Somanahalli, for the past two days, died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday.  The woman is a native of Juttanahalli and had come to Mandya from Mumbai on May 16 and quarantined. Her blood and throat swab samples were taken for test on Tuesday, and the result is awaited. According to the District Health Officer, H P Manchegowda, the woman complained of chest pain on Tuesday evening and died of cardiac arrest. The body has been kept as per the Covid norms and future course of action would be taken after the test reports are available, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-in-quarantine-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-839608.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Reid & Taylor terminates 1,400 employees||Reid & Taylor, one of the first companies to be set up in Tandavapura, Nanjangud taluk, with much fanfare, as a result of globalisation and liberalisation in 1998, has terminated the services of 1,400 of its employees, as a part of liquidation. Even though the liquidation order was long-pending, the termination of employees, during lockdown, in the wake of COVID-19, has come as a blow to the employees. The company was in financial crisis since three years. It has to be noted that the employees had staged a protest, stating that they did not get salary during the lockdown, recently. Ravi Shankar Devarakonda, who was appointed as liquidator as per the orders of National Company Law Tribunal on February 5, 2019, to liquidate Reid and Taylor as per the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, has written a letter to this effect, to the employees on May 14. Reid and Taylor India Limited is a subsidiary of S Kumar’s Nationwide Limited (SKNL). Reid and Taylor is a British brand for over 190 years, founded by Alexander Reid, a Scott, in the 1830s. He used Scottish Cheviot wool to create Cheviot cloth. As his clientele and reputation grew, he was joined by financier Joseph Taylor. It was launched by SKNL in India in 1998. The liquidator has stated that the problems, such as discontinuation of job work by RNT Distributors Private Limited; no fresh sales orders; continuation of loss at EDITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortisation) level; discontinuation of power supply due to non-payment of dues; and lack of working capital; as the causes for the lay off of the employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/reid-taylor-terminates-1400-employees-839609.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19: ‘Maha’ link haunts Mandya district||Mandya district recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. A total of 71 people tested positive for the virus, including 38 male and 33 female. All have a travel history to Mumbai, Maharashtra. With 160 cases, Mandya district is in the second position in the State, after Bengaluru Urban. Out of this, 104 cases are from K R Pet taluk, which has become the first taluk with more than 100 positive cases. The Maharashtra link has turned into a headache for the district administration, as thousands of migrants are entering the district every day. Most of the migrants are returning to K R Pet and Nagamangala taluks. The district administration has made all arrangements to shift the migrants to quarantine facility directly from the checkposts, as a precautionary measure. They are being subject to COVID-19 tests and the number of positive cases has been rising since the last week. The number of positive cases in Mandya district was 36, as on May 14. The spike in the number of cases after that had increased the tally to 89 on May 18. On Tuesday, 71 fresh cases were confirmed positive, the highest so far. With this, the total number of cases in the tally is 160. According to the district administration, 21 people have been recovered and discharged and, there are 139 active cases. Meanwhile, a section of the people have alleged that District In-charge Minister Narayana Gowda is responsible for the sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases in Mandya district. Umashankar, president of a Kannada organisation alleged that the minister’s contacts with Mumbai, is the reason for the people returning in hordes to the district. Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh has failed in controlling the spread of pandemic. Many have been entering the district secretly, he said. Hassan district too reported three positive cases, on Tuesday. Three from the same family, including two female and a male have tested positive. All have a travel history to Mumbai. The total number of cases is 33 in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-maha-link-haunts-mandya-district-839610.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||KSRTC resumes bus service; poor response in Chikkaballpur||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) resumed bus services in the district on Tuesday after a gap of 55 days due to lockdown in the wake of COVID-19. The KSRTC had stopped the bus service on March 22. The bus services were permitted between 7 am and 7 pm on Tuesday. There was poor response from passengers for the service as most passengers preferred to stay off from travelling to various destinations. About 30,000 passengers used the bus service from Chikkaballapur bus stand alone before the lockdown. However, only 526 passengers availed the service on Tuesday. Most of them used the service to Bengaluru. The KSRTC officials had decided to ply the buses based on demand. A decision was taken to ply between 70 and 100 buses. However, only 71 buses entered the road, including 20 in Chikkaballapur, 12 in Chintamani, 13 in Shidlaghatta, 9 in Bagepalli and 17 in Gauribidanur. Of the total 71 buses, 47 of them provided service to Bengaluru. Every passenger was screened at the bus stand before granting permission to board the buses at every bus stand. It was mandatory for the passengers to wear masks and use sanitiser. The officials checked details of the passengers on the Aadhhar card and registered them. One passenger was permitted to sit on two-seat facility, while two passengers were permitted to sit on the three-seat facility. There was no permission for senior citizens and children.  “We have taken a decision to ply the buses based on demand of the passengers. We are plying 100 buses at present. Considering safety of the passengers, the buses are disinfected thoroughly,” KSRTC divisional controller Manjunath said. Though most of the passengers were happy visibly, there was lack of willingness to travel. The KSRTC resumed its services in Kolar also. Precautionary measures such as social distance, wearing mask and disinfecting buses were strictly followed. The passengers were allowed entry into the bus stand through only one gate. They were subjected to thermal scanner test and passengers were told to wash their hands with sanitisers. The name, address, mobile number and other personal details of the passengers were collected. The buses plied till 5 pm and later they were disinfected in the depot again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksrtc-resumes-bus-service-poor-response-in-chikkaballpur-839627.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||H Nagesh warns legal action against misuse of K C Valley water||District in-charge minister H Nagesh on Tuesday warned of taking legal action against those misusing the K C Valley project water. “The K C Valley project water is being misused in the district. Bescom and minor irrigation department officials have conducted a meeting in this regard.  Drilling of new borewells within 100 metre radius from the project canal has been banned. Legal action will be taken against those misusing the water,” he said. Nagesh chaired a meeting to review the latest status of the project here. “The height of the check dams at some places is affecting smooth flow of the water to lakes. Height of the check dams should be reduced. Only two feet water should remain in the check dams, while the rest should flow to other tanks,” he said. Nagesh said that the quantity of water would be increased from 260 MLD to 400 MLD by September. The minister directed the officials to tighten measures at check points in border areas to contain the spread of Covid-19. “I didn’t know that the management of R L Jalappa hospital has refused to treat the Covid-19 patients. Doctors in the SNR district hospital are capable of treating the patients,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/h-nagesh-warns-legal-action-against-misuse-of-k-c-valley-water-839628.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19 cases upsurge in Kalaburagi district||The district continued to witness upsurge in Covid-19 positive cases with 13 fresh cases being reported on Tuesday taking the cumulative tally to 127. All, including a minor boy and a girl, have a travel history to Mumbai, according to officials. The infection was confirmed in eight people from Kalagi taluk, two each from Chittapur and Aland taluks and one from Panchasheela Nagar of Kalaburagi city.  Barring the woman from Kalaburagi city, who was under home quarantine, others were under the institutional quarantine after they returned from Maharashtra. A two-and-half-year-old toddler in Yadgir district and a female in Raichur district also tested positive. Goturu panchayat development officer Revanasiddappa S Kalashetty and staff members Chandrasha Sharanappa and Shamaraya Malkappa were reportedly assaulted by those under quarantine at Jawaharlal Navodaya Vidyala at Korawar village in Kalaburagi taluk. Those under quarantine claimed that the breakfast had contained a lizard and assaulted the officials. They also threw away vegetables. They sought action against the officials. In a complaint lodged with sector magistrate, the officials stated that they were attacked with wooden logs. About 562 workers have been lodged in the quarantine.  A pregnant woman, under quarantine, delivered a baby at a field after escaping from the quarantine centre on Monday in Lingasgur taluk in Raichur district. The woman, her husband and two children had returned from Mumbai on Sunday and she was kept under quarantine. She was shifted to a hospital after she suffered from labour pain. Doctors advised her husband to shift her to Raichur Institute of Medical Sciences. He claimed to shift her to a private hospital and came out with her. The couple did not return to the quarantine centre. The officials’ attempts to trace them did not succeed. While on the way to her native place Halabhavi village in Lingasgur taluk, she delivered the baby at a field at Sunkal village. The health department officials rushed to the spot and shifted the mother and the newborn baby to a government hospital at Rodalaband.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-cases-upsurge-in-kalaburagi-district-839631.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka's ex-CM H D Kumaraswamy terms stimulus package a bundle of lies||Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday termed the Rs 20 lakh crore special economic package announced by the Centre as a bundle of lies and an attempt to mislead people. "This package is nothing but a foolish attempt to mislead people....it is a bundle of lies," Kumaraswamy said at a press conference. Kumaraswamy said no special skills are required to understand the truth and people will soon realise the truth behind it. Speaking about the collateral-free loans as announced by the Centre, the JD(S) leader claimed such loans were never new as all the governments have been doing it for the past 50 years. Kumaraswamy sought to know how the Centre would offer any relief from its Rs 20 lakh crore package to the states, which have incurred huge revenue loss.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnatakas-ex-cm-h-d-kumaraswamy-terms-stimulus-package-a-bundle-of-lies-839518.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar's official takeover as KPCC president postponed due to lockdown||With the Karnataka government announcing a complete lockdown on Sundays till the end of this month, state Congress President D K Shivakumar's official takeover of party's reigns, scheduled for May 31, stands postponed. According to party sources, it is now likely to take place on June 7, depending on the situation. "I have been discharging my duties from the day I was appointed by high command on March 11.. as per party traditions by symbolically receiving the party flag I had to officially take charge, but corona came in between," Shivakumar told reporters here on Tuesday. Stating the programme was planned for May 31, he said, "...but as the Chief Minister has announced complete lockdown on Sundays, so it cannot happen on that date, we will do it some other day once things are eased further and the date will be informed. I will abide by law." The official takeover wont be D K Shivakumar's programme, it will be Congress workers' programme, he said, adding that at each grama panchayat and ward level in about 7,200 places some event will held and the main event held here will be telecast live for party workers. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa while announcing guidelines for lockdown 4.0 till May 31 on Monday had said, there would be a complete lockdown on Sundays. Over two months after his appointment as Karnataka Congress president, Shivakumar was to take-over the reigns of the party officially on May 31. After remaining in virtual vacuum for nearly three months, the party high command on March 11 appointed the six- time MLA, known to be the Congress' chief troubleshooter in crisis situations, replacing Dinesh Gundu Rao as the KPCC chief. Rao had quit the post in December after the party's dismal show, winning only two of the 15 seats in the bypolls, yielding 12. Shivakumar said in the days to come he will travel across the state to meet people in distress and will become their voice along with party workers. Lauding Congress workers and leaders for serving those in need during the pandemic, he said the party had extended full cooperation to the government and alleged that the administration has failed in handling the crisis. "They (government) could not ensure that farmers' produce is sold, could not protect the interests of migrant labourers," he said and accused the BJP government in the state of misusing power and the situation for political gain. After his appointment as KPCC president, Shivakumar has been meeting a host of senior party leaders and leading the party in the fight against coronavirus by- setting up the Congress' COVID-19 task force, alerting the government in its management of the crisis, holding weekly video conferencing with leaders of party local units to gather information, among other things. Shivakumar also criticised the Centre's Rs 20 lakh crore financial package and packages announced by chief minister B S Yediyurappa for those in distress. He also alleged the government from day one has not been focused in handling the crisis emerging out of the pandemic and said there has been complete lack of coordination at all levels. "The increasing number of cases shows the failure of both the Ccentral and state governments in controlling the spread of the virus," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumars-official-takeover-as-kpcc-president-postponed-due-to-lockdown-839527.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Lockdown 4.0 delays D K Shivakumar’s coronation plan||The total lockdown on Sundays has forced Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar to put off his formal coronation that was scheduled on May 31, a Sunday.  Under Lockdown 4.0, the state government will enforce a complete lockdown on May 24 and May 31, the two Sundays, with suspension of all public transportation, closure of shops and imposition of a day-long curfew. Shivakumar had plans to take charge as the KPCC president on May 31 by organizing a “simple” programme. The event is now likely to be held on June 7, also a Sunday. “The chief minister has said that Sundays will have a curfew, whereas all other days will be open. I don’t get it. What’s the difference between Sundays and other days? Anyway, I can’t go ahead with May 31 as planned. I respect the law; I don’t want to break it,” Shivakumar told reporters. Shivakumar, a 7-time legislator and former minister, was appointed by the Congress high command as the state party chief on March 11, which was immediately followed by the COVID-19 lockdown that delayed the formal transfer of power from his predecessor Dinesh Gundu Rao. “We will fix another day depending on the lockdown. And it won’t be Shivakumar’s programme. We’ve decided to make it a unique programme,” he said. Shivakumar’s plan is to involve all party workers across the state take an oath along with him. “In every gram panchayat, in every ward, this event will be held. In Bengaluru, I will exchange the baton, light a lamp and sing Vande Mataram. Simultaneously, at some 7,200 locations, party workers will join me. We will also recite the preamble of the Constitution and an oath will be administered,” Shivakumar said. The Congress leader also hit out at the BS Yediyurappa government on the way it handled the humanitarian crisis that the COVID-19 situation has brought about. “This government, from the get go, did nothing to help farmers and migrants,” he said. “Money from the Rs 1,610 crore package  announced by the state government hasn’t reached a single person even after 50 days.” Addressing Yediyurappa, Shivakumar said that people would not have left Bengaluru or Karnataka if the government had taken care of them. “This is a big insult to the nation-builders (migrant workers) who have given their blood and sweat to the country,” he said. After formally taking charge, Shivakumar said he will travel across the state. “I will reach out to all classes of people, of all religions and try to be their voice,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/lockdown-40-delays-d-k-shivakumar-s-coronation-plan-839534.html
19-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Anthem argument: No-frills Nada Geete only for govt events, says C T Ravi||Long or short? Musical or not? The debate on how ‘Nada Geete’, the state anthem composed by Rashtrakavi Kuvempu, should be rendered at public events has raged for many years.  Now, the government has found a middle path.  The anthem will be played at government events without frills as recommended by a committee. But it will be allowed to undergo experimentation in its rendition at private, non-government events, according to Kannada & Culture Minister C T Ravi. Ever since the Nada Geete — Jaya Bharata Jananiya Tanujate — was declared as the state anthem in 2004, making it a must at official events, literary circles have frowned upon the lack of uniformity in its renditions.  There are two popular musical versions of the song — one by C Ashwath and another by Mysore Ananthaswamy. But depending on the rendition, the duration of the song lasts 4-5 minutes, with some going up to nine minutes. People found it too long to stand for the entire duration of the song.   A committee headed by Kannada Sahitya Parishat president Manu Baligar recommended in November 2018 that the Nada Geete must be uniform in form wherever it is played, with its duration capped under 2.25 minutes, and that no lines should be repeated. In 2014, another committee headed by poet Channaveera Kanavi suggested a trim to 90 seconds.  “We have thought about this. Only at government programmes, the Nada Geete will be played without music, without repetition of lines and for a shorter duration,” Ravi told DH. “But at other events, it should be allowed for experimentation.”  According to Ravi, no song should be stifled by prohibiting musical experimentation. “There are so many songs that found new life or whose popularity soared because of experimentation in rendition,” he argued. “Take K S Nissar Ahmed’s Jogada Siri Belakinalli. It became popular only after Mysore Ananthaswamy gave it music. Otherwise, for the first eight years of its creation, little was known about it.”  Baligar, however, was not convinced. “The same Nissar Ahmed and others such as M Chindananda Murthy lamented that the Nada Geete had become a curse because it lacked uniformity,” he said. “Once declared as the state anthem, it has to be uniform. It can’t be different at a government programme and a private one.” Baligar’s committee recommended that no stanza from the Nada Geete be cut, no repetition of lines and that it can have background music without any bridge. “With all this, it’s possible to sing it within 2.20-2.25 minutes. I've demonstrated this.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/anthem-argument-no-frills-nada-geete-only-for-govt-events-says-c-t-ravi-839673.html
19-05-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||DC to APMCs:  Follow lockdown guidelines or face closure||Deputy Commissioner C Satyabhama on Tuesday warned of shutting down Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC) for taking implementation of lockdown guidelines lightly. She chaired a meeting of the APMC presidents and merchants here. “COVID-19 is spreading fast in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Maharastra. Drivers, cleaners and vegetable merchants who visited these states have contracted the novel coronavirus,” she said. The DC added, ”The APMCs should take effective measures to contain the spread of COVID-149 in the district. There should be more focus on drivers and cleaners of goods vehicles. About 9 people, who have tested positive for COVID-19 in the district, have returned from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The APMCs should be cautious as the virus has been spread by drivers and cleaners.” Goods vehicles entering and going out of the APMCs should be disinfected. Instructions should be given to cleaners and drivers to wear masks without fail, besides washing their hands with hand sanitiser, she said. “Drivers and cleaners should not move around once they return from neighbouring states. They should undergo tests in hospitals and be under quarantine. Top priority should be given to maintain hygiene in the markets. The district administration has received complaints about dumping of rotten vegetables, especially tomatoes. There are also complaints about unscientific garbage disposal. The APMCs should fix all such problems,” she said. “The district administration has not taken any decision regarding mango market in Srinivaspur. A meeting of farmers will be convened to buy fruits directly from farmers,” the DC said. Horticulture department deputy director Gayatri and APMC president D L Nagaraj were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/dc-to-apmcs-follow-lockdown-guidelines-or-face-closure-839617.html
19-05-2020||Main Article||Package of numbers, not relief||The global economy and the national economy are facing a crisis which by scale and nature is unprecedented in modern history. On the one side, the pandemic and lockdowns have disrupted the supply chains. On the other side, millions have lost their livelihoods and consumer demand for goods and services has slumped. As a result, Japan has already entered the third consecutive quarter of negative growth and is formally declared to be in recession. All Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries are on track to recession. So are China and India. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has indicated that the world economy as a whole would contract by 5%. During the current quarter, different economies are going to shrink by anywhere between 10–50%. How have the policymakers and economists worldwide addressed the above calamity? There is near unanimity, even among the conservatives, regarding the importance of income transfers to the people so that demand picks up in the economy. American President Donald Trump, who detests all notions of a free lunch, is implementing one of the biggest income transfer schemes ($1,200 to every citizen), besides unemployment allowance to more than 30 million workers who have lost jobs. In nearly all countries, there are various schemes of quantitative easing or helicopter money (as it is now called) with the central banks playing a direct role. Orthodox monetary policy is being given up, at least for the time being. Everyone is swearing by John Maynard Keynes. Perhaps the only country that has bucked the trend is India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared a Rs 20 lakh crore economic package, equivalent to 10% of India’s GDP. Even the stock market, to which the rhetoric of reforms should have appealed, has signalled that the package is a hoax. The Sensex, which gained 1,000 points after the Prime Minister’s announcement of the Rs 20 lakh crore package, shed 2,000 points as Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman peeled the packaged onion over the next five days. Everybody understood the package for what it was worth – it had very little to stimulate the economy in the short run. According to the research wing of the State Bank of India, the largest of Indian banks, the direct fiscal impact of the package was only Rs 2,02,660 crore or 1.01% of GDP. The rest are all loans of the financial institutions or monetary support to these institutions or, at best, expenditure to be incurred in future. Of the Rs 2 lakh crore of direct fiscal impact, only Rs 76,500 crore (including free ration) involved direct money transfer to the people. This constitutes a paltry 0.38% of the GDP. This, in a nutshell, is what has been repeated by the spokespersons of several financial firms who have been quoted in the various reports explaining the strange behaviour of the stock market. The corporates have no reason to grumble after getting Rs 1.5 lakh crore tax concessions and a heavily subsidised lunch of the public sector, mineral resources and land. But for the farmers and MSME sector, additional loans have been promised liberally but very little has been done to compensate their loss during the lockdown or to ease their debt burden. The behaviour of the central government makes no macro-economic sense, let alone showing basic human empathy and concern for the poor who are today symbolised by the migrant workers – refugees on a flight by foot in their own country. Perhaps the same set of quacks who advised the Prime Minister on demonetisation are once again on the prowl. I was shocked beyond words to read a headline given to the statement of the government’s chief economic adviser. It read: “Big stimulus will cost big; there’s no free lunch”. It is the duty of the government to provide ‘free lunch’ to the millions of Indians who have lost livelihoods and incomes due to the lockdown. What makes no sense for individuals and corporates to do can be perfectly rational for the government to do from a macro-economic perspective. Was it not Keynes who famously said in the General Theory that “The government should pay people to dig holes in the ground and then fill them up again?” A new breed of “patriotic” leaders has fantasised that India in the post-pandemic world will be flush with capital, technology and jobs brought by firms fleeing from China if only we proved our unshaken allegiance to the fiscal deficit number game, demolished labour laws and privatised all sectors and institutions, including public health. Everyone is free to have their own dreams for the long run, but we must first survive the short run. This is what even the market, which would have no problem in sharing the long run approach of the economic package, has said in loud and clear terms. Will the policymakers put forward a sixth installment of the package that would address the demand side of the crisis? The minimum we should attempt are the following: One, free public transport and food and pocket money for all migrant workers who want to go home. Two, transfer Rs 7,500 to every Jan Dhan account. Three, transfer half the last year’s wages of MGNREGS workers as advance into their accounts. Four, free ration to all, including those who do not have ration cards. Yes, while formulating policy during this pandemic, remember Gandhiji’s talisman -- think of the poorest person you have ever seen and ask how your policy would benefit that person. The time to act is now. (The writer is the Finance Minister of Kerala) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/package-of-numbers-not-relief-839620.html
19-05-2020||National||Central package to ensure cash flow to Assam: Himanta Biswa Sarma||The Rs 20 lakh crore economic package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the country will ensure increase in cash flow to Assam, helping maintain the liquidity required for various schemes, state Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Monday. The package will ensure cash buoyancy of Rs 10,000 crore and help in tiding over the immediate problems being faced by the people in the state due to the lockdown, the minister said at a press conference here. "A month back, I was worried about cash flow for the budget proposals, but now there is hope that these will be protected," Sarma said. The measures taken will directly help people and the state government will also try to match up with the Centre's proposal to make the state an 'Atmanirbhar Assam', he said. "The extension of the limit on the overdraft facility along with the special drawing facilities are the fiscal support which will ensure that liquidity is maintained and we can take full benefit of the package," he said. The state power board was under pressure from the generation companies to pay for power received but the consumers had not paid for the last two months and there was a severe threat of electricity being disconnected, the minister said. The state boards can now make the payment by taking a loan being made available by the package and repay it once the consumers start paying, he said. The MSME sector will also get a major boost from this package and the state government is preparing a detailed paper to facilitate 66,000 people eligible for bank loans without a mortgage, he said. Besides, those MSME units which are closed and have been declared as non-performing assets will be given a one- time waiver which will help them revive these units, Sarma added. The Centre's decision to provide 5 kgs of rice to migrants will also help many who are returning to the state and have no livelihoods to fall back on, the minister said. The Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) used to be given only to farmers will be extended to dairy, poultry, pig farming and others. The Centre will bear the cost of 2 per cent interest of the Mudra loan and 20 lakh youths of Assam who have availed the loan will be greatly benefitted, he said. In Assam, one crore women have Jan Dhan account and Rs 300 will be deposited to them for three months since April, resulting in Rs 1500 crore coming to the state, Sarma said. Three cylinders will be given free under the Ujala scheme, benefitting 35 lakh beneficiaries in the state, resulting in a relief of Rs 735 crore. Besides receiving the old age pension, senior citizens will be given an ex-gratia of Rs 1,000 each, resulting in Rs 85 crore being reached to people, Sarma said. The Centre will also provide Rs 153 crore to the state for the fight against COVID-19, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-package-to-ensure-cash-flow-to-assam-himanta-biswa-sarma-839268.html
19-05-2020||National||Bihar reports ninth COVID-19 death; total cases rise to 1,423||A 75-year-old became the ninth COVID-19 fatality in the state while 97 people tested positive for coronavirus, taking the total number of cases to 1,423, a top Health department official said on Monday. The deceased was the resident of Jandaha Hajipur of Vaishali district and died at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Monday, Principal Secretary, Health, Sanjay Kumar said, adding that she died of “cardiopulmonary arrest.” The woman was admitted on May 16 in ICU of NMCH after she was referred from Sadar hospital, Vaishali, he said, adding that the patient did not have any travel history nor any contact history. The contagion has claimed a total of nine lives till date that includes two deaths each from Patna and Vaishali while one each from Khagaria, Rohtas, Munger, East Champaran and Sitamarhi. Among the 97 fresh positive cases reported from different districts on Monday, Gopalganj constituted the highest at 31, followed by 14 in Begusarai. Seven cases were reported from Munger, six each from Supaul and Nalanda, five from Muzaffarpur, four each from Bhagalpur, Madhubani and Vaishali, three each from Katihar and Saran, two each from Arwal and Bhojpur and one each from Patna, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Nawada, Purnea and Kaimur. Of the 1,423 positive cases in the state, 652 are migrant labourers who have come from outside the state. Out of 652 positive migrant labourers, the maximum 218 have come from Delhi followed by 141 from Maharashtra, 139 from Gujarat, 36 from Haryana, and 33 from West Bengal. Talking to reporters, Transport Secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said that more than five lakh migrant labourers, students and other passengers have come to Bihar till May 17 in 320 special trains and buses. Around 8.20 lakh more migrant labourers are expected to come to Bihar by 505 special trains in the next eight to nine days, Agarwal said, adding that 76,000 labourers and other passengers arrived in the state by 47 trains on Monday. Officials said 499 have recovered from COVID-19 and the number of active cases was 915. With 165 cases, Patna topped the list of positive cases for the first time since the state reported its first positive case on March 21. Munger with 133 cases stood second. The other badly affected districts include Rohtas (91), Nalanda (74), Madhubani (73), Begusarai (70), Buxar (62), Khagaria (55), Siwan (45). The number of samples tested so far, at seven facilities in Patna, Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga was 46,996.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-reports-ninth-covid-19-death-total-cases-rise-to-1423-839269.html
19-05-2020||National||Woman, her daughters killed by sister-in-law over property dispute in Ghaziabad||A 30-year-old woman and her two minor daughters were killed by her sister-in-law following a dispute over their ancestral land in the district, police said on Monday. Asha Tyagi and her daughters Pari, 5, and Ananya, 3, were first served poisoned milk and then smothered on Sunday, the police said. The incident was reported to police by Asha's husband Rameshwer. He alleged that her elder sister Geeta, her son Vikrant and daughter Priyanka killed his wife and daughters, Senior Superintendent of Police Kalanidhi Naithani said. The bodies had strangulation marks, the SSP said, adding that the police have recovered a steal utensil in which milk was boiled and tablet of sulfas from the victims' room.  Vikrant has been arrested, while her mother and sister are at large, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-her-daughters-killed-by-sister-in-law-over-property-dispute-in-ghaziabad-839285.html
19-05-2020||National||West Bengal: 2 held for trying to smuggle drugs under garb of essential items||The Special Task Force (STF) of Kolkata Police on Monday seized around 10,000 bottles of Phensedyl Syrup from a lorry which was plying under the garb of ferrying essential goods during the nationwide lockdown, a senior officer said. Two people -- the driver of the vehicle and his helper -- were arrested, he said. A total of 100 cartons containing the bottles of Phensedyl Syrup worth Rs 15.4 lakh were seized, he added. "The lorry was loaded with at least 1.5 tons of pumpkins and these cartons were camouflaged under them," the officer said. "Acting on a tip-off that an inter-state narcotic group was using essential goods as cover to transport contraband articles, the STF unit of the city police intercepted a six-wheeler lorry at Bakery Road in Hastings Police Station limits," he added.   The Codeine-based Phensedyl Syrup which is generally used for treating cough and common cold is considered as a narcotic substance falling under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. It is banned in India and is widely used as an addictive drug in neighbouring Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-2-held-for-trying-to-smuggle-drugs-under-garb-of-essential-items-839286.html
19-05-2020||National||Scientists raise questions on quality of COVID-19 data flaunted by Centre as infections soar||More than three weeks after the Centre made public a presentation showing zero COVID-19 caseload by May 16, India's daily infection count crossed the 5000-mark, raising serious doubts on the quality of the studies flaunted by the government. Several scientists DH spoke to are circumspect on various figures and graphs shared by the central government agencies as barely anyone knew anything about the methods used by the government researchers to arrive at such statistics. A graph shared by NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul - a former professor and Head of the Department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, here - takes the cake. It showed a rise in the number of cases till around April 30 after which the projection was for a downward trend and by May 16, the number of cases was shown to be zero. In reality, 3,970 fresh cases were recorded on May 16 and the number rose to 4,987 the next day. On May 18, as many as 5242 new cases were recorded. "It was clearly a ridiculous graph from an epidemiological sense. Moreover, the government didn't say how they arrived at such a graph. No information on the methods used was shared in the public domain" said V Guttal, a professor at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru and one of the scientists involved in modelling the progression COVID-19 pandemic in India. "The Integrated Disease Surveillance Project was created for times like this but they are nowhere. The Indian Council of Medical Research is doing something it doesn't have the expertise to do. With an entire epidemiology institute at the disposal of ICMR, outbreak predictions are being done by a civil servant and a paediatrician with no training in epidemiology. It's a grand mismanagement," said a senior biomedical scientist who doesn't wish to be identified. "The (infamous) graph actually reflects how the government's interest in COVID-19 as a public health issue dwindled. After May 16 it’s all economy," he added.  The graph was not a standalone example. Other claims made by top bureaucrats were questioned by the scientists tracking the disease. For instance when environment secretary C K Mishra, who chairs one of the empowered groups on COVID-19, claimed that the COVID-19 curve is being flattened for the country, it was countered by many researchers, who said the disease was progressing exponentially. "The lockdown has resulted in a much lower growth rate, but it is still growing nevertheless. I don't think the data supports the assertion that we have flattened the curve. It's in fact growing exponentially, just at a much smaller rate than before," said Sitabhra Sinha, a professor at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. Only a few scientific information has come out from the ICMR institutes dealing with COVID-19 and NCDC. It's also not known whether any of the Govt institutes are running any disease projection models to guide the policy decisions. This is contrary to the global trend in which everybody put all scientific information in the public domain as early as possible for the greater common good. "In war, there is a tactic of misleading the enemy. That tactic is applied in India to confuse the people" said T Jacob John, a retired professor of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. "I do not know if this style is by design or by default - either way the fact is that the war generals are not sure they are conducting the war well," added John, one of India's foremost experts on viral diseases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scientists-raise-questions-on-quality-of-covid-19-data-flaunted-by-centre-as-infections-soar-839141.html
19-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 19, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-19-2020-edition-839291.html
19-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 19||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,06,035 as of May 19. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 3,298 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 39,174 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-19-839292.html
19-05-2020||National||DH Toon: Oppn, experts slam govt's relief package, say it's only 1.6% of GDP||The fifth and last tranche of the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh-crore stimulus to soften the COVID-19 blow mostly dealt with the economic reforms and left businesses seeking more to address their immediate woes. And those championing the cause of the underprivileged said cash in hand was the only way to tide over lockdown-related stress. The Congress on Sunday accused the government of misleading people in the name of an economic package and said the measures announced by the Centre amounted to only 1.6 per cent of India's GDP, i.e. worth Rs 3.22 lakh crore instead of Rs 20 lakh crore as claimed by the Prime Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-oppn-experts-slam-govts-relief-package-say-its-only-16-of-gdp-839293.html
19-05-2020||National||China accuses India of ‘trespassing’||The Galwan Valley near Aksai Chin in eastern Ladakh is once again turning into a potential flashpoint between India and China, with both sides sending additional troops to beef up the defence along their disputed boundary.   China on Monday accused India of trespassing into its territory and illegally building defence facilities in the Galwan Valley. The Global Times, a state-owned newspaper of the communist country, published a rare report on escalating tension between the two sides. It alleged that Indian Army soldiers had been trespassing into the territory of China since early May. It also accused Indian Army of “illegally” constructing defence facilities in its territory in the Galwan Valley region. A source in New Delhi dismissed the allegation and insisted that the Indian Army soldiers had never transgressed into the territory of China. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had first deployed additional troops, who had set up as many as 80 tents near the disputed boundary. The Indian Army too had to send additional troops to beef up the defence, but none of its soldiers had transgressed into the territory of China, the source told the DH. The Galwan Valley region had been one of the hotspots during the India-China war in 1962. “Chinese border defence troops have bolstered border control measures and made necessary moves in response to India’s recent, illegal construction of defence facilities,” the Global Times reported, quoting an unidentified source close to the military establishment of China. It described China’s “military response” to Indian Army’s transgression into its territory as the “strongest” since the June-August, 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-accuses-india-of-trespassing-839324.html
19-05-2020||National||India provides $ 2 mn aid to UN agency working for Palestinian refugees||India has given USD 2 million in aid to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency working for the welfare of Palestinian refugees in support of its core programmes and services, including education and health, amidst the coronavirus crisis. India had increased its annual contribution to the UNRWA from USD 1.25 million in 2016 to USD 5 million in 2019. It pledged another USD 5 million for 2020 which opens its way to become a member of the agency's advisory commission, according to official sources. The United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) applauded India's financial support to keep its basic services operating, especially under the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. The contribution was presented to the UN agency by the Representative of India (ROI) to the State of Palestine, Sunil Kumar. "On behalf of the agency, I would like to express my deep appreciation to the Government of India for advancing part of its contribution, which will help UNRWA address cash flow challenges," Marc Lassouaoui, chief of the Donor Relations at the agency said. "The continued determination and commitment of India in support of the Palestine refugees is commendable, in particular under the current circumstances brought on us by COVID-19," he said. "On behalf of the Government of India, I would like to express my appreciation for the commendable work and endeavours carried out by the UNRWA. We believe that our contribution will support the agency's activities in providing the needed assistance to Palestinian refugees, and assist in achieving their full human development potential," Kumar said. India's contribution will support the agency's "dire" financial situation due to the funding gaps that risk its core services to the Palestinian refugees in the fields of education and health. About 3.1 million Palestine refugees depend on health services provided by the UNRWA. At the same time, the agency's schools educate 526,000 students every year, of which half are female. The agency was created in December 1949 by the UN to support the relief and human development of Palestinian refugees. The UNRWA definition of “refugee” covers Palestinians who fled or were expelled from their homes during the 1948 War. Meanwhile, India is preparing medical supplies for the Palestinians to help them in their fight against the coronavirus which is likely to reach the Palestine soon, the Indian mission in the West Bank said in a statement. Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month spoke to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas over phone and discussed the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. He appreciated efforts being made by the Palestinian Authority (PA) to protect its population and assured all possible support from India. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar later talked to his Palestinian counterpart Riad Malki and reiterated India's commitment to support Palestine in its battle against the global pandemic. So far, 554 COVID-19 cases have been detected in the West Bank under PA and east Jerusalem, with two casualties. Twenty people were found infected with the virus in Gaza, of which 14 are said to have recovered. Separately, 17 agreements have been signed under an India-Palestine development partnership between the two sides in the fields of agriculture, health care, information technology, youth affairs, consular affairs, women empowerment and media in the past five years. New Delhi is to provide an assistance of around USD 72 million through these agreements in projects like the post-2014 war reconstruction efforts in Gaza, construction of five schools, setting up a centre of excellence for information and communication technologies at Al-Quds University and developing a satellite centre in Ramallah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-provides-2-mn-aid-to-un-agency-working-for-palestinian-refugees-839337.html
19-05-2020||National||COVID-19 cases reach 1,01,139; death toll touches 3,163||The number of coronavirus cases crossed the one lakh mark in the country on Tuesday, while the death toll due to the infection touched 3,163, according to the Union Health Ministry. A total of 134 deaths and 4,970 COVID-19 cases were reported in the country in the past 24 hours since 8 pm on Monday, it said. The total number of coronavirus cases has risen to 1,01,139, the ministry said. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 58,802 while 39,173 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said.  "Thus, around 38.73 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. The total confirmed cases include foreigners. Of the 134 deaths reported since Monday morning, 51 were in Maharashtra, 35 in Gujarat, 14 in Uttar Pradesh, eight in Delhi, seven in Rajasthan, six in West Bengal, four in Madhya Pradesh, three in Tamil Nadu, two each in Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, and one each in Bihar and Telangana. Of the 3,163 fatalities, Maharashtra tops tally with 1,249 deaths. Gujarat comes second with 694 deaths, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 252, West Bengal at 244, Delhi at 168, Rajasthan at 138, Uttar Pradesh at 118, Tamil Nadu at 81 and Andhra Pradesh at 50. The death toll reached 37 each in Karnataka and Punjab and 35 in Telangana. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 15 fatalities due to the disease, Haryana has 14 deaths while Bihar has registered nine and Kerala and Odisha each have reported four deaths. Jharkhand, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh each have recorded three COVID-19 fatalities, while Assam has reported two deaths.           Meghalaya, Uttarakhand and Puducherry have reported one fatality each, according to the data provided by the ministry.   According to the ministry's website, more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities, the existence of multiple disorders in the same person.   According to the health ministry's data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 35,058, followed by Tamil Nadu at 11,760, Gujarat at 11,745, Delhi at 10,054, Rajasthan at 5,507, Madhya Pradesh at 5,236 and Uttar Pradesh at 4,605.   The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 2,825 in West Bengal, 2,474 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,980 in Punjab.   It has risen to 1,597 in Telangana, 1,391 in Bihar, 1,289 in Jammu and Kashmir, 1,246 in Karnataka and 928 in Haryana.  Odisha has reported 876 coronavirus infection cases so far, while Kerala has 630 cases. A total of 223 people have been infected with the virus in Jharkhand and 196 in Chandigarh. Tripura has reported 167 cases, Assam has 107, Uttarakhand and Chhattisgarh have 93 cases each, Himachal Pradesh has 90 and Ladakh has registered 43 cases so far. Goa has reported 38 COVID-19 cases, while the Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered 33 infections. Puducherry has registered 18 cases, Meghalaya has 13 and Manipur has seven cases. Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Dadar and Nagar Haveli have reported a case each till how. "814 cases are being reassigned to states," the ministry said on its website, adding "our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR". State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-reach-101139-death-toll-touches-3163-839350.html
19-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: What’s on and what’s not in Karnataka's Lockdown 4.0||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation in India. In today’s episode, DH Special Correspondent Bharath Joshi explains the new lockdown guidelines for Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-what-s-on-and-what-s-not-in-karnatakas-lockdown-40-839351.html
19-05-2020||National||Govt implements cut in EPF contribution to 10% for May, June, July||The Ministry of Labour & Employment has implemented the decision to cut employees' provident fund (EPF) contributions to 10 per cent from the existing 12 per cent for three months till July. The decision is estimated to infuse liquidity of Rs 6,750 crore in the next three months. The labour ministry in a notification issued on Monday stated that the reduction in EPF contributions shall be applicable "in respect of wages payable by it for the months of May, June and July, 2020". Therefore the take-home pay due in June, July and August would increase, while the employers' contributions due in June, July and August would reduce. Giving a reason for the move it stated: "whereas due to COVID-19 pandemic, lockdown is in force across the country and the Central Government after making the necessary inquiry is satisfied that to provide liquidity in the hands of employers and employees, there arises a need to amend the notification of April 9, 1997." Last week, Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the reduction of statutory provident fund contribution by both employers and employees for the next three months. The Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) and public sector undertakings (PSUs) will, however, continue to contribute 12 per cent as an employer contribution to the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). This reduction of the EPF contributions will be applicable for workers who are not eligible for 24 per cent EPF support under PM Garib Kalyan Package and its extension. The government is contributing employers and employees contributions of 24 per cent of basic wages for those establishments that have up to 100 employees and 90 percent of whom earn under Rs 15,000 monthly wage since March. Last week, Sitharaman had also announced the extension of the benefit under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) for three months, where the government would contribute entire 24 per cent of EPF contributions till August, giving relief to 3.67 lakh employers and 72.22 lakh employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-implements-cut-in-epf-contribution-to-10-for-may-june-july-839361.html
19-05-2020||National||Darul Uloom Deoband issues fatwa, asks Muslims to offer Eid prayers at home||Islamic seminary Darul Uloom Deoband has issued a fatwa asking Muslims to offer their Eid prayers this time at home, instead of congregating at mosques. The directive comes amid a nationwide lockdown to slow down the spread of coronavirus. Despite the relaxations announced in the lockdown, religious and other large gatherings are still banned. The fatwa was issued in response to a query put to the seminary, its spokesman Ashraf Usmani told PTI. The fatwa said the Eid namaz can be offered in the same manner that the Friday prayers are now being read at home. It said not holding the namaz in the usual manner is pardonable in circumstances such as these.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/darul-uloom-deoband-issues-fatwa-asks-muslims-to-offer-eid-prayers-at-home-839362.html
19-05-2020||National||Pakistan Army shells areas along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district||The Pakistan Army on Tuesday shelled forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district, drawing retaliation from the Indian Army, a defence spokesperson said. This is second ceasefire violation by the Pakistan Army in the last 12 hours along the LoC in Rajouri and Poonch districts. "At about 0730 hours today, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by small arm firing and mortar shelling along LoC in Sunderbani sector", the spokesperson said, adding the Indian Army retaliated befittingly. The cross-border shelling between the two sides was going on when last reports were received, the spokesperson said. There was no immediate report of any casualty during the Pakistani shelling. Pakistan had on Monday night opened fire and shelled mortars along the LoC in Gulpur sector of Poonch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-army-shells-areas-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-district-839366.html
19-05-2020||National||Centre asks states to operate more special trains to transport migrant workers||The Centre has asked the states and the union territories to operate more special trains in close coordination with the railways for transportation of migrant workers and said special attention should be given to women, children and elderly. In a communication to all state governments and UT administrations, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said fear of COVID-19 infection and apprehension of loss of livelihood are the main driving factors for the movement of stranded workers towards their homes. "In order to mitigate the distress of migrant workers, I would be grateful if the following measures could be implemented," he said in the letter. The home secretary suggested that more special trains should be arranged by pro-active coordination between the states and the Ministry of Railways. He also said arrangement for resting places, taking into account requirement of sanitation, food and health, should be made. There should be more clarity about the departure of trains and buses, as lack of clarity coupled with rumours caused unrest amongst the workers. Special attention may be given to the specific requirements of women, children and elderly amongst the migrant workers, Bhalla said. District authorities may guide workers moving on foot to designated rest places, nearby bus terminals or railway stations by arranging transportation, enlisting the migrants with their addresses and contact numbers, which may be helpful in contact tracing in due course and involvement of NGO representatives at rest places etc, he said.  Bhalla said steps should be taken for the alleviation of the notion of long quarantine at rest places by district authorities or NGO workers. Increase in number of buses for transporting migrants are some other measures suggested, he said. Besides, entry of buses carrying migrants at inter-state border should be allowed, adequate arrangement of food, health care and counselling to encourage the workers to remain at places where they are should also be made, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-operate-more-special-trains-to-transport-migrant-workers-839371.html
19-05-2020||National||Supreme Court refuses to transfer cases to CBI, grants protection to Arnab Goswami for 3 weeks||The Supreme Court Tuesday refused to transfer to CBI the criminal cases lodged against Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami for alleged defamatory news show telecast on April 21 in connection with the Palghar mob-lynching case. Observing that Journalistic freedom lies at the core of freedom of speech and expression, the top court quashed all other FIRs except the initial one, which was registered at Nagpur and subsequently transferred to Mumbai for joint investigation with the complaint of the journalist regarding the alleged assault on him. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah Goswami asked Goswami to seek quashing of FIR before the competent court and protected him from coercive action for next 3-weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-refuses-to-transfer-cases-to-cbi-grants-protection-to-arnab-goswami-for-3-weeks-839385.html
19-05-2020||National||Yamaha Motors resumes operation at Tamil Nadu plant||Yamaha Motor India (YMI), one of the largest two-wheeler manufacturers in the country, has resumed operations at its plant in Kanchipuram near here.   The company said it resumed operations on Monday(May 18) after putting in place several measures to ensure employee safety at the plant, which was shut in March prior to the nation-wide lockdown. “Prior to resuming operations, the company had circulated a detailed guideline among the employees in order to ensure a safe and healthy work environment first for all in advance. Also, several awareness sessions were organised to help everyone understand the importance of these guidelines and ensure commencement of operations in a smooth manner,” the company said in a statement. YMI said it received the necessary permission from the Revenue and Disaster Management Department on May 5 and has been preparing since then to resume operations at the factory by following an all-round approach.   In addition to this, the company is also carrying out frequent sanitization at workstations, has made alternate seating arrangements, virtual meetings are being promoted, and has enforced staggered timings at the canteen to ensure maximum safety, the statement said. “Yamaha is following a step-by-step approach and have asked only critical functions to report initially who can provide their support in a safe and sustainable restart of the manufacturing operations in compliance to the SOPs issued by the Government authorities,” the statement further added.  Almost 50 percent of YMI dealerships have also re-opened as per the Government guidelines and they are prepared to welcome customers and provide them the required support and services, the statement said, adding that it is closely monitoring the situation at its other factory locations – Surajpur (Uttar Pradesh) and Faridabad (Haryana).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yamaha-motors-resumes-operation-at-tamil-nadu-plant-839406.html
19-05-2020||National||SC refuses to interfere with NGT's order to probe Vizag gas leakage||The Supreme Court on Tuesday (May 19) refused to interfere with the National Green Tribunal's order, forming a fact-finding committee headed by the former judge of Andhra Pradesh High Court, B Seshasayana Reddy J, to look into Vizag gas leakage tragedy at LG Polymer that claimed lives of 11 people and left, over two dozens critically injured. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for LG Polymer, questioned setting up multiple panels including one by the High Court, central government and the NHRC into the matter. How many panels should examine the matter, he asked. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Mohan M Shantanagoudar, and Vineet Saran, however, asked the company to raise the issue first before the green panel on the next date of hearing over there on June 1. The court kept the special leave petition filed by the company pending for consideration on June 8. The top court agreed that the questions raised by the petitioner were purely legal since it was related to the issue jurisdiction. "We will not issue notice but keep it pending. In the meanwhile, the petitioner is granted liberty to approach the NGT and impress upon them with the developments," the bench said. The company also informed the top court that it had already deposited Rs 50 crore before the green tribunal as per the direction. The tribunal had on May 8 took Suo Motu cognizance of the incident and constituted the panel into the May 7 leakage of hazardous gas, Styrene at the plant of South Korean company, which caused the death of 11 persons and hospitalization of more than 100 people, of which at least 25 people were reported as serious.  It had also directed the company to deposit an initial amount of Rs 50 crore based on its financial worth for its apparent failure to comply with rules related to hazardous substances. The tribunal had fixed the amount having considered the prima facie material regarding the extent of damage to life, public health and environment. The panel set up also included Prof Ch V Rama Chandra Murthy, former Vice-Chancellor, Andhra University, Vizag, Prof Pulipati King, Head of Chemical Engineering  Department, Andhra University, member secretary, CPCB, and Director, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Head, NEERI, Vizag. The committee was asked to look into sequence of events, causes of failure and persons and authorities responsible, the extent of damage to life, human and non-human, public health, and environment, including, water, soil, air, steps for compensation of victims and restitution of the damaged property and environment, remedial measures to prevent recurrence and any other incidental or allied issues found relevant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-interfere-with-ngts-order-to-probe-vizag-gas-leakage-839411.html
19-05-2020||National||India, Israel agree to strengthen bilateral ties||Foreign Ministers of India and Israel have vowed to work together to strengthen and expand the multi-faceted bilateral relationship for a mutually beneficial partnership, days after a new government was sworn in in the Jewish state. Israel's new government was sworn in on Sunday under Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, bringing an end to the longest political deadlock in the country's history which saw a caretaker government in charge for over 500 days and three back-to-back general elections with no clear verdict. The vote of confidence in the new government was passed with 73 votes in favour and 46 against in the Knesset (Israeli parliament). External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday congratulated his newly-appointed Israeli counterpart Gabi Ashkenazi, a former Chief of Staff of the Israel Defence Forces. "Mazal Tov @Gabi_Ashkenazi on assuming the post of Israeli Foreign Minister. I look forward to working with you to strengthen our multi-faceted and mutually beneficial partnership", Jaishankar tweeted in Hebrew. Ashkenazi thanked Jaishanker and stressed on strengthening ties in diverse fields between the two countries. "Thank you @DrSJaishankar. I am also looking forward to working with you to strengthen and expand the strong relations between Israel and India in multiple fields", the Israeli foreign minister tweeted in Hindi and English on Monday. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among the first few world leaders to congratulate Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu on Sunday on forming the government for a record fifth time, soon after the Knesset approved the new government. "Mazal Tov (congratulations) my friend @netanyahu for forming your fifth government in Israel," Modi wrote on Twitter in Hebrew and English. "Thank you my dear friend the Prime Minister of India! We will continue to strengthen the important relationship between us," Netanyahu responded in Hebrew on Sunday. Netanyahu, 70, and his rival-turned-partner Benny Gantz joined hands to form a coalition government under a power-sharing agreement that would see the latter taking over the premiership on November 17, 2021. The new government, which according to the coalition agreement, will see Gantz replace Netanyahu as the Prime Minister after 18 months. Gantz will serve as Defense Minister until he is scheduled to take over as the Prime Minister in November next year. He will till then have the title of 'Alternate Prime Minister', something that Netanyahu will take over from him after exchanging the baton. The beleaguered Israeli prime minister, who surpassed Israel's first Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion's record of the longest-serving Premier in the country's history last year in July, managed to hold on to his right-wing bloc amid three inconclusive polls to force his main rival Gantz to finally succumb to the demand of a broad national unity government. Gantz campaigned on replacing Netanyahu due to the prime minister's indictment on graft charges, but dropped his opposition to sitting in a government with him after the latest elections again ended with no clear winner, citing the coronavirus pandemic and a desire to avoid a fourth round of voting. The move led to the breakup of the Blue and White alliance, with Gantz being elected as Knesset speaker with the backing of Netanyahu's right-wing religious bloc as they negotiated the terms of the new government. Ahead of the swearing-in ceremony, Likud and Blue and White on Wednesday evening released the policy principles of the new government, as instructed by Israel's Supreme Court. The document said that the government will initially form an emergency cabinet to deal with the coronavirus pandemic and formulate a plan to bring Israel out of the accompanying economic crisis while rolling out a "socioeconomic safety net" and special programmes for citizens who are struggling financially.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-israel-agree-to-strengthen-bilateral-ties-839416.html
19-05-2020||National||Ladakh becomes COVID-19 free, as all active cases recover||Ladakh union territory has become COVID-19 free as nineteen more positive patients were discharged from a hospital in Leh district after being recovered from the disease. With this, the number of recoveries in the Union Territory has reached 43. Ladakh had recorded a total of 43 positive cases. Neighboring Kargil district was declared COVID-19 free on May 15 after the last two patients, including a two-year-old boy, were declared recovered and subsequently discharged. Officials said while the 17 recovered patients were discharged from the hospital on Monday(May 18), the remaining two were allowed to go home on Tuesday (May 19) after their reports tested negative. Ladakh region has not reported any fresh COVID-19 case since May 3 when 18 positive cases were detected from the Chuchot-Yokma area.  The Ladakh UT, which has a population of 2.74 lakh (2011 census), was one of the first few regions in the country to report a positive coronavirus case. The first two positive cases in the UT were reported on March 7 with both the patients having travel history to Iran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-becomes-covid-19-free-as-all-active-cases-recover-839417.html
19-05-2020||National||Jammu and Kashmir reports another coronavirus death; toll stands at 17||A day after Jammu and Kashmir recorded three COVID-19 deaths, a 55-year-old novel coronavirus patient with cancer history, died at a Srinagar hospital on Tuesday taking the toll of the viral illness in the Union Territory to 17. In the past four days, six people who had tested positive, have died in Srinagar hospitals. Five of them had known co-morbidities, doctors said. Medical Superintendent of tertiary-care SKIMS hospital, Dr Farooq Jan said a COVID-19 positive patient from Rafiabad in Baramulla died of a cardiac arrest. He said the patient was admitted to the hospital for some time now. The first death due to COVID-19 in J&K was on March 26 of a member of Tableegi-Jamaat, who had travel history outside. The second death took place on March 29, a resident of Baramulla with no travel history. The third death took place on April 7, the deceased was a Bandipora resident whose sample tested positive after he passed away. There has been a huge surge in COVID-19 positive cases in J&K since the last few days with 106 new cases, half of them police personnel and their family members, and five doctors, reported on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-another-coronavirus-death-toll-stands-at-17-839426.html
19-05-2020||National||Palghar killings: SC refuses to transfer cases to CBI, grants protection to Republic TV EIC Arnab Goswami||In partial relief to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, the Supreme Court Tuesday quashed all criminal investigations related to the news show on Palghar mob-lynching except the initial one that is being probed by the Mumbai police, but refused his plea for transfer of probe to the CBI. Observing that journalistic freedom lies at the core of freedom of speech and expression, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah granted protection to Goswami from any coercive action for three more weeks from today and said that he can approach the competent court for quashing of the FIR. While quashing multiple FIRs lodged in different places with regard to the news show, the top court said they will have “stifling effect” and directed that no other FIR or complaint shall be entertained or pursued on basis of broadcast made by Goswami on April 21. Pronouncing the verdict through video conferencing, the apex court observed that the right of journalist under Article 19 (1) (a) is at a higher level and that India's freedom of press stays as long as journalists can speak truth to power, but this freedom is not absolute. The top court on May 11 had directed that no coercive action should be taken against Goswami in the fresh FIR lodged by Mumbai police on May 2, for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by making some remarks during his news show. Goswami has moved the apex court seeking to quash multiple FIRs lodged against him in various states over his alleged defamatory statements against Congress Chief Sonia Gandhi in the show. Goswami had claimed in the top court that he was interrogated by Mumbai Police for over 12 hours over the FIR on alleged defamatory statements and one of the two investigating officers (IOs) probing the case against him has tested positive for Covid-19. The Maharashtra government had also moved the apex court alleging that Goswami has been misusing protection granted by the top court and has been "browbeating" the police by "creating fear psychosis". Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, supported Goswami for transfer of the probe to CBI saying that since the accused has made allegations against the police, which too has made certain accusations, the court must look at the possibility of having a probe by an independent agency. The top court on April 24 had granted 3-week protection to Goswami against any coercive steps in connection with some FIRs lodged against him in various states for alleged defamatory statements made during news show on Palghar mob-lynching of three persons, including two saints in Maharashtra. Staying further proceedings in the three FIRs and 11 complaints lodged in different states except for the one FIR lodged in Nagpur city, the top court had said there is a need for the law to protect journalistic freedom within the ambit of Article 19(1) (a) (freedom of speech and expression) of the Constitution. The FIRs and complaints were lodged in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. The top court had transferred the FIR lodged in Nagpur city to the N M Joshi Marg Police Station, Mumbai, where Goswami has lodged a case in connection with an attack on him and his wife allegedly by some Congress workers and said the senior journalist would cooperate in the investigation. The May 2 fresh FIR, was lodged in Mumbai against Goswami and two others for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by making derogatory remark regarding a mosque located in suburban Bandra. Hundreds of migrant workers had gathered in Bandra on April 14 demanding transport arrangements to go back to their native places, hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced extension of the nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19 till May 3. The FIR was lodged in Pydhonie police station in south Mumbai on May 2 by Irfan Abubakar Sheikh, secretary of Raza Education Welfare Society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/palghar-killings-sc-refuses-to-transfer-cases-to-cbi-grants-protection-to-republic-tv-eic-arnab-goswami-839434.html
19-05-2020||National||Free citizens can't exist without free press: SC on Arnab Goswami's case||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-citizens-cant-exist-without-free-press-sc-on-arnab-goswamis-case-839435.html
19-05-2020||National||Operated 1,565 'Shramik Special' trains, ferried over 20 lakh migrants: Indian Railways||The Indian Railways has operated 1,565 'Shramik Special' trains since May 1 and ferried over 20 lakh migrants back home, the national transporter said on Tuesday. While Uttar Pradesh has allowed 837 trains, Bihar has permitted 428 and Madhya Pradesh more than 100, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said in a tweet. As of Monday night, 162 trains were in transit and 1,252 had reached their destinations. Around 116 more are currently in the pipeline, it said.  "Under the leadership of PM @NarendraModi, more than 20 lakh workers have been sent to their homes by the Railways on 1,565 Shramik Special trains," the minister said. According to data till Monday night, more than 496 trains have originated from Gujarat and 17 more are in the pipeline, while over 266 trains have already started from Maharashtra, with 37 more in the pipeline. Among other originating states, 188 trains have started from Punjab, 89 from Karnataka, 61 from Tamil Nadu, 58 from Telangana, 54 from Rajasthan, 41 from Haryana and 38 from Uttar Pradesh. Out of the trains that have terminated so far, the maximum has been in Uttar Pradesh at 641, while 73 more are in transit, followed by Bihar with 310 and 53 more on the way. The operation of these trains has, however, led to a political mud-slinging, with the opposition accusing the Centre of charging fares from migrants and then the Centre accusing some states having non-BJP governments of not providing permission for the migrant trains to run.  Goyal, in a series of tweets on Monday, said he had spoken to the Odisha, Bihar and the Uttar Pradesh governments, and they assured him of permitting more trains. A 'Shramik Special' train carries around 1,700 passengers, instead of the earlier 1,200, to ferry as many workers home as possible. Initially, these trains had no scheduled stoppages during the journey, but the Railways now allows up to three stoppages in the destination states. While the transporter is yet to announce the cost incurred on these special services, officials indicated that the national transporter is spending around Rs 80 lakh per service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/operated-1565-shramik-special-trains-ferried-over-20-lakh-migrants-indian-railways-839437.html
19-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Receiving states' consent not required to run Shramik special trains||The Ministry of Railways on Tuesday said the receiving states' consent is not required to run Shramik Special trains to transport stranded migrants. Soon after the Union Ministry of Home Affairs issued new Standard Of Operatiom (SOP) on tranposting migrants in buses and trains, the railways said it only required list of passengers from sending states to operate trains.  The order said railway ministry will permit Shramik Special trains in consultationwith the Home Ministry. The national transporter will finalise the schedules and stoppages of these trains and will communicate to states and UTs for preparation to receive passengers, said an official in railways.  Till now, the railways said it will run the trains only if both sending and receiving states give written approval. While sending states had to bring passengers to station, receiving states had to make arrangements for arriving passengers including their quarantine. With latest decision of the railways, now the onus is on  receiving states as they cannot criticise Centre or Railways for delay in ferrying migrant passengers. The Centre took decision to ferry migrants without approval of receiving states after it received criticism from Opposition political parties for not making arrangements to ferry stranded migrants. Since May 1, the railway operated total 1565 Shramik special trains ferrying 20 lakh passengers. Uttar Pradesh received maximum (837) trains followed by Bihar (428) and Madhya Pradesh(100).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-receiving-states-consent-not-required-to-run-shramik-special-trains-839443.html
19-05-2020||National||Rajkot, Indore, Navi Mumbai among Centre's '5-star garbage-free' cities; Delhi 3-star||The government Tuesday released a rating of cities for their garbage management, giving the top ‘five-star garbage-free’ tag to six cities including Chhattisgarh’s Ambikapur and Madhya Pradesh's Indore, while saying that the Swachh Bharat Mission has been the "greatest strength" in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri announced the results of garbage-free star rating for the cities. A total of 141 cities have been rated -- six of them 5-star, 65 of three-star, 70 one-star. Apart from Ambikapur and Indore, Gujarat’s Rajkot and Surat, Karnataka’s Mysore and Maharashtra’s Navi Mumbai have been rated five-star. New Delhi, Haryana’s Karnal; Andhra Pradesh’s Tirupati and Vijayawada; Chandigarh; Chhattisgarh’s Bhilai Nagar; Gujarat’s Ahmedabad; MP’s Bhopal; and Jharkhand’s Jamshedpur are among 'three-star garbage-free rating', Puri said. Among the 'one-star garbage free cities' are: Delhi Cantonment, Rohtak (Haryana); Gwalior, Maheshwar, Khandwa, Badnawar and Hathod (all five in MP); and Gujarat’s Vadodara, Bhavnagar and Vyara. Puri said that the importance of sanitation and effective solid waste management have been brought to the forefront now due to the COVID-19 crisis. “In fact, it would not be an exaggeration to say that the present (COVID) situation could have been much worse had it not been for the critical part that Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) has played in the last five years to ensure a high degree of cleanliness and sanitation in urban areas," he said. The minister said that five years ago, the government introduced Swachh Survekshan (SS), an annual cleanliness survey, for urban India and it has proven immensely successful in improving urban cleanliness through a spirit of healthy competition. Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said 1,435 cities applied for the 'Star Rating Assessment'. During the assessments, 1.19 crore citizen feedbacks and over 10 lakh geo-tagged pictures were collected and 5,175 solid waste processing plants were visited by 1,210 field assessors, he said. While 698 cities cleared the desktop assessment, 141 cities have been certified with Star Rating during field assessment. The low number of certifications signifies the rigorous and robust certification mechanism of the protocol, Mishra said. Puri said that under the Swachh Bharat Mission, while the government constructed lakhs of toilets, there has also been hygiene discipline among people. "I am absolutely sure that we benefitted a lot (due to Swachh Bharat Mission) in dealing with COVID-19," he said. “We have always been slight ahead of the curve. When problem is coming, we were ready to deal with it. The country would have managed to deal with it (COVID-19) even without SBM, but the cost would have been much higher. I think SBM helped us considerably in that case,” he said. "The way forward is now that we will have to accelerate both Swachhta and other measures like ODF Plus because it was the greatest strength to fight the pandemic,” Puri said. The COVID-19 is also a urban problem by and large, he said, adding it is a different matter if some of “our brothers and sisters migrate back from urban areas to rural areas, they will be carrying the virus”. “But, it started here. I can argue that it is related from outside (the country)...We stopped flights…and screened 15 lakh passengers initially,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajkot-indore-navi-mumbai-among-centres-5-star-garbage-free-cities-delhi-3-star-839459.html
19-05-2020||National||From management student to militant: Who was Junaid Sehrai?||Junaid Sehrai, who was killed in an encounter with security forces in Nawakadal area of old city Srinagar on Tuesday, was the son of Ashraf Sehrai, Tehreek-e-Hurriyat chief and successor of hardliner Syed Ali Geelani. Just days after Sehrai senior replaced Geelani as the new chief of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat in March 2018, picture of his youngest son Junaid posing with an assault rifle went viral on social media. For the last few years, this has been a signature style of local youth in Kashmir announcing that they have joined the militancy. Junaid’s taking up arms was the first case of a son of a top-notch separatist leader turning to a terrorist in three-decade-old militancy in Kashmir. Originally hailing from north Kashmir’s frontier Kupwara district, the Sehrai family migrated to Srinagar in the 1990s and are putting up at posh uptown Bagahat locality. Prior to joining militancy, Junaid had completed MBA from Kashmir University. “He was good in studies and I had never expected that he will become a militant one day and will be killed. Though everybody knew that his father was a leading separatist of Kashmir, Junaid never ever gave an inclination during university days that he has a tendency to pick up arms,” said one of his classmates at the KU, wishing anonymity. Immediately after his election as the new chairman of Tehreek-e-Hurriyat in March 2018, Sehrai had lashed out at those supporting Islamic State (ISIS) ideology, saying it had nothing to do with Kashmir.  “Some elements are creating confusion among masses by raising ISIS flags at the funeral of militants. We have kept a close watch on them, and will soon chart out a plan to stop them after,” he had said then, citing the hoisting of ISIS flags at the funeral of militant Eisa Fazili in Soura area of Srinagar. When Sehrai senior took over as the new chairman of the Hurriyat, Zakir Musa’s ideology of Caliphate was getting popular among radicalised youth in Kashmir. In May 2017, Musa had even threatened to chop off heads of those separatist leaders who claim the Kashmir struggle as political and not Islamic A senior police officer told DH that Junaid’s joining militancy became a weapon in the hands of the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen and separatist leadership to counter the narrative that militants in Kashmir were fighting for Caliphate and imposition of Sharia (Islamic law). “By Junaid’s joining, the top separatist leadership, including Geelani, killed two birds with one stone. Not only Junaid countered rise of Musa and his ideology, but also silenced those voices who were questioning Hurriyat leaders why their sons were not joining militancy,” he said. The Hizbul is almost as old as the Kashmiri militancy which started in the late 80's. The group is made up almost entirely of local youths and had always campaigned for joining Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-management-student-to-militant-who-was-junaid-sehrai-839480.html
19-05-2020||National||Nine migrants killed in bus-truck collision in Bihar; 35 others injured||In one of the worst road accidents in recent times in Bihar, nine migrants were killed while 35 others sustained injuries on Tuesday when a bus made a head-on collision with a truck coming from the opposite direction. Incidentally, the bus was carrying 35 migrants who had returned from Karnataka by Bangalore-Darbhanga Shramik Special train and got down at Darbhanga. These migrants were being taken to Banka district. The truck was carrying iron sheets and rods. All the nine victims, who died on the spot, were in the truck which overturned after it collided with the bus on the National Highway (NH-31). “These nine migrants were originally coming on their cycles. On seeing the truck, they sought lift in the heavy vehicle, barely ten minutes before the mishap. Tragically, all of them died on the spot after the truck turned turtle. The driver and the cleaner fled from the accident site,” a source quoting an eyewitness told Deccan Herald over phone. All the nine victims hailed from Champaran. “On Monday night at around 11 pm, the Shramik Special arrived at Darbhanga from Bangalore. The migrants were asked to leave for Banka by bus. On the NH-31, the bus stopped at a highway dhaba (food joint) at 5 am (on Tuesday morning) where the 35 passengers had tea, while the driver was suspected to have consumed liquor. After the bus left, the driver was driving in a rash manner and eventually made a head-on collision with the truck coming from the opposite direction,” the source, quoting those injured, added. The injured have been admitted to hospitals in Naugachia and Bhagalpur. Five of them are said to be serious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-migrants-killed-in-bus-truck-collision-in-bihar-35-others-injured-839488.html
19-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: US government to donate 200 ventilators to India, first tranche of 50 to arrive next week||The 200 “high-quality” ventilators the United States is donating to India to help cure the COVID-19 patients will arrive soon, beginning with the first lot of 50 next week, Ramona El Hamzaoui, acting mission director of the US Agency for International Development (USAID) in New Delhi, said. The USAID has so far provided $ 5.9 million to assist India in responding to the COVID-19 outbreak. Besides, the US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is also supporting the Government of India to set up Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) Centres of Excellence across the country to improve the ability of hospital networks to detect COVID-19 infection. The CDC’s office in India has been collaborating with the institutes run by the state and central governments to support the response to the COVID-19 outbreak since early January. “The collaboration efforts are focused on lab strengthening, infection prevention and control, health workforce development, emergency management, risk communication and community engagement,” the CDC Mission Director in India, Meghna Desai, said. She told journalists on Tuesday that the CDC had so far conducted trainings across India for healthcare administrators, physicians, nurses and hospital staff on preparedness and response, infection prevention and control, laboratory operations, and field epidemiology to equip frontline response workers with the necessary skills to collect, analyze, and interpret data, and contribute to evidence-based decisions.  The CDC recently committed $ 3.6 million to assist the Government of India’s response to the pandemic. The cooperation between India and the US in dealing with the COVID-19 crisis followed the long-standing technical collaboration between the CDC of the American Government and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of the Government of India, particularly in the field of controlling the HIV, TB, and malaria, eradicate polio and prepare responses to influenza and other pandemic diseases, the officials of the US Embassy in New Delhi said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently thanked the US President Donald Trump for his tweet, announcing the decision to donate ventilators to India. Trump also said that the US was working with India to develop a vaccine to prevent COVID-19 infections. The USAID is providing an additional fund of $ 3 million to India, through the Partnerships for Affordable Healthcare Access and Longevity (PAHAL) project to help establish a financing facility that could mobilize resources from the private sector to assist over 20,000 health facilities enrolled under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY), the Modi Government’s health insurance scheme for 500 million poor and vulnerable people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-us-government-to-donate-200-ventilators-to-india-first-tranche-of-50-to-arrive-next-week-839499.html
19-05-2020||National||Delhi HC asks Centre if it intends to infuse funds to support scam-hit PMC Bank||The Delhi High Court has directed the Centre and Ministry of Finance to disclose if it intends to infuse funds to render support to scam-hit Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank. Justice Rajiv Shakdher, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, asked the administrator of the bank to file a status report which shall indicate whether or not the sale of assets of the promoter-directors of HDIL has taken place. In case the sale of assets has taken place, the status report will also indicate the amount garnered and the assets sold, the high court said. Two directors -- Rakesh Wadhawan and his son Sarang Wadhawan -- of Housing Development and Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL) were earlier arrested in the PMC bank scam case. In September last year, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had imposed restrictions on PMC Bank and also superseded the board and management of the bank and appointed an ex-RBI official as the administrator. An argument was raised by the petitioner that, recently, the Centre had infused funds in a scam-hit private bank, Yes Bank. The high court was hearing a plea by Sandeep Bhalla seeking direction to the RBI to issue a statement on timelines and safety of deposits held by the depositors with the PMC Bank and to ensure payments are made to depositors in full along with interest. The plea also sought direction to the RBI to allow the petitioners and depositors particularly senior citizens to withdraw amounts up to the interest on their deposits to enable them to make their living. The plea was filed in a pending petition concerning the fate of the deposits made with the PMC Bank. The high court, in its order, said “The Union of India, Ministry of Finance, will file an affidavit indicating as to whether it intends infusing funds to render financial support to respondent no. 2 (PMC Bank). This direction has been issued in the context of an argument raised by petitioner no.1 that, recently, respondent no.3 (Centre) had infused funds in a private bank, that is, Yes Bank.” The high court also said that the administrator's status report will also give the details of the HCIL promotors' assets which have not been sold. “The market value and the realisable value will be set out in the status report. Status report will indicate as to the steps taken for the sale of these assets,” it said, adding that the report be filed within four weeks and listed the matter for further hearing on June 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-asks-centre-if-it-intends-to-infuse-funds-to-support-scam-hit-pmc-bank-839500.html
19-05-2020||National||Boney Kapoor’s house help tests positive for COVID-19||Filmmaker Boney Kapoor on Tuesday said his house help has tested positive for coronavirus. In a statement, the producer said 23-year-old Charan Sahu, a member of his staff at his residence in suburban Andheri, told them that he was feeling unwell on Saturday evening and after that, the filmmaker sent him for tests.  After his COVID-19 test result came positive, Kapoor informed the society authorities, who in turn apprised the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) about the case. The BMC is now in the process of getting Sahu into a quarantine centre. "Myself, my children and the other staff at home are all fine and none of us are showing any symptoms. In fact we haven’t left our home since the lockdown started," Kapoor said in the statement. The producer expressed his gratitude to the Maharashtra government and the BMC for their swift response for their house help.  "We shall be diligently following the instructions and advice given to us by BMC and their medical team. We are sure that Charan would soon recover and be back at home with us," he added. Earlier this month, the office building of music label T-Series was sealed by the BMC after one caretaker tested positive for COVID-19. In April, a member of jewellery designer Farah Khan Ali's in-house staff had tested positive for COVID-19. According to the health ministry, death toll due to coronavirus rises to 3,163; cases climb to 1,01,139.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boney-kapoor-s-house-help-tests-positive-for-covid-19-839501.html
19-05-2020||National||India's freedom is safe as long as journos can speak to power without reprisal: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said that India's freedoms will rest safe, as long as journalists can speak to power without being chilled by a threat of reprisal. "Free citizens cannot exist when the news media is chained to adhere to one position," the top court stressed.  A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said the exercise of journalistic freedom lies at the core of speech and expression protected by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. However, the exercise of that fundamental right is not absolute and is answerable to the legal regime, the bench said. The court quashed multiple cases, lodged in several states against Republic TV's Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami after his show questioning Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Palghar killings of Hindu priests on April 16. It termed over 100 FIRs as "an abuse of the process and impermissible", having "a stifling effect on the exercise of freedom". The bench, however, asked Goswami to approach competent court including the High Court under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code with regard to his plea for quashing one FIR transferred from Nagpur to Mumbai, related to the offence of promoting enmity among groups and others, and another FIR registered subsequently with regard to another show related migrant crisis in Mumbai's Bandra. The court extended the protection granted to him for a further three weeks. The bench explained when the High Court has the power, there was no reason to by-pass the procedure. "This balance has to be drawn between the exercise of a fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) and the investigation for an offence under the CrPC," the bench said, acting on writ petitions filed by Goswami. The court rejected his plea to transfer the probe to the CBI, saying the power to transfer an investigation must be used “sparingly” and only “in exceptional circumstances”. In its 56-page judgement, the bench decried the practice of subjecting a journalist to multiple complaints in several states. "This will effectively destroy the freedom of the citizen to know of the affairs of governance in the nation and the right of the journalist to ensure an informed society," the bench said. "Our (previous) decisions hold that the right of a journalist under Article 19(1)(a) is no higher than the right of the citizen to speak and express. But we must as a society never forget that one cannot exist without the other," the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-freedom-is-safe-as-long-as-journos-can-speak-to-power-without-reprisal-sc-839503.html
19-05-2020||National||No raw material, no work, no help: Artisans struggle as lockdown continues||Weaving the gossamer fine fabric which made his hometown Chanderi famous the world over, Mohammed Dilshad says his life is in tatters with no money, no food and no work. Till a little before the lockdown started on March 25, he would be out for days at a stretch, participating in craft fairs like the Dastkar bazaar in big cities and coming back to his Madhya Pradesh home only to produce the rolls of 'chanderi' fashioned into saris, dupattas and dresses. Life had settled into a routine – not an affluent existence but a comfortable one -- but that all seems in the distant past. Help has been negligible in these difficult times and even managing two meals a day is becoming a challenge, said the fourth generation Chanderi craftsperson based out of the small town, famous for its light and comfortable weaves in silk and cotton.  “We didn’t understand the lockdown would mean no movement, no work and no money. The MP government gave rations but only rice. How can one just have rice?” Dilshad told PTI over the phone. Dilshad, a National Award winning weaver, is one of the 68 lakh artisans employed by the textile handicrafts sector, bringing in Rs.36,798.20 crore through exports, according to the Ministry of Textiles’ annual report for 2018-19. His crisis finds resonance in distant corners of India. Buying a curio, a sari or a folk painting has slipped right down in the list of priorities, leaving artisans like him counting each rupee and scrambling to feed their families. Part of an over Rs 24,000 crore industry, the weavers, potters, block printers, painters and a host of others represent the best of traditional craft from the length and breadth of India. Many of them, working from their villages, would sell their craft at the various bazaars and fairs in cities and to big time retailers. But the coronavirus forced lockdown, which entered its fourth phase on Monday, has ended it all The raw material in stock at their homes finished first, then the orders dried up and now, with no idea of when markets will open fully or who will buy their wares, India’s artisans are counting each rupee and scrambling to feed their families. “The first week was not very difficult. We had some raw material in stock and continued to work. The seriousness of the situation only hit us when we ran out of work to do, and there was no money coming in,” Dilshad said. The 34-year-old -- a father of two, lives with his brother, also a Chanderi weaver, and his family -- said he received some money towards the beginning of the lockdown from a not-for-profit NGO but the money is drying up fast. The artisan community in the region, he said, had also appealed to the Weavers Service Centre in Indore for some relief. “We were told our request has been forwarded to higher authorities, but we haven’t heard back. Our major problem is that we don’t have any rations. “The nature of our work is such that we would not stay in Chanderi for more than 10 days at a stretch — we make the product, and then go out to make the sales, and this circle would continue,” he said.  Jaya Jaitly of the Dastkaari Haat Samiti, a not for profit organisation that works with craftspersons, is worried about the future of the sector. Besides being able to return to work at the earliest, the artisans also need to make up for lost time in terms of sales, and that will be a challenge in a world with social distancing, she said. “One of the most worrying things for them is what kind of marketing they will be able to do when the lockdown is lifted. What will the nature of the market be… we won’t have crowded bazaars, e-commerce hasn’t picked up as of now,” Jaitly told PTI. The handicrafts sector in the country also comprises craftspeople who practice other art forms — pottery, bamboo and dokra art, and painting that might not fall under a government ministry but contribute to the country’s earnings through both domestic and international sales.  In the Rajasthan village of Kot Jewar, renowned for its blue pottery, an art form recognisable for its use of cobalt blue dye, Ram Narayan Prajapati, his son Vimal Kumar and their 250 odd employees face a dire tomorrow. All their orders have been cancelled and there are no takers for the products in their inventory. Prajapati and his son have collaborated with the India Craft project to make some sales and raise funds in order to help out their artisans. “We have at least 50 families (over 250 individuals) of potters. All our orders have been cancelled, and we have plenty of stock, but we won’t be able to sell all of it even in two years.  “Our artisans are finding it difficult to continue with their daily lives,” Kumar said in a Facebook video directed at potential buyers.  According to the India Craft project, a sum of Rs 3,000 can help an artisan household of four members with rations for up to a month.  “Through this campaign we hope to support 50-60 families in the Kot Jewar region,” the group said in an online post. Purnima Rai, a former president of the Delhi Crafts Council, said the situation is getting worse as the lockdown progresses. “When the lockdown started,  there was no immediate distress… they (artisans) were okay, they were at their homes, some of them had farmlands. They did not face the hardships that were being faced by, say, the migrant labourers, but now there is a lot of anxiety over whether they will be able to work again,” she said. “This sector not only has a huge contribution to the economy, but also provides good, sustainable livelihoods in the rural sector. It is a huge employer of people,” Rai said.   “I have not seen them do anything at all from the ministry of textiles or others, nobody has mentioned the word craftsperson,” agreed Jaitly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-raw-material-no-work-no-help-artisans-struggle-as-lockdown-continues-839504.html
19-05-2020||National||COVID-19: 2,288 Indians repatriated from UK via the Vande Bharat mission, OCI students urge help||Since the first special Air India flight took off from London’s Heathrow Airport for Mumbai on May 8, there have been eight routes to different Indian cities from the UK for Indian students and tourists. Indian nationals were flown home to the cities of Mumbai, New Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai and Ahmedabad. “We have facilitated repatriation of 2,288 Indians stranded in the UK through eight Air India flights till 17 May. Vande Bharat Mission continues to get Indians home,” said the Indian High Commission in London. The Vande Bharat Mission is India’s biggest ever repatriation exercise to bring back Indians from abroad who are unable to travel home due to COVID-19 related international travel restrictions. As the second phase of the repatriation process gets underway, retired Indian High Commissioner to the UK Ruchi Ghanashyam will be among the Indians flying back to New Delhi on Thursday. “It has been such a hectic period, but I hope to return to the UK to say goodbyes in person sometime in the future,” Ghanashyam said during a virtual farewell organised by the Indian Journalists’ Association (IJA UK) on Monday. As the packed flights take off daily, there are some still desperately waiting their turn, including those wanting to fly to some cities that are yet to be scheduled, including Kolkata. “I have two young daughters, elderly parents, and a wife back at home. There is no way to return to Kolkata. I am worried for my parents,” says Suvendu, who came to the UK for work but recently lost his job. “I am really surprised there are no Kolkata flights yet, but I am hoping they will be announced in the future,” adds Dr Arpita Ray, whose father needs to fly back home. Another group waiting their turn to return home to their families in India includes students in the Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) category, which remains suspended in India’s extended COVID-19 lockdown. According to the regulations issued by the Indian government last month and updated last week, visas of foreign nationals and OCI cards, that provide visa-free travel privileges to the people of Indian-origin, have been suspended as part of the new international travel restrictions following the COVID-19 pandemic. “Our plight is no different from the struggles being faced by Indian students who hold Indian passports – India is home for all us,” says Tridip, an undergraduate at SOAS University of London. “Yes, air travel at this point of time may be a risk but we are of course ready to take all precautionary measures and undergo the mandatory quarantine period upon arrival in India," adds the 18-year-old. “Having lived in India for the greater part of my life, India is home to me as much as it is to an Indian citizen, and just as any Indian citizen wishes for the comfort of home and family, so do I. I can only hope that the government reviews its policy on OCI holders and appeal to them to include us in their repatriation plans," says Atulit, an under-graduate student at Imperial College London. Bianta, a student at Bangor University in Wales, adds: “Along with all of the mental stress, financially the UK is too expensive. In the coming weeks my rental agreement will expire, after which I will have nowhere to go. “I cannot continue funding myself here in the UK as I only planned to be here till May marking the end of my course. Please help us get home. The colour of my passport does not define where my home is." As all commercial international flights continue to be grounded, the second phase of the Vande Bharat Mission with a total of 149 flights is aimed at bringing back Indians from 40 countries. On landing in India, these travellers have a 14-day quarantine requirement at venues organised by the respective state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-2288-indians-repatriated-from-uk-via-the-vande-bharat-mission-oci-students-urge-help-839505.html
19-05-2020||National||No need to close entire office building for one or two COVID-19 cases: Govt||As India entered Lockdown 4.0, the health ministry came out with guidelines on the workplace that recommend sealing off the entire building for 48 hours only in case of a large outbreak of COVID-19 and not if one or two cases are reported. “If there are one or two cases reported, the disinfection procedure will be limited to places/areas visited by the patient in the past 48 hrs. There is no need to close the entire office building/halt work in other areas of the office and work can be resumed after disinfection as per laid down protocol,” the health ministry guidelines said. The guidelines on ‘preventive measures to contain the spread of coronavirus in workplace settings’ state that if there is a larger outbreak, the entire building will have to be sealed for 48 hours for thorough disinfection. “All the staff will work from home till the building is adequately disinfected and is declared fit for re-occupation,” it said. The Ministry said if any individual is found to be suffering from symptoms suggestive of COVID-19, it must be immediately reported to the concerned central or state health authorities as well as on the helpline number 1075. “A risk assessment will be undertaken by the designated public health authority (district RRT/treating physician) and accordingly further advice shall be made regarding the management of the case, his/her contacts and need for disinfection,” the Health Ministry guidelines said.  “The necessary actions for contact tracing and disinfection of the workplace will start once the report of the patient is received as positive. The report will be expedited for this purpose,” it said. The Health Ministry said that all the employees and visitors will follow simple public health measures like respiratory etiquettes, physical distancing of at least one meter, mandatory use of face covers or masks and practice frequent hand washing for at least 40-60 seconds even when hands are not visibly dirty and use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers for at least 20 seconds.  “Any staff requesting home quarantine based on the containment zone activities in their residential areas should be permitted to work from home,” the Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-need-to-close-entire-office-building-for-one-or-two-covid-19-cases-govt-839512.html
19-05-2020||National||Pakistan criticises India's new domicile law for Jammu and Kashmir||Pakistan on Tuesday termed as "illegal" India's new domicile rules in Jammu and Kashmir, alleging that it was in clear violation of the UN resolutions and agreements between the two countries. Under the domicile rules, all those persons and their children who have resided for 15 years in Jammu and Kashmir or have studied for seven years and appeared in class 10 or 12 examination in an educational institution in the Union Territory are eligible for grant of domicile. "The new domicile law is illegal and in clear violation of the relevant UN Security Council Resolutions, international law including the 4th Geneva Convention and bilateral Agreements between Pakistan and India,” the Foreign Office said. It also alleged that the domicile law is aimed at changing the demographic structure of the Valley. Pakistan has been unsuccessfully trying to drum up international support against India for withdrawing Jammu and Kashmir's special status on August 5 and bifurcating it into two Union territories. India has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of Article 370 was its internal matter. It also advised Pakistan to accept the reality and stop all anti-India propaganda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-criticises-indias-new-domicile-law-for-jammu-and-kashmir-839513.html
19-05-2020||National||Priyanka once again outsmarts rivals by 'bus move'||As pictures of exhausted migrant workers walking barefoot under the scorching Sun drew sharp reactions from different quarters, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, by offering one thousand buses to the Uttar Pradesh government to ferry the stranded workers home, has once again outsmarted her political rivals in the state. Desperate to strengthen the Congress in the state, Priyanka not only outfoxed the opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) and the BSP but also pushed the BJP government into a corner and virtually forced it to accept her offer. Finding themselves outwitted, SP president Akhilesh Yadav and BSP supremo Mayawati were also forced to join the issues with the Congress leader. The BJP government, not wanting to be seen opposing the help, was forced to accept the offer of the Congress general secretary though reluctantly.     Mayawati, who had also initially termed Priyanka's offer as a ''political ploy'', asked the Congress leader to send the buses to Lucknow so that they could be used to send the migrant workers home. Akhilesh Yadav, however, asked the state government to utilise thousands of school buses to ferry the workers home. Political observers here see Priyanka's ''bus move'' an attempt to send across a message among the workers, that the Congress, despite being in the opposition, was ready to help them. ''Its a crisis....the state government finds itself cornered on the issue...Congress feels that it will gain politically by extending help to the workers,'' said a Lucknow based political analyst. Earlier also Priyanka had taken the lead in cornering the UP government over alleged police excesses on the people, who had taken part in protests against the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act.  She was the first opposition politician to reach out to the families of the two youths, who were allegedly killed in police firing during the anti-CAA protests.  She had also dashed to meet the family members of retired IPS officer and social activist S.R.Darapuri, when he was arrested on charges of taking part in the anti-CAA protests Lucknow last year.  Priyanka has been hitting the streets on issues of women's security, farmers and also been attacking the BJP government on social media platforms forcing the saffron party leaders to respond.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-once-again-outsmarts-rivals-by-bus-move-839516.html
19-05-2020||National||Plea to remove groups like Bois locker room from social media; Delhi HC seeks Centre, platforms' reply||The Delhi High Court Tuesday sought response of the Centre on a plea seeking directions to it to ensure social media platforms like Facebook and Instagram remove illegal groups such as 'Bois Locker Room', "for the safety and security of children" in cyberspace. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal issued notice to the ministries of home affairs, Information Technology and finance as also Facebook, Google and Twitter asking them to indicate their stand on affidavit by the next date of hearing on July 14. The order came on the application moved by former RSS ideologue K N Govindacharya "highlighting the unlawful nature of illegal groups" like 'Bois Locker Room'. "Due to the negativity, fake news and illegal content many young lives are destroyed. Such groups are criminal in nature and do not deserve any protection of free or creative speech," said the petition filed through advocate Virag Gupta. It further contended that "the incident of 'bois locker room' on Instagram shows one of the vilest forms of social media". Central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia accepted notice on behalf of the ministries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-to-remove-groups-like-bois-locker-room-from-social-media-delhi-hc-seeks-centre-platforms-reply-839519.html
19-05-2020||National||India records 0.2 COVID-19 deaths per lakh population against global figure of 4.1: Health ministry||As COVID-19 cases crossed the one lakh mark, India has so far reported about 0.2 deaths per lakh population due to the viral infection as against the global figure of 4.1, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday. According to the ministry, India had 1,01,139 confirmed COVID-19 cases, an increase of 4,970 in a single day, while the death toll was 3,163, an increase of 134 in a day. On the brighter side, a total of 39,174 COVID-19 patients have recovered, pegging the recovery rate at 38.73%. India currently has 58,802 active cases. Of the active cases, only approx. 2.9% of the cases are in ICU, the ministry said. A record number of 1,08,233 samples were tested on Monday across the country. So far, a total of 24,25,742 samples have been tested through its network of 385 government laboratories and 158 private laboratories. Referring to data from WHO situation report-119, the ministry said 3,11,847 COVID-19 deaths have been reported till date worldwide which is about 4.1 deaths per lakh population.  The US with 87,180 fatalities has 26.6 mortality per lakh population. The UK has reported 34,636 deaths and has 52.1 deaths per lakh population. Italy with 31,908 coronavirus fatalities so far has 52.8 deaths per lakh population. France has so far reported 28,059 casualties which is around 41.9 deaths per lakh population, it said. Spain with 27,650 fatalities has about 59.2 deaths per lakh, while Brazil with 15,633 deaths has 7.5 mortality per lakh population. China has recorded 4,645 casualties and has approximately 0.3 deaths per lakh population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-02-covid-19-deaths-per-lakh-population-against-global-figure-of-41-health-ministry-839523.html
19-05-2020||National||JP Nadda asks BJP workers to join relief operations for super cyclone Amphan||BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday asked his party members to join in evacuation and relief operations in states being hit by super cyclone Amphan, and urged them to do so in cooperation with the local administration.  Nadda, a statement said, discussed important aspects of the relief and evacuation plan with senior BJP leaders of Odisha, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, through video conference. "Super cyclone Amphan is heading towards coastal region of Orissa, West Bengal, partially touching Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. PM chaired a high-level meeting yesterday. A clear directive was given to BJP workers to cooperate in relief operations and evacuation process of people," Nadda said.  The central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership has made preparations in coordination with states to deal with the cyclone, he said. This is the second super cyclone over the Bay of Bengal in two decades. The cyclone is expected to make landfall on the West Bengal coast on Wednesday afternoon between Digha in West Bengal and Hatia Island in Bangladesh as an extremely severe cyclonic storm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jp-nadda-asks-bjp-workers-to-join-relief-operations-for-super-cyclone-amphan-839525.html
19-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan's office, food ministry in Krishi Bhawan sealed||Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan's office and part of his ministry located in Krishi Bhawan building in Central Delhi has been sealed, after an official in the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying was tested positive for COVID-19. "Due to one recent corona positive case found in the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, it has been decided that the Department of Food and Public Distribution office at Krishi Bhawan shall remain closed on May 19 and May 20 for intensive sanitization," an official order said. There are two departments under Paswan's ministry -- Department of Food and Public Distribution and Department of Consumer Affairs. Krishi Bhawan, located at the Rajpath Area in New Delhi, also houses several other ministries including agriculture, rural development and panchayati raj. The NITI Aayog building in New Delhi was sealed on April 28 after an employee tested positive. On May 5, one of the floors of the Shastri Bhawan building was sealed after a law ministry official was found infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-food-minister-ram-vilas-paswans-office-food-ministry-in-krishi-bhawan-sealed-839528.html
19-05-2020||National||NTA reopens applications for JEE-Main exams||Students, who are thinking to drop plans to study abroad and pursue higher studies at premier institutes in the country, can now appear for JEE-Mains examinations. The National Testing Agency on Tuesday announced that it was giving one last opportunity to students to submit their applications for the Joint Entrance Examination-2020 till May 24. NTA Director General Vineet Joshi said the agency had received requests from several students who were scheduled to join colleges abroad but are now keen to pursue their studies in the country on account of the COVID-19 crisis. “This is also applicable to other students who have not been able to complete the application process or submit online application form for JEE(Main) 2020 due to one reason or another,” Joshi said.    The NTA would also allow students to change the centre where they wish to appear for the JEE-Main exams. The changes in the choice of centre can be made between May 25 and May 31. Besides, the NTA also launched the National Test Abhyaas app to help students prepare for JEE-Main and NEET exams. “One full question paper (3 hours) will be available each day, for both JEE (Main) & NEET. Students can take the test anytime as per their convenience, get immediate scores, correct answers with explanations, and analyse the time spent on different sections,” HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nta-reopens-applications-for-jee-main-exams-839539.html
19-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: After long walk, Rampukar Pandit finally reaches home||After a long and arduous journey from Delhi to Bihar, migrant labourer Rampukar Pandit has finally reached home and is reunited with his grieving family, getting the much-needed catharsis he had been desperate for. The 38-year-old, whose mournful face became emblematic of the hardships being faced by poor migrant workers during the lockdown, was discharged from a block hospital on Monday evening and then ferried home, about 12 km away, on a bicycle by a family member. "My test (for coronavirus) came out negative and I was told I could go home but only if someone from my family could accompany me. So, I called my wife. Since no means of conveyance was available, she left home on foot for the Khodawandpur block hospital," he told PTI on Tuesday. Rampukar's wife Bimal Devi had walked about 3-4 km towards the hospital on Monday when their young distant nephew, on his way to buy ration on a bicycle, saw her and instead of going to a shop offered her a ride to the hospital, Rampukar said. "My nephew, who is about 15 years old, called up another relative who also reached the hospital riding a bicycle. After being discharged in the evening, my wife sat on the back of the nephew's bicycle and I on the back of my cousin's bicycle, and it took us about 1.5 hours to reach home," he said. Asked if they had sought a vehicle from the block hospital, Rampukar said, "We asked only once. Since no vehicle was available for us, we decided to leave on our own. I wanted to see my daughters". There was no immediate reaction from the Begusarai district administration on the incident. Once he reached home, he said his three daughters "leapt to me and we all cried together. This is for the first time I met my entire family after my son died a few days ago". On Saturday, his wife and nine-year-old daughter Poonam had met him in the hospital for 10 minutes, but from a distance. Rampukar's distraught face -- when he had learned about the serious condition of his one-year-old son and wept uncontrollably on the Nizamuddin Bridge in Delhi where he was stuck for three days over a week ago -- has became a snapshot of India’s migrant tragedy amid the ongoing lockdown. His picture, by PTI photographer Atul Yadav, touched a chord in the hearts of millions of people across the country. After PTI put out his pictures and subsequently his story, many people have been taking to social media offering to help him. Rampukar's son later died and the family could not perform their child's last rites. "I have not been able to perform last rites of my son. Even my wife could not do it. 'Nadi mey bacche ki body ko baha diya' (The child's body was put in the Boorhi Gandak river)," he lamented. While Rampukar has finally reached home, his family's ordeal is far from over. With no means of earning a living, the family that lives a hand-to-mouth existence is worried about how they will make ends meet. His wife Bimal Devi said a man had come to their home from Khagaria a few days ago after seeing Rampukar's photo and getting to know of his plight through newspapers. "He gave us some stock of rice, dal, spices and went away. Now, we have ration left for cooking just two meals. My children and family will starve if not helped," Devi said as she broke down when PTI spoke to her on the phone. Rampukar says ever since his father-in-law died, his wife and children have been living with her ailing mother while he toiled as a construction labourer in Delhi to eke out a livelihood. His last job was at a construction site of a cinema hall in Delhi.   He was eventually helped by a woman who have him food, Rs 5,500 and also booked his train ticket from Delhi to Begusarai. He reached Begusarai on the night of March 15 and after initial screening was sent to a quarantine centre in a school on the outskirts of the district headquarters. On Sunday, he said, officials had taken him to Khodawandpur block hospital where a COVID-19 test was conducted on him. The test result later came out as negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-after-long-walk-rampukar-pandit-finally-reaches-home-839543.html
19-05-2020||National||Supreme Court refuses to interfere with NGT's order forming panel to look into Vizag gas leak||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to interfere with the National Green Tribunal's order, forming a fact-finding committee headed by former judge of Andhra Pradesh High Court, B Seshasayana Reddy J, to look into Vizag gas leak tragedy at LG Polymer. The May 7 incident had claimed lives of 11 people and left over two dozens grievously injured. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for LG Polymer, questioned setting up of multiple panels including one each by the High Court, the central government and the NHRC into the matter. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Mohan M Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran, however, asked the company to raise the issue first before the green panel on next date of hearing over there on June 1. The court kept the special leave petiton filed by the company pending for consideration on June 8. "We will not issue notice but keep it pending. In the meanwhile, the petitioner is granted liberty to approach the NGT and impress upon them with the developments," the bench said. The company also informed the top court that it had already deposited Rs 50 crore before the green tribunal as per the direction. The tribunal had on May 8 took Suo Motu cognisance of the incident and constituted the panel into the leakage of hazardous gas, Styrene at the plant of South Korean company. The tribunal had noted apparent failure of the company to comply with rules related to hazardous substance. It set up the panel comprising Prof Ch V Rama Chandra Murthy, former Vice Chancellor, Andhra University, Vizag, Prof Pulipati King, Head of Chemical Engineering  Department, Andhra University, member secretary, CPCB, and Director, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Head, NEERI, Vizag. The committee was asked to look into sequence of events, causes of failure and persons and authorities responsible, extent of damage to life, human and non-human, public health, and environment, including, water, soil and air. It was also asked to suggest steps for compensation of victims and restitution of the damaged property and environment, remedial measures to prevent recurrence and any other incidental or allied issues found relevant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-refuses-to-interfere-with-ngts-order-forming-panel-to-look-into-vizag-gas-leak-839545.html
19-05-2020||National||Six cities including Mysuru bag five star rating in garbage free cities survey||Six cities including Mysuru have bagged five star rating in garbage free cities survey in the country.   Ambikapur from Chhattisgarh, Rajkot, Surat from Gujarat, Indore from Madhya Pradesh and  Navi Mumbai from Maharashtra are other cities that bagged five star rating. Announcimg the results of national level star rating of garbage free cities survey, Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep K Puri told media persons that "6 cities rated 5 star, 65 cities rated 3 star and 70 cities rated 1 star. The assessment was made for the year 2019-2020 taking into account the effective handling of solid waste management. Interestingly, except Mysuru getting five star rating, none of Karnataka cities were able to bag either three star or single star rating. However, Maharashtra, apart from securing five star for Navi Mumbai, also bagged highest number 3 star rating for 34 cities and  single star rating for 41 urban local bodies highlighting the state's progress in managing garbage. The Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry launched the star rating protocol in January 2018 aiming at institutionalising a mechanism for cities to achieve garbage free status, and to motivate cities to achieve higher degrees of cleanliness. The rating is given to cities based on their effective steps in solid waste management which includes cleanliness of drains and water bodies, plastic waste management, managing construction and demolition waste, door to door collection, segregation, collection of scientific landfills, said Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shankar Mishra. Total  1435 cities applied for star rating. For survey, 1.19 crore citizen feedbacks and over 10 lakh geo-tagged pictures were collected and 5175 solid waste processing plants were visited by 1210 field assessors, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-cities-including-mysuru-bag-five-star-rating-in-garbage-free-cities-survey-839549.html
19-05-2020||National||PM Modi's 'vocal for local' call interpreted differently by some quarters: Nestle India CMD||FMCG major Nestle India on Tuesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'vocal for local' call has been interpreted differently by some, while asserting that the company is all about 'made in India' and its brands are loved by people. The subsidiary of Swiss firm, which has been operating in India for the last 108 years, said central armed police forces' (CAPFs) canteens have asked for information from the company over its products in the wake of a recent direction from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to buy only domestic products.  Following the prime minister's call to be "vocal for local", the MHA had issued an order last week asking CAPFs canteens to "sell only indigenous products" beginning June 1. "I think he (Modi) was referring to Make in India and products that are manufactured in India, which unfortunately has reached a different kind of interpretation in some quarters," Nestle India Chairman and Managing Director Suresh Narayanan said in a video conference with the media. He was replying to a question on what challenges do the company foresee due to the government's push for only local products in CAPFs canteens. Narayanan further said, "Police canteens have asked for details, but their details were quite clear and categorical, in line with exactly what the prime minister had indicated. "They have asked to list whether they (products) are made in India, whether raw materials are from India, whether they are assembled in India or whether they are imported products. It is a very very clear list that they have asked for, which we have provided. I do hope that there will be clarifications on this soon..."  Through lakhs and lakhs of farmers, Nestle India sources milk, wheat, spices and coffee, besides 99 per cent of its 7,200 employees being Indian, he said. "Our brands are "sine qua non" for Indianness, and people have loved them over decades, if not centuries, therefore I believe that in every sense of the term, Nestle India is all about 'made in India', 'made for India' serving India and Indian consumers," Narayanan asserted. He added that "we also contribute our own humble might to the Indian exchequer -- Rs 36 billion (Rs 3,600 crore) is contributed each year and also there are 1,25,000 shareholders who are quite happy with Nestle". "If my brands as Kit Kat, Maggie, Nescafe and Everyday are satisfying the Indian consumer, then I am feeling proud that the Indian consumer loves that," he said. Earlier, on May 12, Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched for the use of products manufactured in the country, saying the coronavirus pandemic has taught the importance of local manufacturing, local market and local supply chain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-vocal-for-local-call-interpreted-differently-by-some-quarters-nestle-india-cmd-839552.html
19-05-2020||National||West Bengal braces for super cyclone Amphan||West Bengal is bracing for the super cyclone Amphan ( pronounced as UM-PAN) which is expected to make landfall between its beach town Digha and Haitya in Bangladesh close to the Sundarbans on Wednesday evening. The Regional Meteorological Centre in Kolkata in its latest bulletin stated that Amphan is currently located about 360 kms south of Paradip in Odisha, 510 kms south-southwest of Digha in West Bengal and 650 kms south-southwest of Khepupara in Bangladesh. It also stated that during crossing West Bengal – Bangladesh coasts on Wednesday evening Amphan will have maximum sustained wind speed speed of 155-165kmph gusting to 185 kmph. The rainfall is expected to gradually increase and reach its peak on Wednesday with districts such as East and West Medinipur, North and South 24 Paraganas, Howarah, Hooghly and Kolkata receiving heavy to very heavy rainfall. The low lying areas of South and North 24 Paraganas will witness storm surge of about four to five meters above astronomical tide and three to four meters East Medinipur during landfall. The cyclone will cause extensive damage to kutcha houses and badly managed pucca structures. Officials at the Regional Meteorological Centre said that in terms of wind speed Amphan will surpass earlier cyclones such as Aila, Fani and Bulbul. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that so far nearly 3 lakh people have been shifted to shelters so far in the state mostly from the districts of South and North 24 Paraganas, East and West Medinipur. “We have already readied several temporary and permanent shelters. Due to COVID-19 they also have to be properly sanitized. I urge people to maintain social distancing during the natural calamity as much as possible,” said Banerjee. She also said that during Bulbul about 1.80 lakh people were evacuated in Bengal. “I got a call from Union Home Minister Amit Shah regarding the cyclone and told him that we are prepared for it,” said Banerjee. NDRF has deployed 19 teams in seven districts of West Bengal. Meanwhile, Banerjee said that on Friday several opposition parties will discuss the COVID-19 situation over video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-braces-for-super-cyclone-amphan-839561.html
19-05-2020||National||CBI warns against banking trojan 'Cerberus'||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday issued a nationwide alert on banking trojan 'Cerberus' that tricks smartphone users into downloading malicious links related to COVID-19 following input from the Interpol. The agency has alerted police forces of states and union territories as well as central agencies about the trojan that presents itself as an update related to the coronavirus pandemic. "This trojan primarily focuses on stealing financial data such as credit card numbers. In addition, it can use overlay attacks to trick victims into providing personal information and can capture two-factor authentication details," the CBI said. According to the agency, the trojan takes advantage of the pandemic and sends a text message to lure a user into downloading the link with malicious software. Once downloaded, the trojan application launches into phishing attacks, to steal data like credit card numbers and other details. Trojan, is a type of malicious code or software that looks genuine but with the capability of taking control of one's computer. A Trojan is designed to damage, disrupt, steal, or inflict harmful action on data or network. The audacity and speed of cybercriminals in attempting to cash in on the pandemic was also seen soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced setting up of PM-CARES to collect funds for COVID-19 and a UPI for payment. Soon after, several fake UPI that is similar to the official ones flooded the cyber space, prompting banks and other official channels to issue warnings. Several fraudulent websites and e-commerce platforms have mushroomed on the internet promising to sell medicines that could either prevent or cure COVID-19 while some others are being fooled to transfer money in the name of treating patients. Investigators have come across trends like cyber criminals sending email links to susceptible people who unwittingly share their password and other details to them. One of the main methods used by the bad actors is creating fraudulent websites, e-commerce platforms, social media accounts and emails claiming that they are delivering medical products at home and ask them to pay via bank transfer.  Earlier, the Ministry of Home Affairs had issued an advisory for those working from home (WFH), asking them to take precautions to ensure that they do not fall victim to cyber criminals. With several offices now resorting to meetings in the virtual world using video Apps and services like Zoom and Google Hangout, the advise is not to share links inviting for meeting publicly or through social media platforms. With people increasingly using computers and laptops while working from home, another advise is that no one should use the same device for work and leisure activities. Always try to use computers and laptops provided by the company for official use instead of personal devices, it had said. Using open or free Wi-Fi network is dangerous, the advisory warned as it recommended changing the default password of home Wi-Fi and admin passwords. Besides advising to change default passwords of all devices and online accounts, updating operating systems and anti-virus applications regularly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-warns-against-banking-trojan-cerberus-839577.html
19-05-2020||National||Cyclone Amphan: Unusually warm Bay of Bengal made it a super storm in 18 hours||An unusually warm Bay of Bengal has fuelled the severity of Cyclone Amphan converting it from an ordinary storm to super cyclone within a span of just 18 hours. The storm will lose some of its steam when it approaches the shore and is likely to make a landfall on Wednesday evening between Digha (West Bengal) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) close to Sundarbans with a speed of 155-185 km per hour. At least 12 districts of West Bengal and Odisha will bear the brunt of it as the two coastal states are set to be rattled by the impending storm. "This is the most intense cyclone - the second super cyclone - which has been formed in Bay of Bengal after 1999. Its wind speed in the sea right now is 200-240 kmph," Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general of India Meteorological Department said here. Weather scientists tracking the storm were surprised by an unusually warm Bay of Bengal, which led to packing of a huge quantity of moisture into the cyclone, making it a big one. "Bay of Bengal recorded surface temperatures of 32-34°C, prior to the cyclone Amphan⁠. We have never seen such high values until now," said Roxy Mathew Koll, a weather scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune. Tropical cyclones draw their energy from the ocean surface and these temperatures can supercharge a cyclone, leading to its rapid intensification. "Cyclone Amphan intensified from a category-1 cyclone to category-5 cyclone in a short span of 18 hours. It evolved into the strongest cyclone ever recorded in the Bay of Bengal," he said. "Clear (cloud free) skies and low wind conditions assist in building high sea surface temperature values. But definitely they are riding on a global warming background. We have not seen such peaks earlier," Koll told DH. On landfall, Amphan's intensity would be somewhat similar to Cyclone Fani (2019) that had a wind speed of (155-215 kmph). It killed 72 persons in India and caused damages worth 120 billion rupees. The IMD has forewarned that gale wind speed reaching 155-185 kmph is very likely along and off east Medinipur and north & south 24 Parganas districts of West Bengal. The wind speed will be marginally less (110-130 kmph) over Kolkata, Hoogli, Howrah and west Medinipur at  the time of landfall. For the north Odisha districts, the wind speed will be in the range of 100-125 kmph. As many as 34 battalions of the National Disaster Response Force have been deployed on the two eastern states whereas another 8 battalions are on standby. Telecom companies have been asked to arrange for power generators so that towers can be brought alive quickly even after electricity failure. The two states have evacuated lakhs of people living in the affected districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-amphan-unusually-warm-bay-of-bengal-made-it-a-super-storm-in-18-hours-839584.html
19-05-2020||National||Gujarat's coronavirus tally crosses 12,000; death toll jumps over 700||Gujarat's death toll from coronavirus crossed 700 on Tuesday after 25 patients died in the past 24 hours that included head nurse of Ahmedabad civil hospital where she was under treatment since May 12. She became the third frontline worker to have died of the deadly virus. Earlier, a policeman and a deputy mamlatdar in Ahmedabad had passed away. Christian Catherin, 56, a head nurse at civil hospital in Asarva, had worked in the COVID-19 hospital from April 26 to May 3. After three days break she was again deployed in the hospital's at B-3 ward. On May 11, she complained of breathlessness and her samples were taken for testing. Officer on special duty, MM Prabhakar told DH that "Catherin was tested positive. She died Tuesday morning." The death toll in the state swelled to 719 with a mortality rate of nearly 6 per cent which is said to be highest in the country. The alarming rate continuous to worry the state government. On the other hand, the state recorded 395 new confirmed cases in the span of 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 12,141. The health department data stated that 239 persons were cured, taking the total number of discharged persons to 5,043. With the state government reopening economic activities in the state, barring those areas falling under containment zones, the cases may see a surge in the state. While government is trying to implement strict social distancing norms, making use of mask compulsory, senior officials said that government is setting up new hospitals for treating COVID-19 patients. Meanwhile, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who is also health minister, visited newly-constructed hospital building located in the campus of civil hospital which is being turned into a COVID-19 hospital. This building was expected to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 22, which was cancelled following virus outbreak.  “The worldwide trend suggests that we all will have to live with the virus for a long time. Therefore, as a precautionary measure, we are going to utilise this building for treating infected persons when the need arises,” Patel told reporters. This hospital building was supposed to treat children with heart ailments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarats-coronavirus-tally-crosses-12000-death-toll-jumps-over-700-839603.html
19-05-2020||National||Serious miscarriage of history undone by changing J-K domicile rules: Jitendra Singh||A serious miscarriage of history has been undone after 70 years with the notification of the new domicile rules by the Jammu and Kashmir administration, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Tuesday. Terming the new rules as dawn of a new era for the Union Territory, he said “history will vindicate us” and prove that this course correction was in keeping with the principle of equality and the norms of a healthy democracy. "A serious miscarriage of history has been undone after 70 years by the Jammu & Kashmir domicile rules notification,” said Singh, the Minister of State for the Personnel Ministry. People belonging to West Pakistan, Valmikis, women marrying outside communities, non-registered Kashmiri migrants, displaced people will soon get domicile under a new set of rules issued by the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday. Singh noted that three generations of people of Jammu and Kashmir had been denied their right to live with justice and dignity, and it was heartening to see this redemption happening in this lifetime. This – notification of new rules -- will prove to be a blessing for future generations, he said. The minister also expressed satisfaction that he and some of his contemporaries got an opportunity to be a part of this exercise, if not wholly, at least in a very small measure. While West Pakistan refugees and displaced persons from Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir (PoJK) have been restored their legitimate rights, Singh said discrimination of several decades has been undone and those who are opposing this move are only exposing themselves to the accusation that for the last 70 years they had been thriving on politics of discrimination. "It is an irony that all India service officers, including IAS and IPS, who devoted 30 to 35 years of their life to serve in Jammu & Kashmir were, at the end of the day, after superannuation, asked to pack up, leave and look for a place elsewhere to settle," he said. This was quite in contrast to the arrangement in several states and UTs where the all India service officers of state cadre are not only allowed to settle but are also provided plots of land for the same, said Singh, who represents Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur in Lok Sabha. Similarly, a gross injustice was being done to the children of these officials who did their entire schooling in Jammu and Kashmir but were debarred from applying for admission to higher education institutions there, the minister said. Singh said, this should be seen as an opportunity for wider exposure and capacity building for children, so that they can prepare themselves to flourish in global India. "It was an anomaly waiting to be corrected and perhaps it was god’s will that it should get corrected only when Narendra Modi takes over as the prime minister of India," he said. Singh also complimented Home Minister Amit Shah for the clarity with which the entire exercise was carried out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serious-miscarriage-of-history-undone-by-changing-j-k-domicile-rules-jitendra-singh-839613.html
19-05-2020||National||Chinese troops resort to aggressive posturing in Ladakh, North Sikkim||Tension is gradually building up between Indian and Chinese armies in several areas in Ladakh and northern Sikkim along the un-demarcated Sino-India border with both sides bringing in additional troops, days after they were involved in two violent face-offs, authoritative sources said on Tuesday. Both the Indian and Chinese armies have brought in more troops in sensitive locations like Demchok, Daulat Beg Oldie and areas around Galwan river as well as Pangong Tso lake in Ladakh, the sources said. The area around Galwan has been a point of friction between the two sides for over six decades. They had a showdown over it in 1962 as well. The sources said both the sides have deployed their troops around Galwan river and Pangong Tso lake -- the two areas where they used to carry out border patrol. It is learnt that Chinese side has erected a sizeable number of tents in the Galwan Valley area following which India is keeping a hawk-eye vigil there. On May 5, around 250 Indian and Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in the Pangong Tso lake area in which soldiers on both sides sustained injuries. In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector on May 9. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries in the incident, according to the sources. Neither the Army nor the Ministry of External Affairs commented on the escalating tension between the two armies. In its reaction to the two face-offs, the Ministry of External Affairs last week said it remained committed to maintaining peace and tranquility along the border with China, noting that such incidents could have been avoided if there was a common perception about the frontier. It is learnt that additional troops have also been rushed to several areas in northern Sikkim as part of their aggressive posturing in guarding the disputed border. A report by China's official media on Monday said Chinese troops have bolstered their border control measures in the Galwan Valley in the Aksai Chin region. The Chinese action followed "India's recent, illegal construction of defence facilities across the border into Chinese territory in the Galwan Valley region," a write-up in the state-run Global Times tabloid said, quoting unnamed military sources. The aggressive posturing by the two sides came amid India's escalating border row with Nepal over construction of a strategically key road linking Lipulekh Pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand. Army Chief Gen MM Naravane last week said Nepal objected to the newly-inaugurated road at the behest of "someone else", in an apparent reference to a possible instigation by China on the matter. Nepal rejected the comments. The Lipulekh pass is a far western point near Kalapani, a disputed border area between Nepal and India. Both India and Nepal claim Kalapani as an integral part of their territory. It was not clear whether Gen Naravane will visit Nepal soon, following a tradition of the new Indian Army Chief visiting Nepal after taking charge. His predecessor Gen Bipin Rawat visited Nepal less than three months after taking charge during which he was conferred the title of honorary general of the Nepalese Army. There is a custom of honouring the army chiefs of Nepal and India by each other keeping with the traditional friendly ties. China on Tuesday said the Kalapani issue is between India and Nepal and hoped that the two neighbours would refrain from "unilateral actions" and properly resolve their disputes through friendly consultations. The 80-km-long strategically crucial road at a height of 17,000 km along the border with China in Uttarakhand was thrown open by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on May 8. The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017 which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control, the de-facto border between the two countries. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas. China has been critical of India's reorganisation of J-K, and has particularly criticised New Delhi for making Ladakh a union territory. China lays claim over several parts of Ladakh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping held their first informal summit in April 2018 in the Chinese city of Wuhan, months after the Doklam standoff. In the summit, the two leaders decided to issue "strategic guidance" to their militaries to strengthen communications so that they can build trust and understanding. Modi and Xi held their second informal summit in Mamallapuram near Chennai in October last year with a focus on further broadening bilateral ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-troops-resort-to-aggressive-posturing-in-ladakh-north-sikkim-839614.html
19-05-2020||National||Indian Railways to operate 200 regular trains from June 1; online ticket booking to start soon||Indian Railways will operate 200 regular trains from June 1 and online advance ticket booking will start soon.  Railways to run 200 non-ac timetabled trains daily from June 1. Everyone can avail these services: Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted.  Tickets will be available only online and no tickets will be sold at railway station. "Passengers need not rush to railway ticket booking counters to book tickets. These 200 non-AC trains will run on all major routes," said railway officials. These trains will have only non-AC second class coaches. However, till the regular train operations resume, Shramik Express, ferrying migrant workers will continue to operate. The railways can operate 200 Shramik Special trains and is ready to scale up the numbers in the coming days, Goyal said. The 15 special Rajdhani trains, which started operation from May 12, will also continue as per the passengers' demand. The Indian Railways will soon announce the 200 trains that will be operational from June 1, said top railway official.   The railway suspended its operations from March 24 as part of the government's effort to fight against COVID-19 pandemic. It halted more than 13,500 trains. The railways also cancelled tickets booked for regular trains till June 30.  However, it continued to operate freight trains to transport essential commodities. Meanwhile, from May 1, the railways started operating Shramik Special trains to ferry migrants and from May 14, the special Rajdhani on 15 select routes to ferry stranded people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-operate-200-regular-trains-from-june-1-online-ticket-booking-to-start-soon-839616.html
19-05-2020||National||Pregnant women, disabled staff with Centre exempted from attending office||Pregnant women officials and staff as well as employees with disability of the central government will be exempted from attending office during COVID-19 lockdown. This was disclosed by the Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh, who said a circular to this effect has been issued. Singh said pregnant women employees who are not already on maternity leave will also be exempted from attending office. Persons with disabilities are also to be given similar exemption from attending office. Government servants who have underlying comorbidities and were undergoing treatment for these ailments before the lockdown, may, as far as possible, be exempted upon production of medical prescription from treating physician, a separate circular said. As per the new guidelines issued for COVID-19 lockdown, pregnant women and people with co-morbidities are not allowed to step out of homes. They have been directed to stay at home, as they are susceptible to the virus infection. On Monday, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) had issued guidelines about functioning of offices under the central government. It said it will function with just around half of its staff during COVID-19 lockdown 4.0 but biometric attendance system will continue to remain suspended. All officers in the rank of Deputy Secretary and above would be attending office while only 50% of staff below the rank of Deputy Secretary will be attending work till May 31. The rest of the staff will work from home and should be available over phone, according to an order issued by Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT). "All Heads of Department shall also ensure that the 50% of officers and staff who attend office observe staggered timings," it said. The first batch of staff would work from 9 AM to 5:30 PM, the second from 9:30 AM to 6 PM and third from 10 AM to 6:30 PM. So far, only 33% staff below the rank of Deputy Secretary were allowed to come to office while all senior officers were coming to workplaces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pregnant-women-disabled-staff-with-centre-exempted-from-attending-office-839639.html
19-05-2020||National||Ayush Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha gets two years extension||Ayurveda expert Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha has got two years extension as the secretary, Ministry of Ayush, according to an official order issued on Tuesday. The move assumes significance as the Ayush Ministry has been recommending traditional medical system and prescriptions based on it to boost immunity in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the extension of tenure of Kotecha for a period of two years, beyond June 28, 2020, the Personnel Ministry order said. He was in 2017 appointed special secretary in the Ministry of Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) for three years. Kotecha took over as the Ayush secretary in October 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayush-secretary-vaidya-rajesh-kotecha-gets-two-years-extension-839650.html
19-05-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh: Over dozen migrant workers injured in collision between two trucks||More than a dozen migrants labourers including a child were gravely injured when a truck carrying about 45 of them collided head-on with another truck in Bilhaur area near here on Tuesday, police said. The incident occurred in Nanamau, just two kilometres away from Bilhaur Police Station, when the truck with the migrant labourers was on the way to West-Bengal from Haryana. Circle Officer (Bilhaur) Devendra Mishra reached the accident site and rescued the injured individuals and admitted them to the hospital. The injured have been admitted to Community Health Centre, Bilhaur, police said. On Saturday, a trailer truck carrying sacks of lime and 43 people rammed into a stationary truck with a number of migrant workers sitting in it on the national highway in UP's Auraiya. The death toll in the road accident rose to 27 with another man succumbing to injuries on Monday. A total of 36 labourers were injured in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-over-dozen-migrant-workers-injured-in-collision-between-two-trucks-839654.html
19-05-2020||National||Harsh Vardhan set to be WHO Executive Board chairman: Officials||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who is at the forefront of India's battle against COVID-19, is set to take charge as the chairman of the WHO Executive Board on May 22, officials said on Tuesday. Vardhan would succeed Dr Hiroki Nakatani of Japan, currently the Chairman of the 34-member WHO Executive Board. The proposal to appoint India's nominee to the executive board was signed by the 194-nation World Health Assembly on Tuesday, officials said on condition of anonymity. His taking over the post seems to be a formality after the decision that he will be India's nominee as the WHO's South-East Asia group had unanimously decided last year that India would be elected to the executive board for a three-year-term beginning May. Vardhan would be elected at the Executive Board meeting of the World Health Organisation on May 22, the officials said. The chairman's post is held by rotation for one year among regional groups and it was decided last year that India's nominee would be the Executive Board chairman for the first year starting Friday. It is not a full time assignment and the minister will just be required to chair the Executive Board's meetings, an official said. The Executive Board is composed of 34 individuals technically qualified in the field of health, each one designated by a member state elected to do so by the World Health Assembly. Member States are elected for three-year terms. The Board meets at least twice a year and the main meeting is normally in January, with a second shorter meeting in May, immediately after the Health Assembly. The main functions of the Executive Board are to give effect to the decisions and policies of the Health Assembly, to advise it and generally to facilitate its work. Addressing the 73rd World Health Assembly via video conferencing on Monday, Vardhan had said India took all the necessary steps well in time to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. He had asserted that the country has done well in dealing with the disease and is confident of doing better in the months to come. India is set to take over the chairmanship of the Executive Board amid growing calls, including by US President Donald Trump, to investigate how the coronavirus originated in China's Wuhan city and subsequent action by Beijing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-set-to-be-who-executive-board-chairman-officials-839658.html
19-05-2020||National||87% Indians feel country managed coronavirus crisis well: Survey||About 87 per cent of Indians feel that their country has managed the COVID-19 crisis well, placing the country at the third place among 23 countries, according to a new survey. According to Blackbox Research and Toluna survey, COVID-19 did not have a hugely negative impact on national mood. "An overwhelming 87 per cent of Indians felt that their country has managed the crisis well... With an index score of 59, India is tied for third place with the United Arab Emirates amongst 23 countries in the study," the survey pointed out. It said that more than half of Indians rated their national leaders favourably amid the crisis, with 69 per cent satisfied with their top national political leaders. According to the survey, 45 per cent of Indians felt business leaders responded well in the COVID-19 crisis, above the global average and placing India in the top five. Moving forward, it said one of the top things Indians want most post-crisis is better pandemic technology for contact tracing in future crises. With an index score of 85, China tops the list with the most citizens rating its performance favourably across all four indicators, followed by Vietnam in second with an index score of 77. New Zealand (56) is the only Western country with an index score,  higher than the global average – indicating that citizens in Western countries are generally less satisfied with their countries' performances, the survey said.  On the other end of the index, Japan ranks last with an index score of 16, due to its perceived poor political performance and business leadership, as well as lacklustre community performance, it added. Countries like Hong Kong (27) and South Korea (31) also fared poorly with its citizens.  Globally, only seven out of the 23 countries' political leaders were rated highly for their crisis response by at least 50 per cent of its citizens. Japan emerged last on the list, with only 5 per cent of its citizens rating their leaders' responses favourably. Blackbox Research and Toluna carried out an online nationally representative survey of 12,592 people across 23 countries, aged between 18 to 80.The survey was conducted during April 3-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/87-indians-feel-country-managed-coronavirus-crisis-well-survey-839667.html
19-05-2020||National||'Amphan': LS speaker Om Birla urges MPs from West Bengal, Odisha to monitor relief work||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Tuesday spoke to more than a dozen MPs from Odisha and West Bengal, and urged them to ensure all possible help to people in coastal districts in view of the impending super cyclonic storm 'Amphan' . "Spoke on phone to MPs of affected areas regarding Cyclone Amphan in the Bay of Bengal. Urged them to sensitize people in the affected areas. Also, impressed upon them to monitor relief & rescue measures so that they timely reach to those affected,” Birla said in a tweet. The speaker also informed them about the arrangements being made by the agencies concerned for rescue work and safety of the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amphan-ls-speaker-om-birla-urges-mps-from-west-bengal-odisha-to-monitor-relief-work-839674.html
19-05-2020||National||No invasive technique be adopted for forensic autopsy in COVID-19 death cases: ICMR||Invasive technique should not be adopted for forensic autopsy in COVID-19 death cases as mortuary staff are exposed to potentially dangerous health risks due to organ fluids and secretions even after taking the highest precautions, the ICMR said on Tuesday. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in its 'Standard Guidelines for Medico-legal autopsy in COVID-19 deaths in India', said, "It will prevent the spread of infection to doctors, mortuary staff, police persons and all the people in chain of dead body disposal." According to the guidelines, the deaths in hospital and under medical care due to coronavirus infection is a non-MLC case and doesn't require postmortem examination and the required certification of death will be done by treating doctors.  Bodies of suspected COVID-19 patients, which are brought to hospital, may be labelled as medico legal cases by the doctor in emergency and it will be sent to mortuary and police will be informed, which may necessitate a medicolegal autopsy for clarity in the cause of death.   "The forensic autopsy of these cases may be waived off," the guidelines said. In some homicidal, accidental or suicidal death cases, the deceased may be COVID-19 confirmed or suspected. If the patient dies in hospital, the clinical records and all other relevant documents may be sent along with the body for forensic autopsy.    After the inquest procedure, if any crime is not suspected, police have the authority to waive off conduction of medico-legal autopsy, even though labelled as medico-legal case. "The investigating police officer must proactively take steps to waive off unnecessary autopsies during such pandemic situation," the guidelines said. As per the procedure of conducting forensic autopsy, "...along with external examination, multiple photographs and verbal autopsy (as depicted by WHO)...post-mortem should be conducted strictly avoiding any invasive surgical procedures and avoiding splashing of body fluids contact for staffs, body handlers and doctors conducting post-mortem."  According to the guidelines, if COVID-19 test report is awaited, the body must not be released from a mortuary until the final report is received and after the formalities, it must be handed over to the district administration.  "At no time, more than two relatives must be present near the body and they must maintain a distance of at least one meter from the body. The body must be identified through the plastic bag, without opening the bag, and it must be done in the presence of law enforcing agencies," it said. "The body must be taken to the burial/cremation ground in presence of law enforcing agencies, where not more than five relatives of the deceased should be allowed," it said.   These guidelines are based on the current understanding about modes of transmission of COVID-19 sensitivity of the diagnostic tests, international autopsy guidelines and knowledge about infrastructure and logistic strength of common mortuaries in India, the document stated. Complete personal protective equipment (PPE) has to be used while shifting the body in the mortuary if it involves direct handling of the body by the staff.  The body should be packed in a double packing in a leak-proof zipped transparent plastic body bag, which is locked properly to avoid spillage of any fluids.       The existing mortuary facility for body storage should be strictly divided into COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 bodies. Incase of burial, upper surface should be cemented and earmarked. The body must be cremated in electric crematorium, wherever possible, so that the movement and handling of the body is minimised, the guidelines stated.   Religious rituals, which require touching the bodies, should be avoided like bathing, kissing and hugging of the dead bodies, the document said, adding that the ash does not pose any risk and can be collected to perform the last rites. The document lists a series of FAQs like over how many days is the infectivity period of COVID-19 from a dead body, in response to which the ICMR said the coronavirus infection is a respiratory infection and mainly spread through aerosols. "As per the available scientific literature till now, the survival of virus gradually decreases with time in a dead body but there is no specific time limit after to declare the body non-infective. So, it is advisable to adopt the necessary precautions while handling the body and non-invasive autopsy technique," it said. As for the protocol to do autopsy in a COVID-19 suspected dead body with negative RT-PCR result, the apex health research body said, "Considering the relatively high rate of false negative results of COVID-19 RT-PCR, every case still has to be considered as a possible COVID-19 case. "Thus, it is advisable to follow non-invasive autopsy in these cases throughout the duration of pandemic," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-invasive-technique-be-adopted-for-forensic-autopsy-in-covid-19-death-cases-icmr-839679.html
19-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Non-BJP states lock horns with Centre over 'relief'||As Lockdown 4.0 began on Monday with states having greater say, a tussle is building up between states and the Centre with many chief ministers from the Opposition training guns on the latter. The latest sparring was over the Centre’s decision to link borrowing limits for states to fulfil four conditions including ease of doing business, bringing in power reforms and one-nation-one-ration card linkage. The move was criticised by Tamil Nadu, Kerala and West Bengal and Rajasthan while NDA-ruled Bihar, which had sought relaxation in borrowing limits, kept quiet.  Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Issac took to Twitter accusing the Centre of having set a “bad precedent” while Mamata Banerjee opposed it vowing to protect the federal structure. Tamil Nadu CM E Palaniswami shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi slamming the conditions. The issue, which revived the charge of the Centre going against the spirit of federalism comes after a massive war of words broke out between Centre and state governments. Many Opposition leaders and chief ministers have accused the Centre of laying the blame on states’ doors for the failures. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh accused Centre of acting as ‘Maai Baap government’, telling it that many of the announcements made by Centre require Parliamentary approval. “Modi government is acting as a mai-baap sarkar to state governments. Tax devolutions and statutory grants to state governments are now passed off as generous support,” Ramesh said. Hitting back at Railway Minister Piyush Goyal over his charge that several states like West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand are not giving permission for Shramik Special trains to enter their states, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said he was not surprised to see this statement as “they are skilled in passing their failures on to state governments”. Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik was the only non-NDA Chief Minister who said the package will mitigate the distress of working classes and suggested that the Centre come out with National Standard Operating Procedure for rebooting economic activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-non-bjp-states-lock-horns-with-centre-over-relief-839320.html
19-05-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi's office accuses UP govt of playing politics over Congress' offer to provide buses for migrants||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's office on Tuesday said the Uttar Pradesh government has demanded that the 1,000 buses the party wants to ply for ferrying migrant labourers back to the state be handed over in Lucknow this morning and alleged that the move is politically motivated. It also alleged that the demand shows that the UP government lacks the intention to help those stranded at the state's borders. The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday had accepted the Congress' offer to run 1,000 buses to bring migrant labourers back to the state, a proposal which had triggered a war of words between the two sides. In a letter to Additional Chief Secretary Avneesh Kumar Awasthi, Priyanka Gandhi's private secretary Sandeep Singh said a letter was received from the UP official at 11.40 am via email, in which it has been stated that 1,000 buses with all documents be handed over at Lucknow by 10 am on Tuesday. "In a situation when thousands of workers are walking on the streets and thousands of people have gathered at the UP borders at various registration centres, sending 1,000 empty buses to Lucknow is not only a waste of time and resources but is also inhuman and the product of an anti-poor mindset," Singh said in the letter in Hindi. "This demand of your government seems politically motivated. It does not seem that your government wants to help our labourer brothers and sisters who are facing a disaster," the letter said. The state government had asked Priyanka Gandhi, who had made the offer, to provide it with a list of buses along with the names of their drivers and conductors. Subsequently, her private secretary Singh had given details of the buses and its drivers to the UP government in an email. "All details of the 1,000 buses are attached with this e-mail. Out of them, a few drivers will be reverified and those details will also be mailed to you in a few hours. I hope you will give permission for those buses to ply as soon as possible," Singh had said in the communication to the UP government on Monday. The Congress leader had recently written to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, seeking permission to run 1,000 buses at her party's expense. The party had then accused the BJP-run UP government of ignoring the offer. "The offer made to the chief minister through the letter on May 16 in connection with migrant labourers has been accepted," Additional Chief Secretary Awasthi (Home and Information) had said in a letter to Priyanka Gandhi's private secretary. A little later on Twitter, Priyanka Gandhi, who is the Congress general secretary in charge of eastern Uttar Pradesh, had thanked Adityanath. "Thank you for allowing us to run 1,000 buses at the expense of the Congress to help thousands of brothers and sisters walking on the roads in Uttar Pradesh," she had tweeted in Hindi. She had said the Congress will stand with these people during the difficult time they face. In a television interview earlier on Monday, Adityanath accused the Congress of playing politics over the plight of migrant workers. Singh in his letter on Tuesday also expressed surprise at the chief minister, saying his government was demanding the details of buses since the last three days and asserted that the details were provided immediately after the letter from the UP government was received in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhis-office-accuses-up-govt-of-playing-politics-over-congress-offer-to-provide-buses-for-migrants-839369.html
19-05-2020||National Politics||Amit Shah speaks to Mamata Banerjee and Naveen Patnaik, assures all help for super cyclone 'Amphan'||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday spoke to chief ministers of West Bengal and Odisha -- Mamata Banerjee and Naveen Patnaik respectively -- and assured them of all possible help to deal with the situation arising out of the super cyclone 'Amphan', officials said. During the telephonic conversation with Banerjee, Shah took stock of the situation in West Bengal, where the cyclone is expected to make landfall on Wednesday. The home minister assured the chief minister of all possible help to deal with the situation arising due to the cyclone 'Amphan', a home ministry official said. In his phone call with Patnaik, Shah reviewed the situation in Odisha and assured him of the necessary assistance from the central government to tide over the situation. Cyclone "Amphan" developed into a super cyclone over the Bay of Bengal on Monday and has the potential to cause extensive damage in the coastal districts of West Bengal when it makes landfall, the government had said. This is the second super cyclone over the Bay of Bengal in two decades. The cyclone is expected to make landfall on the West Bengal coast in the afternoon of May 20 between Digha in West Bengal and Hatia island in Bangladesh as an extremely severe cyclonic storm with wind speeds ranging up to 195 kmph. It has the potential to cause extensive damage in the coastal districts of West Bengal, the government said. 'Amphan will cause heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of West Bengal, it added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, along with the home minister, on Monday had reviewed the situation arising from the cyclone and assured of all possible assistance from the central government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-speaks-to-mamata-banerjee-and-naveen-patnaik-assures-all-help-for-super-cyclone-amphan-839450.html
19-05-2020||National Politics||Auto rickshaw, car numbers in Cong list of buses for migrant workers: UP govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday said the list of 1,000 buses offered by the Congress to ferry migrant workers contained registration numbers of two-wheelers and cars, fuelling a war of words between the two sides. The Congress, however, challenged the UP government to conduct a “physical verification” of the buses it has brought to the state’s border to take UP’s stranded workers home. Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya accused the party of coming up with a scam. "The Congress has got trapped in its own net of deceit,” he tweeted in Hindi. The UP government’s claim reignited the row over the offer made on May 16 by Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to provide 1,000 buses for migrant workers. The Congress initially claimed that the state’s BJP government was ignoring the offer with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath even refusing to give an appointment to a party delegation seeking a meeting. Even while accusing the Congress of playing politics over the plight of workers heading home after the coronavirus lockdown, the UP government on Monday formally accepted the offer. It asked the Congress to submit a list of the buses, and its drivers and conductors. But that was not the end of the row. In an email received by Priyanka Gandhi’s private secretary at 11.40 pm Monday, the Uttar Pradesh government asked the opposition party to send the buses to Lucknow by 10 am on Tuesday, according to the Congress. The aide wrote back to the UP government saying that sending empty buses to Lucknow was “inhuman” and the “product of an anti-poor mindset” when thousands of workers are gathered at UP’s borders. "This demand of your government seems politically motivated. It does not appear that your government wants to help our labourer brothers and sisters who are facing a disaster," the letter in Hindi said.  UP's Additional Chief Secretary (Home & Information) Awanish Awasthi responded to the Congress letter, agreeing to take charge of the buses at the border itself. "As per your letter dated May 19, you have expressed your inability to provide buses in Lucknow and want to provide them in Ghaziabad and Noida," he wrote. He asked 500 of the buses to be stationed at Kaushambi and Sahibabad bus stands, where the Ghaziabad district magistrate will take charge of them. He said the other 500 buses should be parked at the ground near the Expo Mart in Gautam Buddh Nagar, and handed over to the district magistrate there. Awasthi said directions have been issued to the district magistrates to make use of the buses immediately after checking the permits, fitness, insurance and driving licences of the crew. Later, the state government said the list of 1,000 buses contained registration number of other vehicles, reigniting the row over buses. "In the list of buses provided by the Congress, there are motorcycles, three-wheelers, an ambulance and private cars, Mrityunjay Kumar, media advisor to the chief minister, said. He listed out the registration numbers of an ambulance, a car and four three-wheelers. He said the details were retrieved through mParivahan, an app that allows people instant access to such information. A UP Congress spokesperson challenged the claim. "There are 1,000 buses. If the UP Government has any doubts about them, then they can conduct a physical verification of the vehicles at the state's border," he said.  Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya accused the Congress of running another “scam”. "The ‘bus ghotaala' (bus scam) now is the latest addition to the Bofors, 2G, Coalgate and Commonwealth Games (scams),” he tweeted in Hindi. “The Congress is making fun of labourers by providing details of autorickshaws and motorcycles in the name of buses. Misleading people by telling lies is in the DNA of the Congress party," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/auto-rickshaw-car-numbers-in-cong-list-of-buses-for-migrant-workers-up-govt-839460.html
19-05-2020||National Politics||Opposition leaders to discuss plan to 'expose' Modi's alleged mishandling of coronavirus situation||Top leaders of around 20 Opposition parties, including Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Uddhav Thackeray, Mamata Banerjee and Sitaram Yechury, will meet on Friday through video conference to discuss a strategy to "expose" the Narendra Modi government's "mishandling" of the COVID-19 situation, "inadequate" financial package and "bulldozing" of states. Congress president Sonia will chair the virtual meeting, first of its kind since the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, during which the top leaders are expected to discuss the way ahead for the Opposition in presenting a united face while taking on the Modi government. At least 18 parties have confirmed their attendance while three more -- BSP, AAP and JD(S) -- are likely to provide their acceptance to the invitation to the meeting. Sources said Samajwadi Party is unlikely to attend the meeting despite an invitation extended to them. Those attending the meeting include CPI General Secretary D Raja, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren, RJD chief Tejashwi Yadav, RLD's Ajit Singh, LJD's Sharad Yadav, Hindustan Awam Morcha's Jiten Manjhi, RLSP's Upendra Kushwaha and Swabhiman Paksha's Raju Shetti among others. Leaders of AIDUF, Muslim League, Kerala Congress and RSP will also attend. Sources said the meeting would discuss the government's COVID-19 response and its lacunae, states being bulldozed by the Centre on COVID-19 response, trampling upon the federal structure and the Rs 20,000 lakh crore financial package announced by the government, including raising the fiscal deficit limit to 5% but with conditions. The meeting will help the leaders to analyse the political situation in the country and draw a strategy to "expose" the Modi government's "inadequate" response to COVID-19. "Arbitrariness of the central government is making it difficult for states," a senior Trinamool Congress said. The leaders will also be discussing the migrant workers' problem and job-loss during their meeting. Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel is coordinating with Opposition leaders for the meeting, which has been in the works for sometime. Trinamool Congress and CPI(M) too had pitched for such a meeting in the past two months. Congress recently said that the Opposition parties should work together to oppose the government's financial package, which has been detrimental to the interests to the country. West Bengal Chief Minister Banerjee also had written to Chief Ministers early in March to work together. CPI(M) General Secretary Yechury wrote to top Opposition leaders, including Sonia and DMK chief Stalin, to come together to find a common ground of fighting the government as well as for a "pro-people" financial package. Sources said the leaders decided to meet on Friday after taking into consideration that the West Bengal administration would be busy in handling the super cyclone situation on Wednesday and the death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi falls on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-leaders-to-discuss-plan-to-expose-modis-alleged-mishandling-of-coronavirus-situation-839471.html
19-05-2020||National Politics||Congress calls opposition parties' meet on migrants workers' plight, changes in labour laws on Friday||The Congress has called a meeting of like-minded opposition parties on Friday to discuss the plight of migrant workers and the changes in labour laws by some states, sources said. Congress president Sonia Gandhi will chair the meeting of leaders of opposition parties, the sources said on Tuesday. Around 17 opposition parties have agreed to participate in the meeting which will be held via videoconferencing. The Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party have not yet confirmed their participation, they said. Rendered jobless due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, which began on March 25, and desperate to get home, thousands of migrant workers across the country are undertaking long and arduous journeys to their native places on foot, on bicycles or packed into trucks. Many of them have been killed in accidents in different parts of the country. The Opposition has criticised the government over its handling of the migrant crisis. The Congress and other opposition parties have also attacked the Centre for allowing BJP-ruled states of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat to amend labour laws to lure foreign investors and "to strip workers of their basic rights". These changes include exempting industrial units from labour welfare statutes, allowing them to take steps such as increasing daily and weekly working hours of workers, and depriving workers of their right to move court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-calls-opposition-parties-meet-on-migrants-workers-plight-changes-in-labour-laws-on-friday-839492.html
19-05-2020||National Politics||Mamata confirms participation in Opposition meeting on Friday to discuss COVID-19 crisis||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Tuesday confirmed her participation in the opposition parties' virtual meet convened by the Congress to discuss the COVID-19 situation and the impact of the lockdown. The Congress has called a meeting of like-minded parties on Friday to discuss the plight of migrant workers and the changes in labour laws.  "Yes, there will be a meeting of opposition parties on Friday evening through videoconferencing to discuss the present COVID situation and the lockdown impact. I will be there," she told reporters here. Various opposition-ruled states have criticised the Centre over its handling of the migrant crisis. Rendered jobless due to the coronavirus lockdown, which began on March 25, thousands of migrant workers across the country are undertaking long and arduous journeys to their native places on foot, on bicycles or packed into trucks. Many of them have been killed in accidents in different parts of the country.  A senior TMC leader said, "The way the Centre had been trying to pin the blame on states for everything is unacceptable. It is due to the Centre's sudden imposition of lockdown, the country is facing this migrant crisis. "Like-minded opposition parties will meet via video conference on Friday at 3 pm to discuss the next steps that could be taken to deal with the crisis in a better way."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-confirms-participation-in-opposition-meeting-on-friday-to-discuss-covid-19-crisis-839507.html
19-05-2020||National Politics||'Missing' posters target Kamal Nath, LS MP son in Chhindwara||Posters proclaiming senior Congress leader Kamal Nath and his Lok Sabha MP son Nakul Nath missing and offering a Rs 21,000 reward appeared in their stronghold Chhindwara in Madhya Pradesh amid the nationwide lockdown for the novel coronavirus. While the former MP CM is MLA from Chhindwara, his son won the Lok Sabha polls from here in 2019. "Chhindwara's public is looking for their missing MP and MLA during this crisis. A reward of Rs 21,000 will be given to the person who bring them here," the posters, put up in several places here with the images of the two, read. A line from a Hindi film song that goes 'Chitthi na koi Sandesh' was also written on the posters to drive home the point of the Nath duo being "incommunicado". Local Congress leaders submitted a memorandum to the police about the posters, with Chhindwara Kotwali police station in charge Vinod Kushwaha stating that action will be taken after a probe. Meanwhile, BJP leader Pankaj Chaturvedi, a close aide of former Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, told PTI Kamal Nath and Nakul Nath were offering a lot of knowledge about coronavirus threat to the people these days. "But how much work are they doing at the ground level? The problem is that Kamal Nath is busy fighting an internal battle in the Congress. So he has no time for Chhindwara. They will reach their constituencies only when polls are around," he said. Hitting back, MP Congress media coordinator Narendra Saluja told PTI the BJP should state how many times Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan visited his Assembly seat Budhni during the outbreak, adding that the latter had not stepped out of capital Bhopal even once. "Both Kamal Nath and Nakul Nath are in touch with the people in Chhindwara. Both are in a red zone at present and can't move out from there. This is BJP's misinformation campaign," he said. Last week, similar 'missing in action' posters had come up in Bhopal targeting its BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/missing-posters-target-kamal-nath-ls-mp-son-in-chhindwara-839533.html
19-05-2020||National Politics||BJP, UP CM indulging in 'cheap politics'; not allowing our buses to ferry migrants: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday accused the BJP and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of indulging in "cheap politics" by not allowing its buses to ferry migrants stranded at the borders. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala urged Adityanath to come to the aid of migrants and immediately grant permission to 1,000 buses made available by the Congress in this regard and not "create hurdles instead". He also accused the chief minister of being insensitive and inhumane by embroiling migrants in cheap and petty politics. "Kindly put a stop on cheap politics and not be insensitive and inhumane towards the plight of migrants. Kindly allow buses to ply migrants home and help them instead of embroiling them in cheap and petty politics," Surjewala told a press conference through video conferencing. Another spokesperson Surpriya Shrinate alleged that RTOs were now threatening bus owners of buses made available by the Congress and said on the one side the Uttar Pradesh government was giving permission and on the other it was creating hurdles. "This is clear double standards," she said. Congress leader Rajeev Shukla said the Uttar Pradesh government was insensitive towards migrants' plight and was unnecessarily creating hurdles in ferrying them safely back home. Another party leader Rajeev Satav said it is clear that the BJP governments at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh were only indulging in cheap politics and this was an example of their "failed governance". There has been a back and forth exchange of communication over plying of 1,000 buses to ferry migrants home, after the Congress made available a list of buses, but the Uttar Pradesh government sought their inspection in Lucknow and then at Gautam Budh Nagar and Noida. The Uttar Pradesh government has also alleged that some of the bus numbers given by the Congress are of two-wheelers and three-wheelers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-up-cm-indulging-in-cheap-politics-not-allowing-our-buses-to-ferry-migrants-congress-839538.html
19-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Uddhav Thackeray govt bungled up, says BJP; Demands relief package||Lashing out at the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra for its inability to handle the COVID-19 pandemic crisis, the BJP on Tuesday demanded that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray must announce a relief package. A delegation led by Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis also called on Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and highlight the plight of people. "We are in a highly alarming situation because of gross negligence of MVA government," he said. Fadnavis, a former Chief Minister, noted that NCP supremo Sharad Pawar had demanded a package for people from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The Centre has announced its package.... Pawar saab should also write a similar letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister to declare a package for the state," he said. Fadnavis, who among others was accompanied by former ministers Vinod Tawde and Ashish Shelar, said that Maharashtra accounts for 30 to 33 per cent of the positive cases in India and 40 per cent of the deaths. "We are in the financial capital... the situation is bad... we do not have adequate beds, we don't have the required number of ambulances," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-uddhav-thackeray-govt-bungled-up-says-bjp-demands-relief-package-839540.html
19-05-2020||National Politics||Congress, Yogi Adityanath in letter war over buses for migrants||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra appeared to have stumped Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath with an offer to ferry migrant workers to their villages onboard 1,000 buses organised by the opposition party. A bitter letter war broke out between Priyanka and the Uttar Pradesh government, even as a convoy of 600 buses waited for “orders from Lucknow” to enter the state from adjoining Congress-ruled Rajasthan to ferry migrant workers to the safety of their homes. The Congress to ply buses for migrants came against the backdrop of the directives from Congress President Sonia Gandhi to pay for rail fare of the migrants who were charged for travel on board the Shramik Special trains run by the Railways at the request of state governments. The UP government and Priyanka’s office exchanged nine letters within the past three days working out the modalities of deploying the buses in Uttar Pradesh for migrant workers who have set out on foot to their village in absence of adequate transport. Caught by surprise, the UP government hit back at the Congress accusing it of supplying a list registration numbers of auto rickshaws and motor bikes when asked to submit details of the 1,000 buses it intended to deploy in Uttar Pradesh. UP Minister Siddharth Nath Singh said in Lucknow the Congress deserved condemnation for this kind of “fraud and forgery”. Congress leader Rajiv Shukla admitted that some errors might have crept in while submitting details of 1,000 buses to the UP government and asked it to allow a fleet of 600 buses lined up at the Uncha Nagla along the UP-Rajasthan border near Agra. “Yogi Adityanathji, you can put BJP banners and your own photographs on the buses, but do not reject our offer to serve the migrants as three days have already been lost in this politicking,” Priyanka said as UP Congress leaders staged a demonstration at Uncha Nagla, demanding that the buses be allowed to pass. The UP government first asked the Congress to send the buses to Lucknow and after protests amended the order asking the opposition party to hand over the buses to district magistrates of Noida and Ghaziabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-yogi-adityanath-in-letter-war-over-buses-for-migrants-839590.html
19-05-2020||National Politics||The politics of train: No one wants to miss the bus||Well those who are trained in politics understand the politics of training well. A full blown political war brew over the Shramik Special train issue before the Centre decided to go for a change of rules in running these on Tuesday. Home Minister Amit Shah as well as Railway Minister Piyush Goyal have been alleging that Mamata Banerjee-ruled West Bengal (where elections are due in 2021) is not giving consent for running the Shramik special trains even as lakhs of migrants were stranded. Shah had written a letter to Banerjee a fortnight back saying that now allowing migrants trains to go to the state is “injustice” accusing her of not cooperating with the Centre to ensure that migrants reach home. Banerjee had hit back raising the issue in the Prime Minister’s video conference interaction with Chief Ministers on April 11, wondering how the letter written to her by the Centre got leaked to the media even before reaching her. Her party accused the Home Minister of resorting to ‘bundle of lies to mislead people after failing to discharge his duty during the Corona crisis.” Later Railway Minister Piyush Goyal over his charge that several states like West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand (all ruled by Opposition parties Trinamool Congress, Congress and JMM) are not giving permission for ‘Shramik Special’ trains to enter their states. Hitting back Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said he was not surprised to see the statement by the Railway Minister and said the BJP ministers are “skilled in passing their failures on to state governments.” Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said that at the very onset, Goyal saying Chhattisgarh had demanded 10 special trains is a “lie” as the state had made a demand for 30 trains and that there are no pending permission or consent for any train from Chhattisgarh government. The Congress’ Chief Minister also alleged that the BJP-rule Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka and Jammu and Kashmir (under central rule) have not given their consent yet to Chhattisgarh for running the special trains and asked “whose government is in all these states.  The successive lockdowns announced by the central government starting March 25 has seen lakhs of migrants on roads moving even on foot and walking for weeks to reach their homes, which later forced the government to run special trains and special buses to ferry them back home as massive tragedies occurred like 16 migrants labourers walking down a railway track in Mumbai mowed by a train and more than two dozen labourers killed in road accident in Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh, whose images haunted the national psyche. Seeking to play a contrast in approach of BJP government of UP and TMC government of West Bengal, the national in-charge of social media BJP Mahila Morcha Priti Gandhi said, “just to put things in proper perspective, where Uttar Pradesh govt has given approval to nearly 800 Shramik special trains for migrants labourers, West Bengal govt has given the nod to only 19 trains so far.” “Reason for the chaos & migrants having to bear severe hardships is because migrant-heavy states have approved very few trains - Chhattisgarh only 19 trains, Rajasthan only 33 trains & Jharkhand only 72 trains. Odisha has also suspended trains to coastal areas due to cyclones. Even Bihar is not allowing more than 50 trains per day while the requirement is of 200 trains per day. The states with maximum migrant population are subtly blocking their entry back inside. It's important to understand the reason behind the chaos before blaming the Centre!,” she said. According to 2011, the total number of migrants is 45.36 crores with huge migration of people in search of jobs from Hindi heartland and adjoining states of West Bengal and Odisha. These migrant votes have a pattern and despite working elsewhere, they go back to their state of origin to cast votes. In last West Bengal assembly polls, political parties of the state had arranged special trains from cities like Delhi to bring them back to vote. BJP is betting big in West Bengal in next year state polls after recording a nine-fold jump in the number of its MPs from the state (from 02 in 2014 to 18 in 2019). Congress is seeking a revival in Uttar Pradesh and hence Priyanka Gandhi has been in forefront of taking up migrant issues there. Bihar, which goes to polls in October this year has also seen a big fight on migrant issues in the state with Congress and RJD attacking the ruling NDA dispensation there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/the-politics-of-train-no-one-wants-to-miss-the-bus-839601.html
19-05-2020||National Politics||J P Nadda cites SC's order on Arnab Goswami plea to attack Congress||Hitting out at the Congress, BJP president J P Nadda said on Tuesday that the Supreme Court's order and observations on pleas filed by senior journalist Arnab Goswami sends a "strong message" that the opposition party should shed its "Emergency mindset" and respect democratic ideals.    "The COVID-19 situation in Maharashtra is worrying and I hope the Congress devotes its energies towards curing people rather than silencing journalists. The people of India are watching the misadventures of the Congress and will keep punishing them for its highhandedness," Nadda said in his tweets.    The reaction from the BJP chief came after the apex court refused to quash the initial FIR against Republic TV Editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami over his news show on the Palghar lynching but gave some relief by setting aside related multiple FIRs and complaints holding they had a "stifling" effect on the exercise of freedom and expression.    Observing that free citizens cannot exist when the news media is chained to adhere to one position, the court said journalistic freedom lies at the core of the fundamental right to free speech and India's freedom will rest safe as long as journalists can speak to power without being chilled by a threat of reprisal.   Nadda said, "Today, the Hon'ble SC has made important observations. The Court's observations should make the perpetrators of the Emergency, the assaulters of free speech and tramplers of media freedom- the Congress Party - introspect and change their style of functioning." "Regarding the bogus FIRs filed to trouble Arnab Goswami, SC recognised yet again the journalist's right to free speech and quashed multiple FIRs. It stated 'India's freedom will rest safe as long as journalist can speak to power without being chilled by a threat of reprisal," he said.   The BJP leader put out parts of the court's order to slam the opposition party.     The SC, he noted, quoted author Yuval Harari's remarks that "Questions you cannot answer are usually far better for you than answers you cannot question."   The BJP president said there is a strong message to the Congress in the above quote.     "The Congress should shed its Emergency mindset and respect democratic ideals," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/j-p-nadda-cites-scs-order-on-arnab-goswami-plea-to-attack-congress-839633.html
19-05-2020||National Politics||Centre doing politics over migrants' issue: Sachin Pilot||Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Tuesday accused the Centre of doing politics over the issue of migrant labourers and derided it for not coming up with a concrete policy to help the workers, even after weeks of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Pilot, who is also the Rajasthan Congress chief, said the party along with the state government has sent back hundreds of labourers to their homes and will provide financial help and food to those stranded in different parts of the country away from their homes. "The central government should work together (with the states) to wipe the tears of migrant labourers. It should ensure that the labourers reach their homes. They are disappointed, unemployed and running short on food," the deputy chief minister said. "Labourers are getting exhausted. So many weeks have passed, but no concrete policy has been formulated by the central government so far. In Rajasthan, the state government and the party together have sent back hundreds of labourers to their homes and lakhs of migrants want to come back to Rajasthan," Pilot told reporters after visiting a camp of migrant labourers at Kamla Devi Budhia School, Hirapur here. Accompanied by Transport Minister Pratap Singh, he interacted with the migrants at the camp. The deputy chief minister also distributed food items among the migrants and instructed officials to ensure that they reach their native places safely in buses. Criticising the Centre's economic stimulus package of Rs 20 lakh crore, Pilot asked how much money will go into the hands of the migrant workers. "Workers want to go to their villages. How much money has the government earmarked for them? It is just like a loan fair, take a loan and keep repaying later. This is a dual policy," he said. On Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman describing senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's interaction with a group of migrant labourers in Delhi as "dramebaazi", Pilot said the remark was condemnable. He said, "Sharing someone's grief, helping someone, arranging buses for them... when did it become a show-off?" "We should be united in this time of crisis but the central government and their leaders are doing politics over these workers by making uncalled for statements," he said.  The Congress party arranged buses to ferry home labourers but the Uttar Pradesh government did not give permission. When party leader Priyanka Gandhi gave a public statement, the government asked the party to send the buses to Lucknow, Pilot claimed. "This is condemnable. Instead of coming together to help the needy in this time of crisis, they are dilly-dallying," he said. Pilot said no one could have imagined that the workers of the country would have to bear such a huge burden of the struggle against the coronavirus pandemic. He, however, acknowledged that the spread of coronavirus in villages as migrant workers return home will be challenging to deal with. "We have to stop the infection in containment and red zones. We have developed strict protocol at state, district and panchayat levels. Every public representative and officer is engaged so that the infection does not spread in the villages," he said. Pilot, who is also the rural development and panchayati raj minister, said the migrants returning to Rajasthan will be provided jobs under rural employment generation scheme MGNREGS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-doing-politics-over-migrants-issue-sachin-pilot-839660.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||CRPF jawan, policeman injured in encounter with militants in Srinagar||Two security forces personnel were injured in an encounter with militants in the Nawakadal area here on Tuesday, police said. A police official said the encounter began after security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the area following inputs about the presence of militants there. A CRPP jawan and a Jammu and Kashmir Police personnel were injured in the firing by militants, police said. The encounter began around 2 am and there was a lull in firing for about five hours after that. A fresh contact was established with the militants around 8 am, they said. The official said mobile internet and mobile telephony services, except on BSNL postpaid, have been snapped in the city as a precautionary measure. Earlier, Kashmir Zone Police, on its official Twitter handle, said, "#Encounter has started at #Kanemazar #Nawakadal area of #Srinagar. JKP and CRPF are on the job. Further details shall follow." Police said the encounter was on and further details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-jawan-policeman-injured-in-encounter-with-militants-in-srinagar-839315.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Three killed as truck carrying migrants overturns in UP's Mahoba||A truck carrying migrant labourers overturned on the Jhansi-Mirzapur highway, leaving three women dead and 17 others injured, police said on Tuesday. The accident took place late on Monday night at Mahuva crossing in Mahoba district, SP, Mahoba, Mani Lal Patidar, said on Tuesday. The labourers had come on foot from Delhi and had boarded the truck near Harpalpur along the UP-MP border, the SP said. The truck overturned into a roadside ditch after a tyre burst, killing three women on the spot, the SP said. The deceased were aged between 30 and 38 years. The injured have been admitted to a government hospital. The truck has been seized and investigations are on, the SP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-killed-as-truck-carrying-migrants-overturns-in-ups-mahoba-839340.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Osmanabad museum in Maharashtra to be shifted to bigger building soon||The Ramligappa Lamture Museum in Maharashtra's Osmanabad district will soon be shifted to a new bigger building having a capacity to showcase around 45,000 historical artefacts, an official said. This will be one of the biggest museums in Maharashtra, state archaeology department director Dr Tejas Garge told PTI on Monday, on the occasion of the International Museum Day. As of now, the museum has a collection of nearly 25,000 artefacts. Of these, only about 1,100 artefacts are on display which are dating back to early history, including many recovered from excavations at Ter village in Osmanabad which was an international trade centre during the Satavahana period, another official said. "The state government has sanctioned Rs 16 crore for the museum. The new building, having a capacity to display around 45,000 artefacts, is currently under construction and the museum will be ready there for visitors in next three to five years," Garge said. It will have an exclusive collection of artefacts from the ancient history period, mostly Satavahana, he said. "The museum is located at a very rich excavation site of Ter. Here we have found evidences of trade between the region and the Roman empire during early history period. This will surely be a study centre for history students," he said. A well of early historical period was also found recently at the site where the new museum building is being constructed, another official said. "It has a unique brickwork and we have kept it intact," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/osmanabad-museum-in-maharashtra-to-be-shifted-to-bigger-building-soon-839352.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Public transport resumes in Delhi after nearly 2 months of coronavirus lockdown, distancing norms in place||Public transport resumed in Delhi on Tuesday with buses, auto-rickshaws and taxis plying on the road, albeit with a limited number of passengers, after a gap of nearly two months due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The Delhi Transport Corporation and Cluster buses resumed services with social-distancing norms and safety measures in place like use of sanitisers and masks to check the spread of the deadly coronavirus. "We are trying to run as many buses as possible. But, many buses are under special hire and also some of our drivers and conductors living in the NCR cities are finding it difficult to join the duty. The situation will improve in coming days," a senior transport officer said. He said no major issues have been reported since the bus services resumed in the morning, except in some areas where people had to wait for a bit longer, he said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Monday announced relaxations in curbs, including reopening of public transport with social-distancing norms, during the extended lockdown that is slated to end on May 31. "In a bus, only 20 passengers will be allowed to travel. The Transport Department will have the responsibility to maintain social distancing during travel and at bus stops," he had said. The chief minister had said drivers of taxis, auto-rickshaws and cabs will have to disinfect the sitting area of passengers after every trip. Maxi cabs can ply with five passengers and RTVs with 11, he had added. The bus and other public transport services were shut in the last week of March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/public-transport-resumes-in-delhi-after-nearly-2-months-of-coronavirus-lockdown-distancing-norms-in-place-839372.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||22,000 migrants return to Chhattisgarh so far by Shramik special trains||As many as 22,000 migrant workers have returned to Chhattisgarh from different states by Shramik Special trains till Monday, an official said. The first train as part of the service arrived in the state on May 10. Since then, 22,000 migrant labourers stranded in various parts of the country due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown have returned home by 15 such trains till Monday, a state public relations department official said. So far, 2,73,935 people, including 2,51,867 labourers, from Chhattisgarh who are stuck in various parts of the country have registered on the online platform provided by the state government for their return, he said. Till now, the Chhattisgarh government has given consent to run 45 special trains after coordinating with the states concerned to bring back these stranded people. The state government has also paid around Rs 2 crore to the Railways as travel fare to ferry 34,284 people in 23 trains, he said. Apart from trains, more than 60,000 migrant workers have returned to Chhattisgarh by other modes of transport and even on foot, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/22000-migrants-return-to-chhattisgarh-so-far-by-shramik-special-trains-839375.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi reports 500 new COVID-19 positive cases; May alone accounts for 2/3rd cases||Six more deaths were added to the toll, taking the total to 166. A total of 4,750 people, including 265 new discharges, have recovered from COVID-19 since the first case was reported in the capital on March 2.  According to the latest medical bulletin, 5,650 people are still under treatment, including 2,261 in home isolation. In May alone, 7,039 people have tested positive for COVID-19, which is 66.69% of the total cases. The number of cases that originated in Delhi could be actually high, if one adds migrant workers tested positive for the virus infection after leaving Delhi for their home states after May 1. At least 8% of the total cases in Bihar are among migrant workers who recently returned from other states, including Delhi, travelling via Shramik special trains and other modes. A total of 1.45 lakh samples have been tested so far, including 6,127 fresh samples. On May 14, Delhi had reported 472 cases, the previous highest for a single day while on May 15, 425 cases were recorded. On May 16, it was 438 and 422 on May 17. On May 18, the cases were 299. Delhi had crossed the 1000-mark on April 11 when it registered 1,093 cases. It took eight days from April 19 (2,003 cases) to cross the 3,000-mark. It took just five days from April 27 (3,108 cases) to add another 1,000 cases to cross the 4,000-mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-reports-500-new-covid-19-positive-cases-may-alone-accounts-for-2/3rd-cases-839396.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Run more trains, buses to transport migrant workers, MHA tells states||With tens of thousands of migrant workers still struggling to reach their homes, the Centre has asked states to allow plying of more 'Shramik (Labourer) Special Trains' and buses for transporting them to ensure that no one hits the roads on foot. The revised Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for train travel was issued on Tuesday while Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla shot off a letter to states a day before urging the states to take pro-active measures, including increasing the number of buses and allowing entry at inter-state borders.  "District authorities may be directed to request the Ministry of Railways for running trains, where required and ensure that no migrant worker has to resort to walking on roads or railway tracks to reach his destination," Bhalla said. The states should set up designated rest places, taking into account the requirement of sanitation, food and health. Migrant workers should be told that there will be no long quarantine at rest places. There should be pro-active coordination between the states and Railways on running more trains. The Railways should run permit more special trains in consultation with the Ministry of Home Affairs. In the letter and SOPs, the Railways has been asked to provide the stoppages and destination of trains in advance to states so that suitable arrangements are made in states. All passengers should be screened and only asymptomatic passengers should be allowed to board the train. States should also collect the addresses and contact numbers of migrant workers, which could be helpful in contact tracing. District administrations should also make adequate arrangements for food, healthcare and counselling to encourage workers to remain at places where they are.  There should be "more clarity about the departure of trains and buses, as clarity coupled with rumours caused unrest amongst workers"," Bhalla said in his letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-run-more-trains-buses-to-transport-migrant-workers-mha-tells-states-839404.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Women SHGs make 39 lakh masks, 10000 litre sanitiser in Chhattisgarh||Women self-help groups in Chhattisgarh have so far produced over 39 lakh face masks and nearly 10,000 litres of hand sanitisers to cater to the increased demand of these items following the coronavirus outbreak, an official said on Tuesday. Nearly 7,625 women from 2,165 self-help groups (SHGs), associated with the government-run Chhattisgarh State Rural Livelihood Mission, are engaged in preparing masks in 27 districts of the state since last two months, the mission's Chief Operating Officer Alice Lakra told PTI. The process was started in the last week of March, just after the lockdown was enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus. Till Monday, these SHGs have made 39,08,811 masks. Out of this, maximum masks were manufactured in Koriya district (4,10,290), followed by Rajnandgaon (3,74,943), Bemetara (3,50,705) and Gariaband (3,12,550), Lakra said. These masks are being supplied to the health department, municipal corporation, police, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and other government departments, and also being sold in open markets in several places at affordable prices of Rs 10 to Rs 20 each, she said. Besides, the masks are being provided to labourers engaged in work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and forest dwellers involved in tendu leaves collection, she said. "Of the total produced masks, so far 36.37 lakh masks worth Rs 4.52 crore have been sold," Lakra said. These cloth masks are three-layered as per the World Health Organisation (WHO) standard and washable, she said. "The production is being done on the basis of requirement orders placed by various departments. Besides, we are also planning to tie-up with some leading medical and grocery stores in all districts to ensure easy availability of masks to the public," Lakra said. She also informed that 9,964.5 litres of sanitisers have been manufactured by 44 SHGs in 13 districts. Of the total quantity, 7,690.35 litres of sanitisers worth Rs 32.07 lakh have been sold till Monday, she said. The SHGs are also making pattal and dona (disposable plates and bowls made of dry leaves and paper), and supplying them to quarantine centres for serving meals to migrants who are kept there as a precautionary measure before being allowing to go home, she said. "The SHGs are contributing in a major way in the battle against coronavirus. They are not only making protective items but also making people aware in their vicinity about the importance of personal hygiene and social distancing to avoid transmission of coronavirus, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/women-shgs-make-39-lakh-masks-10000-litre-sanitiser-in-chhattisgarh-839407.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Son of Geelani’s successor among two Hizbul militants killed in Srinagar||In a huge success for security forces and a jolt to militants, Hizb-ul-Mujahideen top commander Junaid Sehrai, son of hardline Threek-e-Hurriyat chief Ashraf Sehrai, was killed along with his associate in old city Srinagar on Tuesday. A policeman and three paramilitary CRPF personnel, including an officer, were also injured in the encounter which broke out during the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday at congested Nawa Kadal area of Srinagar. Sources told DH that it was Junaid’s mobile phone which led security agencies to him. “Two weeks ago, he was traced to Kangan area in Ganderbal district where he came with two militants. He used their mobile hotspot. By the time search was launched, he fled,” they said. On Monday, too, Junaid was in Srinagar for a meeting. J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh confirmed the killing of Junaid, who had figured in the list of top 10 most wanted militants last week after the killing of Hizbul chief Riyaz Naikoo on May 6. He identified the second slain militant as Tariq Ahmed Sheikh from Pulwama district of south Kashmir. “The first thing we did in the morning was to evacuate the inmates. In that process, two forces personnel—one from CRPF and another from J&K police were injured. In the final assault, the remaining militant hurled a grenade in which two CRPF men sustained injured,” he said. Addressing a hurriedly called press conference, here, Singh said Junaid was tasked to lure local youth into militancy and for grenade throwing in Srinagar. “He would hold meetings with the youth and lure them towards militancy,” he said. The police chief said less than 240 militants were active in Kashmir as 73 ultras were killed this year so far. Reports said several structures in the area were damaged after the house where the militants were hiding caught fire due to shelling by the security. This was the first encounter in Srinagar post Abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year. Mobile internet and mobile telephony services, except on BSNL postpaid, were snapped in Srinagar as a precautionary measure. This is for the first time that son of any senior separatist leader of the stature of Sehrai has been killed in Kashmir. Sehrai junior, an MBA from Kashmir University actually hails from Tikipora village in northern Kupwara, where from Mannan Wani, a scholar of Aligarh Muslim University, who was killed last year by security forces after joining the Hizbul. The two were reportedly friends. Junaid’s killing comes as another jolt to the Hizbul after the killing of Riyaz Naikoo earlier this month. He was recently appointed deputy chief of Hizbul after Naikoo’s killing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/son-of-geelani-s-successor-among-two-hizbul-militants-killed-in-srinagar-839408.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Rs 16,000 cr transferred tp acounts of poor, labourers in MP: CM||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said despite the states economy collapsing" due to COVID-19 outbreak, the government has transferred over Rs 16,000 crore into the accounts of the poor, labourers and farmers to ease their hardships. In a televised address on Monday night, Chouhan also said that migrant labourers need not worry as arrangements were being made to send them home by buses and trains. "The state's economy has collapsed due to coronavirus, but we have transferred more than Rs 16,000 crore into the poor, labourers, farmers, children, among others, so that no section of the society has to face any problem," he said. He said more than 91 trains and thousands of buses have been deployed to transport migrant workers to their native places. "The government is also making arrangements for their food, ration and jobs. Labourers without ration cards are also being given free ration. Job cards are being made available to those labourers who want to work. The government has decided that these labourers will be eligible for (benefits under) the Sambal Yojna, Chouhan said. The Sambal Yojna is aimed at strengthening the lives of poor by providing them social security cover. "We are also taking full care of labourers of Madhya Pradesh stranded in other states. We will not allow them to walk or go to sleep hungry in the state. Every labourer is being transported to the border of the state and about 1,000 buses are engaged daily in this work," Chouhan said. Facilities like food, tea, snacks are being provided to them. Along with the governance and administration, public is also treating them like guests and social organisations are providing them shoes and slippers, he said. Noting that there have been some accidents during the movement of labourers, he said an assistance of Rs 5 lakh each has been provided to families of all workers who died after being run over by a goods train in Aurangabad (Maharashtra). Besides, Rs 14 lakh has been given to families of labourers killed in an accident at Barwani in the state.  Chouhan also said that Rs 1 lakh each will be given to labourers from other states who die in accidents in Madhya Pradesh, and Rs 25,000 each will be given to those injured.   On relief to farmers, he said over 90 lakh metric tonne of wheat has been purchased on support price in the state and payments worth over Rs 10,000 crore has been made to cultivators. "Farmers need not worry at all, the government will purchase every grain of their crop," he said, adding that procurement of gram, lentil and mustard on support price is also in progress. Cultivators should go to procurement centres to sell their produce only after receiving the SMS, and maintain two yards distance from each other and adopt all safety measures to stay protected against COVID-19, he said. The government has also re-implemented the system of providing crop loans to farmers at zero per cent interest, Chouhan said. Recently, crop insurance amount worth Rs 2,290 crore has been transferred to the accounts of 15 lakh farmers of the state, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rs-16000-cr-transferred-tp-acounts-of-poor-labourers-in-mp-cm-839413.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||J&K: 55-year-old man dies of COVID-19 in Baramulla||A 55-year-old man, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died at a hospital here on Tuesday, taking the coronavirus death toll in Jammu and Kashmir to 17, officials said. The man from Baramulla district in north Kashmir died at Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) hospital this morning, Medical Superintendent, SKIMS Soura, Dr Farooq Jan told PTI. He said the patient died of cardiac arrest. The man was a cancer patient and had tested positive for coronavirus, Dr Jan said. With his death, the number of COVID-related deaths in Jammu and Kashmir has risen to 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-55-year-old-man-dies-of-covid-19-in-baramulla-839415.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Going back to roots, daily life innovations in focus at Rancho's school in Leh during lockdown||Going back to roots, learning about local art and culture, at-home fancy dress competitions and innovations to make daily life easy are among the assignments for students at the '3-Idiots' fame 'Rancho's school' during the COVID-19 lockdown as all of them do not have access to Internet in hilly terrains of Leh. With schools being closed due to lockdown in order to contain coronavirus spread, Druk Padma Karpo School is conducting some classes using smart phones but it plans to repeat that syllabus when regular classroom learning resumes as not many students have access to Internet. "We cannot conduct proper online classes like being done in many parts of the country. Some of our students stay in very hilly terrains where there is no Internet or even calling facility at times, so whatever we are covering on classes through smartphones, we will repeat that once regular classroom teaching resumes. Therefore, we are focusing on non-academic activities more which students can do as per their own pace," school principal Mingur Agmo, told PTI over phone. "We have given assignments to students about how they can explore local art and culture during the lockdown. Students have been asked to learn a local art which is losing its popularity now, write essays about the culture, food, maintain scrap books, learn local language, among other activities," she added. Students have also been asked to come up with innovations which make daily life easy and also make masks to distribute them among the needy.     "We conducted an at-home fancy dress competition with theme of ‘My Ladkah my culture’. Students were asked to dress up in traditional dresses and share pictures with us whenever they have access to Internet. And the entries are still pouring in. Similarly, we are also conducting a virtual talent hunt,” said school teacher Rajeev Nirup.   "Students have come up with different innovations like baskets which can be hanged outside the house for newspaper man to drop in it to avoid direct contact, touch free sanitiser dispensers and more things which make daily life easy," he added.   The 19-year-old school shot to fame after it featured in the Aamir Khan-starrer '3 Idiots'.   The wall of a building on its campus was featured in the closing of the film in which one of the characters, Chatur, tries to urinate on but gets an electric shock as two kids dangle a wire with a bulb from the first floor.   While the 'iconic idiotic wall' -- part of a building which was damaged in the 2010 flash floods still remains on the campus, the first floor, earlier made of bricks, has been replaced with wooden structures typically used in Ladakh.   In 2018, the school decided to relocate the "Rancho’s wall" which became a photo spot for tourists to ensure students don’t get distracted due to inflow of visitors.   Universities and schools across the country have been closed and exams postponed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak.   Later, a 21-day nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day. It has now been extended till May 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/going-back-to-roots-daily-life-innovations-in-focus-at-ranchos-school-in-leh-during-lockdown-839422.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Collect only tuition fees, Delhi HC tells two private schools||The Delhi High Court has directed two private schools here not to collect from students any amount other than the tuition fees that too as per rates prevailing prior to October 31 last year. Justice Rajiv Shakdher also directed the schools, both in south Delhi, to pay salaries of staff and teachers at rates presently prevailing. The directions came on the schools' plea challenging the Directorate of Education's (DoE) April 22 finding, that the two institutions had illegally hiked fees and compelled parents to pay that along with arrears, and its recommendation to lodge an FIR against the management and seal the premises. The court issued notice to the Delhi government, the police and the DoE on the plea and sought their stand by June 8. It asked the school management or officials to join the police investigation into authenticity of some e-mails sent to the two schools allegedly by the DoE allowing them to hike their fees. The DoE has lodged a complaint with police regarding the e-mails, the court noted and directed the Cyber Cell to file a report with regard to genuineness of the e-mails. The court further directed the police that, meanwhile, no coercive steps be taken against the schools' management till the next date of hearing on June 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/collect-only-tuition-fees-delhi-hc-tells-two-private-schools-839442.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||New Jammu and Kashmir domicile rules will give 'long due' rights to refugees, KPs: BJP President J P Nadda||The BJP on Tuesday hailed the new domicile rules notified in Jammu and Kashmir, with its president J P Nadda saying they will give the "long due" rights to all refugees as well as to Kashmiri Pandits living outside the union territory. People belonging to West Pakistan, Valmikis, women marrying outside communities, non-registered Kashmiri migrants and displaced people will soon get domicile under a new set of rules issued by the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday. "The new domicile rules gazetted in J&K are a welcome step. This will give the long due rights to all refugees incl those from West Pak, SC workers from rest of India settled in J&K for decades, children of KPs living outside J&K to claim domicile now. Equality & Dignity for all," he said on Twitter. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra noted that the Jammu and Kashmir government has now notified new domicile rules. "The domicile rules notified now replace the erstwhile J&K permanent resident rules that stood abrogated along with the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A. This is something that India had long waited for," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-jammu-and-kashmir-domicile-rules-will-give-long-due-rights-to-refugees-kps-bjp-president-j-p-nadda-839452.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||9 migrant labourers killed in road accident in Bihar||Nine migrant labourers were killed on Tuesday when the truck carrying them overturned in an attempt to avert a head-on collision with a bus in Bihar's Bhagalpur district, police said. The incident happened around 6 am on National Highway-31 near Ambho chowk, Naugachhia Superintendent of Police Nidhi Rani said. The workers had started their journey on bicycles six days ago from Kolkata and they might have boarded the truck somewhere en route, the officer said. The driver and cleaner of the truck, which was coming from West Bengal via Katihar district in Bihar, fled from the spot, she said. Identities of some of the labourers have been ascertained from official documents, the officer said, adding, they hailed from East and West Champaran districts. Some of the passengers of the bus, which was on its way to Banka from Darbhanga, received minor injuries and were administered first aid at a nearby hospital, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-migrant-labourers-killed-in-road-accident-in-bihar-839486.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||142 fresh coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh; total count at 4,748||With 142 people testing positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, the number of such cases rose to 4,748 in Uttar Pradesh, officials said. "A total of 4,748 cases have been reported so far in the state from 75 districts, of which 1,847 are active (in 72 districts) while 2,783 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. Till now, 118 deaths due to the disease have been reported in the state," Principal Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters. He said as many as 6,870 COVID-19 tests were conducted across Uttar Pradesh on Monday, adding that the state is also ramping up its pool-testing facility. "We are emphasising on surveillance and over 3.23 crore people have been surveyed by 81,695 teams in Uttar Pradesh. Those having symptoms (of COVID-19) have been given the required treatment," Prasad said, adding that the Aarogya Setu mobile application is being used and alerts are being sent to people. "We have made 20,768 calls on the basis of the alerts generated by the app and 181 people have been quarantined, while 50 have tested positive for coronavirus," he said. The official said the migrant workers coming from other states are being monitored by health workers. "Over 4.76 lakh people have been screened, 565 of them showed symptoms of coronavirus and their samples were sent for testing. Of those, the reports of 117 have come and 26 people have tested positive," he added.  "The positivity percentage in migrants is 22.2, while in the state, it is 2.6," Prasad said. Of the 118 deaths due to COVID-19, 27 were in Agra, 19 in Meerut, 11 in Moradabad, eight each in Aligarh and Kanpur, five in Gautam Buddh Nagar, four each in Sant Kabir Nagar, Firozabad, Mathura and Jhansi, three in Varanasi and two each in Mainpuri and Ghaziabad.  One death each has been reported from Lucknow, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Basti, Bijnor, Prayagraj, Jalaun, Pratapgarh, Amroha, Bareilly, Shrawasti, Azamgarh, Etah, Kanpur Dehat, Mahoba, Kushi Nagar and Lalitpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/142-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-total-count-at-4748-839489.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||If Congress actually has 1,000 buses, it should send them to Lucknow: Mayawati||If the Congress has buses, it should send them to Lucknow, where a large number of people are waiting to go home, BSP president Mayawati said on Tuesday, amid a war of words over Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's offer of 1,000 buses to ferry migrants. Earlier, hours after the Uttar Pradesh government asked the Congress to provide the buses to the district magistrates of Ghaziabad and Noida, a fresh argument broke out between them over claims that the list submitted by the party contained registration numbers of ambulances, three-wheelers and cars. In a series of tweets in Hindi, the Mayawati said, "The BSP wants to say that if the Congress party actually has 1,000 buses, there should be no delay in sending them to Lucknow because migrant labourers in large numbers are eagerly waiting here to go home." On Monday night, the UP government had asked the Congress to send the buses to Lucknow, drawing a sharp reaction from Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's private secretary, who recalled that the party had sought permission to run 500 buses from the Ghazipur border in Ghaziabad and 500 from the Noida border, where a large number of migrants had gathered. He also questioned the relevance of bringing the empty buses to Lucknow. The BSP president, in another tweet on Tuesday, appealed to the central government to take positive steps to send migrant workers home safely by buses and trains at its expense, keeping in mind the economic condition of the states and for the sake of humanity.  "It is also necessary to ask the state governments to make proper arrangements for food and lodging of migrants in their respective states and send them home in buses and trains," she said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/if-congress-actually-has-1000-buses-it-should-send-them-to-lucknow-mayawati-839508.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Lockdown 4.0: More vehicles on roads, heavy traffic at some places especially city borders||With relaxations being granted for public movement during the fourth phase of the lockdown, there was a significant increase in the number of vehicles on roads and traffic remained heavy at some places, especially the city borders. In the morning hours, there were some traffic snarls at the Noida border as police asked for passes from motorists. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters travelling to Noida to plan their trip only if their vehicles have movement passes issued by the authorities concerned. "As U.P. police is allowing entry to NOIDA only for vehicle heaving movement pass issued by D.M. NOIDA. People travelling from Delhi to Noida using Kalindi Kunj barrage flyover and DND flyover may plan their trip accordingly," it tweeted. A senior Uttar Pradesh Police official said scores of people thronged the Delhi-Noida border Tuesday morning. "We are checking every vehicle but sometimes it becomes very difficult due to the numbers of vehicles. People with valid passes are being allowed.  "However, if someone does not have a pass and is carrying some important items like medicine, they are also being allowed," he said. The official said there were some who had come out only to roam in the area and they were sent back with a warning. According to a Delhi Traffic Police officer deployed at the Noida border, most of the vehicles were going from Delhi to Noida in the morning. The scenario will change in the evening when people will return to their homes, he added. Public transport resumed in Delhi on Tuesday with buses, auto-rickshaws and taxis plying on the road, albeit with a limited number of passengers. The Delhi Transport Corporation and Cluster buses resumed services with social-distancing norms and safety measures in place like use of sanitisers and masks to check the spread of the deadly coronavirus. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday had announced relaxations in curbs, including reopening of public transport with social-distancing norms, during the extended lockdown that is slated to end on May 31. Senior police officers said over 2,000 traffic police personnel have been deployed on the ground to ensure the smooth flow of vehicular movement across the city and at the adjoining bordering areas. In the wake of relaxations during the phase four of the lockdown, the volume of vehicles on the roads increased significantly and to manage the movement of traffic, the focus is being laid on regulation in junction management, said Special Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Taj Hasan. "We have had our presence on pickets earlier but now with the increase in vehicles on the roads, we have also deployed our staff on traffic junctions for regulations to ensure smooth movement of traffic and no jams," he said. Several pickets of traffic police personnel, Hasan said, have been deployed across the city and at the bordering areas. On the eastern border alone, at least 16 pickets from the department have been deployed to control traffic, he added.  Since rules were being strictly followed at the UP border and many commuters were not allowed entry, those who were on the stretch of Kalindi Kunj were asked to take a U-turn, due to which there was a heavy traffic movement, Hasan said. Traffic officials said even though the volume of vehicles has increased across the city but no reports no major jams have been reported so far. Pranav Mishra, a media professional who has been commuting to Delhi from Nodia on a daily basis since the lockdown began on March 25, said heavy traffic jams are being witnessed near the Ghazipur landfill site as the flyovers have been closed and there is heavy barricading of roads as well. There are heavy jams at toll plazas due to which commuters end up waiting in snarls for about 30-40 minutes at the border while returning from Delhi in the evening hours, he said. "In the morning hours too, there is a long wait due to the barricading and toll plazas at the check points, and in the evening, between 6-8:30 pm, since the flyovers are closed, the only entry point which is available is from near the Ghazipur landfill site. "With the number of vehicles increasing on the road and intensified checking for movement passes by the concerned officials on, there was further delay in the movement of vehicles across the border this morning," he added. Another commuter, Gaurav Singh, who works in Noida, said, "I was going to my office from Delhi after almost two months. There was a huge traffic during the peak hours in the morning. I somehow managed to reach office and I am sure that the traffic will create issue in the evening also." "I didn't get any conveyance from Sector 49 in Noida. I somehow managed to reach the border and I have to go to New Delhi railway station. I have to board a train for Jhansi at 4 pm," a man said, who did not wish to be named, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-40-more-vehicles-on-roads-heavy-traffic-at-some-places-especially-city-borders-839514.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Six Uttarakhand districts in orange zone, seven in green||The Uttarakhand government has classified six of its 13 districts as orange zone and the rest in green besides deciding to implement the odd-even traffic formula for private vehicles in seven of its major cities. As per the guidelines issued by the state government late on Monday night, Dehradun, Uttarkashi, Pauri Garhwal, Almora, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar are in orange zone, while Haridwar, Tehri Garhwal, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar and Champawat are in the green zone.  Seven major cities where the odd-even traffic rules will have to be followed by private vehicles during the fourth phase of the lockdown are Dehradun, Haridwar, Roorkee, Kotdwar, Rudrapur, Haldwani and Kashipur. The decision has been taken to ensure fewer vehicles on the road between 7 am and 4 pm, Chief Secretary, Utpal Kumar, Singh said. All shops will remain open from 7 am to 4 pm in the orange and green zones barring malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls and restaurants, he said. However, restaurants can operate their home delivery services. Barber shops, salons, spas and parlours will also be open but educational institutions will remain closed. No movement of people or vehicles will be allowed from 4 pm to 7 am, he said.  District magistrates have been authorised to identify the containment and buffer zones in their respective areas in the light of the Ministry of Home Affairs latest guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-uttarakhand-districts-in-orange-zone-seven-in-green-839522.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: COVID-19 cases in Indore rise to 2,637; death toll reaches 103||As many as 72 more people tested positive for coronavirus in Indore in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of such cases in the Madhya Pradesh district to 2,637, an official said on Tuesday. Besides, two COVID-19 patients, both women aged 70, died in different hospitals here in the last three days, raising the death toll in the state's worst hit district to 103, Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia said. The two victims were already suffering from diabetes and some other chronic diseases, he said. Indore reported 2,565 COVID-19 cases till Monday, but with 72 more people testing positive for the deadly viral infection in last 24 hours, the tally rose to 2,673, he said. Over 50 per cent of total COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh have been reported from Indore alone. The coronavirus outbreak was first reported in Indore, the state's industrial hub, on March 24 when four persons tested positive for the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-covid-19-cases-in-indore-rise-to-2637-death-toll-reaches-103-839526.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||2 rape accused test positive for coronavirus in Punjab||Two men, facing rape charges, have tested positive for coronavirus here, police said on Tuesday.           The duo aged 27 and 25 years were arrested in two separate cases of rape registered at Haibowal Police Station and Civil Lines Police Station respectively, said police. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sachin Gupta said a police sub-inspector, two assistant sub inspectors and five constables who came in contact with the accused have been quarantined for 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-rape-accused-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-punjab-839537.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||UP government bearing expenses to bring migrant workers home, states should not charge them: CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday asked other states not to charge train fares from its migrant workers as his government was the bearing the expenses. Uttar Pradesh has arranged trains from different states to bring back migrant labourers and workers willing to return. The state is bearing all expenses for it, the chief minister said at a high level review meeting with senior officials here. Till now, the state government has brought back more than 16 lakh migrant labourers and workers safely. As many as 656 ‘Shramik Special’ trains have brought 8.52 lakh migrants. In the next two days, 258 more trains will come. This way, a total of 914 trains have been arranged, Adityanath said. Around 12,000 buses of the UP State Road Transport Corporation have been arranged for taking migrants to their home districts. Besides, 200 buses have been given to every district magistrate, he said. The chief minister said 16 lakh more migrants could arrive and keeping this in mind, there was a need to make proper arrangements for quarantine centres and community kitchens, and directed the officials in this regard. Asking them to further strengthen the quarantine centres and the community kitchens, Adityanath directed that CCTV cameras be installed at these facilities. He asked for continuing the home delivery system in containment zones and sanitisation of hotspot areas and the homes of all those undergoing quarantine. Every house in a hotspot area should be sanitised, the chief minister said, calling for increased patrolling during the lockdown on highways, expressways and in market areas. The chief minister said for patrolling in rural areas, help of home guards and ex-servicemen below 60 years of age should be taken and it should be ensured that there is no crowding anywhere. He said that testing labs should be set up in every district and asked for increasing their testing capacity. The chief minister directed that only ICMR-approved labs should conduct tests of COVID-19. He said a senior official should be sent to assist chief medical officers in every district. For checking road accidents, the police and the Transport department should work in coordination with each other, the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-government-bearing-expenses-to-bring-migrant-workers-home-states-should-not-charge-them-cm-yogi-adityanath-839567.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Next 25-30 days will be crucial for containing COVID-19: Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said the next 25-30 days will be extremely crucial for containing the spread of coronavirus in the light of the easing of curbs and opening up of the economy. Singh directed the police to ensure strict compliance of COVID-19 safety protocols, including social distancing and wearing masks. "The next 25-30 days will be extremely crucial for containing the spread of the coronavirus in view of the sudden opening up of the economy, as well as office/commercial activity after a 55-day curfew," the chief minister said in a statement here. He asked the police to continue with their hard work and commitment to maintaining the high levels of adherence to protocols and restrictions that had helped the state keep the spread of the pandemic in check. "We cannot let all the benefits of all the work done by you in the past 55 days and sacrifices made by the people of Punjab go waste due to any complacency on our part now," he added. Last week, Singh had announced that while curfew will be lifted in Punjab with effect from May 18, the lockdown will continue till May 31. In line with the guidelines issued by the Centre, the state has also allowed a host of relaxations in non-containment zones, with local buses also starting to ply in a phased manner. Singh has also ordered strict enforcement of restrictions which bar people from moving out between 7 pm and 7 am, except for medical or essential needs, in accordance with the Centre's guidelines for lockdown 4.0. The relaxations have been provided to the people for their ease and convenience as they had suffered immense hardships during the curfew period, he said, but made it clear that no deviation from protocols and restrictions would be tolerated. Acting on the directives of the chief minister, Director General of Police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta asked all commissioners of police (CP) and district police chiefs across the state to register FIRs and impound vehicles, or issue challans, in case of any violation of the lockdown restrictions. "We should send a strong message to enforce various restrictions stringently," Gupta told his officers. All senior superintendents of police and CPs have been asked to ensure that people compulsorily wear masks while stepping out of their homes, the DGP said. They have been directed to enforce strict social distancing not just at shops, offices, banks and liquor outlets, but also in vehicles, as well as public and private transport buses. Under the new guidelines, vehicles can ply within the state, except in containment zones, subject to strict protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/next-25-30-days-will-be-crucial-for-containing-covid-19-punjab-chief-minister-amarinder-singh-839569.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: 4 migrant labourers killed in separate road accidents in Uttar Pradesh||Four migrant labourers were killed in separate road accidents in Uttar Pradesh's Mahoba and Banda districts, police said on Tuesday. As many as 18 others were injured in the two incidents, they said. In Mahoba, three persons were killed and 17 others injured after a truck carrying migrant labourers overturned on the Jhansi-Mirzapur highway, the police said.  The accident took place late on Monday night at Mahuva crossing in the district, said Mahoba Superintendent of Police (SP) Mani Lal Patidar. The labourers had come on foot from Delhi and boarded the truck near Harpalpur along the Uttar Pradesh-Madhya Pradesh border, he said. The truck fell into a ditch after one of its tyres burst, killing three women on the spot, according to the SP. The deceased were aged between 30 and 38. The injured have been admitted to a government hospital, he said, adding that the truck has been seized.  In Banda, a labourer was killed and his friend injured after the motorcycle they were travelling on rammed into a stationary tractor-trolley, the police said. The duo was going to Deoria in Uttar Pradesh from Surat in Gujarat, they said. The deceased was identified as Brijpal Singh (32), a resident of Surat. The injured was identified as Munna, the police said. The body has been sent for post-mortem, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-4-migrant-labourers-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-in-uttar-pradesh-839576.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Punjab's coronavirus tally crosses 2,000 mark||The number of COVID-19 cases in Punjab on Tuesday crossed the 2,000-mark with 22 more people testing positive for the disease in the state, officials said. A 34-year-old man suffering from coronavirus died in Pathankot, pushing the COVID-19-related death toll to 38 in the state that has had 2,002 coronavirus cases so far. The resident of Mamoon in Pathankot succumbed to coronavirus at a hospital in Amritsar on Monday, a health official said, adding that he was also suffering from tuberculosis. Twenty-two more people tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the total count of confirmed cases to 2,002 in the state, as per the health department's medical bulletin. Eight jail inmates and two railway protection force personnel were among the 19 people who tested positive for the disease in Ludhiana, as per the bulletin. Two fresh cases were reported in Patiala and one in Gurdaspur, it said. As many as 95 coronavirus patients were discharged from different hospitals including at Fazilka, Pathankot, Sangrur, Jalandhar, Tarn Taran after they recovered from the infection, taking the total count of cured patients to 1,642 in the state, as per the bulletin.  The total number of active cases in the state is 322 at present, the document stated. Amritsar continued to lead the COVID-19 tally in the state with 307 coronavirus cases, followed by 209 in Jalandhar, 155 in Tarn Taran, 169 in Ludhiana, 124 in Gurdaspur, 105 in SBS Nagar, 103 in Patiala, 102 in Mohali, 95 in Hoshiarpur, 88 in Sangrur, 65 in Muktsar, 61 in Faridkot, 60 in Rupnagar, 59 in Moga, 56 in Fatehgarh Sahib, , 44 each in Fazilka and Ferozepur, 41 in Bathinda, 32 in Mansa, 33 in Kapurthala, 29 in Pathankot, and 21 in Barnala, as per the bulletin.  Of total total number of patients, 38 have died while one person is critical and on ventilator support, the health department's document said.  A total of 55,634 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing so far in the state of which 50,070 samples tested negative and results of 3,562 are still awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjabs-coronavirus-tally-crosses-2000-mark-839598.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: PIL claims thousands of needy in Delhi not getting ration despite e-coupons||A PIL has been moved in the Delhi High Court alleging that thousands of needy people in the national capital are not getting ration under the public distribution system (PDS) despite having the e-coupons issued by the AAP government. The plea by a third-year law student, Shabnam, said the Delhi government announced that e-coupons can be obtained by filling up a simple form online. However, the form is not simple and and the website for applying for an e-coupon has crashed, the petition said. "Whenever the website is accessed, it permanently shows the message 'server under heavy load! Please check after some time'. Moreover, most poor people cannot apply online as most do not have smart phones and there are no cyber cafes functioning during the lockdown," it said.  "They need to have the ability to access the internet, have a mobile phone to generate an OTP, upload a photo of their Aadhaar card and a photo of their family, and finally, download the e-coupon. This makes the system inaccessible for the poorest and marginalised who need rations," it added. The petitioner, in her plea filed through advocate Kriti Kumari, claimed that she collected data from the PDS shops about the poor people who were denied ration despite having e-coupons and prepared a list which was forwarded to the LG's office and Delhi government officials as a representation.    However, no action has been taken by the authorities till date, the petition has claimed. It has sought directions to the Delhi government to ensure appropriate quantity of rations as per the norms is immediately dispersed and distributed to the needy persons, including those having e-coupons but have not received foodgrain. It has also sought a direction to the Delhi government to ensure there is adequate stock at the ration/PDS shops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-pil-claims-thousands-of-needy-in-delhi-not-getting-ration-despite-e-coupons-839602.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Haryana to spend Rs 1,000 crore under MGNREGA this year: Dy CM Dushyant Chautala||Haryana's Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday said that the works under MGNREGA will be encouraged and the state has targeted to spend Rs 1,000 crore this year under the scheme, which is more than double over the previous year. Haryana gives Rs 309 per day as MGNREGA wages and during the present crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic emphasis will be given to provide work opportunities to more people by increasing the works under the MGNREGA in the coming days. Chautala also said that as the state has eased restrictions as per the Centre's guidelines, maximum activities in the industrial sector were being allowed in the current phase of the lockdown, barring the ones falling in containment zones. IT sector has also been permitted to open fully subject to the adherence of the guidelines, he said. Referring to MGNREGA, he told the media here that under this scheme, more than Rs 450 crore had been spent in the year 2019, but in the current financial year, a target to spend Rs 1,000 crore has been kept. "We have 6 lakh registered active MGNREGA job cardholders and we will involve them in forest department works, building cattle shed in poor households, constructing Public Works Department roads, irrigation canals," he said, adding with this unskilled labour will get employment which will also help boost the rural economy. He said the state government will soon be launching a job portal to facilitate employment opportunities for the youth.  On the permission to the industry, Chautala, whose party JJP is a coalition partner of the BJP in the state, said the government will give permission on priority to any labour-intensive industry so that it generates employment and helps people during present difficult times. Any kind of industry will have to apply online, giving details of employees so that movement passes can be generated in view of the lockdown, he said. However, for in-situ labour residing within the factory or unit site, no passes shall be required. As economic activities re-start barring in the containment zones, Haryana will also look to boost its revenues which had dried up during the first two phases of the lockdown.  While bringing day-to-day activities gradually back on track, the government will ensure that all guidelines are strictly enforced, he said. Chief Minister M L Khattar had on Monday said as the fourth phase of the nationwide COVID-19-triggered lockdown has been implemented, the scope of relaxations, allowed in the previous lockdown, have further been widened in accordance with the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines. Apart from this the areas other than the containment zone will be considered as orange zone and all non-restricted activities will resume in such areas, Khattar had said. While most shops had already opened in the third phase of lockdown, the Deputy Commissioners will decide on the timings of their openings in the districts, officials said. As per the guidelines, wearing of masks/face covers has been made compulsory in all public places and workplaces. Spitting in public and workplaces shall be a punishable offence with a fine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-to-spend-rs-1000-crore-under-mgnrega-this-year-dy-cm-dushyant-chautala-839604.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Bus row: Priyanka Gandhi's aide, UP Cong chief booked for 'forgery'||Police here on Tuesday booked Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu and the personal secretary to party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra over a list of buses to ferry stranded migrant workers back to the state. Lallu, Vadra's personal secretary Sandeep Singh and others were charged with forgery in an FIR registered at the Hazratganj police station here, an official spokesperson said. The case was registered on a complaint by Road Transport Officer (RTO) R P Trivedi, the spokesman said. Uttar Pradesh government had claimed that the list of 1,000 buses offered by the Congress to transport migrant workers contained registration numbers of two-wheelers, cars and three-wheelers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bus-row-priyanka-gandhis-aide-up-cong-chief-booked-for-forgery-839651.html
19-05-2020||North and Central||Lockdown: Delhi’s private liquor shops likely to reopen from Friday||All private liquor shops in the national capital are likely to reopen from Friday as the Delhi government has directed these outlets to submit their monthly stock record (MSR) by May 21. However, liquor shops in malls will remain closed in accordance with the government's order, the excise department said. There are around 450 private liquor shops in Delhi which will be allowed to open on odd-even basis, it said. All government liquor vends have already been permitted to open in the city, except those in malls and containment zones. The order further states that owners of private liquor shops will have to give an undertaking that their outlets do not fall under COVID-19 containment zones. It also made it clear that the private liquor vends cannot open without conducting MSR activity. "Accordingly, all L-7 licensees (private liquor shops) are directed to conduct MSR activity between May 19 and May 21, 2020... Only after submission of the MSR compliance report and the undertaking, the shops will be allowed to open on odd-even basis," the order also said. In case, any private shop is opened on the basis of false information, the license will be cancelled, it added.  On May 4, the government had allowed the reopening of around 150 state-run liquor shops with the beginning of the third phase of coronavirus-forced lockdown, resulting in long queues at these outlets. Later, the government had introduced e-token system under which customers are given a specific date and time to buy liquor in order to avoid overcrowding and long queues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-delhi-s-private-liquor-shops-likely-to-reopen-from-friday-839664.html
19-05-2020||Opinion||How we can address our empathy problem||By now, amidst the pandemic-induced lockdown, it is evident, that is if it wasn’t already, that India’s elite are mostly heartless when it comes to the country’s poor. Rather than lament the situation (laments have their value in  this context though), let us reflect on how it can be remedied.  A first step would be to understand why we, the privileged, don’t feel enough for our suffering compatriots, certainly not enough to confront our own culpabilities or prod our governments into meaningful action. As supposedly educated, thinking people, surely we should be doing that. Wrong conclusions The apathy emanates from a notion seeded within us early in life, that misery is inevitable in India. We grow up learning that India is large and poor. This becomes the peg for adults to explain tales of starvation, violence, and exploitation reaching young, inquisitive ears. Since we are a large and poor country, we unfortunately house a disproportionate share of the world’s suffering and bad eggs, they tell us. The point rings truer after every encounter with misfortune. In time, sitting in cushy perches, occasionally perturbed and guilted but unwilling to concede that our station is anything less than hard-earned, we fortify the inevitability theory with other positions. Namely, that the poor are lazy, alcoholic, unhygienic, etc. and have only themselves to blame for their situation. The castigation comes easily. The poor are often from another social group.  Or we tell ourselves that having done our bit as voters and taxpayers, possibly even as volunteers and donors to sundry public causes, there is nothing more we can realistically do. And then finally, there is the idea that we must cut the government some slack. After all, India isn’t an easy nation to run. This line, of course, is selectively deployed, only when the party in power happens to be one we endorse. All this, mind you, is when we are still capable of mustering a semblance of compassion. Things get worse when ivory towers are high, when claims of recaptured national glory are loud. The woes on ground appear exaggerated, even staged, the handiwork of anti-national, anti-investment, poverty-peddling forces in politics, media, and civil society. Developing empathy towards our co-citizens  Clearly, we need to find our empathic side. In this endeavor, one piece of encouraging news comes from the field of psychology. Empathy deficits, research suggests, are not hardwired into humans and can be overcome with sustained effort. Even if this insight seems inconsistent with the insensitivities and cruelties we are aware of, let us repose trust in it. Not believing in redemption would be an unconscionable surrender to darkness. Moving forward, we need to abandon our core beliefs and re-center our moral core with two fundamentally changed positions. First, that poverty and its pains aren’t inevitable; they are avoidable, addressable. Tragedy does not happen because we are a large and poor nation. It happens because we are an underprepared and insensitive one. As Odisha with its handling of natural disasters and Kerala with its handling of COVID-19 have shown, loss of life and livelihood need not be a fait accompli even in the most catastrophic of circumstances.  Second, having established that many a loss we have hitherto considered providential are attributable to failures of society, markets, and the State, it is necessary, indeed patriotic, to ask inconvenient questions, seek answers from those we have chosen to represent us, seek greater bang for our (tax) bucks, and locate our acts of giving not in frameworks of charity but in frameworks of rights and empowerment. Challenges and solutions What will constrain us from embracing these positions? The idea that poverty and injustice are man made conditions will not be easy to wrap our heads around. It runs contrary to a long-held, bias-affirming, self-absolving understanding of India. The point about being more questioning is probably more acceptable in principle, but one imagines punches being pulled at crunch time. It is someone else’s fight, it could embarrass political parties and leaders we support, and there is no predicting how far an establishment with a bruised ego can go.  The central challenges then to our empathy-building project are those of imagination and citizenship. We need to imagine an India where every citizen feels secure and respected and enjoys a decent quality of life and safety nets. We need to believe this is possible, not in incremental, dithering steps but in rapid, purposeful strides. And we need to push ourselves, our communities, our enterprises, and our representatives to work on this dream, and interrogate them when they falter.  This is onerous – but doable. Provided the right policy framework and attitude-shaping cues, we have, both as individuals and a social class, found the incentive, will, and enterprise to reshape our relations with family, society, business, knowledge, governments, politics, tradition, environment, technology, almost everything. There is no reason why this cannot extend to co-citizens. As for whether we can manage the spine to demand answers, we have to re-discover our famed argumentative side, recognise that national interest is better served with searching queries than in indifferent silences. That still leaves us with the ‘what is in it for me’ question. Here, it is useful to remember two things. One: Nations, like workplace or sports teams, are as strong as their most fragile links. The pains of malnutrition, disease, skill shortages, and social unrest may be borne disproportionately by some but are inescapable for everyone in the long run.  Two: It is in the nature of unquestioned power to subjugate. A foothold on a higher rung of the food chain only marks a graduation to a relatively safer place. Predatory instincts are better reined in when underlying structures are safe and just.  Imagine two office towers. One fire-proofed through and through. Another where only corner offices have protection. Where would you rather be when the flames rise? (Manish Dubey is a policy analyst and writer) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-we-can-address-our-empathy-problem-839457.html
19-05-2020||Panorama||Invisible minority in tatters||At an office in Delhi NCR, the phone rings off the hook. Frantic voices on the other end ask for help to get food ration, medicine, and money. With every additional day of the lockdown, the voices grow painfully desperate. Staff at the National Centre for Promotion of Employment of Disabled People (NCPEDP) listen to the voices in different tongues. There’s something more to those voices--a kind of grave awareness that whoever is on the other end is their only way to get relief. The desperate voices belong to the blind, the hearing impaired and even those with Thalassemia urgently needing blood transfusion to survive. They would usually find help when they step out. But these are extraordinary times when social connectivity, the biggest strength, has faded. Even as they frantically dial the phone to reach the helpline in faraway Delhi, an aid worker or a health officer could just be at their doorstep, not realizing that a person needing helpis just a few feet away, behind the closed door.  As a result, this invisible and vulnerable minority has become more isolated, ignored, and excluded, said Arman Ali, Executive Director, NCPEDP. “They’ve been pushed to the edge of being hungry and sick. Forget about special needs, survival itself has become difficult and the days to come seem bleaker,” Ali noted. In the absence of transport and access to hospital care, those with pre-existing medical needs-- such as the transfusion-dependent Thalassemia patients--are missing the care needed just to survive. Those with psycho-social disorders are left to struggle without medicine or counselling, services that are usually available at a phone call. NCPEDP’s primary task is to usher in a policy change and make inclusion more intrinsic at government, corporate and social levels. Now though, the organization is among a host of others fighting to get relief to thousands missing from the government’s radar. The Rights of People With Disability (RPWD) Act, passed by the Indian Parliament in the late 2016, has elaborate provisions for managing the community during the times of disaster. The government tried to make the provisions operational by including them in the post-lockdown guidelines. But they only remain on papers, in urgent want of implementation, said Ali. That’s how things are for people with a disability even on ordinary days, and it isn’t any different during the lockdown. Organisations and community representatives have to badger the authorities with a slew of petitions, dozens of meetings and, if nothing works, hunger strikes on the Delhi streets to make themselves heard and included. The same organisations often step into the wide gaps between service and delivery and do the coordination job that should ideally be done by the government. Today NCPEDP and others find themselves in the unenviable position of reaching information (to their callers) and ensuring they get rations, besides negotiating with various authorities and healthcare workers, doctors, the police and employers to ensure the most mundane of services to the most critical such as ambulance. “Disability is more an afterthought,” laments Ali. NCPEDP has also written to the Prime Minister, who heads the National Disaster Management Authority, highlighting the struggles of disabled people across the country, but got nothing more than a cursory response. Shockingly, they aren’t sure if people with disability are even included in the Covid-19 testing process in all states. “In Tamil Nadu, they established a helpline for people with disability,” Ali says. “I tried calling them to get help for people there, but I couldn’t even reach the number.” A few bright spots exist such as Karnataka’s Covid-19 video made available in sign language and Uttarakhand allowing easy movement of caregivers. But this apart, most state governments are largely missing the plot when it comes to people with disability. The only expectation of NCPEDP and others is that the government should make services more inclusive. “We’re just a non-governmental organization and we can only reach the authorities,” Ali says, as he wonders how to shake the system to the extent that it would understand the gravity of the situation. Continued ignorance, activists like Ali feel, would only pile more pain on the silent sufferers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/invisible-minority-in-tatters-839623.html
19-05-2020||Panorama||Hazardous fluids in storage like a genie in a bottle||A well looked-after genie will behave itself and do its master’s bidding, but one that is not will try to jump out of its bottle and, if it succeeds, cause havoc outside. Toxic or flammable fluids stored in tanks are like genies in a bottle. If the tank is well-maintained, the stored liquids and gases will help make profits for plant owners. If the tank lacks maintenance or its plant is shut down, the stored fluids will try to spill out of the tank. If they succeed, they will leave a trail of injury and destruction. The probability of an accident is higher when plants are restarted after prolonged shutdowns due to lack of regulatory authority guidance and oversight on the steps required to restart such plants. Two recent accidents bear testimony to this. Styrene vapour was released from a tank in the LG Polymers plant located in Visakhapatnam in the early hours of May 7, leaving 12 dead and hundreds hospitalised. The plant was permitted to restart production three days prior to that after being shut for six weeks due to the COVID-19 lockdown. During this period, the concentration of a chemical inhibitor in the styrene tank may have reduced and the cooling system for the styrene may have been switched off. Consequently, a polymerisation reaction seems to have increased the temperature and pressure in the tank, popping the relief valve. Styrene vapours gushed out of the tank and drifted downwind as an aerosol cloud. Low night-time windspeeds kept vapour concentrations high up to 7-9 km from the plant. No siren was sounded to warn the nearby population of the impending danger. On the same day, seven workers from Shakti Paper Mills, located near Raigarh, were hospitalised for exposure to chlorine gas, three of them in serious condition. In their haste to restart the plant, the management sent the workers to clean a chlorine tank without testing the tank for gas pockets or providing the workers with personal protective equipment. Plant start-up accidents are not recent occurrences, yet we have not learnt lessons from them. In 1985, two tonnes of chlorine were released from Calico Mills in Trombay. The accident happened as the plant was being restarted after a prolonged lockout. Fortunately, the wind was blowing away from populated areas and that kept casualties down to one dead and 140 hospitalised.  India has hesitantly fixed systems to minimise accidents if high-value material is likely to be lost but not where lives may be lost. The 1988 naphtha vapour explosion in Indian Oil Corporation Ltd’s (IOCL) Mathura refinery that killed seven workers was caused by a spark from the tail pipe of an IOCL jeep that started its engine when in a naphtha vapour cloud. After this accident, spark arresters became mandatory for vehicles entering refineries. After the 1997 LPG explosion in Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd’s Visakhapatnam refinery that killed 60 persons, smoking areas and naked flames close to LPG tank farms were banned. Prior to the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy that killed 25,000 people, journalist Rajkumar Keshwani had warned in three articles that Bhopal was on the brink of a disaster. A state government minister responded saying, “The carbide plant is not a small pebble that can be picked up and put elsewhere.” Poor siting of facilities with hazardous materials is due to flawed land use development. Injury to people in the LG Polymers accident is partly due to residential areas being too close to the plant. Major accidents have immediate, root and underlying causes. Polymerisation reactions are the immediate cause for the LG Polymers and the Carbide accidents. The root cause for both accidents are due to deeper management failures that allowed the tank refrigeration systems in both plants to be switched off, and other similar management failures. The underlying causes of both accidents lie in the fault-lines of our socio-economic system. To fill the empty coffers of the Andhra Pradesh government and make profits for the influential distillery industry, liquor sale was permitted immediately after the COVID-19 lockdown was lifted partially. But liquor bottles were in short supply, so LG Polymers was permitted to restart polystyrene production. Polystyrene, though not an essential commodity, is a raw material for making liquor bottles. Union Carbide made Sevin, a carbamate group pesticide, at its Bhopal plant. Soon after the plant went into production, Sevin lost market space to the next generation pesticides —phorates and synthetic pyrethroids, and the company slipped into losses. Consequently, safety and environmental management standards in the plant plummeted. If the existing laws and regulators have failed to increase plant safety, it is time to make fundamental changes. A legal definition for unacceptable environmental impact of an activity does not exist. In granting environmental clearances, the tacit premise is that almost all impact is acceptable if consent conditions are followed by plant operators. The reality is that inconvenient conditions are flouted, and regulatory agencies have neither the machinery nor the will to catch violations. Unacceptable impact must now have a legal definition for environmental clearance to have meaning. To isolate hazardous facilities from populated areas, land use plans must be strictly adhered to. People’s participation in environmental decision-making should increase by mandating potentially impacted people to do environmental impact assessments and annual environmental and safety audits rather than project management. After all, the risk that a hazardous facility poses was thrust on them. Plant workers must have the right to warn regulatory authorities of the probability of a major accident if they feel it is imminent. This is the most effective way of keeping the genie in the bottle. (The writer is an environmental engineer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/hazardous-fluids-in-storage-like-a-genie-in-a-bottle-839624.html
19-05-2020||Right in the Middle||Made on the roadside with love||It was my second day in office after being transferred to Chennai in the early 1990s when the boss instructed me over the intercom to arrange for two cups of “degree filtered coffee” within the next 10 minutes for an important guest. After an uncooperative peon excused himself citing ill-health, I decided to get coffee from the hotel. It surprised me that only meals were available and not coffee. The man at the counter nonchalantly pointed at the ‘meals ready’ board hung prominently and remarked rather sarcastically if I was new to place because at meals time coffee would not be prepared. My visit to almost half-a-dozen hotels did not bear fruit. A new fear engulfed me. Half an hour had passed since I left office and still no coffee. I never imagined the complications in acquiring the beverage in Chennai.  I relished the frothy brown aromatic and tasty ‘Cothas’ which my mother gave me with love and affection every morning and evening. All I have seen was her skilfully mixing boiling milk with decoction in a stainless steel tumbler and ‘dabrah’. Sensing my stress the driver, Rajan drove the car to the end of the street and asked me to wait. He jumped a broken wall with the flask and returned after 5-7 minutes. Coffee was served. The boss called me to his room. Wondering if there was some problem I gingerly entered with all sorts of negative thoughts-- did the coffee have some foreign particle like a dead fly or mosquito? Was my career finished just because of a coffee? The senior government officer from the elite services --who was with the boss--profusely thanked me and remarked, “I have never tasted such quality degree coffee in my life. What great taste and aroma! It’s good you could manage, it isn’t available at this point of time”. The boss added, “Yes, this resourceful fellow must have surely used his influence with the sales girls of the five-star hotel opposite to this office.”  I sipped some leftover coffee in the flask and it really tasted great. Rajan later said he had got the coffee from a roadside stall behind the dead-end street. However, he took extra care to ensure the filter coffee decoction was fresh and the milk was less diluted. The unknown roadside man, whose coffee, like my mother’s was made with love and affection, saved my day, several years ago. This incident is still fresh in my memory, every time I drink coffee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/made-on-the-roadside-with-love-839622.html
19-05-2020||Second Edit||Coronavirus: WHO dunnit must be nailed||China’s extension of support to the World Health Organization (WHO) resolution pertaining to the COVID-19 pandemic removes an important obstacle in the way of the international community getting better, albeit only marginally, understanding, of the coronavirus as well as its origin and spread. The resolution calls for an “impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation” of the WHO’s response to COVID-19. This will include the WHO’s actions as well as its timelines pertaining to the COVID-19 pandemic. The resolution calls for identifying the zoonotic sources of the coronavirus. For several weeks, China had opposed the Australia-European Union efforts to move a resolution at the World Health Assembly (WHA) meeting calling for a probe into the origin of the pandemic and China’s lapses in this regard. Beijing fears that such an exercise would lay bare its failures which may have paved the way for a viral outbreak to become a global pandemic. At the WHA meeting, China signalled support for an independent inquiry. Given the large number of countries backing the resolution, it may have seen diplomatic wisdom in avoiding isolation. Importantly, though, it managed to get a dilution of the resolution’s text. It will be the WHO, not China, which will be the focus of scrutiny. Besides, the resolution calls for an “evaluation,” not a probe or an investigation. At the WHA meeting, President Xi Jinping expressed support to the evaluation “when the pandemic is brought under control.” It could be months, even years, for that to happen. The world needs a better understanding now, not later, of the blunders that facilitated COVID-19’s spread so that course correction can be initiated immediately. China’s delaying tactics are unhelpful. An impartial evaluation of the WHO’s actions has the potential to initiate much needed reforms in the functioning of the global body. The performance of WHO in the COVID-19 pandemic has been disappointing. It kept downplaying the magnitude of the looming crisis and avoided declaring it a pandemic even when the geographical spread indicated that it was one. Tedros Adhanom, the WHO’s director-general, is widely seen to have failed the global community, prompting his detractors to recall his long history of proximity to China. His interventions regarding COVID-19 in recent months have seemed aimed more at protecting China from global censure than at containing the pandemic. The WHO is in need of reform. The world needs a vigilant, robust and reliable watchdog against deadly epidemics and pandemics. An evaluation of the WHO’s performance, which the resolution puts in place, could be a small first step in that direction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/coronavirus-who-dunnit-must-be-nailed-839618.html
19-05-2020||South||Stimulus package pure 'cheating'; Centre treating states like 'beggars', says Telangana CM K Chandrashekar Rao||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao has hit out at the Narendra Modi-led NDA government over the fiscal stimulus package, accusing it of treating states like "beggars" and imposing "laughable" conditions for increasing borrowing limits under the FRBM Act. "This is 'pure cheating. Betrayal. Jugglery of numbers. All gas. The Centre has reduced its own prestige," he said while referring to conditions linked to the increased borrowing limits for states under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. Rao cited international journals that had commented on whether the Union Finance Minister's aim was to revive the GDP or to reach the Rs 20 lakh crore number (the stimulus package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi).  "This is a very cruel package. It is fully in a feudal policy and dictatorial attitude. We fully condemn this. This is not what we asked for," Rao, who had supported several measures taken by the Centre so far in the fight against coronavirus, said. At a time when the finances of states were paralysed due to COVID-19 global pandemic, the state governments wanted funds to reach them so that they can help people in different forms, he said. "When we asked for it, you treat states like beggars, what did the Centre do? Is this the way reforms are implemented in India?" he asked during an interaction with media on Monday after a cabinet meeting. For example, two per cent increase under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act (about Rs 20,000 crore in Telangana) has been given. But, the conditions put are "laughable" and "very nasty" though the loan was to be fully repaid by the state, he said. Explaining the situation, Rao said Rs 2,500 crore would be given if reforms were implemented in power sector and Rs 2,500 crore would be allowed if reforms in market committees as suggested by the central government are accepted.  "Is this a package? What is this? This cannot be called a package. Very sorry.. This is not the policy to be followed in a federal system... Then what are the state governments for?" the Telangana Rashtra Samithi supremo asked and said they were also constitutional governments and not subordinates. The CM said he felt anguished and the way the Centre was wielding control over states was against the spirit of federalism. "Prime Minister ji said cooperative federalism. This has proved that it is totally hollow and bogus," he added. The state, however, has already fulfilled certain conditions, he added. On the occasion, Rao also outlined his government's certain policy guidelines for regulatory farming proposed to be implemented. On the additional water proposed to be drawn by the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh from Srisailam project, he said there was no question of compromising on the states interests. Flaying Opposition criticism against his government for allegedly failing to protect the state's interests, Rao said he had sought peaceful co-existence with all the neighbouring states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stimulus-package-pure-cheating-centre-treating-states-like-beggars-says-telangana-cm-k-chandrashekar-rao-839356.html
19-05-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0: When bride got stranded at Karnataka-Kerala border during 'muhurta'||Pushparajan and Vimala had got engaged and their marriage was to be held in a temple near Badiyadka in Kasaragod on the date and at a time fixed by an astrologer. Owing to the restrictions due to the lockdown, only Vimala and her mother decided to come to Kasaragod. Though Vimala applied for an entry pass, she opted for a medical emergency pass since there was no alternative option for a pass.  Pushparajan's brother Pavithran said that they followed the procedures advised by some local representatives. Though Vimala and mother reached the border by around 7 am on Monday, they were not allowed to enter Kerala as they did not have valid passes. After they contacted the district administration, steps were initiated to allow them on the spot pass. Even then they got the pass only by 4 pm. Finally, Pushparajan, who was waiting at the border to receive them since morning, took the two to his house at Mulleria and the couple got married in his house by around 6.30 pm. Now, Vimala and her mother are on 14-day home quarantine at Pushparajan's house. Kasaragod district collector D Sajith Babu said that the spot application for a fresh pass was submitted only by 11 am and the officials of the checkpoint had extended full cooperation to issue the pass at the earliest. The plight of the couple comes at a time when many were allegedly managing to cross the border easily with political influence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-40-when-bride-got-stranded-at-karnataka-kerala-border-during-muhurta-839380.html
19-05-2020||South||Case against one more Congress MP in Kerala; Congress leaders stage hunger strike in home quarantine||A police case has been registered against Congress MP Kodikunnil Suresh in Kerala for flouting the lockdown norms, while another Congress MP and a MLA were staging a hunger strike in home quarantine demanding action against a minister for allegedly flouting the social distancing norms. The case was registered against Suresh and 12 other Congress local leaders and workers for staging a stir on a boat in Alappuzha district in Kerala protesting against alleged lapses in giving assistance to those hit by the previous floods in Kerala. Police sources said that the MP and 12 others traveled in a boat without following the social distancing norms and, hence, case registered under various sections of Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 of Kerala. A similar case was registered against Congress MP from Kerala Adoor Prakash on April 30 for attending a function to distribute food kits at Nedumangad, about 20 kilometres from Thiruvananthapuram city. Meanwhile, Congress MP T N Prathapan and MLA Anil Akkara, who were among the five Congress leaders directed to remain in home quarantine the other day for interacting with people who were later tested COVID-19 positive, staged a 24-hours hunger strike during the quarantine. They demanded that Kerala Local Administration Minister A C Moideen should also be quarantined for interacting with NRIs repatriated. The health authorities earlier maintained that there was no need for the minister to remain quarantined as he maintained enough distance and was wearing mask. All the five Congress leaders from Kerala, including three MPs and two MLAs, who were earlier directed to remain in home quarantined already tested COVID-19 negative. But health officials directed them to remain in home quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/case-against-one-more-congress-mp-in-kerala-congress-leaders-stage-hunger-strike-in-home-quarantine-839510.html
19-05-2020||South||Two die of coronavirus in Andhra Pradesh; 57 new cases reported||Two COVID-19 related deaths were reported in Andhra Pradesh taking the toll to 52 even as 57 more tested positive, pushing the total number of infections in the state to 2,489, a health bulletin said on Tuesday. Samples of 9,739 people were tested and 69 have been discharged from various hospitals after treatment, taking the cumulative recoveries to 1,596. The number of active patients are now at 691. Of the fresh cases in the past 24 hours ending 9 AM on Tuesday, six were linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, the bulletin said. Kurnool and Chittoor districts reported one death each. The cumulative positive cases from other states stood at 150, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-die-of-coronavirus-in-andhra-pradesh-57-new-cases-reported-839532.html
19-05-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh police book 60-year-old woman for post on Vizag gas leak||The Andhra Pradesh CID police have registered a case against a 60-year-old woman for allegedly posting in social media questions pertaining to the recent Styrene gas leak incident in Visakhapatnam in which 12 people lost their lives and hundreds fell ill. The CID is also investigating the role of a man, Malladi Raghunath in the matter. A case has been booked against the woman, P Ranganayaki, under IPC sections 505 (2) (making statements that create or promote enmity),153 (A) (indulging in wanton vilification), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 120-B r/w 34 (criminal conspiracy), a press release from the CID said on Tuesday. When contacted P V Sunil Kumar, additional DGP (CID) told PTI that a notice under section 41 (A) of the CrPC (notice of appearance before police officer) was also served on her. The woman in her social media account raised 20 questions such as why there were no arrests in the Vizag gas leak case and why the government allowed the leftover Styrene to be sent back to South Korea. A senior police official claimed the woman was a TDP sympathiser. Talking to reporters at her residence, Ranganayaki said she did not have any bad intentions and merely shared a post put by her friend. "I took permission from my friend and copy pasted it.I dont have any bad intentions. I do not know if my post is so offensive," she said. TDP chief and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu condemned the case against the elderly woman and said she has been served notice by the CID for speaking out against the government. Meanwhile, police warned people not to indulge in false propaganda against the government or its machinery leading to law and order problems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-police-book-60-year-old-woman-for-post-on-vizag-gas-leak-839536.html
19-05-2020||South||NRIs hiding COVID-19 infection during travel highlights need for pre-departure screening||With three NRIs repatriated from Abu Dhabi allegedly hiding the fact that they were COVID-19 infected and thereby spreading infection already to at least five others and keeping about 170 in the flight under risk, Kerala government might be again pressing for pre-departure COVID-19 screening. Meanwhile, 12 more persons from other states, including four from aboard and eight from other states, were tested COVID-19 positive on Tuesday taking the total active cases in Kerala to 142. No persons recovered from COVID-19 for the third consecutive day in the state. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the state was on a high alert against community spread and hence steps like reverse quarantine and breaking the chain by enforcing wearing of mask and promoting washing of hands were being strengthened. Three Kollam natives who came from Abu Dhabi by a repatriation flight on May 16 allegedly hide the fact that they were COVID-19 active while boarding the flight. Some co-passengers became suspicious after reaching Kerala and they alerted the authorities. Subsequently the three were quizzed and later tested positive also. A police case was registered against the three. It was suspected if more persons managed to travel by concealing COVID-19 positive status. Health department sources said that this instance was a befitting case for Kerala to again take up with the centre to advice the foreign missions to ensure pre-departure COVID-19 screening for NRIs. So far around 63 persons who came from abroad in the repatriation flights and 53 persons who returned from other states were tested COVID-19 positive. Meanwhile, a group of migrant workers hailing from Bihar and UP staged protest in Kozhikode and Kannur district on Tuesday demanding train to return to their native places. The police had to used force to make them return to the camps. Train services for migrant workers from Kerala are expected to resume from May 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nris-hiding-covid-19-infection-during-travel-highlights-need-for-pre-departure-screening-839551.html
19-05-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan dismisses allegations of using COVID-19 as PR exercise||Kerala Chief Minster Pinarayi Vijayan has phoo-phooed the opposition party Congress's allegations of attempt for image build up amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. Ever since the COVID-19 scare came up, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has been conducting daily press meets giving updates and touching upon all relevant issues. His live press conferences was having a high viewership on television channels and online platforms. The opposition Congress has been alleging that the Chief Minster had engaged a PR team at high cost and his daily press conference was a PR exercise as the local body elections and the Assembly elections are scheduled to happen in another one year time. Vijayan almost lost his cool when a journalist sought his reaction to the opposition's allegations on Tuesday. "You have been seeing me for quite long time. I used to answer all your queries. I don't have any earphones for the PR team to prompt me with answers for each queries. Some of you journalists might be having earphones to get prompted with queries by someone else while press conferences are progressing," the Chief Minister said. Kerala Government has been receiving international attention for its initiatives to curb  COVID's spread. A live interview by BBC with Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja the other day have also gone viral of the social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-dismisses-allegations-of-using-covid-19-as-pr-exercise-839556.html
19-05-2020||South||Swift action by state, coordination with stakeholders helped in handling COVID-19: Kerala Health Minister KK Shailaja||Early action to be prepared to deal with coronavirus, upgrading testing facilities, intense contact tracing and counselling people about their reluctance towards hospitalisation, were among the many steps that helped Kerala in effectively dealing with the COVID-19 outbreak, the state's Health Minister KK Shailaja said on Tuesday. Shailaja, who has been widely praised for the southern state's robust response to the pandemic and flattening the COVID-19 curve, reflected on the low number of cases and fatalities in Kerala in comparison to other states while delivering a lecture online for students of the St Stephen's college here on 'The Practice of Public Policy and Administration'. "Our first thought was that no one with the coronavirus should die because of our lack of care. A protocol to combat the virus, with detailed guidelines and standard operating practices besides intense contact tracing measures, was also devised before the first patient was tested positive for the coronavirus," the minister said. "A mental health team, consisting of over 1,000 trained counsellors, would call those isolated in hospitals or quarantined at home to alleviate their mental distress. There were many tourists who were tested for COVID-19 and their results were positive. They were not sent to their countries but were treated in Kerala. Marginal labourers were taken care off by providing them with all the required logistics and thereafter they were sent across to their respective states," she added. The minister also expressed displeasure over insufficient financial allocation for the state by the Centre. The health minister's lecture was part of a six-day certificate course to understand public policy and its implementation by St Stephen's Centre for Advanced Learning (SCAL) which was set up in February this year. "There was an initial reluctance that people had towards getting hospitalised and tested, but with the help of the district administration, we were able to provide confidence and all required support to the patients and others," she said.  The Kerala Health Minister, popularly known as Shailaja Teacher said the coordination between the state government and various agencies from different districts played a crucial role. During the course, a three-member panel of doctors will discuss health, policy and implementation on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/swift-action-by-state-coordination-with-stakeholders-helped-in-handling-covid-19-kerala-health-minister-kk-shailaja-839585.html
19-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 688 fresh COVID-19 cases, tally crosses 12k; 3 deaths, toll now 84||The state's overall fatalities from coronavirus stood at 84 even as Tamil Nadu witnessed a marginal spike in the daily numbers compared to Monday, when the tally stood at 536. Chennai continued to witness an upward trend of infections as 552 new cases were added today, as the overall numbers reached 7,672. Pudukottai has the least number of cases at 7, even as many of the 37 districts reported nil infections.  The total number of positive cases stood at 12,448, while 54 people who had arrived from other countries have tested positive for the contagion so far, a Health department bulletin said. Among the infected was a six month old boy and all the 688 cases are contacts, according to the Health Department. As many as 49 of the infected people had arrived from Maharashtra and one from Kerala. The number of active cases stood at 7,466, including those in isolation, it said. Three men, aged between 64-82, died in a government hospital, it said.  "Till now 3,48,174 samples have been taken and sent for testing. COVID-19 testing is done in 40 Government and 23 Private labs all over Tamil Nadu," it said. A total of 4,895 people have been discharged, including 489 on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-688-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-12k-3-deaths-toll-now-84-839656.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||P Krishna Bhat finally appointed as Karnataka High Court judge||An order has finally been issued on the appointment of judicial officer P Krishna Bhat as an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court, after years of wavering by the Union government. The Union Ministry of Law and Justice has on Monday night issued the notification, appointing him for two years as an additional judge of the High Court. "In exercise of power under Article 224 of the Constitution, the President is pleased to appoint Bhat to be an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court, for a period of two years with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office," it stated.  The Centre has last week cleared the file on the elevation of judicial officer Bhat. Born in 1960, he would have a tenure of just two years as a judge of the High Court. The Centre has been sitting over the file on Bhat for quite some time. The Supreme Court Collegium had on October 15, 2019, rejected its request for reconsideration. The Collegium had then asked the Centre to process “most expeditiously” the recommendation, made twice earlier for the elevation of Bhat as a judge of the Karnataka High Court. The Collegium had first recommended his name way back in August 2016. It was reiterated on April 6, 2017. However, the Union government still sought reconsideration of the proposal, which was seen as "interference into the appointment of judges". In a hard-hitting letter to the then CJI and all judges, Justice J Chelameswar (since retired) had in March 2018 questioned the government's act of writing a letter directly to the Karnataka High Court's then chief justice Dinesh Maheshwari, now a Supreme Court judge, who had ordered an inquiry on some “old allegations” against Bhat by a woman judge. He had asked the CJI to convene a full court to discuss “government's interference” in the appointment of judges to the high courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/p-krishna-bhat-finally-appointed-as-karnataka-high-court-judge-839302.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Hotels in Karnataka to continue takeaway services for next 3 days after CM B S Yediyurappa's assurance||Hotels and restaurants have decided to continue takeaway services for three more days, following a meeting with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday. Hotels were also exempted from the total lockdown on Sundays in Karnataka - under the state guidelines issued for Lockdown 4.0. The Karnataka Pradesh Hotel and Restaurants' Association (KPHRA) had earlier threatened to stop takeaway services over refusal to allow dine-in facility in the fourth phase of the lockdown.   Speaking to DH, B Chandrashekar Hebbar, president of KPHRA said that the CM urged hoteliers to wait for three days, assuring that a decision will be taken. "We appraised the government over the mounting losses by keeping just take-away services open. Noting that social distancing and other guidelines will be followed, we urged him to allow dine-in facility," he said. The Association will wait three more days before discontinuing parcel services, Hebbar said.  The government also provided relaxation to hotels from the total lockdown announced in Karnataka on Sundays, he said. A package for hotel employees such as cooks and waiters, along the lines of those announced for farmers, cab drivers and weavers, was also sought in a petition submitted to the chief minister. According to sources in CMO, the petition will be communicated to the Ministry of Home Affairs for further directions. "State guidelines are based on the ones issued by the Centre. Relaxation for hotels has to be decided by the central government," sources said.  Distressed by the lack of relaxations for dine-in services at hotels, the Association had threatened to suspend takeaway services noting that it only added to the losses they have suffered. They had raised objections over allowing street food stalls, maintaining that hotels would follow far better social distancing norms. It can be recalled that the government had expressed its willingness to open hotels under the Lockdown 4.0, subject to restrictions. However, the central guidelines do not allow dine-in services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hotels-in-karnataka-to-continue-takeaway-services-for-next-3-days-after-cm-b-s-yediyurappas-assurance-839376.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||P Krishna Bhat finally appointed as judge of Karnataka High Court||An order has finally been issued on appointment of judicial officer P Krishna Bhat as additional judge of the Karnataka High Court, after years of wavering by the Union government. The Union Ministry of Law and Justice has on Monday night issued the notification, appointing him for two years as additional judge of the High Court. "In exercise of power under Article 224 of the Constitution, the President is pleased to appoint Bhat to be an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court, for a period of two years with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office," it stated. The Centre has last week cleared the file on elevation of judicial officer Bhat. Born in 1960, he would have a tenure of just two years as a judge of the High Court. The Centre has been sitting over the file on Bhat for quite some time, apparently in view of allegations by a woman judge. The Supreme Court Collegium had on October 15, 2019 rejected the Centre's second request for reconsideration, rarely made in case of judges appointment. The Collegium had then asked the Centre to process “most expeditiously” the recommendation, made twice earlier for elevation of Bhat as a judge of the Karnataka High Court. The Collegium had first recommended his name wayback in August 2016. It was reiterated on April 6, 2017. However, the Union government still sought reconsideration of the proposal, which was seen as "interference into appointment of judges". In a hard-hitting letter to the then CJI and all judges, Justice J Chelameswar (since retired) had in March, 2018 questioned the government's act of writing a letter directly to the Karnataka High Court's then chief justice Dinesh Maheshwari, now a Supreme Court judge, who had ordered an inquiry on some “old allegations” against Bhat by a woman judge. He had asked the CJI to convene a full court to discuss “government's interference” in the appointment of judges to the high courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/p-krishna-bhat-finally-appointed-as-judge-of-karnataka-high-court-839541.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC sets aside Karnataka High Court's order allowing NICE to construct group housing in Bengaluru||The Supreme Court on Tuesday set aside the Karnataka High Court's order of 2019 allowing Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprise (NICE) Ltd to construct a group housing in 42 acres 30 guntas of land in Bengaluru. The court said the project proponents cannot go beyond the stipulations and specifications mentioned in the framework agreement and the project technical report without prior approval of the State. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said that prior approval of the State for deviation is the "quintessence". Acting on a plea by the Karnataka government and the Bangalore Mysore Infrastructure Corridor Area Planning Authority, the court declared that it is not open to the project proponents to develop the land in any other manner, unless permitted by the State. "The right in favour of project proponents to carry on development work on the lands referred to in the framework agreement of April 3, 1997 and in the project technical report of August, 1995 would enure only in conformity with the stipulations and specifications," it said. The court, however, asked NICE, the project proponents of the Bengaluru-Mysuru Infrastructure Corridor Project on over 20,000 acres of land,  to first approach the State for its prior permission to allow them to deviate from the stipulations and specifications. "The competent authority of the State may take appropriate decision and if need be, obtain prior opinion of the empowered committee. However, this process must be completed in right earnest and no later than six months from the date of submission of the proposal," the bench said. The NICE wanted to construct houses in different survey numbers at Kommagatta village, Kengeri Hobli, Bengaluru South Taluk (at interchanges 5/7 of peripheral road) covering 42 acres 30 guntas of land, outside the demarcated area for five townships in the framework agreement. The project has a chequered history as this was the fifth round of litigation. In the instant case, the project proponents submitted modified development plan on May 5, 2012 for permission to set up group housing scheme in 42 acres 30 guntas of land by excluding the lands in respect of which no sale deed was executed in their favour.   Subsequently, it had approached the HC, which had on October 15, 2019 set aside the February 7, 2015 decision by the planning authority to reject the project proponents' plea for permission to construct group housing scheme. Senior advocate C A Sundaram, and advocate Shailesh Madiyal appeared for the planning authority, senior counsel Chandra Uday Singh, for the State and Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Mukul Rohatgi, for the project proponents in the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-sets-aside-karnataka-high-courts-order-allowing-nice-to-construct-group-housing-in-bengaluru-839553.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records single-day spike of 149 COVID-19 cases; death toll reaches 40||Karnataka on Tuesday saw the biggest single-day COVID-19 spike as it recorded 149 fresh cases, of which 71 are from Mandya alone. The state also recorded three virus deaths — from Bengaluru, Vijayapura and Ballari. With this, the state's overall tally is 1,395 — including 811 active cases, 543 who have been discharged, 40 deaths and a suicide.  "As many as 113 of the 149 who tested positive on Tuesday have interstate travel history. Of this, 71 have returned from Mumbai," said Minister S Suresh Kumar, in-charge of COVID-19 briefings. Karnataka has tested 6,936 samples in the past 24 hours. Of the positive cases, 71 were from Mandya, 22 from Davangere, 13 from Kalaburagi, 10 from Shivamogga, six from Bengaluru, five from Chikkaballapur, four from Udupi, four from Uttara Kannada, and one each from Vijayapura, Bidar, Gadag, Yadgir and Raichur. The minister said the government has ramped up testing capacity to 46 labs. "The state now has 28 government labs and 18 private labs." He also tried to allay fears, saying the situation is not as bad as it looks. "There are six people in the ICU. The bed occupancy rate is 6.09%, fatality rate is 2.8%, and 23,187 people are under observation."  About the spurt in cases from interstate travel, the minister said five trains have arrived in Karnataka since May 16. "So far, 1,527 passengers have been screened and only two were found to be symptomatic." Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said even those who are asymptomatic are tested while being sent to institutional quarantine. "Those who have arrived via other modes of transport are also institutionally quarantined and tested on the 12th day, before being released on the 14th day."  Now, Karnataka is in the 12th place with respect to COVID-19 cases. As per the revised strategy for COVID-19 testing in india, all frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation of COVID-19 are supposed to be tested. Asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case are to be tested once between day 5 and day 10 of coming into contact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-single-day-spike-of-149-covid-19-cases-death-toll-reaches-40-839554.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Scan QR-code to buy instant ticket for NWKRTC buses||To minimise human contact in buses, North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation has decided to introduce online payment for instant tickets through mobile apps. NWKRTC Managing Director Rajendra Cholan said talks are on with multiple mobile payment apps, and based on the software that suits our requirements, NWKRTC will sign a memorandum of understanding with that company. He said software development is in the final stage and in the next two-three days, all the 4,500 buses under the NWKRTC jurisdiction will have a QR-code payment system. Sources in NWKRTC informed DH that online payment mode was in pipeline, however, COVID-19 has advanced its implementation. Cholan also informed that to minimise physical contact of both passengers and staff ,NWKRTC is also considering ‘rounding’ the fare to the nearest value. “Rs 16 ticket may cost Rs 15 and Rs 18 ticket may cost Rs 20 henceforth,” he said and added that a proposal in this regard is in front of the board. As a safety measure, all the drivers of NWKRTC have been instructed not to ‘pick up’ a bus that has not been sanitised. Buses will be sanitised after every trip. Only those passengers who have been screened at bus stands will be allowed to board the buses. Mobile and Aadhar details of each passenger will be documented so as to ensure easing of contact tracing in case someone turns positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/scan-qr-code-to-buy-instant-ticket-for-nwkrtc-buses-839592.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka renews request for US visa centre in Bengaluru||The Karnataka government on Tuesday renewed its request to the US to set up a visa centre in Bengaluru and promised to provide a conducive atmosphere for fresh investments in the state. Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan stated this at a video conference with the US Consulate General in Chennai, Robert G Burgess. "Nearly 70 per cent of the total number of South Indians going to the U.S are from Karnataka. I brought this to the notice of the Consulate General and renewed our request to set up a visa centre at Bengaluru," Dr Narayan told reporters later. He also said that he assured the Consulate General that the state government would provide a conducive atmosphere for US industries planning to shift to the state, post the COVID- 19 economic distress. The Deputy Chief Minister said that Information Technology, bio-technology, science, and technology departments have initiated talks with various countries to improve relations, post the pandemic outbreak. "We have always had good relations with the US...If more companies want to set up shop here, the government will provide all the necessary assistance. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is already acting on this," Dr Narayan said. He said the Karnataka government has set up an Investment Promotion Task Force, headed by the Chief Secretary, to attract companies that plan to shift their base from China after the COVID-19 outbreak. "The government has already made land reforms and amended labour laws to ensure ease of doing business. We are making an all efforts to lure investments into the state and leaving nothing to chance," he said. Dr Narayan said the US Consulate General appreciated Karnataka's efforts to contain the coronavirus spread. Additional Chief Secretary E V Ramana Reddy and Managing Director of Karnataka Innovation and Technology Society (KITS) Meena Nagaraj were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-renews-request-for-us-visa-centre-in-bengaluru-839595.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Atmanirbhar Bharat wil boost dairy sector: Karnataka Milk Federation||The Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) has praised the Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat plan under which Rs 15,000 crore has been allocated for setting up infrastructure in dairy processing and cattle feed manufacturing, and another Rs 13,343 crore allotted for the livestock disease control programme.  Balachandra Jarkiholi, the chairperson of KMF, which is India’s second-largest milk union, said the fiscal stimulus would benefit lakhs of farmers in the animal husbandry sector in Karnataka. Due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the market witnessed a sudden fall in the demand for milk and milk products,  resulting in huge unsold stocks. Considering that the unsold stock would affect payments to dairy farmers, the central government, in consultation with milk unions across the country, announced the stimulus and agreed to bear the interest charges on the working capital borrowed from banks, Balachandra explained.  The KMF chief said the stimulus would help provide constant market support and timely payment of dues and arrears to farmers in Karnataka. “It will also support other activities of the dairy industry, such as the production of animal feed and the supply of quality and diversified dairy products to the consumers, he said.  Balachandra also thanked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for his decision to supply free milk to the poor from the excess milk procured by the KMF. At present, the KMF collects about 75 lakh litres of milk every day. Between August and September 2020, which is said to be the peak period of milk production, the KMF intends to collect 85-86 lakh litres of milk per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/atmanirbhar-bharat-wil-boost-dairy-sector-karnataka-milk-federation-839625.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HCG to begin clinical trials of cytokine-mediated anti-Covid therapy||Three days after a critical Covid-19 patient who received plasma therapy died due to comorbidity, the HCG Hospital is beginning clinical trials to develop treatment for moderate Covid-19patients. On Tuesday or Wednesday, the hospital will administer cytokine injections to six healthy individuals. An investigator said they are not anticipating any side effects. Cytokines are a group of proteins secreted by cells in the immune system belonging to a category of signaling molecules that mediates and regulates immunity and inflammation. When the hospital receives the approval letter from its ethics committee, it would forward the same to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for approval. Once the nod is given, the six volunteers will be given the injection and will be monitored for 10 days. The injection will then be given to moderate Covid-19 patients, if they give theirconsent. “The injections are ready, and the ethics committee has also given its approval,” Dr Vishal Rao, principal investigator of the clinical trial, told DH. “But we are yet to receive the letter (from the hospital panel) and forward it to the DCGI. We hope to begin administering the injections by Tuesday or Wednesday.” A pre-screening has been done and the six individuals have volunteered. “NGOs typically help us identify the individuals either for a small fee or pro bono to support a social cause. When news (of the trial) came, many individuals volunteered, including some doctors,” Dr Rao said. Experiments on animals  The investigator said animal results showed no complications from the injection. “The animal toxicology reports showed no adverse reactions, toxicity, heart attacks, deaths or any kind of infection. The injection is meant only to reactivate the immune system. It is meant to give the system a booster shot,” he added. Investigators are hoping that the trial results will be ready in 10 days. “We are going to monitor (the volunteers) for 10 days. This is a safety study. It should indicate that it is safe to use (the injections) on healthy human beings, produces no side effects and can be used on moderate Covid-19 patients,” Dr Rao said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hcg-to-begin-clinical-trials-of-cytokine-mediated-anti-covid-therapy-839629.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Engineering students seek promotion without examination||“Promote VTU students” demand echoed the Facebook live programme with Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, organised by the Akhila Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) student organisation on Tuesday. More than 23,000 viewed the live programme and a majority of them were students from colleges that come under the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU). They requested the minister to promote them to the next semester without conducting any examinations. One of the main reasons for the demand was that they were not able to attend online classes due to network issues. The students even gave examples of Goa and Maharashtra states which have cancelled examinations for various courses and promoted students. A student requested the minister to attend an online class once to know the quality of teaching. “In our college, teachers skip and cover only 10% of the prescribed syllabus. When this is the case, how can we face examinations,” a student questioned. Most of the students said that they were in their hometowns due to lockdown and were unable to access classes due to network issues. They demanded the minister to promote them without examinations. However, Ashwath Narayan said the government has not taken any decision on the examinations and the issue would be decided in the first week of June. “We have not decided anything about examinations. We will discuss with vice chancellors of all universities and decide in first week of June,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/engineering-students-seek-promotion-without-examination-839630.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown: Karnataka eateries to continue parcel services for another 3 days||After threatening to stop giving parcels and takeaways, hotels and restaurants have decided to hold space for three more days following a meeting with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday. For now, hotels have been exempted from the total lockdown on Sundays and Yediyurappa has sought three days to check with the Centre if they can resume serving food on the premises. The Karnataka Pradesh Hotel and Restaurants’ Association (KPHRA) had earlier threatened to stop takeaway services over refusal to allow dine-in facility under Lockdown 4.0. They argued that when street food stalls can be allowed, hotels that follow far better social distancing norms should be permitted as well. Speaking to DH, association president B Chandrashekar Hebbar said the chief minister urged them to wait for three days, assuring that a decision will be taken. “We appraised the government over the mounting losses by keeping just takeaway services open. Noting that social distancing and other guidelines will be followed, we urged him to allow dine-in facility,” he said. The association will wait three more days before discontinuing parcel services, Hebbar said. According to Hebbar, the state government has exempted hotels from the total lockdown on Sundays.  A special package for hotel employees such as cooks and waiters, along the lines of that announced for farmers, cab drivers and weavers, was also sought in a petition submitted to Yediyurappa. According to sources, the petition will be communicated to the Ministry of Home Affairs for further directions. “State guidelines are based on the ones issued by the Centre. Relaxation for hotels has to be decided by the Centre,” a source in the Chief Minister’s Office said. It can be recalled that the state government had expressed its willingness to open hotels under Lockdown 4.0 subject to conditions and restrictions. However, the Centre has not permitted dine-in services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-karnataka-eateries-to-continue-parcel-services-for-another-3-days-839632.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KEA to increase examination centres for CET-2020||The Karnataka Examinations Authority has decided to increase the number of examination centres for the Common Entrance Test (CET) 2020. The KEA, in a release, has said that 75 new examination centres have been identified and the list has been hosted on their website for the information of the candidates. "After verifying the list of newly identified examination places, candidates can change their earlier chosen place of examination if they are interested. Further, the candidates can enter three examination places of their choice in the order of priority. The choice will be accommodated based on the priority of the examination place and availability," the release added. This has been done to help students pick centres that are nearest to their residence. The examination is scheduled on July 30 and 31. Those who wish to change their examination centre can do so by editing their options in their online application form.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kea-to-increase-examination-centres-for-cet-2020-839635.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PU teachers demand PPE kits during evaluation||Pre-university College (PUC) lecturers, who have received orders to take part in evaluation work, have demanded safety measures in place, including personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. The department of pre-university education has issued the orders directing the lecturers to attend evaluation work from May 21. While agreeing to work, the Karnataka State PUC Teachers’ Association has submitted a representation to the primary and secondary education minister demanding safety measures in place. “We welcome the move by the department to begin evaluation work, but we want the department to ensure all necessary measures in place to protect teachers from COVID-19 pandemic,” said Ningegowda, president of the association. The department has set the evaluation of Economics paper for May 21 at district levels. “It would be safe and convenient for teachers if the department allows them to take part in evaluation work at the respective districts where they are residing,” the association stated in its request submitted to the minister. The association has even sought exemption from evaluation work for lecturers who have children below the age group of 3 years, those who are above 50 years or have health issues and those who are pregnant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pu-teachers-demand-ppe-kits-during-evaluation-839638.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Krishna Bhat finally appointed as judge of Karnataka HC||An order has finally been issued on the appointment of judicial officer P Krishna Bhat as an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court, after years of wavering by the Union government. The Union Ministry of Law and Justice on Monday night issued the notification, appointing him for two years as the additional judge of the high court. “In exercise of power under Article 224 of the Constitution, the President is pleased to appoint Bhat to be an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court, for two years with effect from the date he assumes charge of his office,” it stated. The Centre has last week cleared the file on the elevation of judicial officer Bhat. Born in 1960, he would have a tenure of just two years as a judge of the high court. The Centre has been sitting over the file on Bhat for quite some time, apparently because of allegations made by a woman judge. The Supreme Court Collegium had on October 15, 2019, rejected the Centre’s second request for reconsideration, rarely made in case of judges appointment. The Collegium had then asked the Centre to process “most expeditiously” the recommendation, made twice earlier for the elevation of Bhat as a judge of the Karnataka High Court. The Collegium had first recommended his name way back in August 2016. It was reiterated on April 6, 2017. However, the Union government still sought reconsideration of the proposal, which was seen as “interference into the appointment of judges”. In a hard-hitting letter to the then CJI and all judges, Justice J Chelameswar (since retired) had in March 2018 questioned the government’s act of writing a letter directly to the Karnataka High Court’s then chief justice Dinesh Maheshwari, now a Supreme Court judge, who had ordered an enquiry on some “old allegations” against Bhat by the woman judge. He had asked the CJI to convene a full court to discuss “government’s interference” in the appointment of judges to the high courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/krishna-bhat-finally-appointed-as-judge-of-karnataka-hc-839642.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No-garbage survey: Mysuru among 6 cities with 5-star rating||Six cities including Mysuru have bagged five star rating in the garbage-free cities survey in the country.   Ambikapur from Chhattisgarh, Rajkot, Surat from Gujarat, Indore from Madhya Pradesh and Navi Mumbai from Maharashtra are the other cities. Announcing the results of national level star rating of garbage free cities survey, Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep K Puri told mediapersons that “six cities were rated 5 star, 65 cities 3 star and 70 cities 1 star. The assessment was made for the year 2019-2020, taking into account effective handling of solid waste management. Except Mysuru, none other cities from Karnataka were able to bag star rating. Maharashtra, apart from securing five star for Navi Mumbai, also bagged highest number of 3 star ratings for 34 cities and single star rating for 41 urban local bodies, highlighting the state’s progress in managing garbage. The Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry launched the star rating protocol in January 2018, aimed at institutionalising a mechanism for cities to achieve garbage free status and to motivate them to achieve higher degree of cleanliness. The rating was given to cities based on their effective steps in solid waste management which includes cleanliness of drains & water bodies, plastic waste management, managing construction & demolition waste, door to door collection, segregation of garbage, collection of user fee and scientific landfills, said Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary DurgaShankar Mishra.  A total 1,435 cities applied for star rating. Feedback from 1.19 crore citizens and over 10 lakh geo-tagged pictures were collected and 5175 solid waste processing plants were visited by 1210 field assessors, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-garbage-survey-mysuru-among-6-cities-with-5-star-rating-839649.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC exam time table: Students must report 1 hour early||The revised time table for Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) exams, scheduled to be held between June 25 and July 3, has been released by the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB). It will be mandatory for students to report at the examination centre at 9.30 am. “Though the exams are scheduled to begin at 10.30 am, students must come an hour early for the exams, as they have to undergo thermal scanning and sanitise their hands,” said a communication from the KSEEB. This year, more than 8.50 lakh students are appearing for the SSLC exams across the state. The examinations were postponed due to the lockdown. The department has increased the number of exam centres to maintain social distancing and ensure safety of students during the exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-exam-time-table-students-must-report-1-hour-early-839652.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown cooks up crisis for Mumbai’s ‘Udupi hotels’||India’s financial hub Mumbai and the coastal Udupi district of Karnataka have a special connection. Almost every street in Mumbai has one ‘Udupi restaurant’. Whether it is idli, vada, dosa, sambar, chutney, thali-lunch, tea and coffee, Mumbaikars cannot think of a day in their lives without Udupi food. They also run catering services as well as bars. There are lakhs of people from Udupi who work in Mumbai’s small and big restaurants and canteens in office areas. But, several of them have started leaving for their hometowns in the wake of the lockdown. Among them are Jaya Poojari and Sanjeeva, who reached Udupi last week. They plan to return after the lockdown in Mumbai ends. Jaya is now in a quarantine facility in Udupi, while Sanjeeva is in Kundapur. “We came to know of a bus that was going to Udupi. They were charging Rs 4,300 per seat. We gave all the details and they secured the necessary permissions,” Jaya told DH from a hostel where the workers are quarantined. “When we reached Udupi, we were escorted by police to the quarantine facility. We are going to be here for 14 days and then in 14 days of home quarantine,” he said. The bus had a majority of those working in hotels, restaurants and canteens, Jaya added. “The situation is difficult, but once the lockdown ends, things will be back to normal. It may take a couple of months,” said Sudhakar Karkara, who runs a catering chain in Mumbai. “The industry, which creates huge employment and is reeling under tremendous loss for the past two months, went unmentioned in the government’s relief package,” said Shivanand Shetty, president, Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR). “We were expecting some relief measures on the lines of other countries, which have supported the hospitality sector in these critical times,” he said. “As we struggle to maintain our fixed overheads, we expect 35% of the restaurants to shut down permanently and an unemployment rate of 35-38%. We are not sure if we exist as an industry in the government’s scheme of things,” he added. who reached Udupi last week. They plan to return after the lockdown in Mumbai ends. Jaya is now in a quarantine facility in Udupi, while Sanjeeva is in Kundapur.   “We came to know of a bus that was going to Udupi. They were charging Rs 4,300 per seat. We gave all the details and they secured the necessary permissions,” Jaya told DH from a hostel where the workers are quarantined. “When we reached Udupi, we were escorted by police to the quarantine facility. We are going to be here for 14 days and then in 14 days of home quarantine,” he said. The bus had a majority of those working in hotels, restaurants and canteens, Jaya added. “The situation is difficult, but once the lockdown ends, things will be back to normal. It may take a couple of months,” said Sudhakar Karkara, who runs a catering chain in Mumbai.  “The industry, which creates huge employment and is reeling under tremendous loss for the past two months, went unmentioned in the government’s relief package,” said Shivanand Shetty, president, Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR). “We were expecting some relief measures on the lines of other countries, which have supported the hospitality sector in these critical times,” he said. “As we struggle to maintain our fixed overheads, we expect 35% of the restaurants to shut down permanently and an unemployment rate of 35-38%. We are not sure if we exist as an industry in the government’s scheme of things,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-cooks-up-crisis-for-mumbai-s-udupi-hotels-839653.html
19-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mandya arrivals, Seva Sindhu figures differ||The sudden spurt in the COVID-19 cases across Mandya due to travel history to Maharashtra has been baffling. This has also exposed the gaps in surveillance as there is a huge mismatch between the number who have registered on Seva Sindhu portal for entry into Mandya district and those who have actually entered. Officials reason out that some migrants are sneaking past checkposts. As many as 1,173 people from Mumbai alone came to the seven taluks of Mandya district so far, which saw 71 out of 149 COVID-19 cases reported till Tuesday afternoon in Karnataka, all returning from Mumbai. "We have so far collected 7,636 samples in Mandya district. The district has 1,470 outside state arrivals under quarantine," said Dr H P Manche Gowda, Mandya district health officer. However, according to the latest Seva Sindhu figures of May 15, 730 people are in institutional quarantine. Though this figure is four days old, a senior state COVID-19 war room official said it is possible that some arrivals may not have got recorded at check posts. In all, there are 12 checkposts in the district. "Interstate travels started on May 6 or 7, and from day one, a manual system to catch and quarantine was adopted. Subsequently, IT-based systems were brought in," said Mounish Moudgil, in-charge of the state COVID-19 war room. Explaining the discrepancy, Gowda said, "Not all returnees are registered on Seva Sindhu. Some travel in trucks and cross the check posts and while other take interior roads. Some villagers alert us about out-of-state returnees there after which we quarantine them. We haven't had a single case of local transmission though." Gowda said they take the Davangere-Tumakuru-Nagamangala-KR Pet route. Mandya tests quarantined people on the 14th day before releasing them, he added. "KR Pet has maximum Mumbai returnees: 922, out of which 87 have tested positive till date. People from KR Pet have been working in Mumbai since 2000 hotels, lodges, factories, and as gardeners," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mandya-arrivals-seva-sindhu-figures-differ-839676.html
19-05-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0: Bus services commence in Belagavi district||City and inter-district bus services, along with bus services within the Belagavi district, commenced on Tuesday. The services have started after a gap of 55 days as the lockdown had brought commuters' travel to a standstill. The North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation's Belagavi and Chikkodi divisions have made 472 buses operational.  People from different places in the district and the neighbouring districts, who had come for various programmes in the district and were stuck in the residences of their friends and relatives, rushed to the bus stands to leave for their hometowns. Thermal scanners were used to take the body temperature of the commuters and they were asked to use sanitisers before boarding the vehicles. The Non-Government Organisations made masks available to the commuters who had come without masks at the Central Bus Stand here. A total of 30 commuters were allowed to board the 56-seater bus to maintain social distancing as per standard operating procedures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/coronavirus-lockdown-40-bus-services-commence-in-belagavi-district-839389.html
19-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Dehumidifiers being installed in Mumbai's BMC hospitals to help combat COVID-19||Air quality products brand, AMFAH India, has contributed these dehumidifiers. This is a first-of-its-kind of initiative in Mumbai's civic hospitals. This equipment will help in improving the humidity conditions at ICUs, war rooms and backup rooms, reducing the spread of the dreaded novel coronavirus here.  "We wish to salute frontline fighters against the COVID-19 crisis like doctors, nurses and police officers. So, we've collaborated with government offices and hospitals," said Mansoor Ali,  the founder of AMFAH India. The places where dehumidifiers have been installed are KEM Hospital, Kasturba Hospital, Sion Hospital, Nair Hospital, ENT Hospital and ESI Hospital. Besides, these have also been installed at the Shivaji Nagar police station and Oshiwara police station. Ali has been campaigning about the need to focus on humidity and indoor air quality in measures to combat the COVID-19.  "Indeed, the WHO has also linked the spread of the coronavirus to humidity levels. India, as a tropical country, needs to factor in multiple humidity levels for any successful COVID-19 strategy," he said.  Ali says his organisation hopes to raise awareness towards this factor with their contribution.  "We've installed these devices in ICUs, war rooms and backup rooms at the hospitals, BMC, where people sit together and strategise. We've also set up a device at Savali, a shelter run by Sanyog Trust, which is offering living space to relatives of COVID-19 patients near KEM hospital," he added. "The coronavirus has claimed thousands of lives, shaken governments and pummelled the market. It has, however, failed to crush the indomitable spirit of a few brave Mumbaikars who have been working inhuman hours, in conditions of extreme risk, to keep us safe. Our move is a simple salute to their immense contribution to our lives", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-dehumidifiers-being-installed-in-mumbais-bmc-hospitals-to-help-combat-covid-19-839309.html
19-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0: Four migrants killed in accident in Maharashtra's Yavatmal||At least four migrant workers from Jharkhand were killed when the bus in which they were travelling met with an accident in Yavatmal district of Maharashtra on Tuesday.  A dozen others were injured and they have been admitted to hospitals.  The migrants started from Solapur and were heading towards the Jharkhand border.   In the wee hours, the bus had rammed a truck.  On May 8, 16 migrant workers were run over by a goods train in Aurangabad district in Marathwada region of Maharashtra. The deceased were part of a group of 20 persons who were heading from Jalna district to their home in twin districts of Shahdol and Umaria in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. More details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-40-four-migrants-killed-in-accident-in-maharashtras-yavatmal-839327.html
19-05-2020||West||Migration of labourers hits bakery units in Mumbai amid coronavirus lockdown||The bakery business in Mumbai has been badly hit as a number of migrant labourers have gone back to their native places amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Some of those in the business fear that if this situation continues for some more time, there may be shortage of bakery products in the city. During a visit to 'Metro Bakery' in Kurla area, its owner Habib Ansari was found busy making toast and khari (a fluffy baked snack) along with his son-in-law and two labourers. "I have completely shut one of my bakery outlets while I am running this unit with only four people, including myself. I am in this business since last four decades but never saw such a situation in my life," Ansari told PTI. He said their output has been reduced to just a few kilograms from 400 to 500 kgs of products which they used to make earlier in a day. "We requested our labourers not to leave, but they did not listen and fled by paying double the amount to a truck driver," he claimed. Khurshid Ansari, who has a bakery at Mumbra in neighbouring Thane district, said seven to eight bakeries have closed in the area in a week's time since labourers started leaving for their native places in Uttar Pradesh. "Earlier, there were nearly 35 workers in my bakery, but now it is closed," he said. Businessman Haroon Siddique said earlier he used to supply yeast ((a leavening agent used in baking) to about 70 bakeries in Mumbai. "But, in the last one week, 61 bakeries have stopped production and the units closed after labourers left the city," he said. Mushtaq Khan, who runs 'Bakerz Fresh' outlet in suburban Goregaon, told PTI over phone that they are unable to meet customers' demands as the production has gone down due to shortage of labourers. "Many labourers left without informing us or taking their salary. If we do not get labourers in the coming days, consumers may find it difficult to get bakery products," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/migration-of-labourers-hits-bakery-units-in-mumbai-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-839365.html
19-05-2020||West||Maharashtra liquor delivery: Claims of frauds surface||After the Maharashtra government allowed home delivery of liquor last week, some of the customers here have complained of fraudsters duping them through fake social media accounts for placing orders. They claimed fraudsters have created fake Facebook accounts in the name of some known liquor shops and are duping customers by asking them to place orders and make payments through credit/debit cards on the mobile numbers provided by them. Talking to PTI, a film producer said he recently ordered liquor worth Rs 40,000 on a mobile number of a Juhu- based shop mentioned on a Facebook account. The person who took the order asked him for a token amount of Rs 5,000 which he paid. He said later, upon enquiry, he came to know that these people were fraud and operating from Asansol in West Bengal and some place in Bihar. A former Navy official also said when he dialled the contact number mentioned on Facebook of a well-known liquor shop providing home delivery, the person on the other side asked for payment only through debit/credit card.  "I got suspicious when the person said I have to share the OTP number. I had placed an order for liquor worth Rs 1,400, but later realised it was a fraud." A former MLA here said some his friends approached him with such complaints. "This is a scam operating through social media platforms. The scamsters take the credit/debit card numbers and CVV details and cheat the unsuspecting customers. I have tweeted to the police about this and asked senior officials to investigate the matter, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-liquor-delivery-claims-of-frauds-surface-839378.html
19-05-2020||West||Tiger kills woman at Tadoba reserve in Maharashtra||A 63-year-old woman was killed by a tiger at Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in Maharashtra's Chandrapur district on Tuesday, an official said The incident took place in the early hours of the day when Leelabai Jiwtode, a resident of Kolara village, ventured into Satara jungle (protected forest area) to puck some tendu leaves, chief conservator of forest (TATR) N R Praveen said. The body of the deceased woman was recovered from the core zone of the reserve, he said. Despite warnings about tigers lurking in the area, villagers continue to venture into the forest to collect tendu leaves, the official said. This is the second incident of man-animal conflict reported in Satara village area, he added. At least 11 people have died in tiger attacks in Chandrapur district this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tiger-kills-woman-at-tadoba-reserve-in-maharashtra-839399.html
19-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Fadnavis targets Pawar, asks Maharashtra govt for economic package||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday took a dig at NCP chief Sharad Pawar on his recent letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the economic stimulus package, and demanded a similar measure from the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government. However, the Congress hit back asking why did MLAs of the Opposition party donated their local area development fund to the PM Cares Fund instead of to the CM Relief Fund if they are so concerned about Maharashtra, which has reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the country. The NCP and the Congress are the constituents in the Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. "Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government should announce a package on the lines of the Centre. NCP chief Sharad Pawar has written several letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He should write one such letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray as well," Fadnavis said, after meeting state Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari along with other BJP leaders. In his recent letter to the PM, Pawar stated that the Centre's economic stimulus package lacked provisions to compensate the losses incurred by farmers during the lockdown period, which has left no cash in their hands. He had also stated the package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was "more of the supply chain- centric" whose benefits will take longer time to reach farmers. However, the Congress alleged that the BJP was anti-Maharashtra and politicising every issue.  "MLAs of the BJP donated their local area development fund to the PM Cares Fund. Why they did not donate the amount in the CM Relief Fund?" asked state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant. He said that instead of supporting the state government in its fight against COVID-19, the BJP was bent on playing politics. Sawant sarcastically said that the state government should rather not announce any economic package on the lines of the Union government because it is "full of hollow promises". "The state has already undertaken several steps to ease problems of people. The Centre is creating problems in functioning of the state government," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-fadnavis-targets-pawar-asks-maharashtra-govt-for-economic-package-839428.html
19-05-2020||West||Maharashtra's bed strength being scaled up to 3 lakh plus||With a big spike in COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra is ramping up the bed strength in hospitals to a level of 3 lakh plus. In Mumbai, by the end of May and first week of June, thousands of beds would be added. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked various departments to ensure that the state's bed strength goes up significantly. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has made three categories - COVID Care Centres (CCC), Dedicated COVID Health Centres (DCHC) and Dedicated COVID Hospital (DCH)."As of now, we have 1,448 CCCs with nearly 2.5 lakh beds," Thackeray said in his webcast on Monday night. In Mumbai, the worst-affected place in India, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has made two categories - CCC-1 and CCC-2.While CCC-1 is used for quarantining high-risk suspects, CCC-2 is being used for treatment of asymptomatic positive cases. Moderate cases are being handled in DCHC and severe in DCH. To increase CCCs, modular makeshift hospitals with 500 plus beds under one roof are being made. The biggest of them, with 1,000 beds at the Bandra-Kurla Complex, was handed over to the BMC by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). At the Dome of National Sports Club of India at Worli, 650 beds of CCC category are functional and 35 ICU beds are being readied. The Mahalaxmi Racecourse CCC will have 800 beds and 120 ICU beds.   In the eastern suburbs of Mulund and western suburbs of Dahisar, nearly 2,000-bed makeshift CCC will come up. At the NESCO Complex at Goregaon, a 1,200-bed capacity jumbo CCC is coming up and 1,000 more beds are planned to be added. "By end of May in Mumbai, 15,000 makeshift beds would be added which will have 7,000 isolation beds and 30 per cent beds with oxygen facility," sources said. If one looks at the Mumbai-MMR, 11 jumbo CCCs are coming up which include two with over 1,000 beds in Impact Hub in Thane and CIDCO exhibition centre in Navi Mumbai. The BMC has already taken over several hotels, community halls where quarantine facilities are already operational. For Mumbai, Municipal Commissioner IS Chahal has set deadlines for commissioning of temporary facilities. According to Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope, the state has approved to fill 17,337 vacancies in the health department and 11000 posts in the medical education department as well as vacancies in various municipal corporations. A committee headed by Medical Education Director Dr Tatyarao Lahane will decide the names of deans and deputy deans for running these facilities in consultation with deans of hospitals. The second and third-year students of nursing colleges will be appointed for jumbo facilities and training will be immediately organised for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-bed-strength-being-scaled-up-to-3-lakh-plus-839439.html
19-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: 24 persons test COVID-19 positive in Nashik, tally at 824||At least 24 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Maharashtra's Nashik district on Tuesday, taking the case count to 824 here, an official said. As per an official release issued by the district administration, swab reports of 190 suspected patients were received on Tuesday, of which 24 persons from Malegaon were found positive for the infection. With this, the count of cases in Nashik district has risen to 824, of which 643 patients were from Malegaon, 47 from Nashik city and 104 from other parts of the district, the release stated. Of the 824 patients, 591 have recovered from the infection, while 233 were in treatment, it was said. At least 469 patients from Malegaon, 32 patients from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) area and 62 patients from other parts of the district had recovered, the data stated. Apart from this, 28 out of 30 patients from outside the district, who were undergoing treatment here, had also recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-24-persons-test-covid-19-positive-in-nashik-tally-at-824-839477.html
19-05-2020||West||Lockdown: Bhiwandi powerloom units warned not to resume work||The civic body in Bhiwandi- Nizampur town in Maharashtra's Thane district on Tuesday warned powerloom units in the area not to resume operations till further orders were issued during the fourth phase of the COVID-19 lockdown. Bhiwandi-Nizampur municipal commissioner Dr Pravin Ashtikar on Tuesday said powerloom units must wait for further orders from the authorities and defying the lockdown would attract severe action. In an official message circulated through deputy commissioner of police (Bhiwandi zone) Rajkumar Shinde, the civic chief said some messages were being circulated on social media that the MIDC had granted permission for powerlooms to resume work. The government has so far not permitted industries in red zones to resume operations and reopening of industrial units here would amount to violation of the lockdown, he said. Bhiwandi has around 6 lakh powerloom units and at least 4 lakh workers, mostly from Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, were employed in them, said Purushottam Wanga, chairman of the Powerloom Development and Export Promotion council. Under the present circumstances, 75 per cent of migrant workers had already left Bhiwandi to return to their home states, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-bhiwandi-powerloom-units-warned-not-to-resume-work-839517.html
19-05-2020||West||Another accident in Maharashtra claims migrants' lives||In yet another accident involving migrants, three persons from Jharkhand and a bus driver were killed in a road accident near the Arvi town in Yavatmal district of Maharashtra. The bus of the MSRTC rammed a truck in the wee hours of Tuesday, reports said. The bus was carrying 30-odd migrant workers from Solapur to the Maharashtra border via Nagpur. The passengers in the bus were from Chhatisgarh and Jharkhand. This is the third big accident involving migrants in Maharashtra. On March 28,  four migrant workers were killed and three others were injured after they were knocked down by a tempo near Virar. The group hailed from Gujarat and Rajasthan and wanted to walk through border and reach their home states during the 21-day India lockdown to combat the spread of COVID-19. On May 8, 16 migrant workers were run over by a goods train in Aurangabad district in Marathwada region of Maharashtra. The deceased were part of a group of 20 persons who were heading from Jalna distict to their home in twin districts of Shahdol and Umaria in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/another-accident-in-maharashtra-claims-migrants-lives-839529.html
19-05-2020||West||Yet again, hundreds of migrants throng in Bandra||Hundreds of migrant workers and their family members gathered near the Bandra terminus in the western suburbs of Mumbai expected to catch train back home. It was a harrowing time for the Mumbai Police and Western Railway authorities to clear the crowd from Bandra East. The video clips of the crowd have gone viral on social media. It may be recalled on 14 April, a huge crowd of migrants mainly from Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand assembled in Bandra West and demanded that they be sent back homes. Police had to use force to disperse the crowd. On Tuesday, it was a near similar situation. Police saved the day by pursuing people to return and allowed the 1,700 who were registered for the day's Shramik Special. The train departed for Punia later in the day. “However, the bonafide passengers were checked and allowed to enter the station premises by the state government officials. The train left Bandra at 12 noon with 1,700 registered migrants and their families who were entitled to travel on it,” said WR Chief Spokesperson Ravinder Bhakar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/yet-again-hundreds-of-migrants-throng-in-bandra-839548.html
19-05-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0: Maharashtra divided into red and non-red zones||The government on Tuesday issued new guidelines which would come into effect from May 22. During the earlier phases of lockdown, the state (as other parts of the country) were divided into red, orange and green zones.  The Municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (which includes Mumbai, Thane and surrounding towns), as well as civic bodies of Pune, Solapur, Aurangabad, Malegaon, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon, Akola and Amravati fall in the red zone, it said. All these areas have high number of coronavirus cases. All the remaining areas of the state fall in non-red zone, an official statement said. The government had declared on Sunday that lockdown will continue till May 31. In both red and non-red zones, municipal/district authoritieswill demarcate containment zones.  Municipal commissioners and district collectors will have the power to identify residential colonies, mohallas, slums, buildings or groups of buildings, lanes, wards, police station areas, villages or small clusters of villages as containment zones. But for declaring larger areas, such as a whole taluka or municipal corporation, as containment zones, they will have to consult the Chief Secretary of the state. In containment zones only essential activities will be allowed. No movement of people in and out of these zones will be allowed except for medical emergencies and maintaining supply of essential goods. Shops, malls, commercial establishments and industries in the red zone, which are nor allowed to operate, can remain open between 9 am to 5 pm only for upkeep and maintenance of materials, furniture, plant and machinery and pre-monsoon protection of property and goods. No production and commercial activity will be allowed, the guidelines said. However, home delivery from restaurants and kitchens will be allowed. In non-red zones, no permission will be needed from any government authority to undertake or perform permitted activities. Sports complexes, stadia and other public open spaces will be permitted to remain open for individual exercises but group activities and events involving spectators will not be allowed. Physical exercises and other activities will be allowed provided social distancing is followed. Markets and shops in non-red zones will remain open from 9 am to 5 pm, and if there is crowding or violation of social distancing norms, they will be closed down, the guidelines warned. In red zones, all government offices including sub-registrar and Regional Transport Offices, offices of university/colleges for non-teaching work, staff involved in evaluation of answer sheets, declaration of results and development of e-content will function at five per cent strength or with minimum of 10 employees, which ever is more, the guidelines said. As of Monday evening, Maharashtra had recorded 37,158 coronavirus cases, the highest in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-40-maharashtra-divided-into-red-and-non-red-zones-839573.html
19-05-2020||West||Consider ferrying migrants in buses to home states: HC to Maharashtra||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government to explore the possibility of ferrying migrants, daily wage labourers and other stranded people to their native states by state transport buses instead of just dropping them up to the borders of the state. Justice R B Deo of the Nagpur bench of the HC was hearing a petition taken up suo moto (on its own) raising concerns over the plight of migrants and daily wage labourers amid the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. The high court was on Tuesday informed by advocate Deven Chauhan, appointed to assist the court, that following its orders the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has arranged for buses from various points to drop migrants and others up to state borders. Chauhan told the HC that desperate workers resort to travelling by trucks and tempos to reach their native states, after they are dropped at the borders in ST buses. He said to avoid this the MSRTC could consider ferrying their buses till those states directly. Government pleader S Y Deopujari, however, told the court that this would involve concurrence of the respective state governments. "This court expects the state government to consider this suggestion as expeditiously as possible," the court said. The HC also directed police commissioners of all districts and cities across the state to consider deploying additional staff at several points on highways to prevent migrants and other stranded persons from undertaking travel in trucks and tempos. Chauhan further told the court that a train was supposed to depart to Howrah from Nagpur this evening ferrying 300 migrants, but it was cancelled and postponed due to the Cyclone 'Amphan' threat. He added that a train is scheduled to leave Amravati district this evening, and it will pass Nagpur before heading to Bihar. Chauhan sought the railways to consider adjusting the passengers who were to travel to Howrah in this train. The divisional commissioner of railways, Nagpur, who was present via video conferencing for the hearing, told the court that the train to Bihar would be halted at Nagpur and those passengers who were to travel to Howrah would be accommodated in this train if they wish. The court accepted the statement. The court was also informed that the district administration has pursuant to court orders made arrangements for state transport buses at various points to ferry migrants to state borders. The court directed the administration to erect temporary shelter homes at these points so that migrant workers and others who gather there can wait in such homes. The bench also clarified that the authorities could use funds from the State Disaster Relief Fund to provide dry ration to the migrant workers and other stranded persons. Money from the fund was presently being used only to provide cooked food. The court has posted the matter for further hearing on May 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/consider-ferrying-migrants-in-buses-to-home-states-hc-to-maharashtra-839597.html
19-05-2020||West||Mumbai's coronavirus death toll touches 800||Nearly two months after the first death was reported, Mumbai's COVID-19 toll touched 800 on Tuesday.  A total of 43 deaths were reported in 24 hours span, the highest in a day so far.  The total positive cases in India's commercial capital now stands at 22,563 with the addition of 1,411 cases.  600 persons were discharged on Tuesday taking the total to 6,116. Out of 43 deaths, 15 deaths were reported between May 6-15. Of the deceased,  32 patients had co-morbidities, 29 patients were male and 14 female. Two were below 40 years and 20 were above 60 years and 21 were between 40 to 60 years of age.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-coronavirus-death-toll-touches-800-839606.html
