20-05-2020||First Edit||Doubts on data harms confidence in govt||Questions have been raised about the data provided by the government on various aspects of the fight against COVID-19, the prevailing situation in the country and its view of the scenarios in future. Correct information relating to all these should be available to experts, health professionals, the public and the media because it is a fight in which all are involved in different ways. The government has been reluctant and unwilling to part with information and has sometimes even provided misleading data. A projection made by a Niti Aayog member last month which showed the incidence of new cases on May 16 as zero is an example of such misleading information. Neither the official nor the government explained the basis for the projection. Another official’s claim that the COVID-19 curve is flattening has been found way off the mark. The claim was considered wrong even when it was made.  It is not just the government but institutions like the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which have a major role in the campaign, have also been found wanting in this respect. The ICMR has not parted with any information which it may have collected, and it is not known if the government's policies and strategies are based on projections or studies made by its institutions. Sharing such information with the public is important in the fight against COVID-19, especially because it has assumed pandemic proportions. Data about tests, clinical details of patients and information about treatment and outcomes, which have varied in the country, and reasons for changes in norms and guidelines are all important and should be made available in the public realm. Doctors, experts and the public will gain from that, and it is in accordance with the best international practices on public health. It should also be noted that China’s failure to disclose such information in time likely contributed to the disease spiralling out of control.  Transparency in the policies, positions and conduct of the government is important in the management of public health issues. Correct, reliable, credible and sufficient data should be provided to the people. If the information is found wrong, suspect or inadequate, that will weaken the fight against the disease. While communication with the people is very important the government has unfortunately stopped the daily media briefings on the situation in the country. The fight against the coronavirus is not the government’s secretive fight, it should be the people's open fight against the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/doubts-on-data-harms-confidence-in-govt-840018.html
20-05-2020||In Perspective||Preaching ‘self-reliance’ to those in crisis||Over the course of the last week, the Narendra Modi government unveiled its economic package. The Prime Minister kicked off the proceedings with the impressive sounding but clearly unrealistic announcement that the package would be worth Rs 20 lakh crore. Of interest then was to ascertain just how unrealistic the Prime Minister’s announcement was. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman took upon herself the job of introducing the package in the form of daily briefings. Over the next five days, the details were presented – and it was possible to arrive at two central conclusions: (1) Indians were not going to get the ‘cash in hand’ stimulus they so badly need to prop up consumption and revive demand; and (2) The Centre cannot resist the lure of grandiose announcements even in the face of such a crisis. In short, the vast majority of Indian citizens are effectively now on their own, or as the buzzword of the day goes, atma-nirbhar. Allow me to unpack these points further. Only a fraction of the stimulus package (worth about Rs 2 lakh crore, or 1% of India’s GDP) represents incremental expenditure by the government. Yet every day now, Union ministers are forced to parade themselves to announce existing budget provisions while pretending what they say is path-breaking reform, or an unprecedented allocation. While one must applaud the reforms announced, particularly in the agriculture sector, it remains to be seen whether these announcements translate into practical steps. Be that as it may, the need of the hour was to address the economic and humanitarian distress unfolding in the country after eight weeks of lockdown. The stream of migrant workers on the roads stands out starkly as a symbol of how badly this lockdown has been botched up. Their attempts to get back home using their own means when governments failed to help them, and the resulting distress and deaths, should have shaken our collective conscience. The Centre has chosen to take unilateral decisions in this matter, with disastrous consequences. Little was done to reassure migrant workers that they would receive support in the places where they were currently located. Once the workers hit the roads, it took the government an inordinate amount of time to decide that they should operate long-distance trains to bring them home. Last week, the Finance Minister tried to make amends by announcing food aid to 80 million migrant workers. This will cost Rs 3,500 crore, and forms one of the only direct relief measures aimed at addressing the widespread economic distress. COVID-19 has blown a hole through India’s economy. The Centre’s finances are in shambles. If tax revenue estimates looked difficult when the FY 2020-21 budget was read out, they are now clearly a distant dream. State government finances are in worse shape, having not only lost revenues from liquor and petroleum, but also with the Centre running up large GST arrears with them. Given this backdrop, a bright spot was the Centre relaxing borrowing rules for states. However, the conditions being imposed on the states of effecting administrative and governance reforms, are ill-timed and reveal a mindset that is disdainful of the states’ rightful position in a federal structure. After all, it is the states that are facing the epidemic and it is their workers who are at the frontline doing what they can with the limited resources available. It wouldn’t be surprising if state governments decide to exercise caution, lest the Centre use this as a tool to expand its control over states. The messaging around the Centre’s guiding philosophy in designing the stimulus is also muddled. On the one hand, the government has continued to pour funds into MGNREGA – a scheme that Prime Minister Modi had repeatedly denounced as a monument to the Congress party’s failures. On the other hand, it failed to do enough to put cash in the hands of people as a form of immediate relief, by choosing to rely on credit to enterprises, rather than direct cash transfers. Indeed, the dominant theme of India’s economic package announced last week was a variety of refinancing schemes and credit lines to private enterprises. Such provisions, while welcome, will do little to provide an immediate stimulus to an economy suffering from a collapse in purchasing power. It also appears particularly insensitive to the immediate distress of millions of our citizens when the Centre introduces reforms that supposedly will build a self-reliant India. A pandemic needs a coordinated response, and in India, it requires cooperation between the Centre and states. Prime Minister Modi’s politics, however, is opaque and hurts the national effort when transparency and trust is key. This so-called stimulus package is yet another exercise that completely misses the point. These follies are compounded by the chronic need to maintain a ‘strongman’ image. This government is so caught up in its rhetoric that it is unable to even acknowledge the problem, let alone accept any responsibility for its callousness. What we get instead are half-baked ideas and pompous announcements. The New India might want to boast about its ‘strong’ government, but clearly, the supposed strengths have only detracted from our ability to formulate an effective response to COVID-19. For now, those in crisis have got just platitudes and lectures of 'self-reliance', when concrete meaningful government assistance was the need of the hour.  (The writer works on governance projects in South Asia and East Africa)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/preaching-self-reliance-to-those-in-crisis-840019.html
20-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Attempt to murder seer Gangadhar Swamiji in Bailhongal||Gangadhar Swamiji of Moorsavirmath branch at Hosur village in Bailhongal taluk suffered severe head injuries after a person assaulted him with sharp weapons on Tuesday late night. The accused identified as Mallikarjun Budshetti, according to sources, who is also resident from Hosur had to the mutt with intention to rob but faced opposition from the seer and he assaulted Gangadhar Swamiji with a sharp weapon in his possession. Accused has been detained and seer admitted in the District Hospital for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/attempt-to-murder-seer-gangadhar-swamiji-in-bailhongal-839711.html
20-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru shares 5 star rating with five other cities||It is yet another feather in the cap of Mysuru, which was adjudged as ‘Cleanest City’ in the past, on multiple occasions. Mysuru shared the five star rating with other five cities in an initiative of the Union government. Even last year, Mysuru had secured the same ranking. However, it is the only city to get five stars, in the entire South India. The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has taken up Garbage Free City Star Rating as part of Swachh Survekshan. The other cities that have bagged the five star rating are: Ambikapur, in Chhattisgarh; Rajkot and Surat in Gujarat; Indore in Madhya Pradesh; and Navi Mumbai in Maharashtra. Surprisingly, no other city of Karnataka has secured either three star or even one star, under the initiative. Except for four cities in Andhra Pradesh, which have got three star grading, no other city from the entire South India figure in the list of 141. Garbage Free City Star Rating envisions to enable cities to gradually evolve into a model (7-star) city, with progressive improvements in their overall cleanliness. The star rating conditions are based on 25 key parameters across the solid waste management spectrum and has been designed to both help cities assess their progress, while encouraging them to move towards a better rating, thereby improving their cities’ overall cleanliness and aesthetics. In order to institutionalise a mechanism for cities to achieve Garbage Free status, and to motivate them to achieve higher degrees of cleanliness, a Seven Star rating Protocol is defined for Garbage Free cities, which builds on aspirations of cities to progress towards higher standards of ‘Swachhata’ or cleanliness. The Star Rating is supported by a verification mechanism to ensure transparency and standardisation. Cities were required to carry out self-assessment and self-verification for achieving a certain star rating. This self-declaration was further verified through an independent third-party agency Kantar appointed by Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs for 1-star, 3-star, 5-star and 7-star Garbage Free Ratings. It has to be noted that Mysuru was adjudged the cleanest city in 2014-15 and 2015-16. In 2016-17, Mysuru slipped to fifth place. In 2017-18, it slipped further to eighth place. However, it topped the list of cities with a population below 10 lakh. in 2018-19, Mysuru scaled up to the third slot. Besides, in 2018-19, Mysuru secured the ODF+ distinction for being open-defecation free city and secured the same five star grading as garbage free city. District in-charge Minister S T Somasekhar congratulated the District Administration, people’s representatives, NGOs and citizens of the city for the rating. “Mysuru is the pride of Karnataka. The city and Mysuru district would be further developed into a model, under the guidance of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Urban Development Minister,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-shares-5-star-rating-with-five-other-cities-839905.html
20-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Project to flow Bengaluru’s treated water to Magadi, Nelamangala soon ||Minister for Minor Irrigation J C Madhuswamy on Wednesday said that the government would implement a project to flow treated water to Nelamangala and Magadi. He was speaking after inspecting pump house of the K C Valley project at S Agrahara and Jannaghatta tanks here. He said,” About 18 tmc sewage water is available in Bengaluru which may be treated for reuse. Only about 4 tmc of water is being used at present. The government will implement a project to flow the treated water to Nelamangala and Magadi.” The Minister sought farmers’ cooperation in filling tanks in the region with K C Valley project water. “In the first phase, 126 tanks will be filled with water, while in the second phase 137 tanks will receive water. The water flow was affected as farmers were drawing water illegally. The problems have been solved. Farmers should cooperate so that water reaches all tanks in the taluk,” he said. The project was implemented to revive ground water in the region. About 400 MLD water should have flowed by now. The required quantity of water would reach all tanks by September, he said. “The officials claim that check dams in the areas identified for the flow of the project water are unscientific. I can’t buy such versions. Check dams have been constructed so store rain water. The government can’t tolerate efforts to dismantle the check dams,” he clarified. “Valve will be fixed at all check dams so that the water flows smoothly. Water in the check dams will be stored after all tanks in the region are filled with water,” he said. MP S Muniswamy, MLCs R Chowda Reddy, Y A Narayana Swamy, Zilla Panchayat president C S Venkatesh, deputy commissioner C Satyabhama, assistant commissioner Somashekhar and tahsildar Shobitha were present. Attempt to gherao Madhuswamy Members of Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene attempted to gherao Madhuswamy for using certain words against them for seeking measures to clear encroachments of tanks. The women objected the use of certain words by the Minister which led to an argument. Madhuswamy lost cool and directed the police to take away the women. Situation turned tense as the women began an argument with the police. However, they were taken away later from the place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/project-to-flow-bengaluru-s-treated-water-to-magadi-nelamangala-soon-839943.html
20-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Collect garbage at containment zones carefully’||Directorate of Municipal  Administration director B V Kaveri on Wednesday directed authorities of local bodies in the district to segregate garbage in containment zones daily and dispose them properly. “Garbage should be collected cautiously from the containment zones. The garbage from the containment zones should not be mixed with the garbage generated in other localities,” she directed at a video-conferencing with the official of local bodies in the district. “The civic bodyworkers working in the containment zones should be given safety kits as they face greater threat of contracting the virus,” she said. Measures should be taken against unnecessary movement of people. Wearing masks is mandatory while venturing outside. Shop keepers should ensure social distancing near shops, she said. Essential should be provided at doorstep at containment zones. Action should be taken against those venturing out in containment zones, Kaveri directed. City Municipal Council commissioner Srikanth, revenue officer Chandru, revenue inspector Thyagaraj and health inspectors Prithvi and Deepa were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/collect-garbage-at-containment-zones-carefully-839947.html
20-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Irate residents ransack quarantine centre in Shivamogga||Tension prevailed for a while when police resorted to lathicharge to disperse irate residents of Bapujinagar in the city who damaged chairs, tables, and surveillance cameras installed in quarantine centre on Wednesday evening. A group of residents of the area, led by Deputy Mayor Surekha Muralidhar, staged protest in the area opposing the district administration's plan to use B Krishnappa hostel as a quarantine facility. It had been decided to keep people who had come from other states, including Mumbai, under institutional quarantine in B Krishnappa hostel in the area. The residents disrupted police when they were making necessary arrangements.   Deputy Mayor Surekha Muralidhar argued with police that the area already has two quarantine centres. So, there is no need for another quarantine centre here as people are scared that they may get infected by covid-19.  Heated arguments were exchanged between police and residents. Police security has been beefed up in the area to bring the situation under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/irate-residents-ransack-quarantine-centre-in-shivamogga-839959.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmers oppose amendment to APMC Act, stage protest||The activists of Raitha Sangha staged a protest in front of the district offices complex here on Wednesday opposing the ordinance for amending the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act. Addressing the protesters, Raitha Sangha state general secretary Bhaktarahalli Byregowda said that the state government had relaxed the restrictions on sale and purchase of farm produces to facilitate multinationals. He described the amendment as a death knell for farmers.  “The Union Agriculture Ministry had written to the state government for bringing an amendment to the APMC Act at the earliest. Accordingly, the state government issued ordinance for amending the Act in a hurry,” he said. He alleged that the government did not discuss the amendment in the Cabinet and prepared the ordinance overnight. The Governor has returned the ordinance with a direction to obtain approval of the Cabinet. The APMC Act, 1966, now in force lays thrust on the welfare of farmers. It was more strengthened by bringing an amendment in 1986. He said that farmers would be exploited to the hilt if the amendment comes into force. “The proposed amendment is a conspiracy to facilitate huge multinationals which supply processed and packaged food to consumes,” Byregowda alleged. Hitherto, huge companies were allowed to purchase farm produce from licensed traders at APMC. The companies with their own yards had to enter into an agreement with directorate of agricultural marketing. Now, these conditions have been relaxed, with the objective of benefiting capitalists. The protesters submitted a memorandum to the state government through the deputy commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-oppose-amendment-to-apmc-act-stage-protest-839984.html
20-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||719 persons under quarantine||As many as 719 persons are under facility quarantine in the district and one Covid-19 positive patient is isolated at a hospital, as on Wednesday. According to Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, the Health department has observed 5,548 persons till date and 4,828 persons have completed quarantine. The authorities have tested 6,794 samples. While 91 tested positive, 6,703 tested negative. While 90 patients have recovered and discharged from the hospital, one is under treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/719-persons-under-quarantine-839992.html
20-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Women in quarantine seek financial help from CM||A video clip of two women on quarantine at a private hotel seeking financial support from Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, his son and state youth wing general secretary Vijayendra and Minister K C Narayana Gowda, has gone viral on the social media. The women, who have returned from Mumbai a week ago, were quarantined at Preetham Hotel in the town. The video clip shows the women saying, “The officials had told us to stay in the hotel for three days, for which we agreed. Now, it has been a week and we have run out of money. The hotel has been demanding rent. We don’t have money to even buy food and milk for the children. Please help us,” they have appealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/women-in-quarantine-seek-financial-help-from-cm-839995.html
20-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hassan leads with 21 COVID-19 cases; Mandya 8||On Wednesday, 21 new COVID-19 positive cases were confirmed in Hassan district, while it is eight cases from Mandya. Hassan recorded the highest of 21 cases on May 20, taking the total to 53 cases. Out of 21 cases in Hassan, eight were female and 13 male. While 20 cases have a travel history of Mumbai, Maharashtra, one woman has a travel history of Vishakapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. All are being treated at the COVID-19 hospital in Hassan. Mandya reported eight positive cases on Wednesday. This includes six female and two male, all having a travel history of Mumbai, Maharashtra. Mandya has been reporting a spurt in cases since a couple of days, and is placed second in the COVID-19 tally, with 168 cases. Bengaluru Urban is in the first slot, with 250 cases. It was eight cases on Wednesday. However, the number of positive cases was less compared to Tuesday, which recorded a highest of 71 cases, creating panic among the people. Three people were discharged on Wednesday and the total number of people discharged is 24. The are 144 active cases in Mandya district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-leads-with-21-covid-19-cases-mandya-8-839997.html
20-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Relocation process of Changadi hamlet begins||With the District Level Rehabilitation Committee, headed by deputy commissioner, forming sub-committees, the first step for shifting of Changadi, a tribal hamlet under Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary, commenced on Wednesday. The state government constituted the committee, headed by Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi and Deputy Conservator of Forests V Yedukondalu. The first meeting was held on Wednesday and the members formed two sub-committees to conduct a survey, valuation of properties and mapping of new areas adjoining the village, said the DCF. The 13-member committee comprises, ZP CEO, Additional Superintendent of Police and other district-level officers, farmer leaders and villagers. This is the first step towards relocating the village and the committee decided to meet once a month for effective and fast relocation of the village. The newly identified area, near Chikalluru, is yet to be mapped and it has decided to create a blue print of the area. The DCF said, “District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar will visit Changadi on Thursday and interact with the villagers.”  The farmers and villagers were demanding relocation of the village since 2015, as it is deprived of basic facilities. DCF V Yedukondalu had submitted a report on relocating the village to the government last October. The main reason for a proposal to shift the village is that it is located in the core zone of the sanctuary. Except a primary school, the government has not provided any facility. There are only kutcha roads. The village depends on just one open well for its drinking water needs. The farmers are dependent on rain for agriculture. As the village is inside the forest, man-animal conflict is on the rise. For medical service and education, the villagers and students have to go to Koudalli, at a distance of 22 km or to Ramapura, at a distance of 36 km or to Hanur, 45 km from the village. Out of 226 families in the village, 195 have agreed for relocation. The authorities have identified 1,600 acres of lands under Kottanur gram panchayat, Hanur taluk. As per the order of the state government, the committee has to submit a detailed report within 60 days. The report must be submitted to the government through the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests. Honnur Prakash of Raita Sanga, Changadi Kariappa and Raghuram of Wildlife Conservation Society were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/relocation-process-of-changadi-hamlet-begins-840000.html
20-05-2020||Main Article||Where the govt erred with the coronavirus response||The lockdown was meant to arrest the virus from transmission, not people. And people should have been allowed to, even helped to, return home safely before imposing the lockdown and asking them to stay confined. Now, in 319 districts out of 733 in the country, we are not achieving anything epidemiologically by lockdown, except self-inflicted economic destruction and social inconveniences. The only caution that needs to be taken: seal the district borders to prevent passage into and out of such ‘green zones’. On May 11, the chief ministers of states finally spoke boldly about the ground realities and made suggestions to the Prime Minister. Many wanted only identification and cordoning off of containment zones, rather than the Centre’s red-orange-green zoning. Disappointingly, lifting of the nationwide lockdown and return to full economic activity and normal life did not happen even in the green zone districts. Epidemiologically-guided containment measures and a granular decentralised hotspot-based approach is missing. Had the lockdown been lifted in the 319 green zone districts at the end of lockdown 2.0 on May 3, as was widely expected, it would have allowed governments to focus attention on the 130 red and 284 orange zone districts. To confine 1.3 billion people to their homes (for those who have homes) and stopping all economic activities was a needlessly drastic step – without evidence of where the virus was and where it wasn’t in this vast country, it was a wild shot into the bush even before the game had reached the bush.   The virus originated in Wuhan and entered India via the airports. Indians studying, working or travelling in affected countries or foreigners visiting India on business or for tourism brought in the virus. The first two cases were of two medical students who returned to Kerala from Wuhan. Later cases were of Indian pilgrims and workers returning from Iran and Saudi Arabia, where the virus had already spread. But what did the government do as the first coronavirus cases arrived in India on January 30? Even at the end of February, the central government was busy hosting US President Donald Trump and dealing with the Delhi riots. The Centre seemed to take note of Covid-19 only around March 3 when cases started appearing in Delhi and Jaipur. Travellers should not have landed in India from the day the WHO declared Covid-19 a pandemic, that is on March 11. Putting a stop to international and domestic flights and interstate movement by train or bus to and from 75 districts in the three states of Kerala, Maharashtra and Delhi would have been justified. A timely action missed! Had that been done, then from April first week, the lockdown could have been extended justifiably to only six more states -- Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Instead, on March 24, the entire country was shutdown with four hours’ notice. The sensible surveillance and containment measures would have been a thorough screening at airports and ensuring every healthy passenger from the affected countries undergoing self-quarantine plus daily monitoring by the local health staff. If they developed any symptoms, they should have been transported to an isolation hospital immediately and  their nasal/throat samples tested for confirmation of Covid-19. If there was any worsening of symptoms, intensive care with ventilator support and medications should have been provided. Positive cases should have been interrogated for their travel and contact history. The re-constructed route map and identified cluster of friends and relatives contacted should have been put under active surveillance. That would have been a perfect wartime strategy without restricting economic activity and the social life of communities. Kerala demonstrated that such a surveillance and containment model was operationally feasible with a dedicated public health team, community support and political will and leadership. Unfortunately, that model was not emulated in metro cities and at the major international airports at the right time. Many imported cases in Delhi, Jaipur, Punjab, Mumbai and Pune could have been detected and dealt with, but the screening of all flight passengers started only on March 4. Even then, active surveillance of all travellers was not done. Had that been done, then the international participants at the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi would have been stopped at the airports themselves. But religious, academic and other gatherings weren’t stopped until the nationwide lockdown was announced. Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan himself admitted that the “Lockdown is an extreme intervention to break the chain of transmission. It has great repercussions for the economy, society and psychology”. Even China did not undertake a full national lockdown. Initially, only Wuhan city and later, on January 23, Hubei province of 50 million population were put under lockdown. India clamped its national lockdown abruptly on the night of March 24 with only nine deaths and fewer than 550 cases at the time. Lockdown is one of the strongest weapons, to be used only when significant community transmission has started. Without any evidence of such a community spread, arresting people in their homes made no sense, especially in 433 out of the 733 districts in the country. With such a Hitlerian Blitzkrieg strategy of fighting an imported virus, brought in by the privileged travelling classes, the cruellest collateral damage was inflicted on the millions of migrant labourers and slum-dwellers in our cities. They did not know or had heard of such a virus in their vicinity and were not prepared to face the lockdown. It was crucial to have arranged the fastest transport by special trains or interstate buses for the migrant workers to help them reach their hometowns before imposing a long lockdown. Tiny Singapore gave a 5-day notice to its citizens to get ready for a lockdown; New Zealand gave a two-day notice to its citizens. While the migrant workers were ‘imprisoned’ in the cities for weeks, the imported virus landed in their slums and shanties, too. And it has started spreading like wildfire in summer. The expected main outcome of the lockdown was the flattening of the bell-shaped curve of incidence, theoretically three weeks after the lockdown. Instead, we are seeing new peaks of infection every day. There is no flattening of the curve, neither on a numerical nor on a log scale. Political leaders safeguarded their vote banks and governmental untruths, allegedly superseding the technical advice of public health experts and even of the ICMR. Our country is blessed with abundant professional resources. Shouldn’t they be heard? (The writer is a Consultant on public health, child survival and development in Kochi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/where-the-govt-erred-with-the-coronavirus-response-840020.html
20-05-2020||National||Noida: 8 arrested for defying lockdown, 179 vehicles owners penalised||Eight people were arrested and challans issued to owners of 179 vehicles across Noida and Greater Noida for allegedly defying the lockdown on Tuesday, the Gautam Bddh Nagar police said. Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144 is in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar, which falls in the red zone for COVID-19, even as lockdown restrictions continue due to the pandemic, prohibiting normal movement in this district in western Uttar Pradesh adjoining Delhi. "Five FIRs were registered on Tuesday for lockdown violations and eight people arrested. A total of 803 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to (owners of) 179 of them, while one was impounded," the police said in a statement. The FIRs were registered under Indian Penal Code section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and violation of prohibitory orders put in place under CrPC Section 144, which bars assembly of four or more people, they said. Noida's border with Delhi continues to remain sealed with movement permission only for essential services and to those having passes issued by the district administration, according to officials. The administration had in April banned movement between Noida and Delhi in a bid to break the chain of COVID-19 transmission as several cases of coronavirus here were linked to the national capital, the officials said. As of Tuesday, 289 positive cases of coronavirus have been recorded in the district including five deaths, while 207 patients have recovered and got discharged from hospitals, according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/noida-8-arrested-for-defying-lockdown-179-vehicles-owners-penalised-839693.html
20-05-2020||National||Lockdown 4.0: Offices in educational institutions, malls allowed to open in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government on Tuesday allowed offices in educational institutions and malls to open in the fourth phase of the coronavirus lockdown, slated to end on May 31. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. According to an official statement, the offices will have to ensure social distancing is followed properly. The chief minister said due to arrangements made by his government, the number of migrants walking on foot to their home has come down in the state. Gehlot deputed 11 officers as in charge of districts where the number of COVID-19 patients is increasing. The officers will monitor the situation and ensure proper arrangements in these districts, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-40-offices-in-educational-institutions-malls-allowed-to-open-in-rajasthan-839694.html
20-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 20, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-20-2020-edition-839700.html
20-05-2020||National||DH Toon: Congress, other Opposition parties to meet and discuss changes in labour laws on May 22||The Congress has called a meeting of like-minded opposition parties on Friday to discuss the plight of migrant workers and the changes in labour laws by some states, sources said. Congress president Sonia Gandhi will chair the meeting of leaders of opposition parties, the sources said on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-congress-other-opposition-parties-to-meet-and-discuss-changes-in-labour-laws-on-may-22-839701.html
20-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 20||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  1,11,203 as of May 19.  States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 3,428 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 39,174 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-20-839702.html
20-05-2020||National||Number of Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries crosses 1 crore mark; PM Narendra Modi speaks with latest beneficiary||The number of people who have benefited from the 'Ayushman Bharat' scheme has crossed the one crore-mark, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday, noting that the initiative has had a positive impact on several lives. In September 2018, Modi had launched the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana-Ayushman Bharat. It has been termed as the biggest government-sponsored healthcare scheme in the world. "It would make every Indian proud that the number of Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries has crossed 1 crore. In less than two years, this initiative has had a positive impact on so many lives," the prime minister wrote on Twitter. He congratulated all the beneficiaries and their families and prayed for their good health He appreciated the doctors, nurses, healthcare workers and all others associated with Ayushman Bharat, saying their efforts have made it the largest healthcare programme in the world. "This initiative has won the trust of several Indians, especially the poor and downtrodden," he said. One of the biggest benefits of Ayushman Bharat is portability, the prime minister pointed out. "Beneficiaries can get top quality and affordable medical care not only where they registered but also in other parts of India. This helps those who work away from home or are registered at a place where they don't belong," he explained. He said during his official tours, he would interact with Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries. "Sadly, that is not possible these days but I did have a great telephone interaction with Pooja Thapa from Meghalaya, the 1 croreth beneficiary," he said. The prime minister shared the audio clip of the conversation in which Thapa, a soldier's wife, explains about the surgery she underwent in Shillong using the Ayushman Bharat facility. Her husband is posted in Manipur and could not be with her due to the coronavirus lockdown. Her two small children are being taken care of by the neighbours. On being asked by the prime minister, Thapa said she did not have to pay for the surgery and the medicines. She said without the scheme card, she would have found it difficult to go for the surgery without a loan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/number-of-ayushman-bharat-beneficiaries-crosses-1-crore-mark-pm-narendra-modi-speaks-with-latest-beneficiary-839730.html
20-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Bihar may become first state to have online voting in November||The COVID-19 pandemic is not only going to change the business modules in every sector but it is also going to completely transform the election process in the country, including the poll campaigning and the voting methodology. If sources in the Government are to be believed, Bihar could become the first State which may witness online voting when the polls are held in October-November this year.  “The ball could be set rolling in October-November as post-lockdown, Bihar will be the first and only State where Assembly elections will be held this year,” a government source averred. “The COVID-19 has brought a cataclysmic change in all the sectors. The poll process too may undergo a sea change. The conventional method of campaigning (through helicopters etc) and voting (standing in queues at polling booths) could be replaced with the digital mode of poll process,” said Bihar’s Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi. Government sources told Deccan Herald that the Election Commission, much before the outbreak of Covid-19, had been mulling over the proposal of linking Aadhaar with the Election Photo Identity Card (EPIC) so as to make the voting process more transparent and rigging-proof. “If the poll panel develops such methodology, then the voter need not go to the polling booth and cast his/her vote sitting at home,” said Modi, who, like other top BJP leaders, is quite tech-savvy. “The BJP has always been ahead of other parties when it comes to using the digital mode of electioneering. Since Bihar will be the first State to go to polls post-lockdown, you will see complete transformation in the mode of campaigning where the gathering will not be addressed by holding conventional political rallies. Instead, there could be digital electioneering,” said Modi. Sources in the Opposition parties too confirmed that there was less probability of conventional method of campaigning. “One will have to adopt the latest methodology to connect with the voters, who are more tech-savvy than the politicians. Bihar may not only see digital campaigning, it may see online voting too,” a senior Congress legislator told Deccan Herald here on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-bihar-may-become-first-state-to-have-online-voting-in-november-839733.html
20-05-2020||National||COVID-19 toll rises to 3,303; cases climb to 1,06,750||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 3,303 and the number of cases climbed to 1,06,750 in the country on Wednesday, registering an increase of 140 deaths and a record spike of 5,611 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 61,149, while 42,297 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said.  "Thus, around 39.62 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. The total confirmed cases include foreigners. Of the 140 deaths deaths reported since Monday morning, 76 were from Maharashtra, 25 from Gujarat, six each from West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, five each from Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, three each from Tamil Nadu Karnataka and Telangana, two each from Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Jammu and Kashmir and one each from Odhisha and Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-toll-rises-to-3303-cases-climb-to-106750-839736.html
20-05-2020||National||Diplomat Tirumurti arrives in NY to assume charge as India's new Ambassador to UN||Seasoned diplomat T S Tirumurti arrived here to assume charge as India's new Permanent Representative to the United Nations. A 1985-batch Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer, Tirumurti succeeds Ambassador Syed Akbaruddin, who retired on April 30 and returned to Hyderabad on May 14. Tirumurti, 58, who arrived in New York on Tuesday on an Air India flight, is expected to present his credentials to UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres at the earliest. Currently, telecommuting arrangements are in place at the UN Headquarters till June 30 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Before being appointed as the Permanent Representative to the UN, Tirumurti served as the Secretary for Economic Relations in the Ministry of External Affairs. The UN General Assembly will hold elections next month for five non-permanent seats of the UN Security Council for the 2021-22 term. India's seat as a non-permanent member on the 15-nation Security Council for the two-year term is assured as it is the sole candidate vying for the lone seat from the Asia Pacific grouping. New Delhi's candidature was unanimously endorsed by the 55-member Asia-Pacific grouping, including China and Pakistan, in June last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diplomat-tirumurti-arrives-in-ny-to-assume-charge-as-indias-new-ambassador-to-un-839744.html
20-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: A new virus is out to trick you; record high single-day COVID-19 cases and deaths in India||Deccan Herald's podcasts are now available on your favourite podcast platforms including Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, and many more. Do subscribe to our Podcast there!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-a-new-virus-is-out-to-trick-you-record-high-single-day-covid-19-cases-and-deaths-in-india-839748.html
20-05-2020||National||Machines used for testing drug-resistant TB can be now used for confirmation of COVID-19 cases: ICMR||Diagnostic machines used for testing drug-resistant tuberculosis can now be used for screening and confirmation of COVID-19 cases, the apex health research body, ICMR, said. As part of its efforts to ramp up the testing capacity, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had approved the use of TrueNat system for conducting coronavirus tests on April 10, while recommending it only as a screening test. Now, the ICMR has issued revised guidelines for TrueNat testing for COVID-19, saying the "TrueNat system is now a comprehensive assay for screening and confirmation of COVID-19 cases". According to the guidelines, all samples of suspect COVID-19 should be first tested by the E gene screening assay. All negatives are to be considered as true negatives. All positive samples should be subjected to confirmation by another step. The step 2 is the RdRp gene confirmatory assay. All samples that test positive by this assay must be considered as true positive. "No further RT-PCR based confirmation is required for samples that are positive after step 2 of the assay," the revised guidelines stated. All positive and negative results must be reported to the ICMR portal in real time manner.    The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 3,303 and the number of cases climbed to 10,6750 in the country registering an increase of 140 deaths and a record spike of 5,611 cases in the last 24 hours since Tuesday 8 am, according to the Union Health Ministry. A total of 25,12,388 samples have been tested for coronavirus infection as on 9 am, May 20 all over the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/machines-used-for-testing-drug-resistant-tb-can-be-now-used-for-confirmation-of-covid-19-cases-icmr-839751.html
20-05-2020||National||Govt exempts Class X, XII Board exams from COVID-19 lockdown||Setting the stage for board examinations to be conducted, the Centre on Wednesday issued orders exempting Class X and XII from lockdown restrictions with a few conditions like ensuring social distancing and wearing of masks by teachers and students. No examination was held since March 25 after the country was put under COVID-19 lockdown, as the schools remained closed. At present, no educational institution is allowed to function. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to state Chief Secretaries to this effect after the government received requests from state governments and CBSE to hold examinations for Class X and XII. In his letter, he said, "Taking into consideration the academic interest of large number of students, it has been decided to grant exemption from the lockdown measures to conduct Board examination for classes X and XII." However, no examination centre will be allowed in containment zones. Students, teachers and support staff will have to wear masks and there should be provision for thermal screening. Sanitisers should be made available at these centres. Social distancing should be enforced, the letter said. "In view of examination to be conducted by different boards, their examination schedules should be staggered," it said. States should also arrange transportation for students to examination centres, the letter added. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) recently released schedule for the remaining board exams for Class X and XII from July 1. The board asked students to carry their own bottles of sanitisers to the examination centres. For Class 12, the Home Science exam will be held on July 1, followed by both courses of Hindi the next day. The exam for Business Studies will be on July 9, followed by Biotechnology on July 10 and Geography the next day. The Class 10 exams will be held on four dates, starting July 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-exempts-class-x-xii-board-exams-from-covid-19-lockdown-839764.html
20-05-2020||National||IndiGo transports over 200 stranded Vietnamese nationals to Delhi to facilitate return to country||Budget carrier IndiGo on Wednesday said it operated two chartered flights to transport over 200 stranded Vietnamese nationals from various Indian cities to Delhi to facilitate their return to their country. The charter was initiated by the Vietnam Embassy and the flights were operated while observing all precautionary measures, IndiGo said in a statement. IndiGo’s Bengaluru-Pune-Delhi flight 6E-9103 transferred a total 103 passengers, while the Gaya-Delhi flight 6E-9102 transferred 99 passengers to Delhi, for their return flight to Vietnam, the airline said. “Our flights aided in the transfer of 202 Vietnamese citizens from Bangalore, Pune and Gaya to Delhi to board their return flight to Vietnam,” said Ronojoy Dutta, Chief Executive Officer, IndiGo. Earlier also, the Gurugram-based no-frills carrier had flown around 197 stranded Kenyan nationals from Delhi, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad to Mumbai for their return to Kenya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indigo-transports-over-200-stranded-vietnamese-nationals-to-delhi-to-facilitate-return-to-country-839766.html
20-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: WWF India to host digital conference||The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) India, in association with its partners UNDP, UNEP, Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change and National Biodiversity Authority, will host the first ever digital Model Conference of Parties (MCOP) on May 22 and 23.  The conference aims to put the power of decision-making in the hands of children and youth, those whose future will be directly impacted by environmental crisis, and allow them an opportunity to propose solutions to address and rectify issues being faced by the country today. The chief guest of the event will be Prakash Javadekar, Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change.  The conference will also have experts on conservation and sustainable business and grassroots level organisations working in the field of environment. MCOP 2020 aims to provide an opportunity to these future leaders to gain knowledge and experience in environmental problem solving. At the end of the MCOP, these young conservationists will present the 'Delhi Declaration 2020' listing down the modus operandi on how to take these dialogues forward in their respective states while involving the administration to take action. These actions will determine the future of the environment of not just the states that these brilliant young minds hail from but of the country as well, a press statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-wwf-india-to-host-digital-conference-839772.html
20-05-2020||National||Coronavirus survival reduces with time in dead body, but no time limit to declare it non-infective: ICMR||The survival of coronavirus gradually decreases with time in a dead body, as per scientific literature till now, though there is no specific duration to declare a body as non-infective, the ICMR said. So, it is advisable to adopt the necessary precautions and non-invasive autopsy technique while handling the body, the apex health research body said on Tuesday in response to a question over how many days is the infectivity period of COVID-19 in a dead body. COVID-19 is a respiratory disease and mainly spreads through aerosols, the ICMR said while listing a series of frequently asked questions in its 'Standard guidelines for Medico-legal autopsy in COVID-19 deaths in India 2020' released on Tuesday. Responding to a question over the protocol to be followed for performing an autopsy in a COVID-19 suspected dead body with negative RT-PCR result, the ICMR said considering the relatively high rate of false negative results of COVID-19 RT-PCR, every case still has to be considered as a possible coronavirus infection case.  "Thus, it is advisable to follow non-invasive autopsy in these cases throughout the duration of pandemic," it said. Asked if an invasive autopsy can be performed after disinfecting the body surface using one per cent of hypochlorite or 70 per cent of alcohol solution, it the source of the infection from a COVID-19 confirmed case is mainly from aerosol generating procedure from internal body fluids and visceral organs. Even mucosal surfaces, such as those in nasal and oral cavities, gases or fluids expelled through natural orifices as a result of compression of cavities, which can occur during transport, can be sources of disease transmission. "Hence, surface disinfection does not provide protection against COVID-19 during autopsy," the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said. Asked if there is any risk of infection to body handlers if COVID-19 and non-COVID bodies are kept in separate racks of same cold chamber having same compressor, it said the chances of contacting the infection is negligible if proper precautions are taken like double bagging of body and handling it with proper PPE.  The ICMR further said that there should be a dedicated hospital staff for transfer of such bodies to mortuary. Incase there is shortage of staff in mortuary, additional staff should be deputed for transportation of the body by hospital authorities.  The help of NGO's and social welfare department may also be taken to address any kind of manpower issue. Asked what procedure should be adopted and whether internal dissection is required if a COVID 19 confirmed or suspected patient dies due to unnatural cause, it said in such cases the certification of death should be done in coordination with police and the body should be handed over to relatives without internal dissection.  In cases that are treated, hospital case records like lab investigation reports, report of other diagnostic tests, including treatment given, will give an additional documentary background for correlating with the investigation and to reach a reasonable conclusion about the cause of death and other related queries.  "Non-invasive autopsy technique as described in guidelines should be used, if at all required to prevent the risk of spreading the infection to mortuary staff, police personnel and contamination of mortuary surfaces," the ICMR said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-survival-reduces-with-time-in-dead-body-but-no-time-limit-to-declare-it-non-infective-icmr-839773.html
20-05-2020||National||Jammu and Kashmir reports 18th COVID-19 death on May 20||Jammu and Kashmir reported 18th death due to COVID-19 on Wednesday after a 40-year-old positive patient from southern Anantnag district died at a Srinagar hospital. With the fresh death, the total number of COVID deaths in J&K have reached 18, of which 16 are from Kashmir and two from Jammu region. Officials said the patient from Bijbehara area of Anantnag , who had tested COVID positive recently, died at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital during the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. They said that the patient was shifted to SKIMS from SMHS hospital with gastronomic and other problems. In the past five days, seven people who had tested positive have lost life in Srinagar hospitals. Five of them had known co-morbidities, doctors said. The first death due to COVID19 in J&K was on March 26 of a member of Tableegi-Jamaat, who had traveled history outside. The second death took place on March 29, a resident of Baramulla with no travel history. The third death took place on April 7, the deceased being a resident Bandipora resident whose sample tested positive after he passed away. Till Tuesday evening, Jammu and Kashmir had reported 1317 COVID-19 positive cases out of which 647 have recovered while 652 are Active Positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-18th-covid-19-death-on-may-20-839790.html
20-05-2020||National||Gujarat govt defends locally developed 'Dhaman-1' ventilators||Against the backdrop of a controversy over the quality of the ventilators developed by a private firm for COVID-19 patients in Gujarat, the state government on Wednesday said they are certified by an accredited laboratory and fit to use. The 'Dhaman-1' ventilators were developed by Rajkot- based firm Jyoti CNC which had "donated" 866 of them to the state government last month in view of the acute shortage of such equipment, said Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi. However, a row erupted recently when the Ahmedabad civil hospital wrote to the government stating that the 'Dhaman-1' ventilators were not up to the mark, and sought sophisticated machines. Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda had accused the government of "playing with the lives" of COVID-19 patients by purchasing "sub-standard" ventilators having no approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI). However, Ravi sought to put the controversy to rest. "'Dhaman-1' ventilators are as good as other such machines. They are certified by a Centrally accredited laboratory," the senior bureaucrat told reporters in Gandhinagar. Responding to the allegations over its quality and alleged violation of norms, Ravi said since a ventilator is not a drug formulation, it does not require any approval from the DCGI. "Instead of creating a controversy, we should appreciate Jyoti CNC for coming forward at a time when there was an acute shortage of ventilators to treat coronavirus patients. These machines were put to use only after receiving the performance and safety certificate from EQDC following intensive testing," Ravi said. The Electronics and Quality Development Centre (EQDC) is a laboratory approved by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). "Even Puducherry (administration) and the Maharashtra government have expressed their interest in purchasing 'Dhaman-1'. We have also learned that the Centre, through a nodal agency, placed an order to purchase 5,000 Dhaman-1 ventilators," said Ravi.  When asked about the letter of the Ahmedabad civil hospital, Ravi said it had demanded high-end ventilators for critical patients. "It (the letter) was an additional demand as part of a precautionary measure. There is no major difference in the performance of 'Dhaman-1' and other ventilators," she said. As on Tuesday, Gujarat's tally of COVID-19 cases stood at 12,141 and fatalities at 719. Of the 6,379 "active" cases, 49 patients are in a critical condition, Ravi had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-govt-defends-locally-developed-dhaman-1-ventilators-839806.html
20-05-2020||National||Don't remove particular section of MMDR Act: FIMI||Miners' body FIMI on Wednesday asked the government to protect the rights of existing concessionaires by not tweaking or removing a particular section of the mining act which guarantees seamless transition for existing mineral concession holders to the mining stage. A concessionaire is the holder of a concession, especially for the use of land or commercial premises or for trading rights. The industry said the existing Reconnaissance Permit (RP) and Prospecting License (PL) holders have invested huge resources and long years to undertake risky exploration activities. "...government intends to do away with Section 10A(2)(b) of the MMDR Act, 1957 wherein existing concessionaires (RP/PL holders) have already been guaranteed seamless transition to the mining stage. "We wish to submit that these existing RP/PL holders have invested huge resources and long years to undertake risky exploration activities and have helped India to discover valuable mineral deposits," Federation of Indian Mineral Industries (FIMI) said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. There are three kinds of mineral concessions -- Reconnaissance Permit, Prospecting License and Mining Lease. Reconnaissance permit is granted for preliminary prospecting of a mineral through regional, aerial, geophysical or geochemical surveys and geological mapping.  Prospecting license is granted for undertaking operations for the purpose of exploring, locating or proving mineral deposit. A prospecting license holder has preferential right to obtain mining lease in the area concerned. A mining lease is granted for undertaking operations for winning any mineral. Acknowledging the valuable contribution of the RP/PL holders to the country, the government had introduced the particular section in 2015 to guarantee these concessionaries the right to mine the deposit if they satisfy certain conditions, thereby creating vested rights with such concession holders, FIMI said. Unfortunately, even after five years, a large number of such RP/PL holder have yet to be granted their rights under the said section. The industry body further said that if the cases saved under the said section are cancelled and put up for auction, it will mean that the Centre has faltered on its Act and will lead to irreparable loss of investor confidence in the country's mineral sector apart from multiple litigations in courts. It will also send a wrong signal to both domestic and international investors about certainty in India's mineral policy. "We, therefore, seek your kind intervention to ensure policy certainty and security of existing vested rights under Section 10A(2)(b) which would go a long way in restoring the investors’ confidence in the Indian mineral sector. "In view of the above, we request you... to ensure/protect the rights of existing concessionaires by not removing or tweaking Section 10A(2)(b) and in fact bring in provisions where existing concessionaires covered under Section 10A(2)(b) are immediately granted mining rights seamlessly," the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-remove-particular-section-of-mmdr-act-fimi-839814.html
20-05-2020||National||Accept coronavirus as part of life, says NCP supremo Sharad Pawar||In what comes as a significant statement, NCP founder-President Sharad Pawar on Wednesday called for highest level of precautions and accept COVID-19 as part of life.  "....Corona(virus) disease will not be completely eradicated shortly. It is necessary to accept the corona as a part of life, beware of it and create awareness among the masses about health care," said Pawar, one of the seniormost and experienced politician of India.  Corona disease will not be completely eradicated shortly. It is necessary to accept the corona as a part of life, beware of it & create awareness among the masses about health care. In Japan, people wear masks, look after personal hygiene as part of their routine social life. The four-time Maharashtra Chief Minister,  said that in Japan, people wear masks, look after personal hygiene as part of their routine social life. Pawar's statement comes a day after he had a meeting with Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray. "I had a discussion with the Chief Minister on situation in state and the challenges faced by the administration and preventive measures to provide relief to various sections,' said the former union minister,  who handled the Agriculture and Defence portfolios. Pawar urged  people to wear gloves, use masks, sanitizers, wash their hands with soap from time to time to prevent coronavirus infection.  Pawar,  who was the Vice Chairman of the Disaster Management Authority set up by the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, also appealed to the Information Department to spread social awareness among the masses about the preventive measures for Corona.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/accept-coronavirus-as-part-of-life-says-ncp-supremo-sharad-pawar-839831.html
20-05-2020||National||Extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan makes landfall||Extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan has made landfall at around 2.30 pm on Wednesday, stated the Regional Meteorological Centre in Kolkata. Wind speed will range between 155 kms to 165 kms per hour gusting up to 185 kms per hour. Speaking to journalists, official of the  Regional Meteorological Centre, Sanjib Banerjee said that the landfall process of Amphan has started at around 2.30 pm. He also said that the entire landfall process will take about three to four hours. “First the forward sector of the storm will enter land, followed by the eye of the storm and then it's back sector. So far we have received information that in some coastal areas of South 24 Paraganas district, wind speed of about 140 km to 150 kms have been recorded,” said Banerjee. He also said that gust of about  69 Kms per hour have been recorded at Alipore in Kolkata. According to the latest bulletin issued by IMD, the forward sector of the wall cloud region of the cyclone is entering land into West Bengal and the landfall process will continue for four hours. Currently, Amphan is located about 190 kms east-northeast of Paradip in Odisha, 65 kms south-southeast of Digha in West Bengal, 35 kms south of Sagar island and 225 kms south-southwest of Khepupara in Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extremely-severe-cyclonic-storm-amphan-makes-landfall-839834.html
20-05-2020||National||Nine test positive in Uttarakhand for COVID-19, tally rises to 120||Nine more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand on Wednesday taking the number of cases to 120. The latest cases were reported from Uttarkashi (1), Haridwar (1), Udham Singh Nagar (4), Almora (1) and Nainital (2) districts, a state health department bulletin said. Most of these cases have a travel history to Delhi and Mumbai. It takes the total number of cases in the state, so far, to 120 out of which 53 have recovered. The number of active cases stands at 53 with one coronavirus infected patient having died few weeks back.  There has been a sudden rise in the number of cases reported daily in Uttarakhand since migrant labourers began returning to their homes. As many as 15 cases, the highest in a single day in Uttarakhand, were reported on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-test-positive-in-uttarakhand-for-covid-19-tally-rises-to-120-839841.html
20-05-2020||National||325 special trains ferried migrants from Maharashtra to home states: Anil Deshmulh||A total of 325 special trains have left Maharashtra so far ferrying stranded migrants to their native states, NCP leader and state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday. He also said that 60 more such special trains will depart from various stations in Maharashtra by this evening. The Railways has been operating 'Shramik Special' trains since May 1 to transport migrants who have been stuck away from their home states in view of the coronavirus-induced lockdown.  "A total of 325 trains have taken migrant labourers back to their native states till Tuesday night. Some 60 more trains will run from various stations by evening," Deshmukh said. With plying of 385 trains altogether, about five lakh migrant labourers are ferried to their home states, the Home minister said. "While 187 trains have been sent for Uttar Pradesh, 44 services ran for Bihar, 33 for Madhya Pradesh and 13 for Rajasthan besides other states," Deshmukh said. He said a train had already left for West Bengal. Meanwhile, against the backdrop of migrant labourers rushing to the Bandra terminus in Mumbai on Tuesday in the hope of boarding a train for north India, Deshmukh said only those people who receive a telephone call from the government approach railway stations, and avoid crowding.  Many labourers had claimed that they started for the Bandra Terminus after receiving calls from the police saying they are selected to travel on the train for Purnia in Bihar on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Deshmukh reiterated that since the state government has been bearing the ticket fare for migrant labourers, they need not pay anything. "All the 93 police stations in Mumbai are under pressure for preparing lists of migrant labourers who wish to return home. The state government has issued an order under which some 1,500 employees of the state government will assist these police stations in preparing the lists, which will hopefully reduce the burden on the police," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/325-special-trains-ferried-migrants-from-maharashtra-to-home-states-anil-deshmulh-839850.html
20-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Dutee Chand starts outdoor training after 2 months||The lone athlete to start outdoor training after relaxation in lockdown guidelines, sprinter Dutee Chand only has the "eerie silence" of the stands for the company as she tries "to wake" her body up at the Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar. The 24-year-old Dutee began outdoor training on Monday after the Odisha government gave permission as per relaxed guidelines for COVID-19 lockdown's fourth phase, stepping out for the first time on a synthetic track in two months. She was in Patiala to take part in the season-opening Indian Grand Prix on March 20 but the event got cancelled due to the pandemic and since then Dutee has been confined to her room at the Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology, though she was allowed to use the gym there. "After two months, I am training outdoors and it is a very nice feeling to experience the air while running on the track. For a track athlete, there is no better feeling than this. At the same time I am also experiencing an unusual feeling," Dutee told PTI. "Normally, there are a lot of trainees at the hostels inside the Kalinga Stadium complex but all of them have left for home due to this pandemic. So, I am the only one training at such a big stadium. It is unusual, to experience this eerie silence," said the Asian Games silver-medallist in 100m and 200m. Another top athlete from the state, sprinter Amiya Kumar Mallick also trains at the stadium but only after Dutee ends her daily stint. This has been done to avoid the simultaneous training of two athletes.  "I start training at 6 am and wind up at 8 am. He comes just before 8 am. So, we hardly train together. In the evening, I do another one-hour training from 7 pm," said the 100m national record holder. The reigning World University Games champion said as of now she is loosening up the muscles which were tightened by the confinement of the two months. She said it will take some time to start full running on the 100m track. "The muscles are tight now, so I am just loosening them up. I have to wake up my muscles. It will take at least two months to be in full speed," she said. "My coach (N Ramesh) is on video call during my training and he tells me what to do and I follow his instructions. "The tougher training drills like 1km repeat run will take some time and I cannot do it soon. If I do that I will get injured. I have no coach and no physio with me, so I have to be careful." Her coach Ramesh is currently at his home in Hyderabad and he cannot be with Dutee due to the lockdown. She was earlier given a physiotherapist by the Odisha government but he has also returned to his home in Mizoram. Her aim is to maintain a certain degree of fitness and form this season and plan some foreign training and competition stints next year to qualify for the Tokyo Olympics. "I have started training but there is uncertainty all around. I will take part in the national events planned by the AFI in September-October. These events are also tentative. "The Olympic qualification period is suspended till the end of this season and there is no point going all out. I want to qualify for the Olympics as soon as possible next year. After that, I want to do my best in the Games in Tokyo." Dutee holds the national record of 11:22 seconds in 100m while the Tokyo Olympics qualification time is 11:15 seconds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-dutee-chand-starts-outdoor-training-after-2-months-839859.html
20-05-2020||National||HC tells Centre to give priority to persons with medical distress in Vande Bharat mission||The Delhi High Court has told the Union government to give higher priority to those who are in medical distress, particularly the pregnant women in its overseas evacuation drive launched as Vande Bharat Mission. "It is necessary to ensure within the category of persons who are to be accorded priority, a higher priority be accorded to persons who are in medical distress vis-à-vis persons who are otherwise hale and hearty but are stranded due to the expiry of their visa or other reasons," Justice Vibhu Bakhru said. The court said it was expected that the government would take all necessary steps, within the limitation of the resources available, to operate flights to bring back Indian citizens who are stranded overseas. The court's order came on a petition filed by United Nurses Association, through advocate Subhash Chandran K R, for a direction to the Union government to bring back 56 members who were pregnant and stranded in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. Additional Solicitor General Maninder Acharya, appearing for the Union government, submitted that the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs expressly stipulated that priority will be accorded to “compelling cases in distress, including migrant workers or labourers who have been laid off, short term visa holders faced with the expiry of visas, persons with a medical emergency or pregnant women or elderly, those required to return to India due to death of a family member, and students.”  She assured the court that this guideline would be strictly followed.   On May 7, 2020, India started 'Vande Bharat Mission', believed to be the biggest repatriation mission in the country's history, to bring home citizens stranded abroad amid the coronavirus pandemic. In the PIL, the nurses' organisation contended 55 members in Saudi Arabia and one in Kuwait need immediate medical and psycho-socio support.  Between May 7 and 13,  64 flights were operated bringing back approximately 14,800 citizens from 12 countries including UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Philippines, Singapore, UK, Bangladesh, Singapore, USA and Oman, etc. The petitioner wanted giving highest priority to 56 pregnant healthcare workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-tells-centre-to-give-priority-to-persons-with-medical-distress-in-vande-bharat-mission-839864.html
20-05-2020||National||70 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Uttar Pradesh, tally nears 5,000 mark||With 70 fresh coronavirus cases reported in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, the COVID-19 tally reached near the 5,000-mark in the state, a senior health official said. There are a total of 4,996 COVID-19 cases in the state, of which 1,995 are active cases and 2,918 patients have been discharged after recovery, Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said. The number of fatalities in the state stands at 123, he said. Prasad said a total of 7,179 COVID-19 tests were conducted across UP in the last 24 hours and the state was also ramping up its pool-testing facility. "We are emphasising on surveillance and over 3.38 crore people have been surveyed by 83,405 teams in Uttar Pradesh," he said. The principal secretary said the Centre's Aarogya Setu mobile application was being used and alerts were being sent to people. "We have made 23,780 calls on the basis of the alerts generated by the mobile app and 326 people have been quarantined, while 71 have tested positive for coronavirus," he said.  The official said the migrant workers coming from other states were being monitored by health workers. "Over five lakh migrant workers were screened and 629 of them showed symptoms of coronavirus. Their samples were sent for tests," he said. The state government has asked them to strictly follow home quarantine and 'village/mohalla nigrani samitis' are keeping an eye on them. There are 56,019 isolation and 26,419 quarantine beds in the state, Prasad said, adding that there are 1,260 beds with ventilators also. Of the 123 fatalities in the state due to the virus, 27 were in Agra, 20 in Meerut, 11 in Moradabad, eight each in Aligarh and Kanpur, five each in Gautam Buddh Nagar and Firozabad, four each in Varanasi, Sant Kabir Nagar, Mathura and Jhansi, and two each in Basti, Jalaun, Mainpuri and Ghaziabad. Lucknow, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Bijnor, Allahabad, Pratapgarh, Amroha, Bareilly, Shravasti, Azamgarh, Etah, Kanpur Dehat, Mahoba, Kushi Nagar and Lalitpur districts reported one death each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/70-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-uttar-pradesh-tally-nears-5000-mark-839868.html
20-05-2020||National||Domestic flights to resume operations from May 25 in a calibrated manner, says Aviation Minister||Domestic flights will resume in a “calibrated manner” from May 25, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri announced on Wednesday, two months after air travel was suspended to strengthen the fight against COVID-19. “Domestic civil aviation operations will recommence in a calibrated manner from Monday 25th May 2020. All airports & air carriers are being informed to be ready for operations from 25th May,” Puri said. He said the Ministry of Civil Aviation would issue a standard operating procedure for movement of passengers separately. Speaking to media, the minister ruled out leaving the middle seat vacant on the aircraft to ensure physical distancing contending that it was not a viable option given the thin margins on which airline companies operate. Puri pointed out that during the Vande Bharat evacuation flights, no seats were kept vacant in aircraft and passengers had taken precautions by wearing face masks and face covers. In the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, India had suspended international commercial passengers flights on March 22 and followed up with a ban on domestic commercial flights from March 24.  According to advisories issued by various airlines and the Airports Authority of India, passengers will have to wear face masks through out the flight duration as well as airports to avoid spread of infections. Air travelers will also have to download Arogya Setu app on their smartphones and those cleared by the app would be allowed to travel. The AAI also stated that air travelers must maintain a distance of four feet from co-passengers, wear a mask and other protective gear, wash or sanitise their hands frequently and carry a 350 ml bottle of sanitiser all the time. Passengers will also do web check-in and carry a print out of their boarding pass before reaching the airport to ensure minimum physical contact with airport officials. Airports across the country have taken steps to disinfect airports at regular intervals and place markings at several places to ensure physical distancing. India has been under lockdown to arrest the spread of COVID-19 that has infected 1.06 lakh persons across the country and killed 3,303.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-flights-to-resume-operations-from-may-25-in-a-calibrated-manner-says-aviation-minister-839869.html
20-05-2020||National||Over 70% companies likely to continue work-from-home policy for next 6 month: Survey||More than 70 per cent of companies are likely to continue the work-from-home policy for a percentage of their total staff for the next six months to maintain social distancing and for business continuity, according to a survey by Knight Frank. The property consultant surveyed over 230 executives who handle the corporate real estate portfolio in large companies across various sectors. Most respondents to the survey said that their company productivity was not affected due to the forced work-from-home arrangement since the lockdown. The nationwide lockdown was imposed from March 25 to control the spread of COVID-19. However, relaxations have been given from the beginning of this month, barring some hot spots. Knight Frank survey, however, found out that connectivity and distraction from family were two critical challenges faced by the companies’ workforce while operating from remote locations. "An overwhelming majority of 72 per cent said that they are likely to continue with the work-from-home arrangement in the next six months due to the social distancing norms and as business continuity process," Knight Frank India said. Nearly 50 per cent respondents said more than 30 per cent of their workforce will work from home in the next six months. Only 7 per cent of those who participated in the survey said no employees will work from home.  About 62 per cent of the total respondents said that they will either retain (38 per cent) or increase (24 per cent) their current office space portfolio. Shishir Baijal, Chairman and Managing Director, Knight Frank said, the survey gives us a perspective that real estate users are unlikely to reduce their current portfolio mostly due to the norms of social distancing. Till a viable treatment for COVID-19 is found, office space users will have to maintain or acquire more space to accommodate the existing team, he said. "Work-from-home will co-exist, but office space will not lose its importance as a strategic tool for corporate culture development and a source of competitive advantage," he said. Post COVID-19, Baijal said corporates would devise more formulae which will include “work-from-near-home” alongside work-from-office and work-from-home. On the productivity level of employees, 35 per cent respondents feel that the current work-from-home policy has yielded the same productivity as the pre-lockdown phase, while 28 per cent said output has increased. Around 26 per cent said the productivity went down, while 11 per cent said it was difficult to assess.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-70-companies-likely-to-continue-work-from-home-policy-for-next-6-month-survey-839872.html
20-05-2020||National||Woman delivers baby in fire service vehicle as cyclone 'Amphan' pounds Odisha||A woman gave birth to a girl inside a fire service vehicle in Odisha's Kendrapara district on Wednesday amid the raging cyclone 'Amphan', an official said. Both the mother and the newborn are healthy and have been shifted to Mahakalpada government-run community health centre in the district, Deputy Fire Officer P K Dash said. Janaki Sethi (20) was stranded in Jhanhara village amid the cyclonic storm, Dash said. "We received an SOS from the distressed family around 8 am. As fire brigade personnel proceeded, they faced hurdle with 22 trees uprooted along the stretch leading to the village. Braving strong winds and squally weather, they cleared the road and ferried the woman in the service vehicle," he said. The woman went into labour midway through the journey, Dash said, adding, the fire service personnel assisted her as she gave birth to the child. As cyclone "Amphan" hurtled towards the coast, heavy downpour coupled with high velocity winds pounded coastal Odisha, uprooting trees and flattening fragile structures, officials said. More than 1.25 lakh people have so far been evacuated from low-lying coastal areas and the process of evacuation was still underway in some places like Balasore on Wednesday morning, Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P K Jena said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-delivers-baby-in-fire-service-vehicle-as-cyclone-amphan-pounds-odisha-839873.html
20-05-2020||National||Govt extends 'Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana' by 3 yrs till Mar 2023||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday extended the Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana (PMVVY), a social security scheme for senior citizens, for three years till March, 2023. PMVVY scheme, implemented through the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), is intended to give an assured minimum pension to senior citizens (60 years and above) based on an assured return on the purchase price/subscription amount. The assured rate of return for fiscal 2020-21 has been pegged at 7.4 per cent per annum and thereafter to be reset every year, an official release said after the Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, decided to extend the scheme for a further period of three years up to March 31, 2023. Earlier, the scheme offered an assured return of 8 per cent. Government's financial liability is limited to the extent of the difference between the market return generated by LIC and the guaranteed return of 7.4 per cent per annum initially for the year 2020-21, and thereafter to be reset every year in line with Senior Citizens Saving Scheme (SCSS). The expenses on managing the scheme are capped at 0.5 per cent of assets under management per annum for the first year of the scheme, and 0.3 per cent per annum second year onwards for the next nine years. "As such the expected financial liability will range from an estimated expenditure of Rs 829 crore in the financial year 2023-24 to Rs 264 crore in last FY 2032-33," the release said. The average expected financial liability for the subsidy reimbursement, calculated for annuity payment on actual basis, is expected to be Rs 614 crore per year for currency of the scheme, it added. The actual interest-gap (subsidy) would however depend upon the actual experience in terms of number of new policies issued, the quantum of investment made by subscribers, actual returns generated and the basis of annuity payment, the release said. The scheme was announced in Union Budget of 2017-18 and 2018-19. In 2018-19 Budget, the maximum investment limit under PMVVY was doubled to Rs 15 lakh per senior citizen. Pension is payable at the end of each period during the policy term of 10 years, as per monthly, quarterly, half-yearly, yearly frequency, as chosen by the pensioner at the time of purchase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-extends-pradhan-mantri-vaya-vandana-yojana-by-3-yrs-till-mar-2023-839887.html
20-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Haryana takes back decision to ply inter-state buses, public transport within state only||Haryana government on Wednesday took back its decision to ply inter-state buses but said its buses will continue to run within the state. "I met the chief minister here and I also wrote to him on Tuesday stating that we are not prepared to run inter-state buses," Vij, who is also the health minister, told the media here. Vij said he told the CM that it would not be possible to test so many people or quarantine them and also pointed out that the number of cases were high in some neighbouring states like Delhi. The minister told Khattar that it would be quite difficult to keep a check and infection could spread. "I told the CM that we should not ply inter-state buses. I also told him that in Delhi alone, there are so many cases, how can we manage and prevent infection. "He (CM) agreed to my suggestion and now Haryana will not run inter-state buses. The chief minister also gave necessary instructions to the state's Transport department in this regard," Vij said. However, Haryana Roadways buses will continue to run within the state, he said.  The move, to resume bus travel to various states, came after Khattar's announcement on Monday that inter-state bus travel to and from Haryana will resume. After the announcement, the Haryana government had written to the transport departments of at least six states and two Union territories, seeking their consent to start inter-state bus services on 12 select routes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-haryana-takes-back-decision-to-ply-inter-state-buses-public-transport-within-state-only-839889.html
20-05-2020||National||Supreme Court admits fresh pleas against CAA for consideration||The Supreme Court on Wednesday admitted for consideration a fresh batch of petitions challenging the validity of the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 for "being anti-Muslims and violative of the basic structure of secularism of the Constitution". A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the Centre on petitions filed by Tamil Nadu Thoweed Jamath, All Assam Law Students Union, Muslim Students Federations (Assam) and others. The court tagged these petitions along with over 100 other pleas filed earlier. The contentious law was opposed by various political parties, activists, and Left-backed student organisations, among others, and had led to widespread protests across the country. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 grants Indian citizenship to non-Muslim minorities (Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis, and Christians) from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan over religious persecution, by relaxing the period of naturalisation for them from 11 to five years. It had fixed December 31, 2014, as the cutoff date for such immigrants. The Amendment) Act got its assent from the President on December 12, 2019 after it was passed by both Houses of Parliament. In its plea, Tamil Nadu Thoweed Jamath contended there were seminal questions related to the promulgation of the Act, where for the first time, religion was introduced as a reference point or condition for the acquisition of Indian Citizenship for illegal or undocumented migrants from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan. "This violates Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution and offends the fundamental principle of ‘Secularism’, which is enshrined as the basic structure of the Constitution," it claimed. It raised "severe insecurity and apprehension in the mind of Muslim minority all over the country as the Act stands to be anti- Muslim community and anti-minority even on the face of it," the petitioner claimed. In March, the Centre had told the court that the Act did not violate any fundamental rights of the Indian citizens. In its 129-page affidavit, the government termed the legislation legal and asserted that there was no question of it violating constitutional morality. It also said CAA did not confer any arbitrary and unguided powers on the executive by allowing the grant of citizenship to the persecuted minorities of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-admits-fresh-pleas-against-caa-for-consideration-839890.html
20-05-2020||National||Lockdown imposed in unplanned manner, no exit strategy either: Cong||The Congress on Wednesday accused the government of implementing the countrywide lockdown in an unplanned manner and also alleged it does not have any exit strategy. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said this government is synonymous with "inefficiency, incompetence and insensitivity" and its taskforce has been indulging in "data jugglery" to claim that "there will be zero cases by May 16". "This government has become synonymous with inefficiency, incompetence, and insensitivity,” he said.  "Lockdown might be a good technique and we support it. But this government has no strategy for going into lockdown or coming out of it," Singhvi told reporters at a virtual press conference. "What has been the cost-benefit ratio of an unplanned lockdown and a clueless government on how and when to exit it? Let the nation judge," he asked. He said the government's own task force showed a graph of coronavirus cases, with everything peaking on April 24 and then dropping to zero on May 16. "Is it (the government) shamelessly misleading its people without any apology and contrition," he asked. The Congress leader said the cases, deaths and testing are the three major parameters for gauging the country’s COVID-19 response, and the Modi government has “failed you miserably on this”. Singhvi also alleged that according to a CMIE study India's unemployment rate as of May 3 is at a record high of 27.1. “India's unemployment rate is four times that of the US and you have given 400 times less economic support to your employees,” he said, noting that the rate of unemployment was 8.7 pc in March before the lockdown came into force to contain the spread of coronavirus. “There's no doubt in my mind that when we come to look back on this, damage done by lockdown will exceed any saving of lives by a huge factor. Lockdown is a huge mistake. Countries applying them harshly will be harshly judged,” Singhvi said quoting Nobel Laureate Michael Levitt. He said among 122 million people who have lost their jobs, 91 million are small traders and labourers, while 18 million salaried class. On an age analysis, he said 27 million youth in age group of 20-30 lost their jobs in April 2020 and 33 million people in their 30s lost jobs in April. The Congress leader also alleged that 383 people have died due to lockdown till May 10 and 58 due to starvation and financial distress, 91 suicides due to fear of infection, loneliness etc, 89 road or train accidents due to walking/migration. "What has been the cost-benefit ratio of an unplanned lockdown," he asked. Citing figures of various countries on the rate of testing for COVID-19, he said, Iceland has tested 166 persons per 1000 population, Italy 50, USA 34, Singapore 31, South Africa 7.7, Taiwan 3, whereas India just 1.5 per persons. During the lockdown period, the percentage coronavirus growth rate between 2nd and 3rd lockdown is 170 and 257 between the third and the fourth lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-imposed-in-unplanned-manner-no-exit-strategy-either-cong-839892.html
20-05-2020||National||2 BSF personnel killed in terror attack near Srinagar: Reports||2 BSF personnel who were injured in terror attack near Srinagar succumbed to their injuries, news agency ANI reported. Terrorists attacked a Border Security Force (BSF) party at Pandach, Srinagar. This is a developing story, more details will be added soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-bsf-personnel-killed-in-terror-attack-near-srinagar-reports-839894.html
20-05-2020||National||Home Ministry monitoring lockdown 4.0 measures along with states: Official||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is monitoring the implementation of the lockdown 4.0, under which only a limited number of public activities have been prohibited till May 31, in coordination with state governments to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus in the country, an official said Wednesday. Addressing a press conference, an MHA Joint Secretary said the lockdown has been extended till May 31 in public interest for which fresh directives have been issued keeping only a limited number of activities prohibited. "Only essential services will be permitted in containment zones. State and Union Territory governments have issued directives according to the prevailing situation," she said. She said state governments are marking areas as Red, Green, Orange, Buffer and Containment zones in accordance with the Health Ministry guidelines.  They are issuing directives about permitted activities in their respective states, she said. The Home Ministry is monitoring the lockdown measures, along with state governments, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-ministry-monitoring-lockdown-40-measures-along-with-states-official-839895.html
20-05-2020||National||Govt clears Rs 30,000 cr special liquidity scheme for stressed NBFCs, HFCs||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday gave nod to launch a special liquidity scheme worth Rs 30,000 crore for stressed non-banking financial companies and housing finance companies, whose financials further deteriorated due to COVID-19 crisis. This is a post facto approval from the Cabinet as the scheme was announced as part of the first tranche of the Rs 21 lakh crore comprehensive economic package. It was announced in the Budget 2020-21 that a mechanism would be devised to provide additional liquidity facility to NBFCs/HFCs over what is provided through the Partial Credit Guarantee Scheme (PCGS), an official statement said. "This facility would supplement the liquidity measures taken so far by the government and RBI. The scheme would benefit the real economy by augmenting the lending resources of NBFCs/HFCs/MFls," it said. NBFC and HFC sectors came under stress following a series of defaults by group companies of IL&FS in September 2018. The statement further said an SPV would be set up to manage a Stressed Asset Fund (SAF) whose special securities would be guaranteed by the government and purchased by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) only, it said. The proceeds of sale of such securities would be used by the SPV to acquire short-term debt of NBFCs/HFCs, it said, adding, the scheme will be administered by the Department of Financial Services, which will issue the detailed guidelines.  The direct financial implication for the government is Rs 5 crore, which may be the equity contribution to the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), it said. Beyond that, there is no financial implication for the government until the guarantee involved is invoked. "However, on invocation, the extent of government liability would be equal to the amount of default subject to the guarantee ceiling. The ceiling of aggregate guarantee has been set at Rs 30,000 crore, to be extended by the amount required as per the need," it said. Sharing further details, it said, a large public sector bank would set up an SPV to manage a stressed asset fund which would issue interest bearing special securities guaranteed by the government, to be purchased by RBI only. The SPV would issue securities as per requirement subject to the total amount of securities outstanding not exceeding Rs 30,000 crore to be extended by the amount required as per the need. The securities issued by the SPV would be purchased by RBI and proceeds thereof would be used by the SPV to acquire the debt of at least investment grade of short duration (residual maturity of up to 3 months) of eligible non banking financial companies (NBFCs) or housing finance companies (HFCs), it said. Unlike PCGS, which involves multiple bilateral deals between various public sector banks and NBFCs, requires shadow banks to liquidate their current asset portfolio and involves flow of funds from public sector banks, the proposed scheme would be a one-stop arrangement between the SPV and NBFCs without having to liquidate their current asset portfolio. The scheme would also act as an enabler for the NBFC sector to get investment grade or better rating for bonds issued, it said, adding, the scheme is likely to be easier to operate and also augment the flow of funds from the non-banking sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-clears-rs-30000-cr-special-liquidity-scheme-for-stressed-nbfcs-hfcs-839902.html
20-05-2020||National||RBI reiterates usage of digital modes for banking transactions||As the country continues to be under lockdown, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday reiterated usage of digital modes for banking transactions. Earlier this week, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) announced lockdown 4.0 till May 31 to check the spread of coronavirus. The use of digital payment modes has become more important as the ongoing nationwide lockdown, imposed to maintain social distancing to contain the spread of coronavirus, has restricted the movement of people. In the campaign launched on a microblogging site, the central bank said digital payment modes make it easier for people to do banking transactions while being safe at home and at any hour of the day.' "Safe digital transactions can be done from the safety of your home," the RBI's campaign emphasised. The multiple digital payment options include NEFT, IMPS and UPI that are available round-the-clock. RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das earlier appealed to the public to use every precautionary measure, including digital banking, to maintain social distance. The RBI, however, warned customers to be vigilant while using digital modes of transactions and also advised them to alert their banks in case of any fraud.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-reiterates-usage-of-digital-modes-for-banking-transactions-839904.html
20-05-2020||National||40 NDRF teams deployed in Odisha, West Bengal; 24 on standby; It is a long haul, says NDRF chief||All 20 units of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) stationed in Odisha have been deployed in the state, while as many units have been pressed into service in West Bengal for relief and rescue efforts in the wake of Cyclone Amphan, NDRF Director General SN Pradhan said on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference, Pradhan said they are keeping a close watch on the "fast transforming" situation, and 24 teams from six battalions across the country are on standby. The NDRF chief said its teams have to now function keeping in mind the COVID-19 threat and are equipped with personal protective equipment (PPE). Over five lakh people have been evacuated in West Bengal while over 1.58 lakh have been taken to safety in Odisha, Pradhan said quoting data provided by the state governments, He said 20 teams have been deployed in West Bengal, including one team for urban areas of Kolkata, while another unit has been kept in reserve. The DG said all 20 teams present in Odisha have been deployed leaving none in reserve.  An NDRF team comprises around 45 personnel "The situation is fast-transforming. It is a long haul. The duty of NDRF and other agencies does not end with landfall of the cyclone. Work actually begins after landfall in the form of relief and restoration," he said. In Odisha, six teams have been deployed in Balasore, four each in Jagatsinghpur and Bhadrak, three in Kendrapada, and one each in Mayurbhanj, Jajpur and Puri, he said. In West Bengal, among the districts most likely to be affected six teams have been deployed in 24 Parganas (South) and four in Medinipur (East) and three each in 24 Parganas (North) and Rajarhat. "In areas where there is high pressure, four and above teams are deployed. Both states have NDRF battalions with Odisha commandant camping in Balasore while West Bengal commandant is camping in Kakdwip in 24 Parganas (South) which is on the route of the cyclone," he said. The DG said 24 teams from six battalions across the country are on standby. "They are ready and can be airlifted within 15 minutes. They may not be necessarily needed during the cyclone but during relief and restoration process," he said. He said the NDRF Headquarters and local commandants are working in coordination with the respective state authorities.  "All teams have wireless and satellite communications. We are not dependent on any communication system. "It is another form of new normal, we have to handle disasters be it cyclone or floods during upcoming monsoon season considering COVID too.  In view of the prevailing COVID-19 scenario, all teams are equipped with PPE," he said. "Based on experiences during Cyclone FANI, all the teams are equipped with tree cutters/ pole cutters for post landfall restoration, if the need arises," he said. Extremely severe cyclonic storm 'Amphan' made a landfall at around 2.30 PM on Wednesday between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya island in Bangladesh, the meteorological department said. The landfall process, triggering copious rain and gusty winds, will continue for about four hours. "The forward sector of the wall cloud region is entering into land in West Bengal. The intensity of the cyclone near its centre as the landfall process started was recorded at 160-170 kmph, gusting to 190 kmph," the weatherman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40-ndrf-teams-deployed-in-odisha-west-bengal-24-on-standby-it-is-a-long-haul-says-ndrf-chief-839913.html
20-05-2020||National||Deliver ration by Thursday evening to e-coupon holders: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed the AAP government to ensure that all the persons who did not get ration despite having e-coupons be provided ration by Thursday evening. The direction was issued by a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad on a PIL by a law student alleging that thousands of needy people in the national capital are not getting ration under the public distribution system (PDS) despite having e-coupons issued by the Delhi government. Advocate Kamlesh Kumar Mishra, who appeared for the law student, said that the bench rejected Delhi government's request for a week's time to deliver the rations and directed that it be delivered by Thursday evening. In the hearing held through video conferencing, the high court also gave the petitioner liberty to move a fresh plea if the direction is not complied with by the government. Advocate Manoj, who appeared for the Food Corporation of India in the matter, confirmed that a direction was passed for providing ration by Thursday evening. The detailed order is yet to be made available. With the direction, the bench disposed of the petition by third year law student Shabnam, who had said that the Delhi government announced that e-coupons can be obtained by filling up a simple form online. However, the form is not simple and and the website for applying for an e-coupon has crashed, the petition had said. "Whenever the website is accessed, it permanently shows the message 'server under heavy load! Please check after some time'. Moreover, most poor people cannot apply online as most do not have smart phones and there are no cyber cafes functioning during the lockdown," it had said. "They need to have the ability to access the internet, have a mobile phone to generate an OTP, upload a photo of their Aadhaar card and a photo of their family, and finally, download the e-coupon. This makes the system inaccessible for the poorest and marginalised who need rations," it had added. The petitioner had also claimed that she collected data from the PDS shops about the poor people who were denied ration despite having e-coupons and prepared a list which was forwarded to the LG's office and Delhi government officials as a representation. However, no action has been taken by the authorities till date, the petition, filed through advocates Kriti Kumari and Kamlesh Mishra, had claimed. It had sought directions to the Delhi government to ensure appropriate quantity of rations as per the norms is immediately dispersed and distributed to the needy persons, including those having e-coupons but have not received foodgrain. It had also sought a direction to the Delhi government to ensure there is adequate stock at the ration/PDS shops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deliver-ration-by-thursday-evening-to-e-coupon-holders-hc-to-delhi-govt-839915.html
20-05-2020||National||Two construction workers wrongly diagnosed COVID-19 positive, no employee infected: Vivo||Smartphone maker Vivo India on Wednesday said two construction workers at its new manufacturing facility in Uttar Pradesh were wrongly diagnosed COVID-19 positive and they have now tested negative. The company said none of the Vivo employees from the 30 per cent workforce allowed to come to work has been found infected with the coronavirus. The statement comes after Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate on Monday said two workers at Vivo's manufacturing facility had tested positive for COVID-19 and the company has voluntarily shut its operations for the time being. "No worker at the vivo factory has been found COVID positive. However, at the construction site of the new vivo manufacturing plant, 15 kilometres away from the operational factory and managed by a third-party construction company, two construction workers (third-party employees) were misdiagnosed. "Nonetheless, as per the latest lab test reports that came in today, both the workers have been found COVID negative," the company said in a statement. The company said its manufacturing facility in Greater Noida continues to be operational. It had resumed operations on May 9. "The facility continues to abide by all prescribed standard operating procedures to ensure safety and wellbeing of its current 3000 employees (30 per cent of total workforce capacity) that continue to work at the state of the art facility in Gautam Budh Nagar," the statement said. The company said it continues strict adherence to regular medical check-ups, social distancing norms and limited movement in common areas. "Health and safety of our employees and partners are of paramount importance to us. No vivo employee has tested positive till date and the company is taking all precautionary measures and adhering to all government guidelines," Vivo India Director for Brand Strategy Nipun Marya said. The company had received permission from Uttar Pradesh government to resume operations with 30 per cent capacity in the third phase of lockdown which started from May 4. The company continues to adhere to work from home for all head office staff while resuming production with 30 per cent capacity at the manufacturing facility, it added. According to IDC, Vivo was the second largest mobile handset company in India in terms of shipments with market share of 21 per cent in the January-March 2020 quarter. Xiaomi led the market with 31.2 per cent share and Samsung followed Vivo with 15.6 per cent share.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-construction-workers-wrongly-diagnosed-covid-19-positive-no-employee-infected-vivo-839916.html
20-05-2020||National||Spread of coronavirus controlled to a large extent: Uddhav Thackeray||The Central government feels that the spike in coronavirus cases will be higher by May-end and in June, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Wednesday and added that the spread has been controlled to a large extent in the state. He made these remarks during his meeting with representatives of the entertainment industry in Mumbai. "The number of (coronavirus) patients is growing and the health crisis is not over yet," a statement quoted Thackeray as saying. "The Centre feels that the spike (in cases) will be higher this month-end and in June. We are taking precautions. The spread of the pandemic has been contained to a large extent," the CM said. Thackeray said that economic activities have not been stopped by his government during the extended lockdown.  On the Opposition BJP's criticism about his handling of the COVID crisis, Thackeray said, "I will not respond to criticism now since I feel that fulfilling my duty of taking care of the people is more important". As on Tuesday, the COVID-19 case count in Maharashtra, which is worst hit by the pandemic, stood at 37,136 with 1,325 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spread-of-coronavirus-controlled-to-a-large-extent-uddhav-thackeray-839917.html
20-05-2020||National||'21 of 29 Information Commissions did not work during COVID-19 lockdown'||Twenty-one of the 29 Information Commissions, including Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, have not conducted hearing during the COVID-19 lockdown with transparency activists arguing that it was "absolutely critical" that these institutions conduct business and dispose cases to ensure people can exercise their fundamental right to information. The 'Status of Information Commissions in India during COVID-19 Crisis' report prepared by Satark Nagrik Sangathan (SNS) and Centre for Equity Studies (CES) showed that only seven of these commissions, including the Central Information Commission, made provision for taking up urgent matters or those related to life and liberty during the period when normal functioning was affected due to the lockdown as on May 15. "It is behind the cloak of secrecy that the rights of individuals are most frequently abrogated and corruption thrives...During the COVID-19 crisis, the role of information commissions in guaranteeing compliance with the provisions of the transparency law, is more critical than ever before to ensure the RTI Act is not trampled," the report said. The report analysed the working of the CIC and 28 State Information Commissions (SICs), which were set up under the Right to Information Act. During lockdown that started on March 25,  all government offices, autonomous bodies and public corporations were allowed to open from April 20. The CIC and four four SICs of Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Telangana were holding hearings and disposing appeals/complaints on all matters. In Haryana, only the chief state information commission was hearing cases while the SICs in Manipur, Punjab and Rajasthan were available only for urgent matters or those involving life or liberty. Andhra Pradesh SIC was only taking up matters in which information had been denied and was deciding these on the basis of available documents, without holding any hearings. SICs in 11 states did not provide any information about their functioning during lockdown, including those in Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, in their websites. However, SICs in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur and Sikkim informed SNS and CES over telephone that notifications had been issued but not uploaded on their websites. During the lockdown period, the websites of SICs in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Nagaland were not accessible. "This is extremely problematic during a time when offices are shut and the primary way for citizens to know about the functioning of commissions and the (re)scheduling of cases is through their websites. It appears that the website of the Bihar SIC has been inaccessible for more than 28 months. An assessment published in 2018 had also found the website to be non-functional. Even the website of the SIC of Madhya Pradesh has been inaccessible for several months while that of Nagaland appeared to be experiencing technical problems," the report said. The report also found out that SICs in Jharkhand and Tripura did not have a functioning Information Commissioner during lockdown period for varying lengths of time. "These were routine and scheduled retirements occurring due to the Commissioner either completing his tenure or attaining the age of 65 years," it said. Bihar, Goa, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh SICs were also functioning without a Chief Information Commissioner.  The SIC of Rajasthan has been functioning without a Chief Information Commissioner for more than 15 months, since December 2018. The Chiefs of the Goa and Uttar Pradesh SICs retired in February 2020, while the Chief of the Bihar SIC retired in July 2019, it said. The report acknowledged that it was reasonable to expect some delays in processing information requests, commissions must not abdicate their statutory role in ensuring access to information, especially related to delivery of essential commodities and services, the report said adding there are adequate provisions in the RTI Act for commissions to accommodate delays due to extenuating circumstances. "The backlog of appeals and complaints was already large in many information commissions even before the current crisis, resulting in inordinate delays in disposal of cases. If commissions are not functional, the backlogs will further increase rendering the law meaningless for many," it said. "Although challenges thrown up by the crisis are immense, it is absolutely critical that all information commissions conduct hearings and dispose cases to ensure people can exercise their fundamental right to information. Given the nature of the crisis, which could result in frequent lockdown and disruptions over the next several months, possibly years, information commissions have the obligation to put in place mechanisms, including people friendly technological solutions, in case physical hearings are not possible," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/21-of-29-information-commissions-did-not-work-during-covid-19-lockdown-839919.html
20-05-2020||National||Lockdown: CrPC Sec 144 extended till May 31 in Noida||The Gautam Buddh Nagar police on Wednesday extended till May 31 the restrictions on assembly of people under CrPC section 144 in view of the nationwide lockdown to combat the coronavirus pandemic. Political, social, sports or religious congregations, protest rallies or processions will remain banned across Noida and Greater Noida during the lockdown period, the police said. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, Ashutosh Dwivedi issued the order stating, “Restrictions under CrPC section 144 will remain in force in Gautam Buddh Nagar till May 31." Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) bars assembly of four or more people. "Prior permission is needed for any wedding function and not more than 20 people would be allowed to attend it. Similarly, not more than 20 people will be allowed during a funeral. In both cases, people have to adhere to social distancing norms," the order stated. Strict action will be taken against anyone who violates the restriction orders under Indian Penal Code section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), the order stated.  Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining Delhi, in western Uttar Pradesh has so far recorded 293 positive cases of the novel coronavirus including five deaths, while 207 patients have got discharged after treatment, according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-crpc-sec-144-extended-till-may-31-in-noida-839922.html
20-05-2020||National||BJP leader moves SC to check fake social media accounts||A BJP leader has approached the Supreme Court for creating a mechanism to check fake and bogus Twitter handles and Facebook accounts by putting in KYC to make the social media safe, accountable and traceable. The petition by Vinit Goenka, also a member of the Governing Council (CRIS), contended that there are hundreds of special media accounts in the name of eminent people and high dignitaries. "The common man relies upon the messages published from these Twitter handles and Facebook accounts. These bogus accounts are used to promote casteism and communalism which endangers fraternity and unity of the country," the plea filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey said. The PIL also blamed fake news as the root cause of many riots, including the one in Delhi earlier this year. Presently, total number of Twitter handles in India are around 35 million and total number of Facebook accounts are 350 million. According to experts, around 10 per cent Twitter handles (3.5 million) and 10 per cent Facebook accounts (35 million) are duplicate or fake, the plea said. The petition further said that a representation to the concerned authority to act in accordance with the law of the country against social media giant Twitter was filed but no action has been taken so far by the concerned authorities. It also pointed out that the Ministry of Home Affairs has banned Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) under the Unlawful Activities and Prevention Act on July 10, 2019, yet it continued to have an active presence on Twitter espousing hatred, terrorism, sedition and criminal acts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leader-moves-sc-to-check-fake-social-media-accounts-839929.html
20-05-2020||National||Release J&K political prisoners ahead of Eid: CCG to Centre||A group of concerned citizens led by former Finance Minister Yashwant Sinha on Wednesday urged the government to release all political leaders detained in Jammu and Kashmir as a goodwill gesture ahead of Eid-ul-Fitr and open up political space, saying without which militancy cannot be controlled. The Concerned Citizens Group (CCG) also demanded that 4G communication should be restored in Jammu and Kashmir to alleviate the problems of businessmen, traders, healthcare professionals and most importantly students so that they do not lose an academic year. In a statement, the CCG said lockdown imposed by the Centre is now "doubly reinforced" by COVID-19 pandemic. Besides Sinha, the statement has been signed by Wajahat Habibullah, Kapil Kak, Bharat Bhushan and Sushobha Barve. It also demanded that the Centre should extend the same bank loan deferment and facilities to businesses in Jammu and Kashmir as in the rest of the country, ensure unfettered market access and adequate distribution channels for horticultural produce and specific financial packages for the artisans. "Jammu and Kashmir continue to be in a social, economic, political and communication lockdown since August 5, 2019...Within the country, there has never been greater need to be sensitive to disturbing developments in the Union Territory and the immediate needs of its residents," the statement said. Many senior political leaders, including former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti, continue to be in detention, in several cases under Public Safety Act. "Meanwhile, there are attempts to incubate artificial political processes – through the village and local body elections and facilitating the launch of a new political party. However, these processes have failed to fill the political vacuum," it said. The Centre has also used the opportunity of the lockdown to implement domicile laws for Jammu and Kashmir, which should have been debated by the people’s representatives and by the affected citizens, it claimed. "The communication lockdown – permitting only 2G internet, premised on the assumption that faster internet speeds help terrorists -- is causing havoc not only in banking, trade, business and healthcare but in the field of education as well. The 2G technology cannot sustain online learning, which is a ready option being used in the rest of the country," it said while demanding for restoration of 4G connectivity. "The problem is particularly acute for students who have returned home because of the pandemic from universities and colleges in the rest of India. They cannot attend online classes and webinars or submit assignments. They may not be able to appear for online end-semester examinations which universities and colleges plan to hold soon," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/release-jk-political-prisoners-ahead-of-eid-ccg-to-centre-839931.html
20-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Tripura claims highest recovery rate after the 'BSF shock'||With 118 of a total of 173 COVID-19 positive persons already recovered, Tripura has claimed that the state's recovery rate stood at 68.83%, which was highest among all the states. "The national recovery rate at present is 39% and Tripura's rate of recovery is 68.83%. This is highest among all the states as on today," Tripura law minister Ratan Lal Nath told reporters at the state secretariat at Agartala on Wednesday evening. "We are ahead of Andhra Pradesh which has a recovery rate of 63.82%," he said when asked about the recovery rate. Tripura had declared itself as "COVID-19 free state" on April 29 after two persons, who had tested COVID-19 positive recovered and were discharged. But the shock was in store as two BSF camps in Dhalai district saw a sudden outbreak of the virus on May 2. Of the 173 COVID-19 positive cases the state reported since May 2, 160 are BSF personnel and their family members. Most of the BSF personnel, who tested COVID-19 positive were asymptomatic. This caused much concern to the state health department.  Four more persons, who returned from Chennai tested COVID-19 positive on Wednesday, taking the state's total number of cases to 173. Tripura health department, however, could not yet identify the source of infection among the BSF personnel at Ambassa in Dhalai district, who are deployed to guard the India-Bangladesh border. The department also asked the BSF to carry out a quick probe and identify the source of infection. BSF too has not yet disclosed their findings and so the health department stepped up sample tests of the BSF personnel and their family members. Three BSF camps have also been sealed and declared as containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tripura-claims-highest-recovery-rate-after-the-bsf-shock-839932.html
20-05-2020||National||Micro-identification, isolation, treatment prevented large-scale death, spread of COVID-19: Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday said the country's policy of micro-identification, mass isolation and quick treatment helped prevent large scale deaths and spread of COVID-19. He said 1.35 billion Indians honoured the decision of nationwide lockdown that helped keep the mortality rate down and contained the spread of COVID-19 so far. Addressing the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) Health Ministers' meeting through video conference, Vardhan stressed that human welfare must be the basis of all economic growth. The meeting was chaired by Ogtay Shiraliyev, Minister of Health, Republic of Azerbaijan, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement.   Vardhan said the present COVID-19 pandemic crisis also reminds the people that the global institutions of governance need to become more democratic, transparent and representative to be credible and effective.  A reformed multilateralism is the need of the hour, he said. "Our Prime Minister  Narendra Modi has ensured speed, scale and determination in the handling this crisis. "Armed with a political will to ensure that we defeat this dreadful disease, 1.35 billion Indians came together to honour the decision on nationwide lockdown that has kept our mortality rate down and contained the spread of the disease," the statement quoting Vardhan said. "Our policy of micro-identification, mass isolation and quick treatment reaped good dividends in preventing large scale spread and deaths due to COVID-19," he said.  The NAM summit is being organized at a time when the international community is faced with a pandemic which has disrupted lives and livelihood of millions of people around the world.  The NAM expressed its concern at the global threat posed by COVID-19 and resolved to fight it with proper preparedness, prevention, resilience-building, and greater national, regional and international collaboration, the statement said. Offering his condolences to families across the world who have lost their loved ones to this deadly disease, Vardhan said, "COVID-19 has made us realize that we are more interconnected and interdependent than ever before.  "It has made us realize that the man-made challenges that our planet faces today - such as climate change and public health emergencies - can only be faced together, not when we are divided. It requires collaboration, not coercion." In India, the health minister said, the government swung into action and added capacity in terms of infrastructure as well as manpower.  With a fleet of 10,000 dedicated COVID hospitals and Care Centers and a trained healthcare workforce of over two million, there was no looking back, he said, adding that India took every possible step to ensure that it contains the spread of the virus.  "We also ensured that focus on COVID-19 should not mean neglect of patients of other diseases," he stressed. Along with taking care of its citizens, India also extended help to other countries, Vardhan said, adding that it has promoted coordination to counter coronavirus and organized capacity building by sharing its medical expertise with the neighbouring countries. "India is living up to its reputation as the pharmacy of the world, especially for affordable medicines," he said. Vardhan said besides meeting the domestic needs, India has provided medical supplies to over 123 partner countries, including 59 members of NAM. The country is also taking active part in the global efforts to develop remedies and vaccines, he said. "As developing countries, it is our people that stand to be the most profoundly affected by these changes. We must all realize that our destinies are linked like never before," he said, seeking constructive deliberations, cooperation and collaboration in the spirit of solidarity and fraternity that characterizes NAM. Acknowledging the contribution of the frontline workers, Vardhan said, "Let us all stand up to clap for all frontline COVID warriors - our doctors, our nurses, our paramedics, our sanitation and security staff, our army, police and paramilitary forces, our journalists, all those who are putting their lives at risk for us, and for their families who are sending their members to the battlefield with all the risks. "They have taught us a lesson, and that lesson is to never forget that human welfare must be the basis of all economic growth," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/micro-identification-isolation-treatment-prevented-large-scale-death-spread-of-covid-19-vardhan-839942.html
20-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Indians stranded in Sri Lanka to sail back home on June 1||The Indian mission in Sri Lanka has made arrangements to repatriate its nationals stranded in the island nation due to the travel restrictions triggered by the COVID-19 outbreak. The voyage will be part of "Operation Samudra Setu" under which Indian Naval ships are bringing back stranded citizens from abroad. "Continuing the ongoing efforts for repatriation of Indian nationals stranded in Sri Lanka an Indian Naval Ship INS Jalashwa will make a voyage to Tuticorin from Colombo Port on June 1, 2020," said an Indian High Commission release. The number of Indian nationals stranded in Sri Lanka was not immediately known. Priority will be given to compelling cases, including migrant workers/labourers who have been laid off, short-term visa-holders faced with expiry of documents, people with medical emergency, pregnant women, elderly persons, persons required to return to India due to death in family and students. Under "Operation Samudra Setu", the Indian Navy had repatriated nearly 1,500 Indian nationals from the Maldives in two phases in its vessels--INS Jalashwa and INS Magar on May 10, May 12 and May 17.  Sri Lanka has so far recorded 1,027 coronavirus cases, out of which nine lives have been lost. The lockdown restrictions have been eased considerably eased now and businesses are functioning under health guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indians-stranded-in-sri-lanka-to-sail-back-home-on-june-1-839954.html
20-05-2020||National||Centre clears OIL plans for drilling in Assam's Dibru Saikhowa Park||The Oil India Limited (OIL) on Wednesday (May 20) said that union ministry of environment, forest and climate change accorded environment clearance for extension of drilling for hydrocarbon exploration inside Dibru Saikhowa National Park in eastern Assam. In a statement emailed to DH, the oil PSU said the clearance for extension drilling and testing at seven locations under the national park was given as part of the Centre's target to reduce 10% imports and the Northeast Vision 2030. The Centre's decision led many environmentalists in Assam express concern that this could disturb the ecology and environment of the 340 sqkm (core area) national park that houses at least 36 mammals, birds, reptiles and is one of the major tourist attractions. Reacting to such apprehensions, OIL, however, assured that the drilling would have no impact on the Dibru Saikhowa Park situated in Tinsukia and Dibrugarh districts.  "In order to tap the hydrocarbon resources underneath the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, OIL had approached statutory bodies for obtaining necessary permissions in 2016 on the basis of the Extended Reach Drilling (ERD) technology, which will enable OIL to drill for hydrocarbon without drilling inside the national park," said a statement issued by Tridiv Hazarika, deputy general manager (CSR and CC), OIL. He said the ERD techniques are extensively used to intersect hydrocarbon targets far from the surface or areas of the reservoir which otherwise are difficult to access. "By using this technology wells can be drilled up to a depth of approximately 4 kilometres from the existing well plinth without entering the protected area. Through ERD technology, OIL will reach the target depth of around 3.5 Kms beneath the surface of the national park without carrying out any drilling activity inside the national park. This is a state of the art technology where drilling will take place more than 1.5 kilometres outside the demarcated area of the national park, where OIL is already carrying out hydrocarbon exploration since 15 years (Baghjan area). OIL once again reiterates that no disturbance to the environment and Dibru-Saikhowa national park is envisaged due to use of ERD technology," it said. He said if commercial viability of hydrocarbon production is established, then the production of oil and gas would help in meeting energy needs of the country and will also lead to the socio-economic development of the area and its vicinity. The commercial production from this area shall enable OIL to meet the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi towards 10% reduction in imports and also fulfilling North East Vision 2030," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-clears-oil-plans-for-drilling-in-assams-dibru-saikhowa-park-839957.html
20-05-2020||National||15th Finance Commission to meet its high level group on health sector on Thursday||The 15th Finance Commission will hold a virtual meeting with its high level group on health sector on Thursday to discuss requirement of increased resources and manpower in the context of COVID-19 pandemic. The high level group (HLG) on health sector under AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria had in August 2019 submitted its final report to the 15th Finance Commission and some of its key recommendations were incorporated in the first report of the Commission for the year 2020-21. The Commission has now decided to reconvene this HLG in the light of recent developments due to the ongoing COVID-19 crisis, an official statement said. "The HLG has now been asked to review its original recommendations in the context of the current COVID-19 pandemic. There is an immediate need to reassess the requirement of health manpower (medical and paramedical) and estimated requirement of resources for 2021-22 to 2025-26 in relation to the health infra-gap (hospital infrastructure, medical equipment, PPE, etc). "Further, the mechanism to fund these requirements will need to be critically examined, including the enhanced role of the private sector," the statement added. Further, the composition of the HLG -- which earlier included Dr Guleria, Dr Devi Shetty, Chairman, Narayana Health City; Dr Deelip Govind Mhaaisekar, Vice Chancellor, Maharashtra University of Health Science; Dr Naresh Trehan, Medanta City; Dr Bhabatosh Biswas, Prof & HoD of Cardio Thoracic Surgery, R G Kar Medical College and Prof K Srinath Reddy, President of Public Health Foundation of India -- has been enhanced with the addition of Dr S K Sarin, Director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, and Dr Harsh Mahajan, Founder, Mahajan Imaging. "At tomorrow's meeting there will also be a presentation on modelling the path of the pandemic on epidemic behaviour by Prof Shamika Ravi, Director of Research at Brookings India," the statement said. Jayant Sinha, Member of Parliament and Chairperson of Parliamentary Committee on Finance, is also expected to participate along with the Chairman, Members & senior officials of the Finance Commission, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15th-finance-commission-to-meet-its-high-level-group-on-health-sector-on-thursday-839958.html
20-05-2020||National||Pak summons senior Indian diplomat over ceasefire violations||India and Bangladesh on Wednesday added five more ports of call that would augment bilateral trade and provide stimulus to the economic development of the new locations and their hinterland. The five new ports of call in Bangladesh side are Rajshahi, Sultanganj, Chilmari, Daudkandi and Bahadurabad, while in Indian side are Dhulian, Maia, Kolaghat, Sonamura and Jogigopha, the Daily Star reported. Bangladesh's Shipping Secretary Mezbah Uddin Chowdhury and Indian High Commissioner to Bangladesh Riva Ganguly Das signed the addendum to the Protocol on Inland Water Transit and Trade here, the report said. Under the protocol, presently there are six ports of call. They are Kolkata, Haldia, Karimganj, Pandu, Shilghat and Dhubri on Indian side and Narayanganj, Khulna, Mongla, Sirajganj, Ashuganj and Pangaon on the Bangladesh side. Further, two more extended ports of call – Tribeli (Bandel) and Badarpur on the Indian side and Ghorasal and Muktarpur on Bangladesh side – have been added through this addendum. Now, total ports of call are 11 and there are two extended ports of call in both countries. The Inclusion of Jogigopha in India and Bahadurabad in Bangladesh as a new port of call will provide connectivity to Meghalaya, Assam as well as Bhutan. Jogigopha also becomes important, since a multimodal logistics park is proposed to be established there, said Indian High Commission in a statement. The Protocol on Transit and Trade through inland waterways of India and Bangladesh, which was first signed in the year 1972, was last renewed in 2015 for five years with a provision of its automatic renewal for a further period of five years. During the discussions between India and Bangladesh at shipping ministry level meetings held in October, 2018 in New Delhi and in December, 2019 in Dhaka, key decisions were taken on the extension of protocol routes, inclusion of new routes, and declaration of new ports of call to facilitate trade between the two countries. These decisions have been made effective with the signing of the Second Addendum to the Protocol. The number of Indo-Bangladesh Protocol (IBP) routes is being increased from eight to 10 and new locations are also added to the existing routes. The operationalisation of Rajshahi-Dhulian-Rajshahi route and its extension up to Aricha (270 km) will help the augmentation of infrastructure in Bangladesh as it would reduce the transportation cost of stone chips/aggregate to the northern part of Bangladesh through this route. Further, it will also decongest land custom stations on both sides, said the statement. The Indian High Commission said as a "path-breaking" development, both sides have agreed to introduce trade between Chilmari (Bangladesh) and Dhubri (India) through the use of shallow draft mechanised vessels. This initiative will allow export of stone chips and other Bhutanese and Northeast cargo to Bangladesh and easy access for the traders to the hinterland of Bangladesh, enhancing the local economy in Bangladesh and the lower Assam region of India. Under this Protocol, inland vessels of both the countries can ply the designated protocol route and dock at ports of call in each country, notified for loading/unloading of cargo. "There has been significant improvement in the movement of cargo vessels in an organised manner on the protocol route carrying both the transit cargo to Northeast region of India and vice-versa and export-cargo to Bangladesh," it said. The other potential cargo for movement is fertilisers, cement, food grains, agricultural products, contThe Indian transit cargo is mainly coal, fly-ash, POL and ODC for power projects ainerised cargo etc. On the other hand, the export cargo from India to Bangladesh is mainly fly-ash, which is to the tune of 30 lakhs MT annually. Around 638 inland vessels (including 600 Bangladeshi flag vessels) completed with approximately 4000 loaded voyages annually. "It is expected that these additions to the protocol will greatly facilitate bilateral trade, with improved reliability and cost effectiveness for the business community and the people of both the countries," the Indian High Commission said. Excellent connectivity provided by the existing and the newly-added protocol routes is all the more pertinent in the present COVID-19 scenario as it will be instrumental in providing economical, faster, safer and greener mode of transport, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pak-summons-senior-indian-diplomat-over-ceasefire-violations-839961.html
20-05-2020||National||SC notice to Centre on plea for women's entry to mosque||The Supreme Court on Wednesday (May 20) issued notice to the Union government on a plea for allowing Muslim women to enter mosques across the country. The petition by Pune-based, Farha Anwar Hussain Shaikh contended that such restrictions were "unconstitutional" and violative of the right to equality and gender justice.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy asked the Centre to respond to the plea asking to set aside directions or 'fatwa' restraining Muslim women from entering the mosques. The petitioner has named the Ministry of Minorities Affairs, National Commission for Women and All India Muslim Personal Law Board and Darul Uloom Deoband and Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind as parties in the matter. Separately, the top court's nine-judge bench was examining the scope of rights vis-a-vis faiths following the Sabarimala judgement and similar pending matters related to the rights of Muslim women and others to enter their places of worship. The petitioner here relied upon the constitutional provisions to contend that there should not be any discrimination against any citizen on the ground of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth.  "It is very unfortunate that not a single political party or a chief minister, women included, has thought of advancing the interest of Muslim women by providing them access to mosques that receive monetary aid from taxpayers' money," the plea has claimed.  The petition has alleged that the legislature has failed to ensure the dignity and equality of women in general and Muslim women in particular.  "Despite the observation of this court for the past few decades, the goal of 'Uniform Civil Code' remains an elusive constitutional goal that the courts have fairly refrained from enforcing through directions and the legislature has dispassionately ignored it," it claimed.  The plea alleged that Muslim women are being discriminated against as they are not allowed to enter and pray in the main prayer hall of mosques in violation of Articles 14 (equality before law) and 2l (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution.  It has sought a direction to permit women to pray in the 'musalla' "without being separated by a barrier, including in the front and in mixed-gender congregational lines".  It has sought to declare the practice of prohibiting entry of Muslim women in the mosque in India as illegal, unconstitutional, and being violative of constitutional rights.  "There is a well-established proliferation in media nowadays about the 'burqa-clad' who are thoroughly victimised and need great protection measures through the liberal rights discourse," it said.  The plea said there is nothing in the Holy Quran and the Hadith that requires gender segregation.  It said that a life of dignity and equality is the most sacrosanct fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution and it prevails above all other rights available under the laws of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-womens-entry-to-mosque-839963.html
20-05-2020||National||As AP cases show slight ebb, CM Jagan lays out plans for new normalcy||Andhra Pradesh is planning to start the school academic year from August first week. All government offices resume with full strength from Thursday(May 21). State-run RTC buses would also ply from Thursday morning, with special seating arrangements. With daily fresh cases somewhat ebbing lately, the state government is preparing to reopen life slowly back to normalcy while keeping the public mindful of the COVID-19 threat. Compared to the daily new cases in the eighties before, the figures for the last 10 days have remained below 60. On Wednesday (May 20), 68 new cases were reported though. The state has 2,560 total recorded cases till Wednesday morning, including 153 returned migrants. 843 are active cases. COVID-19 has claimed 53 lives in the state till now. Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy is among the first government heads in the country to declare that the Novel Coronavirus is here to stay for some time, and that “we have to learn to live with it.” On Tuesday, the CM asked officials to complete renovation of 15,715 government schools, under the first phase of the Mana Badi project, by July. According to the CMO officials, Reddy wants to launch his Jagananna Vidya Kanuka, under which the school going students will be provided with a free kit of uniform, books, belt, shoes, and socks, on August 3. All government offices including secretariat which were working with part strength are required to function with usual attendance from Thursday. While asking for strict enforcement of screening, sanitizing and social distancing, etc., measures in offices, a government order has allowed pregnant women, aged, and employees with high-risk health conditions to work from home. While trying to resurrect the economy after about two months, the state is devising various virus mitigation measures and asking people to get themselves tested voluntarily in case of infection doubt. “CM wants restoration of the transport sector, opening up of shops, establishments, factories etc., adhering to Centre' COVID-19 guidelines. At the same time, he wants COVID-19’s spread contained by increasing public awareness about the pandemic and erasing the stigma factor,” officials said. “For rejuvenation of the economy, CM has ordered that incentive arrears for the MSMEs to the tune of Rs 905 crore be cleared by May 22 and remaining by June,” CMO officials said adding that AP has waived their electricity charges for three months. State’s MSMEs employ about 10 lakh workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-ap-cases-show-slight-ebb-cm-jagan-lays-out-plans-for-new-normalcy-839981.html
20-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: 10,000 plus discharged so far in Maharashtra||The COVID-19 cases continued to mount in Maharashtra but what comes as twin good news is that over 10,000 patients have been treated and sent back home and the number of tests conducted crossed 3 lakh. Meanwhile, even as Lockdown 4.0 is in force,  there are signs for relaxation. On Wednesday,  a total of 679 were discharged taking the progressive total to 10,318. Meanwhile,  of 3,07,072 laboratory samples, 2,67,775 were negative and 39,297 have been tested  positive for COVID-19 till date.  On Wednesday,  65 people died pushing the total to 1,390. On the other hand, 2,250 patients tested positive taking the total to 39,297. Of these,  27,581 are active cases.  Of the 65 deaths,  41 were reported in Mumbai,  where death toll has reached 841. The total positive cases in Mumbai stands at 24,118. Besides, 13 deaths were reported in Pune, 3 in Navi Mumbai,  2 in Pimpri-Chinchwad, 2 in Solapur, 2 in Ulhasnagar and 2 in Aurangabad.  Meanwhile,  at a high-level meeting, Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray undertook a review of  the situation and the preparedness. Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehra, Secretaries of various departments, Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, Director General of Police Subodh Jaiswal and others were present. The meeting comes a day after Leader of Opposition and ex-CM Devendra Fadnavis called on the Governor and said that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government has failed in handling the crisis.   On Tuesday evening, state Public Health Minister  Rajesh Tope said: "It is correct that cases are increasing and this is a matter of concern,  but doubling rate also have gone up.  At the same time,  nearly 10,000 patients have been treated. Also,  it is to be noted that we have conducted more tests than any other state." NCP supremo Sharad Pawar has, meanwhile, tweeted: "Corona disease will not be completely eradicated shortly. It is necessary to accept the corona as a part of life, beware of it and create awareness among the masses about health care. In Japan, people wear masks, look after personal hygiene as part of their routine social life."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-10000-plus-discharged-so-far-in-maharashtra-839986.html
20-05-2020||National||Indian Railways set to resume intrastate services; 2 trains approved in Karnataka||The Railways is set to resume intrastate services as it approved commencement of two trains in Karnataka from May 22, the South Western Railways said on Wednesday. The two special trains are the Bengaluru -- Hubli -- Belagavi and Mysore-Bengaluru Special Express train, according to an order issued by the SWR.  The bookings for these trains will be online through the IRCTC portal. These will be the first intrastate trains to be run by the Railways since it suspended its passenger services due to the coronavirus lockdown.  The Railways, however, began the Shramik Special trains from May 1, and 15 pairs of special trains on the Rajdhani route connecting major cities to Delhi from May 12. From June 1, it will also begin operations of non-air conditioned passenger services for all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-set-to-resume-intrastate-services-2-trains-approved-in-karnataka-839988.html
20-05-2020||National||Delhi fumes as Nepal releases new map including areas claimed by India||Nepal on Wednesday published a new map of its territory including areas claimed by India, triggering a strong protest from New Delhi, which called it a “unilateral act” by the government of the neighbouring country. Nepal’s Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli too took the rhetoric against India to a new level, stating that the COVID-19 virus spread by the Indians in his country were more lethal than the ones that came from China or Italy.  The new map of Nepal published by the Ministry of Land Management of the Nepalese Government included Lipulekh Pass, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura – the areas New Delhi claims to be part of the territory of India. Oli’s cabinet had on Tuesday decided to publish the new political and administrative map of Nepal, in order to re-assert its claim on the disputed areas. The move was in response to construction of a strategic road by India from Dharchula in its Uttarakhand State to Lipulekh Pass near its disputed boundary with China.  New Delhi strongly reacted to the move by Kathmandu, stating that such “artificial enlargement of territorial claims” by Nepal was “not based on historical facts and evidence” and would not be accepted by India. “It is contrary to the bilateral understanding to resolve the outstanding boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue,” Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said in New Delhi. “Nepal is well aware of India’s consistent position on this matter and we urge the Government of Nepal to refrain from such unjustified cartographic assertion and respect sovereignty and territorial integrity of India.”  India also urged the leadership of Nepal to “create a positive atmosphere for diplomatic dialogue to resolve the outstanding boundary issues”.  Kathmandu has been raising its pitch on the Nepal-India territorial dispute over Lipulekh Pass over the past few days. But what came as a shocker for New Delhi was Oli’s remark.  “Those who are coming from India through illegal channels are spreading the virus in the country and some local representatives and party leaders are responsible for bringing in people from India without proper testing,” said Nepalese Prime Minister, adding: “It has become very difficult to contain the COVID-19 due to the flow of people from outside. Indian virus looks more lethal than Chinese and Italian now. More are getting infected.”  Nepal shares an open 1753-kilometer-long border with India. The people of the two countries can freely travel to each other without requiring passports or visas. Nepal also shares a 1414-kilometer-long border with China.  Oli’s statement raised eyebrows in New Delhi as the first person to be found COVID-19 positive in Nepal was a youth, who was a research scholar at an institute in Wuhan in central China – the “ground zero” of what now turned into a pandemic that left over 47.61 lakh people around the world infected by the virus with over 3.17 lakh of them succumbing to it so far. The 32-year-old Nepalese, who had returned to his home in Kathmandu in early January, was also the first to be found COVID-19 positive in South Asia.  A source in New Delhi said that Oli’s statement is being viewed by the Government of India as an attempt to silence his detractors within the ruling Nepal Communist Party, which was nudged by China to raise the clamour against India.  Nepal is one of the South Asian countries where India and China compete for geo-political influence.  Nepal’s borders with both India and China were closed on March 22 in order to contain the pandemic. With 62 and 45 new cases being reported on Monday and Tuesday respectively, altogether 402 people have so far been infected by the virus in Nepal, while two of them died. It is still the second least COVID-19 affected country in South Asia.  Over 1.06 lakh people were so far infected by the virus and 3303 of them died in India. China, where the outbreak started in December, flattened the curve of the spread of the infection by mid-February, with over 84,000 confirmed COVID-19 positive cases and 4645 deaths. The Nepalese Government has been crying foul ever since Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on May 8 had a video-conference from New Delhi to inaugurate the road from Ghatiabgarh in Dharchula and ends in Lipulekh Pass – an India-China-Nepal tri-junction boundary point. Kathmandu claimed that the road built by India went through the territory of Nepal and its construction ran against the understanding reached between the two nations that they would resolve the boundary dispute through negotiation.  New Delhi, however, rejected the contention of Nepal, asserting that the new road lay completely within the territory of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-fumes-as-nepal-releases-new-map-including-areas-claimed-by-india-839991.html
20-05-2020||National||Cabinet decisions will help several citizens: PM Narendra Modi||The decisions taken by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday were focused on welfare of migrant workers, senior citizens, easier availability of credit and harnessing opportunities in the fisheries sector, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said. "During today's Cabinet meeting, important decisions were taken which are focused on welfare of migrants, senior citizens, easier availability of credit, harnessing opportunities in the fisheries sector," he wrote on Twitter. The decisions, he said, will benefit several citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-decisions-will-help-several-citizens-pm-narendra-modi-839993.html
20-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Over 26% people who died in Delhi were in 50s||Over 26 per cent of the total COVID-19 fatalities in the national capital were of people in the age bracket of 50-59 years, according to official figures. The coronavirus death toll in Delhi has climbed to 176, while 534 fresh cases of COVID-19 infection reported on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike here, took the total in the city to over 11,000-mark, authorities said. Of the total number of deceased patients, 92 were aged 60 years and above, accounting for over 52 per cent of the fatalities. Forty-seven of them were aged between 50-59 years (26.71 per cent) and 37 were less than 50 years (21.02 per cent), according to the latest health bulletin released on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the total number of cases stood at 10,554, including 166 deaths.  With 534 fresh cases, the total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi has climbed to 11,088. The previous highest spike in fresh cases -- 500 -- was recorded on May 19.  The bulletin, however, added the cumulative death figures refers to fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-over-26-people-who-died-in-delhi-were-in-50s-840006.html
20-05-2020||National||Cabinet extends senior citizen pension scheme for 3 years to 2023||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday extended the Pradhan Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana (PMVVY), a social security scheme for senior citizens, for three years till March, 2023, but reduced the rate of interest on the scheme to 7.40% in 2020-21 from 8% per annum until now. PMVVY scheme, implemented through the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), is intended to give an assured minimum pension to senior citizens (60 years and above) based on their subscription amount. The scheme was announced in Union Budget of 2017-18 and 2018-19. In 2018-19 Budget, the maximum investment limit under PMVVY was doubled to Rs 15 lakh per senior citizen. Pension is payable at the end of each period during the policy term of 10 years, as per monthly, quarterly, half-yearly, yearly frequency, as chosen by the pensioner at the time of purchase, an official statement said after the cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-extends-senior-citizen-pension-scheme-for-3-years-to-2023-840010.html
20-05-2020||National||Pregnant employees exempted from attending office: MoS, Personnel Jitendra Singh||Pregnant women employees will be exempted from attending office, Union minister Jitendra Singh said on Wednesday. He said a circular to this effect has been issued and is expected to be followed by different ministries and departments as well as the states and Union territories. "Pregnant women employees who are not already on maternity leave will also be exempted from attending office. Persons with disabilities are also to be given a similar exemption from attending office," Singh, the Union minister of state for personnel, said. The latest circular issued by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) also states that the government servants who have underlying co-morbidities and were undergoing treatment for these ailments before the lockdown, may, as far as possible, be exempted upon production of a medical prescription from the treating physician. "What is important is to strictly observe staggered timings for the arrival and departure of the officers and staff. In order to avoid unnecessary crowding, all the heads of departments have been advised to ensure three sets of timings," the minister said. These would be 9 am to 5 pm, 9:30 am to 6 pm and 10 am to 6:30 pm respectively. While the officers at the level of deputy secretary and above are expected to attend office on all working days, the officers and staff below the level of deputy secretary will attend office every alternate day and those not attending office should work from home and remain available on the telephone and electronically, a statement issued by the personnel ministry said. Singh appreciated the staff in the ministry for having continued to work with full commitment during the entire lockdown. In fact, he said some of the staff members were working from home even during the weekends, which normally does not happen when the offices are closed. Every care has been taken to ensure that while the offices continue to function, the welfare and safety of officials is not overlooked, Singh said. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pregnant-employees-exempted-from-attending-office-mos-personnel-jitendra-singh-840014.html
20-05-2020||National||Centre flashes recovery rate as India sees biggest spike in COVID-19 cases||“More than 39.6 per cent of the confirmed cases have recovered, bringing the total to 42,298 recoveries as of today (Wednesday). This is a reminder that the disease is curable and the clinical management protocols adopted by India are effective,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, told reporters at a press briefing organised by the government after a gap of 10 days. The Centre’s claims came on a day India witnessed its sharpest spike in confirmed COVID-19 infections – a rise of 5,611 cases in a single day, taking the total to 1,06,750 on Wednesday morning. The death toll also increased by 140 in a single day to reach 3,303. A separate DH Covid-19 Tracker put the death toll at 3,422 and the total confirmed cases 1,11,720 at 8:30 p.m. on Wednesday. Aggarwal presented statistics comparing India with 15 worst-hit countries whose cumulative population was 1.42 billion, a shade higher than the 1.32 billion of India. He said 15 countries including the US, UK, Russia, Italy, Spain, France, Brazil, Turkey, Iran accounted for 36.45 lakh cases, while India had registered just above one lakh cases as on Wednesday.  Aggarwal also pointed out that these 15 countries had a combined death toll of 2.73 lakh as against the 3,303 deaths in India. “These combined population of these countries is similar to that of India’s, yet they have recorded 34 times more cases and 83 times more deaths than India,” he said. “This statistic is not about a satisfactory situation for India. How we medically manage a positive case, how we are able to save a patient’s life and focus on good health care decides if we are doing a satisfactory job,” Aggarwal said. He said that 2.9% of all the active cases under treatment require oxygen support, about 3 % of the active cases require ICU support and 0.45 % of the active cases require ventilator support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-flashes-recovery-rate-as-india-sees-biggest-spike-in-covid-19-cases-840033.html
20-05-2020||National||Ordinance to bring private hospitals into COVID-19 battle notified||The Punjab government on Wednesday notified an ordinance to bring private clinical establishments into the ambit of its fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The notification brings all clinical establishments with a capacity of more than 50 beds under the provisions of the Punjab Clinical Establishments (Registration & Regulation) Ordinance, 2020, a government statement said. This is in line with the decision taken by the council of ministers at its meeting on April 10, it further said.        The ordinance would provide a mechanism for registration and regulation of clinical establishments in a professional manner, to ensure compliance of minimum standards of facilities and services, as well as transparency in the functioning of these establishments for fair and proper delivery of health services to the common person, the statement said.   To implement the provisions of the ordinance, a Punjab State Council for Clinical Establishments will be set up under the chairmanship of the Administrative Secretary, Health & Family Welfare with Director, Health & Family Welfare as Member Secretary, it said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ordinance-to-bring-private-hospitals-into-covid-19-battle-notified-840042.html
20-05-2020||National||All stalls in railway stations to open||A day after announcing plan to run 200 non-AC trains from June 1, the Railway Board on Wednesday asked its zones to open all static catering and vending units in railway staions with immediate effect. All stalls in railway station premisis including food, multi purpose shops, book shops and chemists can be opened with immediate effect, the circular issued by Railway Board to its zone said. However, only takeaways are allowed at food plazas, circular said. All shops and vending units in railway premises were closed on March 24 ever since railways suspended passengers train operation as part of the government efforts to fight against COVID-19 pandemic. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday announced that 200 non-AC trains with fixed  timetable will operate daily from.June 1 and online ticket booking will be announced soon. The Minister also said Shramik Special trains ferrying  migrant workers and Special Rajdhani Express transporting other stranded people will continue to operate. The railways so far operated 1773 Shramik Special trains since May  1 and on Tuesday it operated 204 trains which highest in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-stalls-in-railway-stations-to-open-840043.html
20-05-2020||National||BMS protests against dilution of labour laws, demands payment of wages for lockdown period||The RSS-affiliated worker's organisation BMS on Wednesday held a countrywide protest against the dilution of labour laws and demanded immediate payment of wages to labourers for the coronavirus-triggered lockdown period. Thousands of Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) workers staged demonstrations on roads, in front of their houses and at government offices against non-payment of wages during the lockdown period, massive job losses, increase in working hours from 8 to 12 hours, the trade union said in a statement. The protest was also against the unilateral changes in labour laws in 14 states and against unbridled privatisation of public sector undertaking, it said. The BMS demands the Government of India consider the plight of the workers and issue stringent directions for the payment of wages immediately. It also asked the government to intervene and halt changes in the labour laws by state governments, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bms-protests-against-dilution-of-labour-laws-demands-payment-of-wages-for-lockdown-period-840047.html
20-05-2020||National||15 most-impacted nations have seen 83 times more deaths, 34 times more infections than India: Health ministry||The 15 most-impacted countries due to COVID-19, with a cumulative population almost equal to that of India, have seen 83 times more deaths and 34 times more infections, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday as the nationwide cases registered a record single-day spike of 5,611. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 3,303 and the number of cases climbed to 10,6750 in the country registering an increase of 140 deaths and the record jump in a 24-hour span since Tuesday 8 AM. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 61,149 while 42,298 people have recovered so far.  Addressing a briefing to provide updates on the COVID-19 situation in the country, Joint Secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said that 6.39 per cent of the total number of active COVID-19 cases in the country needed hospital support. About 2.94 per cent of the active COVID-19 cases needed oxygen support, 3 per cent intensive care units (ICU) and 0.45 per cent required ventilator support. "Only around 6.39 per cent of COVID-19 cases need either oxygen support or ICU or ventilator support; many people are recovering due to early identification. At the same time, we are also upgrading our healthcare infrastructure," Agarwal said. "During lockdown, we have upgraded our hospital infrastructure, including oxygen supported beds, ICU beds and ventilators. Our efforts give us confidence that we are ready and equipped, along with states, to manage COVID-19 cases," he added. Agarwal said the health ministry analysed the data from the recently released WHO situation report and found that while cases per lakh of world population stood at 62, in India, the figure in India was 7.9. "Despite similar population cumulatively, total cases of COVID-19 in top 15 most impacted countries is 34 times that of India and total deaths is 83 times that of India," the joint secretary said. The 15 most impacted countries including the US, Russia, Spain, Brazil, the UK, Italy France and Germany have together registered about 273,203 deaths while India has recorded 3,303 fatalities so far. Again, these 15 countries together have reported about 36.45 lakh cases while India so far has recorded 1,06,750 COVID-19 cases. The cumulative population of these 15 most impacted countries is around 142 crore while India alone has a population around 137 crore. Agarwal further said that so far, India has about 0.2 COVID-19 deaths per lakh population as against the global figure of 4.1.  Among the countries with high COVID-19 casualties, the US with 89,272 fatalities has 27 deaths per lakh population while the UK has reported 34,796 deaths and has approximately 52 deaths per lakh population. Spain with 27,709 fatalities has a mortality of 59 per lakh while Germany with 8007 has a mortality of 10 per lakh population.  "While our deaths are a matter of grief, we find that six countries have reported more than 10,000 COVID-19 deaths, together with states and citizens. We have relatively been able to manage the situation, though the challenge still continues," Agarwal said. Among the countries with very high load of coronavirus cases, the US, with 14,77,516 instances of the infection, has around 442 cases per lakh population. The UK has reported 2,46,410 cases and has around 371 cases per lakh population. Spain with 2,31,606 cases and Italy with 2,25,86 cases have around 496 cases per lakh  and 374 per lakh respectively. The relatively low death figures represent timely case identification and clinical management of the cases, Agarwal said. When the lockdown started, the COVID-19 recovery rate was 7.1 per cent which gradually improved to 39.62 per cent, he said. The focus on clinical management and recovery has resulted in the improvement in the recovery rate, he said. "More than 39.6 per cent of the confirmed cases have recovered bringing the total to 42,298 recoveries, as of today. This is a reminder that the disease is curable and the clinical management protocols adopted by India are effective," Agarwal said. He said the government's focus will be on stringent containment measures, hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene, environmental sanitation and conversion of physical distancing into a life norm. Responding to a question on whether the government is planning to drop Hydroxychloroquine from the COVID-19 treatment plan and also a preventive medication against the infection, Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at ICMR, Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar said, "A decision in this regard will be taken following a review of all the evidences we are collecting."   Gangakhedkar further said 25.36 lakh COVID-19 tests have been done till 12.30 pm on Tuesday. For the second time, more than one lakh tests were conducted within a span of 24 hours. "There are 555 testing laboratories and 89,466 tests (were) done in ICMR labs yesterday (Tuesday)," he said.  Meanwhile, the ICMR has issued revised guidelines for TrueNat testing for COVID-19 saying the diagnostic machines used for testing drug-resistant tuberculosis can now be used for screening and confirmation of COVID-19 cases. "TrueNat system is now a comprehensive assay for screening and confirmation of COVID-19 cases".  The total 3,303 fatalities reported so far include 1,325 deaths from Maharashtra, 719 from Gujarat, 258 from Madhya Pradesh, 250 from West Bengal, 168 from Delhi, 143 from Rajasthan, 123 from Uttar Pradesh, 84 from Tamil Nadu and 52 from Andhra Pradesh. According to the health ministry's website, more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to co-morbidities. The total confirmed cases include 37,136 from Maharashtra, followed by Tamil Nadu at 12,448, Gujarat at 12,140, Delhi at 10,554 Rajasthan at 5,845, Madhya Pradesh at 5,465, Uttar Pradesh at 4,926, West Bengal at 2,961, Andhra Pradesh at 2,532 and Punjab at 2,002.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-most-impacted-nations-have-seen-83-times-more-deaths-34-times-more-infections-than-india-health-ministry-840051.html
20-05-2020||National||Indian Railways announces schedule for special trains||Indian Railway on Wednesday announced the 100 pair non-AC trains to be operated from June 1. These trains will have only second class sleeper coaches and passengers have to book the tickets only online. Tickets will not be sold in stations.  Of the 100 pair long distance trains, seven trains will connect to Bengaluru with other cities. Mumbai-CST -Gadag Express (daily), Mumbai CST -Bengaluru (daily), Dhanpur-Bengaluru (daily), New Delhi-Yeshwantpur (daily), Howrah-Yeshwanthpur (five days a week), Bengauru-Hubbali (daily) and Yeshwanthour- Shivamogga (daily).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-announces-schedule-for-special-trains-840055.html
20-05-2020||National||US says China's aggression on disputed boundary with India reminder of threat it posed||The United States on Wednesday said that China’s recent build-up along its disputed boundary with India was not just “rhetorical”, but was a “reminder of the threat” posed by the communist country. “This is a reminder that Chinese aggression is not always just rhetorical. So whether it is in the South China Sea or whether it is along the border with India, we continue to see provocations and disturbing behaviour by China that raise questions how it seeks to use its growing power,” Alice G Wells, a senior US diplomat, said during a video-conference with journalists. She was responding to a question on China’s recent move to deploy additional troops along its disputed boundary with India at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh.  Wells will retire as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the US State Department at the end of this month. She has been overseeing the US relations with the countries in South and Central Asia over the past three years.    China on Monday accused India of trespassing into its territory and illegally building defence facilities in the Galwan Valley. The Global Times, a state-owned newspaper of the communist country, published a rare report on escalating tension between the two sides. It alleged that Indian Army soldiers had been trespassing into territory of China since early May. It also accused Indian Army of “illegally” constructing defence facilities in its territory in the Galwan Valley region.  New Delhi dismissed the allegation, with sources insisting that the Indian Army soldiers had never transgressed into the territory of China. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had first deployed additional troops, who had set up as many as 80 tents near the disputed boundary. The Indian Army too had to send additional troops to beef up defence, but none of its soldiers had transgressed into the territory claimed by China.  What apparently rattled the Chinese PLA and prompted it to deploy additional troops in Galwan Valley was a new strategic road constructed by the Border Roads Organization of the Government of India in the region. The road, according to the sources in New Delhi, however, lay completely within the territory of India.  “We want to see it as an international system that provides benefit to everyone and not a system where there is suzerainty to China. In this instance the border disputes are a reminder of the threat posed by China,” Wells said, articulating the US position on China’s aggression in the disputed South China Sea as well as along its disputed boundary with India.  She said that it was China’s “aggressive and disturbing behaviour” that prompted the “like-minded nations” like the US, Japan and India as well as the South East Asian nations to come together – be it in the ASEAN (Association of South East Asian Nations) or other trilateral or quadrilateral groupings.       The build-up on both sides of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between India and China – in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh continued even as the diplomats and the military leaders of the two sides were in touch to de-escalate the situation, according to the latest reports received in New Delhi on Wednesday.  The Indian Army and Chinese PLA soldiers also had a skirmish during a brief face-off in northern Sikkim on May 9. Four Indian Army soldiers and 11 Chinese PLA personnel suffered injuries in the scuffle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-says-chinas-aggression-on-disputed-boundary-with-india-reminder-of-threat-it-posed-840059.html
20-05-2020||National||Plea filed in SC for ban on Zoom App for breach of cyber security||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Centre to ban the use of ‘Zoom’ application for official and personal purposes by the public until an appropriate legislation was put in place to ensure adequate cyber security. The petition filed by a homemaker and a part-time tutor, Harsh Chugh claimed that Zoom was reported to have a bug that can be abused intentionally to leak information of users to third parties. The app used for video and audio conferencing, meetings, chats and webinars has falsely claiming calls are end-to-end encrypted when they are not, she said. The petitioner said during the times when the world was under the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic forcing millions of people to stay home since March 2020,  Zoom suddenly became the video meeting service of choice of the people worldwide. The daily meeting participants on the platform surged from 10 million inDecember, 2019 to 200 million in March 2020 as revealed by the CEO of the app, Eric S Yuan. However, it is important to realise how Zoom consistently violates its duty to implement and maintain reasonable security practices. There have been reports on how it misled consumers about the security benefits of the product.  The CEO of the company has already apologised publically and has accepted the app to be faulty in terms of providing a secure environment digitally which was against the norms of cyber security. It was also routing traffic through China, where the internet was heavily monitored by the government. Still the Union government has not taken any steps to protect the general public and have not banned the offending software, though it was violative of rights to privacy, she pointed out. The continued use of this App was only making the users vulnerable and prone to cyber threats. Due to various privacy and security concerns, various organizations and governments have banned the use of Zoom App, namely, Australian Defence Force Berkeley, California (public school use), Canada (Federal government use that requires secure communications), Clark County, Nevada (public school use), German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Google, NASA, New York City (public school use), Singapore Ministry of Education, Smart Communications, SpaceX, Taiwan (government use), United Kingdom Ministry of Defence, United States Senate, the petitioner said. "There have been concerns about what now is being called ‘zoombombing’ where an unauthorized person or stranger joins a Zoom meeting/chat session and causes disorder by saying offensive things and even photo bombing the meeting by sharing pornographic and/or hate images," her plea claimed. On April 12, 2020, The Cyber Coordination Committee of the Ministry of Home Affairs also issued a public advisory as to how this app was unsafe and laid out certain steps to take care of while using the said app. Subsequent advisory stated that the platform was not for use by government officers for official purposes. Besides, the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), India’s nodal cyber security, agency, has also warned Zoom users of cyber risks and that the Zoom app is prone to cyber-attacks, her plea stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-for-ban-on-zoom-app-for-breach-of-cyber-security-840060.html
20-05-2020||National||Special train: Online ticket booking from Thursday||Advance online ticket booking for special trains which will resume its operation on June 1 will start from 10 am on May 21. These 200 trains will comprise both AC and Non-AC coaches and fare will be normal. Except some categories like Divyangin, certain categories of patients, there will not be any consession in tickets. Only online ticket booking allowed and tickets are not sold at stations. However Special trains and Special Rajdhani will continue to run. There will not be any unserved coaches but in General Coaches, the passengers have to book the second class sitting tickets. Seats will be assured to all confirmed passengers, said the circular issued by railways. The railways will not provide any blanket to passengers of AC coaches and passengers are advised to bring their own blanket. Though limited food will be made available on board on payment basis, the railways advised the passengers to bring their own food. The passengers can book advance ticket up to 30 days and RAC and waiting list tickets will be available, but no tatkal and premium tatkal bookings. Current reservation will be available online up to 2 hrs before the scheduled departure of train and waiting list passengers are not allowed to board/travel All stalls at station including food plaza will be opened but only take away food will be given.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-train-online-ticket-booking-from-thursday-840063.html
20-05-2020||National Politics||BJP exploiting migrant workers' eagerness to reach home: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav alleged on Wednesday that the BJP is exploiting the eagerness of migrant labourers to reach home to serve its "political self-interest". "The tales of migrant labourers struggling to reach home are saddening. They are getting killed in accidents daily. But the unconcerned BJP has no care for human values. It is exploiting their eagerness to reach home for its political self-interest," he said in a statement issued here. "When 50,000 government, private and school buses are standing, why are those not being utilised to send the migrants back home?" Yadav asked.    Without taking the name of any party, he said, "Those who are extending a helping hand are being meted out inhuman treatment, which has become routine behaviour of the BJP." The SP chief said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh should give its own "fitness certificate" that it was able to run the state during the COVID-19 pandemic.  "Labourers are dying in accidents. Where is the alertness? When officers are not paying heed to the chief minister's directives, what can be expected from them," he said, while asking his party workers to help the migrants coming to Uttar Pradesh in whatever way they can from their own resources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-exploiting-migrant-workers-eagerness-to-reach-home-akhilesh-839962.html
20-05-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi shifts gears after UP cold shoulder on Congress-run buses||With the UP government turning a cold shoulder to her offer to ferry migrant workers on Congress-run buses, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday shifted gears directing party workers in every city in the state to help those who have set out on foot to reach their villages. In a video message, Priyanka issued an ultimatum to the Uttar Pradesh government to take a decision by 4:00 p.m. on deploying the 1,000 odd buses offered by the Congress to ferry migrant workers home, pointing out that the vehicles were lined up at the Rajasthan-UP border for more than 24 hours. Congress started to withdraw the buses which were waiting for permission to enter Uttar Pradesh at Uncha Nagla near Agra and on the Delhi-Noida-Delhi expressway. She said had the Yogi Adityanath-led UP government given permission to ply the buses, at least 92,000 migrant workers would have reached home safely and accused the BJP government of indulging in politics. “I want to tell our brothers and sisters who have set out on foot in this time of crises, that every Congress worker and every Congress leader is with you. In every district and city of Uttar Pradesh you transit, our workers will arrange for your food, water and any other need. We will try to help you to the best of our abilities,” Priyanka said. She claimed that Congress volunteers through the initiative ‘Congress ke sipahi’ have reached out to 67 lakh migrant workers so far – 60 lakh were in Uttar Pradsesh and seven lakh who were stuck outside UP. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath agreed on Monday to Priyanka’s request to allow the Congress to run 1,000 buses for migrants. In a letter, the government asked the Congress leader's office to send details of the buses. First, the UP government asked that the buses be handed over at state capital Lucknow. After Congress protested, the UP government asked for 500 buses each to be sent to Noida and Ghaziabad that border Delhi. Later, UP Minister S N Singh accused the Congress of committing a “fraud” by listing auto rickshaws, tempos and goods trucks in the name of buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-shifts-gears-after-up-cold-shoulder-on-congress-run-buses-839990.html
20-05-2020||National Politics||J P Nadda asks Bihar BJP leaders to publicise details of PM's COVID-19 package||Noting that assembly polls are due in Bihar later this year, BJP president J P Nadda on Wednesday asked key party leaders from the state to inform people about the details of the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to revive the economy hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. Sources said in a meeting held through video conference, he asked them to be ready for the election, which is due in October-November, and carry out welfare work for people, including lakhs of migrants arriving in the state from different parts of the country, to send out a good message in this difficult time.  The special package has something for all sections of society, Nadda said, asking the core committee leaders, including Bihar party chief Sanjay Jaisawal, from the state to work to publicise its details. He said party workers should also enquire about the conditions of migrants being put up in quarantine centres and provide food to the needy. Through there is little scope for any political drive during the ongoing lockdown, the state unit of the BJP is toning up its organisational machinery to ensure that it is fully geared up for the electoral challenge. The party is working to ensure that its "saptrishi", a term for seven key organisation members at every booth, hears Modi's 'Mann ki Baat' on May 31, and are joined by some prominent locals while following the social distancing norms.  The exercise has been named "Mann ki Baat Saptrishi ke Saath", Bihar BJP general secretary Devesh Kumar said, adding that physical distancing and wearing mask will be compulsory. One BJP leader, be it a minister, MLA or some office bearer, will join 'saptrishi' at every booth during the broadcast, he added. The BJP is part of the Nitish Kumar-led government in the state. The saffron party has already announced that the NDA, which also includes Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan's LJP, will fight the polls with Kumar as its chief ministerial face.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/j-p-nadda-asks-bihar-bjp-leaders-to-publicise-details-of-pms-covid-19-package-840011.html
20-05-2020||National Politics||Gujarat govt defends locally made ventilators; Congress says 'machine is fake'||The Gujarat government's health department on Wednesday defended use of locally made ventilators "Dhaman-1" on COVID-19 patients and claimed that all procedure of certification was followed and the machines have been "useful" in the hospitals at a time when the global pandemic had created shortage of high end ventilators across the nation. However, Congress dubbed defence of principal secretary, health, (Jayanti Ravi) in favour of the local ventilators as promoting the firm like "marketing manager"  rather than serving people. State Congress President Amit Chavda said in his Facebook press briefing that "instead of chief minister or deputy chief minister clarifying the issue involving lives of people, health secretary was put in defence of fake ventilators." Ravi said in a press conference held in Gandhinagar that the ''Dhaman-1'' ventilators have been developed by Rajkot- based firm Jyoti CNC and the firm donated 866 such machines to state government last month at a time when there was acute shortage of ventilators in the state as well as in the country. She also said that "Instead of creating a controversy about it, we should appreciate Jyoti CNC for coming forward at a time when there was acute shortage. We have followed every procedure before putting them to use." In the press conference, she was accompanied by Hareet Shukla, secretary, department of science and technology, health commissioner Jayprakash Shivhare and H G Koshia, commissioner, Gujarat Food and Drug Control Administration. The Congress chief, meanwhile, claimed that he started raising objection over the "ventilator" after he learnt, "300 COVID-19 patients have died in civil hospital (Asarwa in Ahmedabad) and hospital superintendent writing letter that high end ventilators are required as Dhamann-1 is not giving desired results." He said that he is making these statements as a "responsible opposition party leader in public interest." Chavda has alleged Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani of "promoting his industrial friend from Rajkot." Rupani also happens to be from Rajkot. As a matter of fact, on May 15, superintendent of civil hospital J V Modi had written the letter addressed to Managing Director of Gandhinagar-based Gujarat Medical Services Corporation Limited (GMSCL) saying, "GMSCL had provided Dhaman-1 and AGV ventilators to civil hospital for treatment of patients but head of Anesthesia department has opined that both ventilators are not able to bring desired results. Therefore, 1200-bed COVID-19 hospital requires 50 high end ICU ventilators immediately and another 50 such ventilators are needed for IKDRC (Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre)."   When asked about this letter, Ravi tried to played it down and said that it was internal letter. "'Dhaman-1' ventilators are as good as other such machines. They are certified by a Centrally accredited laboratory." She said that Pondicherry has ordered 5000 such machines while talks are on with Maharashtra government. She also brushed aside reports on quality and firm not having licence to produce medical equipment. She said that no such licence is required for ventilators. Late in the evening, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who is also health minister, issued a release attacking state Congress chief Chavda for making "baseless allegation." Patel said that "it is baseless allegation that Chief Minister Vijay Rupani bought the ventilator to maintain friendship (with Rajkot-based firm's owner). The firm donated 1000 ventilators to state government free of cost." Patel also denied that 300 patients died due to ventilators. He said that this is not true that "Gujarat is doing worse in containing virus compare to other states." He said it was due to "Tablighi Jamaat members that spiked the infection. Patel accused Congress of not coming out to "make Jamaat members understand to get their tests done which would have helped in containing the virus." Meanwhile, state reported 398 fresh coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours which took the tally to 12,539 while 30 patients died, taking the death toll to 749.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gujarat-govt-defends-locally-made-ventilators-congress-says-machine-is-fake-840013.html
20-05-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus pandemic propels Congress into public discourse||While Priyanka Gandhi’s politically potent move of arranging 1,000 buses to ferry migrants stuck in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh where she is nurturing the party for 2022 Assembly got the party relentless television media coverage for the last two days, the Youth Congress sought to reinforce Rahul Gandhi’s 2019 Lok Sabha poll manifesto promise of NYAY by demanding from the Centre to implement the scheme’s provisions for at least six months for the unprivileged people battling a crisis of life and livelihood. In fact, from the very beginning of the COVID-19 crisis, the Congress has been aggressively trying to put the central government on the mat questioning its counter-strategy of the pandemic and alleged delay in responses. Way back in the second week of February  Rahul Gandhi said that while the Corona Virus is an extremely serious threat to people and the economy of the country, his sense is that the government is not taking this threat seriously even as timely action is critical. After the surge in cases even after four lockdowns, Congress is now training guns on the government reminding them that despite Gandhi having said this 40 days before the government announced the first lockdown on March 24, Centre has not been able to put effective strategy in place. Alleging a massive mess in migrant management, Congress units began the move to pay the train fare of migrants at the direction of Sonia Gandhi in the first week of May. Soon the Congress workers started lining up outside railway stations to buy tickets for migrants and Congress sympathisers inundated social media with video clips of the exercise. Centre dismissed Sonia’s move as “show”.  In Uttar Pradesh which sends 80 Lok Sabha MPs and which has given maximum Prime Ministers to the country, Congress has given the command in the hands of Priyanka Gandhi to revive the moribund veins of the party, which is out of power in the state for last 20 years. A careful reading of the Twitter timelines of both Priyanka and Rahul bear it out that the Congress has not left a single opportunity to put the BJP governments at Centre and in UP in the dock over the handling of the pandemic and in particular the emotive issue of the migrant management.  Congress is making a serious bid for revival in its fortune in 2020 state polls. In states like Bihar, where Congress is totally dependent on allies, it has lent its weight behind regional parties like RJD, which repeatedly targeted the NDA government headed by Nitish Kumar there. The party also lapped up with alacrity the cry of some regional parties like Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress that federal structure is not being respected by the Modi government to create a semblance of Opposition unity. The party which was in a total disarray after Rahul Gandhi having quit the party chief post last year and her mother Sonia Gandhi reluctant to continue the interim arrangement of her heading the party again for long,  has managed to resonate as a political force during the pandemic as suddenly the issue of the internal crisis of the party and the leadership dispute on the old guard versus new generation seems to have got muted with leaders of all genres in the making common cause on the pandemic response of the Congress. With youths having lost jobs across sectors and economy in a tailspin, the party has got issues to put the government in dock and it is making full use of that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-pandemic-propels-congress-into-public-discourse-840027.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Tihar prisoner accuses staff of 'using him' to pass around mobile phones to other inmates||An undertrial prisoner at Tihar Jail has accused the prison staff of “using him” to the pass around mobile phones to other inmates. The prison officials, however, refuted the allegation. In a video circulated on social media, the prisoner claimed that he "followed orders from officials" so that he too could make calls while lodged inside the jail. However, the jail official refuted the allegation and said that the under trial was caught red handed while he was passing the mobile phone to another inmate. "He is an inmate lodged in jail number 1. He is a habitual criminal with cases of robbery and other offences against him. He has been in and out of jail many times," a senior jail official said. "Sometime back, the jail staff in Jail number 1 had foiled an attempt of throwing some mobile phones into the jail. The CCTV footage revealed involvement of the under trial. Appropriate action as per jail manual is being taken against him," Director General (Tihar) Sandeep Goel said. To put counter pressure on jail staff and for his vested interests, he has come up with this video. Action will be taken against him for this act as well as for the possession of a mobile phone, which is a prohibited item, they said. "In the video, he is leveling allegations against some jail officials which are baseless. One phone has been recovered from his possession and search is on to recover the other phones too. We are trying to find out from where he has procured the phones. We are also trying to ascertain if any staff was involved," the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tihar-prisoner-accuses-staff-of-using-him-to-pass-around-mobile-phones-to-other-inmates-839704.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Amid lockdown, 19-month-old boy undergoes liver transplant at Delhi hospital||A 19-month-old boy from Uttar Pradesh underwent a transplant surgery to treat a "rare live cancer" at a hospital here during a nationwide lockdown, authorities said on Tuesday. Kanha Tiwari was diagnosed with a "very rare malignant liver cancer, hepatoblastoma", occurring in infants and children. Such tumours have a high risk of the cancer spreading beyond the liver rapidly, they said. The 12-hour transplant surgery was carried out successfully on April 22 and Kanha was discharged within three weeks post-surgery on May 12, doctors at Max Super Speciality Hospital, Saket, said. "The diagnosis came as a major setback to the parents who had tragically lost their first born to a still birth in 2015. To add to their woes, a grim prognosis by doctors back home and a nation-wide lockdown soon after meant only a task uphill to get better treatment opportunities," the hospital said in a statement. A team of doctors led by Dr Subhash Gupta, chairman, Centre for Liver & Biliary Sciences, was able to successfully treat and remove the tumour, it said. The hospital said after proper evaluation and complete examination, Kanha was put on chemotherapy immediately in order to shrink the tumour, soon after his parents brought him to the Delhi hospital. The six sessions of chemotherapy worked and his liver transplant was scheduled for April 17, it added. "Meanwhile, a nation-wide lockdown was imposed on March 25 making the situation for the family even more difficult as they got stuck in Delhi. The condition of Kanha became dangerous as doctors could not wait any longer as the chemotherapy had stopped, and the tumour could recur which would have made the transplant non-viable in such situations.  "Therefore, the surgery was no more an option but an emergency. Hence, Max Healthcare got special approval from the Liver Transplant Authorisation Committee to conduct the liver transplant as a life-saving procedure," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-lockdown-19-month-old-boy-undergoes-liver-transplant-at-delhi-hospital-839717.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Hizb terrorist involved in killing of RSS activist arrested by NIA in J&K's Kishtwar||A Hizbul Mujahideen militant allegedly involved in the killing of an RSS functionary and his PSO was arrested by the NIA in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar district, officials said on Wednesday. He was apprehended by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from the Hanjala area of the district Tuesday night, they said. The militant has been identified as Rustam Ali. He was named in a chargesheet filed by the NIA in the killing of RSS activist Chander Kant Sharma and his Personal Security Officer in April last year, the officials said. Jammu and Kashmir Police had on September 23 last year arrested Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists -- Nissar Ahmed Sheikh, Nishad Ahmed and Azad Hussain -- in connection with the murder cases of a senior BJP leader and an RSS functionary in the region. BJP state secretary Anil Parihar was killed in 2018, while senior RSS functionary Sharma and his PSO were shot dead in April last year. Both the killings had triggered protests in Kishtwar. The killings were part of a conspiracy to revive militancy in Kishtwar and were hatched by longest surviving Hizbul Mujahideen commander in the area Jahangir Saroori, according to the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hizb-terrorist-involved-in-killing-of-rss-activist-arrested-by-nia-in-jks-kishtwar-839752.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Pakistan Army shells 3 sectors along LoC in Poonch||The Pakistan Army on Wednesday opened fire and heavily shelled forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in two sectors of Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, drawing retaliation from the Indian Army, a defence spokesperson said. This is fifth consecutive day of firing and shelling by Pakistani troops along the LoC and IB in Jammu and Kashmir. "At about 0930 hours today, the Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along the LoC in Kirni and Degwar sectors of Poonch", he said. He said the Indian Army retaliated befittingly and cross-border shelling between the two sides was going on when last reports were received. However, there was no immediate report of any casualty during the Pakistani shelling. On Tuesday, Pakistan shelled mortars along the LoC in Balakote sector of Poonch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-shells-3-sectors-along-loc-in-poonch-839755.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Plea to strike down Delhi Minorities Commission Act; HC seeks AAP govt stand||The Delhi High Court has sought the AAP government's response to a plea claiming that the Delhi Minorities Commission Act was invalid and seeking the removal of DMC chairperson Zafarul Islam Khan. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula asked the Delhi government and the Lieutenant Governor's office to file a status report regarding the allegations in the petition and listed the matter for hearing on Thursday, May 21. Delhi government additional standing counsel Anupam Srivastava, who also appeared for the LG's office, told the court that in another petition seeking removal of Khan from his post, a single judge bench had on May 11 asked the administration to take a decision on the issue expeditiously as his term is set to expire on July 14.  The latest petition, by social worker Vikram Gahlot, has contended that the Delhi Legislative Assembly did not have the powers to enact the DMC Act and therefore, the statute be declared as ultra vires the Constitution and be struck down.  Gahlot has also contended that since the Act was not valid, the appointments made under it, including that of the chairman, would also be invalid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-to-strike-down-delhi-minorities-commission-act-hc-seeks-aap-govt-stand-839770.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC directs jail authorities to take 1984 riots convict to ILBS Hospital for medical check up||The Delhi High Court has directed the jail authorities to take one of the convicts in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case to ILBS Hospital within three days for medical check up as he has to undergo liver and kidney transplant. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, also directed the Delhi government and SIT to file their status reports by May 25 on convict Naresh Sehrawat's plea seeking suspension of his sentence for three months on medical grounds. The court was hearing a plea by Sehrawat, who is serving life imprisonment in the riots case, seeking interim suspension of sentence for three months on the ground that he needs to undergo liver and kidney transplant simultaneously and at the earliest. The plea said though his appointment with the doctor at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) Hospital here was fixed for March 11, he was not taken there by the jail authorities as his transportation was considered highly risky due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The court issued notice on the application to Delhi government, represented through advocate Kamra Vohra, and Special Investigation Team (SIT), represented through advocate Tarannum Cheema. “The Jail authority is directed to ensure that the appellant (Sehrawat) is taken to ILBS Hospital within next three days for medical check up and treatment. The respondents (authorities) are directed to file their status reports on or before May 25,” the court said and listed the matter for further hearing on May 26. An SIT was earlier set up by the Ministry of Home Affairs to reinvestigate the riot cases. The trial court had awarded death penalty to convict Yashpal Singh and life term to Naresh Sehrawat in the case relating to the killing of two men in New Delhi during the 1984 riots -- the first convictions in the cases reopened by the SIT. Sherawat has also appealed against his conviction and the sentence before the high court which is pending. The death reference as well as appeal of Singh against the capital punishment awarded to him is also pending in the high court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-directs-jail-authorities-to-take-1984-riots-convict-to-ilbs-hospital-for-medical-check-up-839774.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||ASI arrested for molesting 23-yr-old woman in Rajasthan||An assistant sub-inspector of the Rajasthan Police was arrested for allegedly molesting a 23-year-old woman in Alwar district of the state, officials said on Wednesday. The woman, who works in a company in Neemrana in Bhiwadi, had gone to file a complaint at the Neemrana police station after being referred there by a police chowki, they said. After registering the complaint, chowki in-charge Surendra Singh, an ASI aged around 45 years, took the woman in his vehicle on the pretext of dropping her to her place, the officials said. Instead, Singh took her to the Japanese industrial zone in Neemrana and allegedly molested her there, they said. "She lodged a complaint of molestation against the ASI on May 17. Her statement was recorded and the accused was arrested on Tuesday," Superintendent of Police, Bhiwadi, Amandeep Singh Kapoor said. Station House Officer, Neemrana police station, Sanjay Sharma said the woman had sought help for ration which was arranged. "She was running out of ration and claimed that the company has not given her salary. I got her ration. A few days later, she again contacted me saying that she was not in a position to pay rent for accommodation and she was being pressured for it. "To this, I asked her to file a complaint and since the matter was related to chowki, I referred the matter to its in-charge," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/asi-arrested-for-molesting-23-yr-old-woman-in-rajasthan-839780.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Cyclone Amphan: Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Special AC train to run through diverted route||The AC Special Express train which left for New Delhi from Bhubaneswar on Wednesday will run on a diverted route skipping the Bhadrak-Kharagpr line, while goods traffic was affected in Odisha because of the cyclone 'Amphan', officials said. The train took the diverted route of Sambalpur City- Jharsugud-Rourkela-Tatanagar instead of the normal route via Bhadrak-Balasore-Hijli Kharagpur-Tata, a railway official said. Similarly, inward goods traffic was stopped to Dhamra Port. Outward goods traffic from Dhamra Port was also suspended after departure of the last goods train to Tatanagar on Tuesday. Goods traffic is running almost normally on Bhadrak- Palasa mainline section until now. However, because of cyclonic weather and restrictions on running of extra trains towards vulnerable areas, a few goods trains towards Balasore/Kharagpur direction and beyond are waiting in the pipeline. Four goods trains for Dhamra port are also waiting at various stations, an ECoR statement said. Goods traffic on Talcher/Angul/Sambalpur line normal till now. Same for goods traffic between Cuttack and Palasa. Over Head Electric line between Cuttack-Paradip has been disconnected from 4.40 am of Wednesday and goods traffic also suspended. Paradip Port train operations were also suspended. Fourteen trains to Paradip are lined up at various stations, it said. Due to heavy winds, a few galvalume roof sheets have flown off at few stations between Cuttack and Paradip. Wagon maintenance shed roof has been damaged at Paradip due to high speed winds, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cyclone-amphan-bhubaneswar-new-delhi-special-ac-train-to-run-through-diverted-route-839783.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||61 fresh cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan||Rajasthan on Wednesday recorded 61 new cases of coronavirus, officials said. The number of cases in the state now stands at 5,906 and fatalities at 143. "As many as 61 fresh cases were reported in 10 districts of the state," additional chief secretary (health), Rohit Kumar Singh, said.  Of the 61 fresh cases, Nagaur recorded 17 cases followed by 11 in Dungarpur, eight each in Jhunjhunu and Sikar, six in Kota, four in Sirohi, three in Udaipur, two in Jaipur and one each in Jhalawar and Baran districts.  A total 3,354 patients have recovered and 2,929 have been discharged. There are 2,409 active cases in the state, the officials said. Entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and massive screening and search is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/61-fresh-cases-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-839784.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||NPP torches effigy of BJP-led govt to protest new domicile rules in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir National Panthers Party (JKNPP) on Wednesday torched an effigy of the BJP-led central government here to protest the new domicile rules and demanded a relook into the provisions allowing outsiders to become domicile of the union territory. The JKNPP termed the notification an "obnoxious piece of superimposed legislation" enacted by the executive authority by defying popular sentiment in the erstwhile state. Lambasting the government over the newly released domicile rules for Jammu and Kashmir, JKNPP chairman and former minister Harsh Dev Singh appeared outside his office here and torched the effigy of the BJP-led government at the Centre as a mark of protest. Seeking its review in the interests of the educated youth of J and K, he said the new set of rules would include several outsiders within the ambit of the domicile law, entitle them to avail domicile certificate and ultimately enable them to encroach upon the share of educated unemployed youth in government jobs in the UT. "Thousands and thousands of labour force, construction workers and traders from various states like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh had been staying in J and K for the last several years and the new rules would automatically make them eligible not only for domicile certificates but also for government jobs which would operate harshly against the local youth whose share in services would further shrink. "Not only that the opening of jobs for central government employees of other states as also those outside students who pass their 10th and 12th class with a minimum stay of seven years as they would also become eligible for government jobs thereby depriving the local youth of even the negligible job avenues in J and K," he said. "This proposition was in complete antithesis of what was assured to the J and K youth prior to August 5, 2019, and has had the effect of dampening their morals," Singh said. He also expressed dismay over the negligible formalities prescribed under new rules for availing the domicile certificate. Calling for a relook into the provisions allowing outsiders to become domicile of J and K, he said it was surprising to know that a simple document like ration card or electricity utility bill or educational record or even a labour card was sufficient for persons from other states having minimum prescribed stay in J and K to become its domicile. "Does it not amount to a cruel joke with the unemployed youth of J and K whose employment and empowerment formed the core agenda of BJP's election manifesto," Singh said. Describing the new domicile rules as "gross betrayal" with the youth of the UT, the JKNPP leader said the educated unemployed were made to face worst nightmares after the state's reorganization on August 5, 2019. With not a single post advertised or filled up, the government was indulging in "tantrums and theatrics" with empty slogans devoid of any tangible output. "The recent notification on domicile rules had come as a bolt from the blue shattering all hopes of the educated youth who were made to wait for the last 10 months with false hopes of a better future. The BJP government must understand that antagonising the unemployed youth could have catastrophic fallouts," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/npp-torches-effigy-of-bjp-led-govt-to-protest-new-domicile-rules-in-jk-839801.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||JNU violence case: Only urgent matters to be taken up due to COVID-19, says court||A Delhi court has refused to grant early hearing on a plea seeking registration of FIR in a matter related to an attack on students and teachers on the JNU campus on January 5, saying only “urgent matters“ were to be taken up during the present condition posed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The court was hearing a plea filed by Sucharita Sen, who suffered head injuries during the attack by masked people inside the campus on January 5, seeking early hearing of an application for registration of an FIR in a case related to injuries to her. “The reasons for preponment of the application...of the complainant are not found to be plausible. Further, in the present condition posed due to Covid-19 Pandemic, the courts are to take only the urgent matters. “It is beyond the comprehension of the court as what prejudice will be caused to the complainant if already pending application...is not preponed,” the court said on Tuesday. Duty Magistrate Vasundhra Chhaunkar passed the order after noting from a status report filed by Crime Branch of Delhi Police that the investigation of the FIR already registered regarding the mob violence at JNU was in progress and the Delhi High Court has already directed to the investigating agency to expedite the matter. The court noted that the application seeking lodging of a separate FIR was already listed for hearing on June 18 before a court concerned.  “As per the status report dated May 18, 2020, the complainant has been medically examined and her statement had already been recorded. Her complaint has also been transferred to Crime Branch which was given on February 6, 2020 to PS (police station) Vasant Kunj,” the court noted. In her plea, Sen had told the court that the lodging of an FIR was urgent since investigation could take place only after the case is registered. The petition, filed by Sen, had sought lodging of FIR into wanton acts of violence suffered by Sen at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) campus. It claimed that the complainant (Sen) had to approach the court on account of inaction on part of the police authorities despite "clear and cogent" facts and underlying material placed by her before the investigating agency. On January 5, masked men armed with sticks and rods attacked students and teachers and damaged property on the campus, prompting the administration to call in police which conducted a flag march. At least 28 people, including JNU Students' Union president Aishe Ghosh, were injured as chaos reigned on the campus for nearly two hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-violence-case-only-urgent-matters-to-be-taken-up-due-to-covid-19-says-court-839805.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||More than 1000 COVID-19 cases in Delhi in two days||COVID-19 cases are surging in Delhi with over 1,000 cases reported in just two days as Wednesday added 534 new patients, the highest for a single day. With this, the national capital has 11,088 cases out of which 7,573 or 68.29% of the total cases were reported in May alone. Ten more deaths have been added to the toll, taking the total to 176. On Tuesday, the capital had 500 cases. Since the lockdown restrictions were eased from Monday, the capital has reported 1,233 cases though this cannot be linked to the relaxations. According to the latest medical bulletin, 5,720 people are still under treatment, including 2,358 under home isolation. The number of cases that originated in Delhi could be actually high, if one adds migrant workers tested positive for the virus infection after leaving Delhi for their home states after May 1. At least 8% of the total cases in Bihar are migrant workers who recently returned from other states, including Delhi, travelling via Shramik special trains and other modes. A total of 1.50 lakh samples have been tested so far, including 4,428 fresh samples. On May 14, Delhi had reported 472 cases, the previous highest for a single day while on May 15, 425 cases were recorded while on May 16, it was 438 and 422 on May 17. On May 18, the cases were 299. Delhi had crossed 1000-mark on April 11 when it registered 1,093 cases. It had taken eight days from April 19 (2,003 cases) to cross the 3,000 mark. It took just five days from April 27 (3,108 cases) to add another 1,000 cases to cross the 4,000-mark.  Meanwhile, the Delhi government has issued fresh guidelines to do away with 14-day quarantine for healthcare professionals after finishing Covid-19 duty. "Regular quarantine of healthcare workers after performing duty in COVID-19 areas is not warranted, except as elaborated under protocol of high-risk and low-risk contact," the order issued by Delhi Health Secretary Padmini Singla said. The new guidelines, which is based on the one issued by the Union Ministry of Health, has attracted criticism of healthcare professionals. The Federation of Resident Doctors' Association has written to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan urging him to withdraw the new guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-than-1000-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-in-two-days-839809.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Congress condemns BJP, UP CM Yogi Adityanath over migrant buses issue||The Congress on Wednesday condemned what it termed was "shameless" politics of the BJP and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over the issue of providing buses for ferrying migrants to the state. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi alleged the "Ajay Bisht government" is creating hurdles in the Congress help reaching migrants in terms of buses for ferrying them home as they walk on the roads without food and water in the summer heat of May. He accused the UP government of being insensitive towards the plight of migrants and said the buses offered by the Congress would remain at the state borders till 4 pm Wednesday.  "I beseech with folded hands. If the Adityanath government cannot help the migrants, let Priyanka ji and the Congress party help them. "It is still not too late and I beseech with folded hands, like Priyanka ji said, if you're so concerned about politics, please put your name or party banner (on buses) but at least use the help we are providing," he told reporters at a virtual press conference in his attack on the BJP and Adityanath. Singhvi said there are such deprivation and devastation among the migrants and still the Yogi government was "not allowing" the help to reach them. "I condemn this and the nation condemns this. It is shameless politics amidst crisis and devastation," he said. The way the "Ajay Bisht government is not only doing nothing but not even allowing anyone to do something" for migrants leaves one astound, he alleged.  The UP government instead is creating hurdles and obstructing those trying to help migrants, the Congress spokesperson alleged. "Will they stand up and explain to the nation? For last six days, especially the last two days and even as we speak, about 500 buses are standing at UP borders. How is it that you will not allow to ferry migrants of UP and Bihar. This is the cheapest form of politics," he said. Singhvi said the Adityanath government is giving lectures on cooperative federalism and is doing such "cheap politics" at the same time. The Congress and the UP government are locked in an exchange of letters on the issue of running buses to ferry migrants home. The Congress has lined up buses along the UP border and is seeking permission for plying them. The Yogi government has allowed the plying of buses but put some conditions and also accused the Congress of giving false information about buses, some of which have turned out to be two-wheelers and three-wheelers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-condemns-bjp-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-over-migrant-buses-issue-839812.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Rohini Jail assistant superintendent tests COVID-19 positive||The assistant superintendent of the Rohini Jail has tested positive for COVID-19, five days after 15 inmates from the prison contracted the disease, officials said on Wednesday. "Around three-four days ago, the officer had high sugar and sore throat, following which he was asked to stay at home and take rest," a senior jail official said. He went to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital Hospital for coronavirus check-up and his report came positive on Tuesday, the official added. The jail assistant superintendent lives in the Tihar residential complex and his family members have been quarantined, he said. The jail staff, who live nearby his house, will be directed to stay inside their homes and isolate themselves for 14 days, the official said. On May 16, 15 inmates and a head warden of the Rohini Jail had tested positive for COVID-19, days after a 28-year-old inmate of the prison contracted the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rohini-jail-assistant-superintendent-tests-covid-19-positive-839819.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Mayawati accuses Congress, BJP of doing politics over issue of sending migrants home||BSP chief Mayawati on Wednesday lashed out at the Congress and BJP, accusing them of doing politics over the issue of sending migrant labourers home. The Congress and Uttar Pradesh government have been involved in a war of words over the issue of buses for migrants.  In a series of tweets, Mayawati said, "The disgusting politics being done in the past several days, specially by the BJP and Congress in the name of sending migrant labourers home is most unfortunate. Are these parties accusing each other in connivance to divert attention from the tragedy?". "If it is not so then the BSP has to say that instead of insisting on sending the migrants by buses, the Congress should help them go home by trains by arranging their tickets," she said in another tweet. The former UP chief minister said BSP workers have been helping migrants in the entire country "without caring for publicity". "Unlike the BJP and Congress, BSP has not indulged in any disgusting politics," she said.  "Also, BSP has a suggestion for the Congress party that if they have to help the migrants return through buses only and not by train, then it would be better that they send these buses to Congress-ruled states for helping labourers " Mayawati said. The UP government on Tuesday said the list of 1,000 buses offered by the Congress to ferry migrant workers contained registration numbers of two-wheelers and cars. The Congress, however, rejected the claim, challenging Yogi Adityanath’s government to conduct a “physical verification” of the buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-accuses-congress-bjp-of-doing-politics-over-issue-of-sending-migrants-home-839823.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||MP: Man kills mother-in-law for refusing to serve hot chapatis||A 35-year-old man allegedly beat his mother-in-law to death after she refused to serve him hot chapatis at a village in Madhya Pradesh's Khandwa district, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place in the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday at Billora village, where the accused identified as Suresh lived with his in-laws, Jagdish Patidar, in-charge of Mandhata police station said. The accused had returned home around midnight on Monday and his mother-in-law Gujar Bai (55) served him food, the official said. When the victim refused to give him hot chapatis instead of the pre-cooked ones, Suresh argued with her and beat her to death with a stick, before fleeing the spot, he said. The victim died by the time the rest of her family reached the scene on hearing her cries, the official said, adding that the accused's father-in-law lodged a complaint against him. Suresh was nabbed on Tuesday night and further probe was underway, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-man-kills-mother-in-law-for-refusing-to-serve-hot-chapatis-839829.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Returning migrant workers push Uttar Pradesh coronavirus tally close to 5,000||As expected, the returning migrant workers have pushed the COVID-19 tally in Uttar Pradesh to nearly five thousand, setting off alarm bells among the officials. According to the sources, so far over 700 migrant workers, who returned to the state from different parts in the country in the past few days, have tested positive for coronavirus. ''Almost one thousand coronavirus positive cases have been reported in the state in the past five days.....a majority of them are the returning migrant workers,'' said a senior health official on Wednesday. Sources said that lakhs of migrant workers had reached their native villages in the past few days on foot, on trucks and by own transport without being tested. ''While those arriving from the shramik special trains are screened before being put under quarantine, a large number of workers, who arrived from other means, were not screened,'' the official added. In Basti district alone, as many as 44 migrant workers tested positive on Tuesday, sources said. Similarly, of the ten people testing positive for the virus in Lucknow, nine were migrant workers. Sources said that the number of positive cases could witness a sharp spike in the days to come after more migrant workers are tested.  To make matter worse, the migrant workers continued to arrive in the state riding trucks, cycles, auto-rickshaws and even by foot despite UP government's strict direction to the officials to ensure that the workers are sent home in buses only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/returning-migrant-workers-push-uttar-pradesh-coronavirus-tally-close-to-5000-839854.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||This is not time to play politics; allow Congress to ply buses to ferry migrants: Priyanka to UP CM||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra urged Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath once again on Wednesday to allow her party to ply buses to ferry migrants to their homes amid the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, without playing politics over the issue. In a 10-minute video message released on Congress social media handles, she said this is not the time to play politics but to help people, especially migrant labourers, suffering due to the lockdown.  She told Adityanath that the 1,000-odd buses made available by the party would remain where they are till 4 PM Wednesday and that he should use them and allow permission to ply them to help ferry migrants to their homes safely. "I want to urge the chief minister that our buses will remain parked where they are at the borders (with Rajasthan) till 4 PM and it will be 24 hours since they were made available there. "If you want to use them, kindly allow permission to us to ply them. If you want, you can paste your posters or banners on them, but kindly allow them to ply so that the migrants can be ferried in them and they reach home safely," she said. She noted that till the time the issue got embroiled in politics, at least 92,000 migrants who are walking on the roads in this heat, without water and food, could have reached home safely by now.  "This is not the time to play politics. I urge every political party to set aside their political ideology and help people instead," she said. In her message to migrant labourers, she said Congress workers and leaders are standing by their side in this time of crisis and will help them in every possible manner as per their capacity and provide them food too. Thousands of migrants are walking to their homes amid the lockdown and the Congress party in UP and the UP government are locked in a tussle over plying of buses provided by the Congress for ferrying migrants home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/this-is-not-time-to-play-politics-allow-congress-to-ply-buses-to-ferry-migrants-priyanka-to-up-cm-839855.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Cyberbullying to digital rights and responsibilities: CBSE releases cyber safety guide for students||From measures to deal with cyber bullying and stalking to digital rights, freedom and responsibilities, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has come up with a cyber safety manual for students from class 9 to 12 to ensure development of safe and healthy online habits among them. The manual has been prepared at a time when students have increased access to the digital world with classroom teaching suspended due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, and teaching and learning activities being conducted online. While the manual has covered cyber safety topics such as cyberbullying, including social exclusion, intimidation, defamation, emotional harassment, online sexual abuse, cyber radicalisation, online attack and frauds and online enticement, it also talks about nine elements of digital citizenship — digital access, literacy, communication, etiquette, health and wellbeing, rights, freedom and responsibility, security and law. The manual, developed in collaboration with Cyber Peace Foundation, has also prescribed activities to assess the knowledge of students on the topics covered. "Many young people are confident in using a wide range of technologies and often turn to the internet for information but the confidence with digital technology can also be misleading. Many of them frequently struggle when applying them to research tasks,” the CBSE said. They can find it difficult to work out whether information on an unfamiliar website is trustworthy, and rely on their chosen search engine’s rankings for their selection of material, the board said. "They may not understand how search terms work or of the powerful commercial forces that can result in a particular company being top of the search engine's list. They may not be aware of the lurking risks and threats and the fact that some of their actions can invite them trouble," the CBSE said. How to navigate through the cyberspace, ability to find and select information, identifying fake news, opportunities and risks, caution against revenge pornography, hazards of providing sensitive information online, how to report inappropriate content, are among the subjects addressed by the manual in detail The board said that “a fine line separates bullying from teasing. Different people have a different threshold of tolerance for being able to take teasing or cyberbullying”. Students must know and understand what cyberbullying is and never engage in that kind of behaviour, it said. The CBSE said, “Students need to be told that they must block and if need be report using the site’s reporting function as soon as possible if someone makes you uncomfortable on a social networking site.” "Cyberstalking is when an individual is repeatedly or constantly followed, watched or contacted through any electronic means. The movement of the child is tracked and privacy is invaded or persistent efforts are made to contact someone against their will through text, email, social media, or other digital platforms," it added. The manual also has tips for students on digital health and wellness. "Digital health and wellness is the ability to use technology like mobile phones, laptops, desktops and tablets and not using too much till the point where it hurts. Excessive and improper use of technology could lead to lifestyle changes that affect everyday life negatively," the CBSE said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cyberbullying-to-digital-rights-and-responsibilities-cbse-releases-cyber-safety-guide-for-students-839857.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh police files case against Cong leader Pankaj Punia over tweet||The Uttar Pradesh Police Wednesday filed a case against Haryana Congress leader Pankaj Punia for allegedly "hurting religious feelings" and making "situation explosive" through a social media post, officials said. An FIR has been registered against Punia, also a member of the All India Congress Committee, at the Hazratganj Police Station here for his alleged objectionable tweet. A senior police official told PTI Punia has been booked under IPC sections related to promoting enmity between different groups (153 A), outraging religious feelings (295 A), public mischief (505-2), and some sections of the Information Technology (Amendment) Act 2008. The FIR was registered by cyber cell Sub-Inspector Suresh Giri. "During social media monitoring, we noticed the tweet of the leader which mentioned a particular community and their God. There is a possibility of this leading to political and religious clashes. It has made the situation explosive," Giri has said in his complaint. Punia in his tweet on Tuesday targeted the UP's Yogi Adityanath government referring to the politics over plying of buses by the Congress for ferrying migrants. He had also mentioned the name of the God and referred to the Sangh Parivar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-police-files-case-against-cong-leader-pankaj-punia-over-tweet-839908.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: 15-year-old girl brings father from Gurugram to Bihar on bicycle||Kumari, a lion-hearted 15-year-old, cycled all the way from Gurugram in Haryana to Bihar's Darbhanga district with her incapacitated father Mohan Paswan seated on the carrier. Now the father-daughter duo is at a quarantine centre near their village Sirhulli under Singhwara block of the district. Kumari is determined not to let her father return to Gurugram where he was driven to penury following an accident a few months ago that rendered him unfit to make a living as an e-rickshaw driver. Paswan said his landlord gave him an ultimatum to either pay the rent that was due for a few months, or leave. "I succeeded in buying time on a couple of occasions. I promised him that I would take up whatever job I could land once the lockdown was lifted, earn money and pay all his dues. We were so hard pressed that I had to discontinue my medicines so that we could afford one square meal a day. How could we have arranged money for rent?" he recounted. But the lockdown kept getting extended and the threats of the landlord kept getting more severe, he said. At that time Jyoti was looking after her father in Gurugram while her mother was taking care of her four younger siblings back in the village while working as an Aanganwadi worker.  "Amid the gloomy situation, Jyoti suggested that we return home. I pointed out that we would not be able to find any trains or buses soon and my condition would not allow me to walk. She said we should get a bicycle," said Paswan, his face betraying the sense of bewilderment he felt when she first came up with the suggestion. He tried hard to dissuade his daughter, telling her that the journey was not a matter of 10, 20 or even 100 km and that driving a bicycle with a pillion rider much heavier than herself was no mean feat. But Jyoti persisted. "Battered by misfortune, I had become a fatalist. I gave in to her pestering and purchased a used bicycle with the help of whatever savings we still had. And then we hit the road," Paswan said. Jyoti said they would cycle for 30-40 km a day and at a few places truck drivers gave them lifts. "It was unbearably tiring. We would stop by for a quick bite at places where we could spot unlucky ones like us being fed by local Samaritans. At a few spots, we hitched rides on trucks. Drivers, taking pity on us, would help by dropping us to a point from where our paths diverged," recalled the girl. "It must have taken eight days... and then, here we were! Back home!" said an elated Jyoti, her fatigue making it difficult to remember the date on which they had started. The father smiled with a hint of pride when asked about her daughter being compared in the local media to the character of Shravan Kumar from the epic Ramayana, who took his old and frail parents on a long pilgrimage with his mother and father seated in baskets hanging at the ends of a pole he carried on his shoulders.  "She is indeed my Shravan Kumar. The journey back home has been nothing short of a pilgrimage. Having arrived feels like salvation," Paswan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-15-year-old-girl-brings-father-from-gurugram-to-bihar-on-bicycle-839920.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Don't play politics over migrants, learn from Madhya Pradesh: CM to Priyanka||Amid a war of words between the Congress and the UP government over plying of buses for migrants, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has asked Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to not play the "worst politics" over labourers. He also asked her to visit Madhya Pradesh to "learn" about how labourers can be helped. Hitting back, senior Congress leader Kamal Nath on Wednesday termed Chouhan's claims on well-being of migrant labourers in Madhya Pradesh as a "joke and bunch of lies". Posting a series of tweets on Tuesday late night, Chouhan claimed that his government had made very "effective arrangements" for the migrant labourers in transit.  "Priyanka ji, if you really want to help the workers, come to Madhya Pradesh. See our arrangements here and learn, which will help you. You will not find any workers hungry, thirsty or walking on the land of Madhya Pradesh. We have made effective arrangements," Chouhan tweeted. In another tweet, Chouhan asked Gandhi Vadra to not use workers for "your worst kind of politics during the time of the COVID crisis". "'Unki hai lagegi' (This will draw their curse). Along with them, this country and the world are also clearly seeing the difference between your words and deeds. Don't deceive but serve which is true politics," he said in another tweet. Reacting to the tweets on Wednesday, state Congress unit president Kamal Nath said Chouhan speaks a bunch of lies anyway. "Shivraj ji, speak a lot of lies, but at least do not joke in the name of the labourers. You are talking about arrangements (for labourers) in Madhya Pradesh. Such a big lie. At least have some shame to not joke in the name of the workers," Nath said. He accused Chouhan of misrepresenting the ground situation about the migrants' crisis. "Even today, all major roads and borders of the state are filled with thousands of migrant workers..some are walking barefoot with wounds on their feet while some are travelling on hand carts, bicycles, autos, trucks in a bid to return their homes," Nath said in a statement. Underlining the plight of migrant labourers, Nath stated that many died in accidents or due to starvation. "A fraud in the name of buses has come to the light in Madhya Pradesh. The ground reality is contrary to the number of claims being made by the state government," he said. The Congress and the Uttar Pradesh government are locked in a war of words since Gandhi Vadra told chief minister Adityanath that the Congress had made available 1,000-odd buses to safely ferry migrants to their homes. However, the Yogi government claimed that a list of 1,000 buses contained registration numbers of autorickshaws, cars and trucks. On Tuesday, Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu and Gandhi Vadra's secretary were booked by the police for 'forgery'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-play-politics-over-migrants-learn-from-madhya-pradesh-cm-to-priyanka-839953.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Court sends Jamia student to 7-day police custody||A Delhi court Wednesday sent Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) university student Asif Iqbal Tanha to 7-day police custody in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in February. Additional Sessions Judge Ajay Kumar Jain sent him to the custody till May 27 after the police said it required his remand to unearth the entire conspiracy with respect to the communal violence in Delhi and to confront him with the electronic data collected during investigation. Tanha, a third-year student of BA in Persian language, was earlier arrested in connection with the violence in the Jamia area during a protest against the CAA in December last year. He was sent to judicial custody on till May 31 in the case. The police had said that Tanha, a resident of Abul Fazal Enclave in Shaheen Bagh, was a member of the Students Islamic Organization and was part of the Jamia Coordination Committee which spearheaded protests against the new citizenship law. "Asif is a key member of the Jamia Coordination Committee and played an active role in organising protests and riots in Jamia in December 2019. He is a close associate of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar who had been key organisers of anti-CAA protests and subsequent riots," police had said. On December 15 last year, protesters had turned violent, torching four public buses and two police vehicles and pelting stones at the police and civilians, near JMI. At least 40 people including students, policemen and fire fighters were injured in the incident. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-court-sends-jamia-student-to-7-day-police-custody-839955.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||3 more test COVID-19 positive in Punjab; tally rises to 2,005||Three people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Punjab on Wednesday, taking the number of COVID-19 cases in the state to 2,005, according to a medical bulletin. One person each in Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Jalandhar tested positive for the coronavirus, it said.  As many as 152 coronavirus patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state after they recovered from the infection, taking the total number of recovered patients to 1,794, the bulletin said. Eighty-eight patients recovered in Ludhiana, 30 in SBS Nagar, 15 in Patiala, eight in Fatehgarh Sahib, four in Jalandhar, three in Mansa and two each in Gurdaspur and Pathankot, it said. Punjab has 173 active COVID-19 cases, as the per bulletin. Amritsar continued to lead the COVID-19 tally in the state with 308 coronavirus cases, followed by 210 in Jalandhar, 155 in Tarn Taran, 169 in Ludhiana, 125 in Gurdaspur, 105 in SBS Nagar, 103 in Patiala, 102 in Mohali and 95 in Hoshiarpur, it said.  The bulletin said 88 cases were reported in Sangrur, 65 in Muktsar, 61 in Faridkot, 60 in Rupnagar, 59 in Moga, 56 in Fatehgarh Sahib, , 44 each in Fazilka and Ferozepur, 41 in Bathinda, 33 in Kapurthala, 32 in Mansa, 29 in Pathankot, and 21 in Barnala. Of the total cases, 38 have died, it said, adding that one patient is critical and is on ventilator support. A total of 57,737 samples have been taken so far in the state, out of which, 51,956 samples tested negative and reports of 3,776 samples are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-punjab-tally-rises-to-2005-839965.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt launches exercise to define its own COVID-19 'Red' zone||Earlier this week, the Centre gave power to states and union territories to define their own zones, but said it should be done after taking into consideration parameters shared by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The Delhi health department has started work to demarcate 'Red, Orange and Green' zones based on the number of the novel coronavirus infections in particular areas.  "The government has launched the process to delineate all three zones. The exercise will soon be completed," a source said. The Delhi government had demanded that the entire city may not be declared as 'Red' zone and instead COVID-19 cases be categorised by municipal wards and not by districts.    All 11 districts of the city are currently in 'Red' zone according to the Union health ministry's recent classification parameters, which has made life difficult for Delhiites due to greater restrictions on activities as compared to 'Orange' and 'Green' zones. "The exercise will be done either based on ward level or containment zones," the source said. Delhi is a small city area wise in comparison to other states and it cannot entirely be declared as 'Red' zone as it has only 11 districts, an official said. On Wednesday, the coronavirus death toll in Delhi has climbed to 176, while 534 fresh cases of COVID-19 infection reported, the highest single-day spike here, took the total in the city over the 11,000-mark. The previous highest spike in fresh cases -- 500 -- was recorded on May 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-launches-exercise-to-define-its-own-covid-19-red-zone-839989.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Omar seeks pre-Eid release of detained political leaders in J&K||National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah on Wednesday sought the release of all detained political leaders in Jammu and Kashmir before Eid-ul-Fitr. Several politicians, including Omar, his father and NC president Farooq Abdullah, PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti and NC general secretary Ali Mohammad Sagar, were detained hours before the Centre announced the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 of the Constitution and bifurcation of the state into union territories on August 5 last year. While Omar and Farooq have subsequently released, Mehbooba and Sagar continued to be in custody under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA). "We are days away from Eid. @narendramodi ji should order the release of all detained politicians in J&K, whether under formal detention orders or informal house arrest. They have done nothing to deserve being locked away for as long as they've been,” Omar wrote on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/omar-seeks-pre-eid-release-of-detained-political-leaders-in-jk-839998.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||2019 Varanasi LS polls: Sacked BSF Jawan Tej Bahadur moves SC against HC order dismissing his plea||Sacked BSF Jawan Tej Bahadur has challenged the Allahabad High Court verdict dismissing his election petition against the poll panel's decision rejecting his nomination papers to contest against Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi constituency in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The petition was listed for hearing on May 18 before a bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde but was not taken up as the bench did not assemble. It is likely to be now taken up for hearing on May 22. In his appeal, the sacked jawan said the High Court on December 6, last year had dismissed his election petition on the ground of no locus and observed that he is neither a registered voter nor the resident of the Varanasi Lok Sabha constituency. He said that he challenged rejection of his nomination paper by the returning officer and the High Court committed grave error by dismissing the plea because it has not considered the law laid down by the top court that when any person has filed his nomination in any constituency and his candidature has been rejected by the Returning Officer then he has locus to file Election Petition on sole ground of his rejection order. “In a nut-shell the factual matrix of the case is that on the directions of the Returning officer, the nomination of the appellant to the elections was wrongly rejected for not being presented in a prescribed manner and rejected the nomination/candidature of the Appellant for the Election of the 17th Lok Sabha from 77th Parliamentary Constituency (Varanasi), U.P. to be held in April – May 2019”, his plea said. Bahadur said that he has sought a declaration that the election of respondent (Narendra Modi) be declared as void and the order passed by the returning officer dated May 1, 2019, rejecting his nomination be set aside. He said that the High Court failed to appreciate that the nomination letter of the appellant has been rejected by the district Election Officer by going against the intention of the legal provisions and by misusing the provisions mentioned in the sections 9 and 33(3) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. “Because the High Court failed to appreciate that the reply dated April 30, 2019 attached along with the Service Termination Order dated April 19, 2017 and reply/attached oath letter submitted to the District Election Officer, this fact was well established that the sections 9 and 33(3) do not apply on that case, but the District Election Officer/Election Officer who was also the district magistrate, misused his post and position and cancelled the nomination letter of the appellant on May 1, 2019,” his plea said. On May 9, last year, the top court had rejected his plea by which he has challenged the Election Commission's decision to reject his nomination papers from Varanasi Lok Sabha seat. The top court had said that it does not find any grounds to entertain the plea. Bahadur had then moved the top court challenging the decision of Returning Officer (RO) to reject his nomination papers from Varanasi Lok Sabha seat, saying it was intended to "give walkover" to PM Modi. The Returning Officer on May 1 last year had rejected the nomination papers of Bahadur, a Samajwadi Party candidate, who was dismissed from BSF in 2017 after he posted a video online complaining about the quality of food served to the troops. The poll panel official held that Bahadur failed to furnish a certificate as mandated under the Representation of Peoples (RP) Act to the effect that he has not been "dismissed for corruption or disloyalty to the state". The Samajwadi Party had initially fielded Shalini Yadav as its candidate to contest against Modi and later nominated the sacked BSF jawan. While rejecting the nomination papers of Bahadur, the Returning Officer had observed that "the nomination paper is not accompanied by certificate issued in the prescribed manner by the Election Commission to the effect that he has not been dismissed for corruption or disloyalty to the state".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2019-varanasi-ls-polls-sacked-bsf-jawan-tej-bahadur-moves-sc-against-hc-order-dismissing-his-plea-840031.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC declines resumption of metro services, says adequate public transport permitted by govt||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday declined for the time being to order resumption of metro rail services in the national capital saying adequate public transport has been permitted to be operated by the AAP government for the public at large. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said as and when the lockdown is further relaxed, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) shall also be permitted to operate as per directions that may be issued by the Centre and AAP government.  The high court said once metro services are resumed, DMRC must ensure that social distancing is maintained as it "has become the lifeline for the citizens of Delhi and the NCR region and invariably, the compartments are packed to the gills, which can be dangerous in the current COVID-19 pandemic situation". The petitioner,  Shreesh Chadha, a law student, had contended that while the Centre and Delhi government allowed government and private establishments to function and also permitted use of cars and two-wheelers, they forgot that a large number of people in the national capital rely on public transportation to commute to work. The petition had sought that public transportation be allowed to operate in the national capital "in strict compliance with social distancing and disinfection or sanitation norms".    On the last date of hearing, the high court had observed that the Centre's May 1 notification allowing private offices to run with 33 per cent strength, discriminates against those without their own vehicle as no provision was made for such persons to commute to work during COVID-19 lockdown. During Wednesday's hearing via video conferencing, the Centre told the bench that as per the new lockdown guidelines, certain activities like metro services remain prohibited throughout the country. "However, the activities that have been permitted with restrictions in the containment zones, includes Intra-state movement of passengers and buses, as may be decided by the concerned States and UTs," the Centre told the court.  The Delhi government told the bench that it has allowed plying of auto rickshaws, e-rickshaws, cycle-rickshaws, taxis/cabs with limited number of passengers and  "Intra-state movement of DTC as well as cluster buses has been permitted with a condition that not more than 20 passengers shall be allowed at one time inside the bus". However, the petitioner's lawyer stated that DMRC be directed to operate the Metro Rail in Delhi at the earliest as it is causing great inconvenience to the public large. The bench disagreed with the contention, saying "We may note that it has been just two days since the new rules and regulations have come into force. It is too early in the day for learned counsel for the petitioner to urge that there is an inadequate supply of public transport for insisting that respondent DMRC must be directed to operate the Metro Rail in Delhi immediately." "As of now, there is adequate public transport that has been permitted to be operated by the Government of NCT to meet the requirement of the public at large. "As and when the lockdown is further relaxed, the respondent DMRC shall also be permitted to operate the Metro Rail in terms of the directions that may be issued by the respondents subsequently," the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-declines-resumption-of-metro-services-says-adequate-public-transport-permitted-by-govt-840032.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt employees not attending office for 2 consecutive days have to give written explanation||The general administration department of the Delhi government has decided to seek written explanation from the employees who do not attend office for two consecutive days. Deputy Secretary (GAD) Promila Mitra has issued an office order, saying that according to the coronavirus lockdown guidelines, government offices have been permitted to function with full strength. "All the branch in-charges of GAD are therefore directed to maintain a manual record of daily attendance of staff working under them," Mitra said in the order. The department said that an explanation should be sought from officials who do not come to office for two consecutive days. "The branch in-charges are also required to submit a weekly record of attendance on every Friday," it added. While announcing the relaxations for the fourth phase of the coronavirus-forced lockdown earlier this week, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that both government and private offices can operate with full strength. He, however, encouraged private sector offices to work from home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-employees-not-attending-office-for-2-consecutive-days-have-to-give-written-explanation-840066.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||4 Indian Railways staffers to undergo test after 5 passengers on Delhi-Chennai train found COVID-19 positive||All four are onboard ticket-checking staff of the Delhi division, sources said. This is not the first time that passengers on board trains have been found to be coronavirus positive upon their arrival at their destinations, with Bihar reporting many such cases from the "Shramik Special" trains. In this case, five passengers were found to be infected by the deadly virus -- four were in the B-11 coach, while one was in the A-5 coach of the special train. "The staffers will be tested at the railway hospital as they were manning the train and might have come in contact with the passengers," an official said. PTI ASG RC||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-indian-railways-staffers-to-undergo-test-after-5-passengers-on-delhi-chennai-train-found-covid-19-positive-840070.html
20-05-2020||North and Central||UP Dy CM Dinesh Sharma accuses Congress of playing politics in times of crisis||Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma on Wednesday accused the Congress of doing politics at a time of intense crisis, saying this has never been done before by a major political party. "There are no buses of the Congress party. These buses belong to the Rajasthan government. Doing politics in times of such an intense crisis was never ever done by a major political party," Sharma told reporters here. Of the 1,049 buses mentioned in a list given by the Congress, around 460 were found to be "fake", he said. A UP government spokesperson said these buses were unfit to ply on roads. Sandeep Singh, the private secretary to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, said the buses have been stopped by the Uttar Pradesh Police at the Agra border, claiming that it also misbehaved with UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu. In a letter to UP's Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi, Singh said the Congress will remain present at the border along with the buses till 4 pm. "We hope that there will be a positive answer from your side in extending help to the labourers," he said in the letter. Deputy Chief Minister Sharma claimed that 297 vehicles mentioned in the list were virtually junk. "Should we ply the unfit buses and put the lives of the migrant labourers at risk? There are 98 three-wheelers, cars, ambulances in the list. Around 68 vehicles in the list do not have proper papers (registration and insurance)," he said. Sharma also asked how the resources of a state government could be utilised by a political party. "Can any political party use the buses of the Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation for its own? How can the resources of a state government be utilised by a political party? On what basis are these buses being run?" the dy chief minister asked. "Here, I want to ask them why Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot did not feel sad when our children were crying in Kota (the coaching hub) as they were not getting food, water and treatment? Where had his buses gone then," he said. At that time, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath issued orders to run over 600 buses to bring back the students to UP and send them to their homes, and Gehlot was compelled to praise the UP CM, he said. Sharma said the action of the Congress was a political stunt aimed at deriving some mileage. "If it (Congress) wants to help the migrant labourers of UP in other states, then they should send buses to Rajasthan, Punjab and Maharashtra, as people are being exploited. Why did it not send buses to Punjab and Maharashtra," he asked. The deputy CM said around 1,000 trains were made available to UP at the request of the chief minister, and more than 10 lakh migrant labourers have been brought back to the state by trains. Around 6.50 lakh migrants came in buses, he said, adding that over 27,000 buses had been pressed into action by the state government. "The Congress has duped the migrant labourers and kept the UP government in the dark. It should tender an apology for providing a wrong list of buses and wasting the time of the government. They also conspired to put the lives of the migrant labourers at risk and hence, tender an apology to the labourers. Are these Transport Department buses the private property of the Congress party? The resources of a state government cannot be used by a political party," Sharma said. Reacting to the comments made by the deputy CM, UP Congress spokesperson Ashok Singh told PTI that if anyone is doubtful about the buses sent by the Congress party, then he/she can do a physical verification of the buses. "It will clear all the doubts once and for all. This is a classic example of dirty politics," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-dy-cm-dinesh-sharma-accuses-congress-of-playing-politics-in-times-of-crisis-840071.html
20-05-2020||Opinion||COVID-19 has bought new headaches for regional parties||Let’s examine the situation in Bengal to begin with.  Governor vs CM Ever since the May 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP has been trying to corner the Bengal CM politically. The stakes are high for it as it hopes to capture power in the Assembly elections to be held in April-May 2021. Therefore, it is not surprising that the party is trying to use the present situation to disturb Mamata Banerjee in what will be the last and perhaps the most crucial leg of her second innings as chief minister. The game, in this instance, was started by Jagdeep Dhankhar, West Bengal governor. He set an altogether new standard for politicking by a governor during the lockdown. On Twitter and through open letters, he held the chief minister and her government guilty on three counts: Hiding the actual number of COVID-19 deaths; not conducting enough tests and poor implementation of the lockdown (his insinuation was about Muslim areas particularly, as he used the word ‘appeasement’ in this context).  Home Minister Amit Shah followed by sending central teams to Bengal who criticised the state’s actions rather vehemently. Under duress, the state administration was forced to declare the total number of deaths (adding up figures of COVID-19 deaths and COVID-19 plus co-morbidity deaths), and it fuelled further criticism. The figures showed that Bengal had (and still has) the highest death rate in the country.   Opposition-ruled states at a disadvantage? After winning round one, the attack shifted to another key issue: Why is Bengal not taking the initiative to bring its migrant labourers home by trains? If round one was aimed at conveying the idea that people are not secure in Mamata’s regime, round two has been about the insensitivity of the state government towards migrant labourers.  The question being raised in some Opposition quarters is how could UP manage to get so many trains so soon? Is it because BJP-run state governments and BJP and RSS workers helped to enlist UP labourers and book tickets for them? Perhaps the case was similar with Bihar and Odisha, known to be friendly with the Centre as well? They also believe that the Centre is providing them with ideas about testing and quarantining of labourers.  Centre’s hold on purse strings It indicates that in the COVID-19 era, a state's success will depend to a greater extent than it did earlier on Centre's assistance. Investment, health infrastructure, PDS (‘One Nation One Card’ has been opposed by Bengal) or even agricultural prosperity, could be issues where states will have to ‘cooperate’ with the Centre. The Congress could be somewhat better placed to fight this new trend by initiating more coordination among the states ruled by it. But it will be difficult for regional parties whose survival depends on a confrontation with the Centre at the political level. A new political reality is slowly taking shape that may require the coming together of all opposition forces if they want to have bargaining power vis-a-vis the Centre.   (Diptendra Raychaudhuri is a Kolkata-based journalist and author of books including, A Naxal Story. He is a deputy editor at the Bengali daily, Aajkal)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the view of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-has-bought-new-headaches-for-regional-parties-839756.html
20-05-2020||Opinion||Let our bees buzz||Honeybees are in the news in western countries. The world’s largest wasp Asian Giant Hornet (Vespa Mandarinia), which probably came from low mountain and forest of Asian countries, began a murderous attack on the commercially important honeybee (Apis Mellifera). This is a European honeybee species, that was introduced a long time back by commercial pollinators. The species has no defence mechanism against the hornet. In the meantime, Asian Bees, which co-evolved with this hornet, have developed a defence mechanism. Evolution has enriched our biodiversity and made it more resilient. This incident has drawn our attention to an oft-neglected aspect of beekeeping--production of honey gets priority at the cost of the diversity of native bee species and their role in food production and maintaining a healthy environment. One-third of the world’s crop production depends on pollination, and bees directly increase the output of 87 of the leading food crops worldwide.  It is a fact that Apis Mellifera produced four to five times more honey than other native honey bee species. But they survive in monocultures, which fits into the industrial food production system. In contrast, native bees are multi-floral and help in pollination, thus making our food more diverse and nutritious.   According to FAO, the world has more than 20,000 bee species, out of which nearly 200 species are social -- they live in a colony, and only 12 are honeybees.  In India, over 700 bee species that have been identified, out of these 300 are endemic. Only six of these species, are honeybees. They are Apis Cerena Indica, Apis Florea, Apis Dorsata(rock bee), Tetragonula Iridipennis (stingless honeybee) and Apis Laboriosa (Himalayan rock bee) and exotic species Apis Mellifera. Rock Bees are considered the best pollinators in India. Despite the rich bee diversity in India, the exotic bee Apis Mellifera dominate the landscape for commercial honey production. It is the primary source of honey in India. The excess presence of exotic bee put native bee species under stress. Native species need to compete for nectar and pollen with Apis Mellifera, impacting their population dynamics. The industrial style management of Apis Mellifera--which involves truck transportation of huge colonies from one place to another in search of pollen and nectar--makes native species more vulnerable to the spreading of diseases as they don’t travel much. A scientist at the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru, that studies the behaviour of bees, states that Apis Mellifera doesn’t play a significant role in pollination in the Indian context. Researchers believe that this species was introduced about two decades ago in the mango orchards of Punjab and apple orchards of Himachal Pradesh to support pollination. The high productivity of honey in these states led to its spread in other parts of the country. FAO also recognises the importance of diversity of bee. Regions that have more bee diversity are less prone to honeybee diseases. These regions are mostly in the developing world where pesticides use is still relatively low. Most of our wild bees are forest pollinators, which help in the regeneration of the forest ecosystem. According to the observation of scientists at Central Bee Research and Training Institute in Pune, wild bees are largely disappearing from forest due to a number of reasons that include, global climate change, forest degradation and habitat loss due to forest fire, unsustainable use of peri-forest region by forest dwellers.  India requires a policy to conserve its indigenous bee diversity. This conservation will help in increasing productivity among 86% of small and marginal farmers. These bees are locally available, and farmers can easily manage them. Also, the country requires bee breeding centres in different agro-ecological zones of the country to conserve these bee species. In urban India, high-rise buildings are blessings in disguise for the Rock Bees. The species considers them high mountains and make their nests there. But due to both fear and ignorance of residents, pests control measures are used to ward them off. Next time that you see bees nesting in your locality, consider it a sign of a healthy environment. Don’t kill them off but adequately manage them.  (The writer is an FAO-India Representative)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/let-our-bees-buzz-840022.html
20-05-2020||Panorama||Lessons from the coronavirus crisis||If the focus is the acquisition of life-skills and attitude backed by knowledge and not on procuring a mere level of qualification then in the context of a pandemic, all that the academia would have to convey to students and parents is to not be worried about exams!    For students’ progression at the higher education level, what is significant is learning. This happens when students are enabled to do most of the activity--right from sourcing authentic reading material (in consultation with teachers), reading, comprehension, thinking, linking, sharing their learning through written, oral or in any creative forms. Here, teachers would act as facilitators. She or he would support only when the students ask and gradually progress to providing more than they are asked, and this would be different for each student depending on their participation level, absorption level etc. Also, teachers would conduct a timely evaluation of the students’ understanding through assignments and make students do the most. Learning by doing results in acquiring the needed skills and attitude in addition to gaining knowledge. Merely dumping web links sourced from the open course wares on topics relating to 5-6 subjects in a semester is deplorable! Instead, University heads should use this as a unique opportunity to showcase the collective competencies of its teacher resources. In each subject of under-graduate and post-graduate course, listing about 20-25 must learn concepts and developing content in a way suitable to be consumed through a dedicated common electronic platform would be laudable. In addition to serving as the proof of having done the work, such a customised repository of concepts would not only invite the appreciation of parents and the public but would be worthy of replication by our students, some of whom could be the academicians in the making.  This crisis induced by Covid-19 has brought to the foreground yet another important metric of higher education--the student-teacher ratio. If the teacher has to largely play the role of a facilitator or mentor, this ratio is ideally 1:15 or a maximum of 1:25. In an unguarded environment like the home environment, millennials need the motivation to behave with discipline, to concentrate, to commit and complete a specific learning process.  Ensuring that each of our 15 to 25 students learns three concepts a day by enabling them to share their learning creatively through video, audio, enactment or practical display itself can result in a large number of evaluation assignments for a teacher! In such a situation, to what extent the students are right or wrong isn’t the focus, but the focus is on their engagement.  The challenge posed by the pandemic to the higher education space has reinforced one more important aspect that has been long discussed by almost all the stakeholders of the teaching-learning environment-- that is a continuous assessment pattern instead of tail-end exams.  Learning is progressive and additive, and compounds with each learning opportunity. This calls for a system of continuous assessment, which would be a combination of everyday classroom participation plus end-of-the-lesson assessment, and the tail-end exams in the ratio of 60:40 in a given subject. These assessments would be part of announced and un-announced schedules. Leveraging technology to upload the end-of-the lesson assessment marks and the cumulative scores of a given subject on the University Portal can serve as an effective mechanism on all fronts. At times of such crisis, the historical scores of a student serve as a reasonable score for any extrapolation. Such systems of continuous assessment are expected to bring discipline in classroom participation. There cannot be choice about building discipline among the future human capital of the country. Democracy needs discipline.  (The writer is a practicing higher education professional and Member of Governing Board at National Institute of Technology)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/lessons-from-the-coronavirus-crisis-839781.html
20-05-2020||Panorama||The WHO can be improved, but not by cutting off funding to it||In response to the growing chorus, the World Health Assembly, a decision-making body of the World Health Organization (WHO), has mandated the global public health body to conduct an impartial, independent and comprehensive evaluation of its own response to the pandemic as well as identification of “the zoonotic source” of the coronavirus.   The US has particularly taken a strong stance against WHO. President Trump has threatened to permanently end US funding to it and revoke US membership in it if it does not “commit to major substantive improvements” within the next 30 days. He has described WHO as "literally a pipe organ for China" and accused it of acting too slowly and bowing to Chinese pressure. US funding is critical to WHO -- it amounted to a fifth of WHO’s total budget of $4.4 billion for 2018-19. In its defence, WHO officials have highlighted timelines of the various warnings and statements issued by it about the pandemic.  Taking a polemical position of halting funding will hardly help reform multilateral entities such as the WHO as their ability to perform has to be seen within a particular structural reality. Even if the final report comes out with some bold recommendations for change, it will require a lot of heavy-lifting for legislative approval. There are various external as well as internal vectors that influence the working of multilateral entities and these vectors are intertwined with each other. Multilateralism, as it stands today, has many key components, namely health, political and development.  It is important to underline that all UN entities are, first and foremost, intergovernmental bodies, and the legislative processes provide the framing of its operations. Within the multilateral arena, the process of diplomatic negotiations on mandates is lengthy and time-consuming. In short, when the multilateral mandates are actually agreed upon, the lowest common denominator is usually the substantive consensus and it is quite broad to accommodate the divergent concerns of various member-states or regional blocs. Various aspects of the WHO mandate are a derivative of complex negotiations and there is hardly a room for entities like the WHO to force a member-state to comply with any advisory. During negotiations, diplomats are particularly sensitive to any provision that they anticipate could potentially infringe on their national sovereignty. Beyond this structural reality, there is sufficient room to practically revitalise the workings of multilateral entities. An internal vector such as human resource management becomes crucial in a crisis-like situation. It may be mentioned here that there is a strong imprint of the US on the UN organisational and hiring practices. The salary structure of the UN employees is benchmarked against the salary of the highest-paying national civil service. And in this case, the federal civil service of the US has to date been taken as the highest paid national civil service. Even the organogram of many of the UN entities, particularly the UN Secretariat, are based on the US system. However, over the years, multilateral organisations are losing their edge on account of many factors, including the issues of financing and their growing dependence on voluntary contributions of the member-states. Every member of the WHO, like other multilateral organisations, funds the organisation in two ways: assessed contributions and voluntary contributions. Assessed contributions are the dues countries pay in order to be a member of the organisation and these are assured sums. Overall, assessed funding used to account for 62% of the WHO  budget in 1970-71. In 2017, it collapsed to 18%.  In his 2013 book, ‘The Great Convergence: Asia, the West and the Logic of One World’, Singapore’s former Permanent Representative to the UNHQ Kishore Mahbubani attributed the reduction to the Western countries’ desire to control the short-term agenda of the WHO. In a separate article published recently in the Strait Times, he adds that “this has implication as the WHO can recruit long-term health inspectors and scientists only from mandatory funding, not voluntary contributions that vary from year to year.”   The same reality prevails in other critical multilateral entities that have a large proportion of staff members hired through the funding pool of voluntary funding. Some are hired temporarily, with curtailed benefits. This kind of system may be suited in the private sector but is ill-suited for a multilateral system whose raison d'être is prevention of crises. This requires uninterrupted domain expertise, including regional and political nuances, and knowledge of past trends. This is difficult to substitute as these skills are accumulated over a period of time. The issuance of temporary contracts breeds inefficiency and wastage of human as well as financial resources of the member-states. The top priority for incumbent temporary staff members is to look for the next available stable contract rather than concentrating on their respective files. This proves fatal in a crisis like situation. With limited institutional knowledge, including past trends, the multilateral system is too weak to pick the warning signs at an appropriate time. Now China, too, can compete with Western countries to fill in the bucket of voluntary funding. As the US criticism of WHO intensified, in the last two months, China has reportedly announced that it would donate $50 million in cash to WHO to support its global fight against Covid-19, in particular strengthening developing countries' health systems. China has also vigorously defended the WHO’s leadership role “in urging preparedness and a science-based and rational approach, and in helping relevant countries enhance public health capacity.”  The opacity of its political system, lack of freedom of speech and a lame civil society poses a question mark over China’s claimed response to the pandemic. However, within the structural constraints, anyone arguing for change in the working culture of the WHO should make efforts to build organisational capacity of these entities for the next crisis. This can be done by addressing specific institutional deficiencies, which is doing the possible under the given circumstances. Some of these deficiencies can be addressed by investing in these institutions, both in the context of finance and human resource, with a long-term and accommodative vision.   (The writer is a political analyst who has worked in the multilateral arena in various capacities for several years)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-who-can-be-improved-but-not-by-cutting-off-funding-to-it-840021.html
20-05-2020||Right in the Middle||The kindness of strangers||December 24, the date took me back 46 years. My wife, my three-year-old daughter and I were on a South trip on a Lambretta scooter. Starting from Wellington and after a halt for a week at my home town, Trichy, we visited Madurai, Tirunelveli, Tiruchendur, Trivandrum,  Suchindram, Nagercoil and  Kanyakumari and were resting in at Tri-sea Lodge. Our plan was to rise late for breakfast and leave leisurely for Madurai on return trip via Tenkasi and Courtallam. Having arrived for breakfast, the manager handed me our packed meal and asked us to hit the road fast. It was a generous meal that would last us for lunch as well! When I asked him the reason, he said EVR (Periyar) had died as per a trunk call he just received and there may be problems en route. We sped on the scooter and halted next at Courtallam (Kutralam) falls. All was well so far, as news of EVR hadn't spread. We had no internet or social media, only AIR Tamil News at 2 pm or trunk calls. We were advised to reach Madurai soon, by then if there were any riots, they would be over. Lucky that we had good people who helped out a young family of three. There was one more problem, however, en route. While travelling in the Ghat section, it began pouring suddenly and we were drenched but I kept driving. Suddenly we came across a causeway which was overflowing making it dangerous for us to attempt a crossing. No lights on the road and we had no place to stay. Just then a couple of villagers approached. I was apprehensive, however, one of them told me in Tamil not to be scared and that they were there to help.  The villagers volunteered to lift the scooter straight up and help us cross. They formed a chain and a man gave me his hand and my wife held on to mine. When I offered them money, they took offence and said that humans are meant to help other humans in times of difficulties. In another instance, as a bachelor in 1968, returning by scooter from Poona to Deolali, I  had a similar experience. I was anxious, I had to reach the School of Artillery as I was an instructor. At 8 am, the next day, no less. Next year on the same route, my wife and I, as a newly-wed couple had the same trouble! Villagers on both occasions helped me out. It is easy to condemn other people but most are genuinely helpful within their limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-kindness-of-strangers-840028.html
20-05-2020||Second Edit||Quarantined, but not safe||There is a danger of quarantine facilities in the country emerging as breeding grounds of COVID-19 and other contagious diseases. Photographs and video images being sent by those quarantined of the conditions in these facilities lay bare their abysmal condition. Many of them are overcrowded and filthy, toilets are clogged and even basic standards of hygiene are not being maintained. The experience of those quarantined at a facility at the Kittur Chennamma Residential Hostel in Anekal taluk is a case in point. Scores of people who had returned to Karnataka from other states were crowded into a few rooms. Around 10 people were reported to be packed into a single room. Those housed at the facility were not provided with food or drinking water for hours together. Images from the facility show excrement on the floors of toilets. Thankfully, the government took note of the news report in this paper and acted swiftly to rectify things at this facility. But similar accounts and images have emerged from quarantine facilities across the country. In recent weeks, authorities are giving people the option of being quarantined at hotels. While these may be cleaner, there are complaints of people being fleeced at these hotels and not being provided with basic amenities. Quarantinees have been drawing attention to filthy facilities since early March when quarantining of returnees from abroad was made mandatory by the government. That civic authorities have not improved conditions in these centres shows how impervious they are to the plight of ordinary people. Worse, they couldn’t care less about the threat that conditions in these facilities pose to the health of those staying there. The aim of quarantining people is to ensure that they do not infect others. By isolating them, the government is hoping to contain the community spread of COVID-19. However, many among those quarantined may not be infected. By crowding them together with those who could be infected, the government is exposing them to infection. Isolating returnees is not enough. It is imperative that returnees maintain distance from each other so that they do not transmit COVID-19 among themselves. Crowded facilities are defeating the purpose of quarantining. There have been several reports of people running away from quarantine facilities. This is not surprising. They are fleeing the unhygienic conditions in these facilities. Besides, filthy toilets and lack of basic hygiene in quarantine centres is putting people in danger of contracting other contagious diseases as well. In their present state, our quarantine facilities are not helping contain COVID-19. Indeed, they could be fuelling the pandemic and other epidemics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/quarantined-but-not-safe-840017.html
20-05-2020||South||Medical team from Kerala leaves for UAE on mission to treat coronavirus patients||A 105-member medical team from Kerala left for the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on a mission to treat COVID-19 patients there early on Wednesday, as part of an initiative of VPS healthcare group based in the gulf nation. The team comprising nurses and other healthcare personnel included 30 employees of VPS health care group, who were stranded in Kerala due to the lockdown after coming on a vacation, a release from the company said. All the members departed to Abu Dhabi from Cochin international airport on a specially chartered Etihad aircraft. The team members will be working in the critical care units of various COVID-19 designated hospitals across the emirates. This will further strengthen the efforts of the UAE government in combating COVID-19, it said. The travel date was decided after the medical team received the nod from the Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Home Affairs, and the Ministry of Health in both countries, it added. Of the 105 members who arrived in the UAE, 75 are recruits from India who have come to join the gulf nation's battle against the pandemic. VPS Healthcare Director (India) Hafiz Ali Ullat said,"We extend our deep gratitude to the governments of India and the UAE, and the state government of Kerala for its support of this medical mission." "In UAE, we have been working with the government from the beginning. Sending a medical team is a part of our continuous effort in supporting the government there during this pandemic. The medical team will be following all the travel guidelines and maintain social distancing norms even on the flight," he said. Vinod Sebastian, a senior nurse among the medical team, said it was a proud moment for each of them. "It is our duty to serve and treat the patients during this unprecedented crisis. For the majority of the nurses in the medical team, it is their maiden journey to a foreign country. .. we are very confident and motivated. We are taking it up as a challenge," he said. All the members of the team underwent a COVID-19 test on Sunday and all of them tested negative, the release said. The travel of the nurses to Kochi was facilitated by the Office of the Kerala Chief Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/medical-team-from-kerala-leaves-for-uae-on-mission-to-treat-coronavirus-patients-839742.html
20-05-2020||South||Vande Bharat: 2 airports in Andhra receive 459 Indians||An Air India flight carrying 145 people stranded in London, landed at Vijayawada Airport here on Wednesday, as part of the biggest ever off-shore evacuation drive of Indian citizens under the Vande Bharat Mission. The international airport in Visakhapatnam received two flights, one from Manila (Philippines) and the other from Abu Dhabi with 166 and 148 passengers respectively on Tuesday night, airport authorities said. The national carrier from London arrived via Mumbai at the Airport at 8 AM, Vijayawada Airport Director G Madhusudhana Rao said adding this was the first flight received after the lockdown was enforced across the country including Andhra Pradesh. "As per protocols all the passengers were checked and sent to quarantine with the help of the state government. Immigration and customs clearance was done here only. The flight landed as an international transit flight," the official told PTI.  "We have set up five medical counters for screening of the passengers. Also we have set up counters district-wise for the convenience of the passengers," he said. Visakhapatnam Airport Director Raj Kishore said the aerodrome received two Air India flights, one from Abu Dhabi and the other from Manila (Philippines) on Tuesday night as part of Vande Bharat Mission. According to him, the Manila flight landed in Vizag Airport via Mumbai at 9.50 PM, while the Abu Dhabi flight arrived at 8.30 PM. He said all the passengers were screened thoroughly and sent to quarantine as per their choice, either paid or state- run facilities. "None of the passengers was symptomatic," Kishore said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vande-bharat-2-airports-in-andhra-receive-459-indians-839754.html
20-05-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Tamil Nadu govt to provide relief to unregistered handloom weavers||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday decided to extend the lockdown relief provided to handloom weavers, by giving assistance to those not registered with a relevant board. The government was already reaching out to a little over 1.03 lakh registered handloom weavers by providing a cash relief of Rs 1,000 each in two installments, an official release here said. It has received request from unregistered weavers that they also be given assistance, an official release here said. Accordingly, the government has now decided to provide such weavers also an aid of Rs 2,000 and the Handlooms Department director has been asked to prepare the guidelines in this connection, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-tamil-nadu-govt-to-provide-relief-to-unregistered-handloom-weavers-839757.html
20-05-2020||South||Desperate guest workers walk, cycle, hitchhike on TN highway to go home||An exodus of a different kind, hundreds of guest workers dot the Chennai-Kolkata Highway here starting from Puzhal, a northern Chennai suburb, hoping to make it to their native towns and villages up north and eastern parts of the country to reunite with worried parents, concerned spouses and doting children. With the odds stacked against them, they walk, pedal and hitchhike along the highway (National Highway-16/Chennai- Kolkata), also known as the Grand Northern Trunk Road, with the sole aim of reaching home, all the while managing with little or no money. The entire 46-km stretch of the highway from Puzhal on the northern tip of Chennai till Ramapuram, the first village on the Andhra Pradesh side that falls under Tada mandal is teeming with hundreds of guest workers mainly belonging to Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal. The scene of several families including women and children from Odisha who carried their belongings stuffed in big, empty paint boxes on their heads was a deeply moving sight. Most people are unaware of the 'e-passes' to travel on road and do not know whom to approach to board special trains to reach their destinations with ease. Some who tried to get passes claimed they could not get them. While the scene that is unfolding on the highway is often chaotic with guest workers trying to reason out with police officials to allow them to go, some with adequate money manage to charter buses and others plead with truck drivers to take them home. Some who do not travel in a group, seek 'lift' from two- wheeler riders too. Not all are, however, lucky enough. A migrant worker in his late thirties, Ram Biswas who was determined to cycle his way to Lachipeta of Malkangiri district in Odisha could not make it beyond Kavarapettai near here and he was found dead on roadside on Tuesday. Biswas was among a group of young men who left Chennai city a couple of days ago. "Apparently the man was exhausted," a police official said adding his body was being sent to his native place following post mortem at a government hospital. Each one of the guest workers have agonising tales to recount. Braving the scorching sun, Bihar-bound Ranjit Kumar Ojha though penniless and injured, was seeking "directions" with determination to go home at the Sholavaram checkpost that was abuzz with activity. Having worked for a road construction firm till recently, Ojha was distressed that his company did not help him even after he suffered a leg injury, but said he will walk all the way till Champaran in Bihar to start life anew. Ajay Nayak and a small bunch of his friends who were resting on the highway repeated that they wanted to reach Kandhamal in Odisha, come what may. Nayak was "unsuccessful" in his bid to secure a pass to leave Tamil Nadu and said he was now left with no choice than to take the long walk like thousands of his ilk across the country, where a punishing lockdown has left them jobless and no money to spend. Nayak, all of 20 years, and his friends were employed at an industrial unit near Chennai. "We wanted to go to Odisha, but the police stopped us (here) and wanted us to get a pass..what can we do?. its not easy.. we have no money and it is a problem to get food," one of Nayak's friends said and added that they will resume their journey. Bishwanath Mondal, from Malda in West Bengal, was till recently in the "construction line" at Ambattur in the city.  "Our company has not helped us in the last two months. We want to proceed to Kolkata but don't have a penny... whatever we had was spent on food, even as we are out of work for two months," he said as his colleagues looked on. "Our parents and others back home are worried," he added. A white towel wrapped around his head to protect himself from the harsh summer sun, Mondal said, "we have set out by foot since we have no money." Mondal and others reached the border point by hopping on and off empty cargo vans right from the industrial cluster of Ambattur in Chennai. Dhananjay Chatria and five of his friends have embarked on their journey on brand new cycles, bought from whatever they could salvage after remaining jobless for two months at a city hotel. Each member of the team is headed to a different destination in Odisha. Asked if they can cycle all the way there, Chatria said in a mix of broken Tamil and Hindi "this is Hindustan we can go." The cyclists have some money with them and are happy that people are lending a helping hand by way of food and water along the way. Jetendra Gadatya and 19 other men working for a water bottling plant got e-pass from authorities and paid Rs 5,600 per head to a bus operator to reach a couple of destinations in Odisha including Balangir. Unlike several others, though they have jobs and are paid promptly they said, "our minds are set, we want to go home as our families are worried." The trail for people without permission comes with the prospect of being stopped by officials. Therefore, the workers are keen to avoid the authorities by taking the roads less taken. However, not all of them manage to evade officials and many were stopped by police at many points. For instance, the families from Odisha, including a number of women and children were safely housed at the Red Hills Paddy and Rice Wholesale Traders Sangam Marriage Hall. Sadly, they had traversed about 70 km from Chengelpet on foot before they were intercepted by authorities on the highway near Padianallur. "The registration process is now on. Arrangements are afoot to put them on a train," a police official at Red Hills said. While civic officials insist that the state government is ensuring accommodation and food for the jobless workers, police said they do not "allow anyone to walk on the highway." They said efforts were being made to get these stranded workers board trains to reach their native places and till then accommodate them in marriage halls and community centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/desperate-guest-workers-walk-cycle-hitchhike-on-tn-highway-to-go-home-839810.html
20-05-2020||South||Kerala govt set to re-open liquor shops this weekend||Kerala is set to re-open liquor outlets by this weekend as the state government is awaiting a security certificate for the newly developed mobile application for online sale of liquor. A mobile application is being developed by an Ernakulam-based private firm by which tipplers can book an e-token and go to the prescribed outlet or bars to purchase the liquor. The idea is to reduce crowding at the outlets. With an e-token, the person will be directed to a particular outlet or bar which is near to him as per the GPS location, Kerala State Beverages Corporation Sparjan Kumar told PTI. This is to avoid people travelling far to buy liquor, he said. The software would have to be tested before opening it for public use. "The application will have to be tested before being uploaded in the play store. We cannot put pressure on the developers to speed up the process. The security check will take its own time and the application will be released thereafter," Kumar said. There are 301 state-run liquor outlets in Kerala, apart from 598 bar hotels and 357 beer and wine parlours. Adhering to the Centre's guidelines, the state government has decided not to open the bars but has agreed to sell liquor as a takeaway from special retail counters. "As per the government decision, there will be a retail counter at bars to sell liquor as parcel at BEVCO prices. The state government has asked for a permission letter from all the bar owners," a senior official of the excise department said. He said safety measures would be taken at outlets and the counters. Kumar said the process of disinfecting the state-run outlets are being held across the state and instruction have been issued to the staff on how to deal with the customer once the shops are open. The state government had on May 18 said the liquor outlets would open as and when the online system is ready and bars can sell liquor and food as a takeaway. The state government has also said licensed clubs can sell liquor and food to their members as parcel with strict restrictions on the number of persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-set-to-re-open-liquor-shops-this-weekend-839811.html
20-05-2020||South||Kerala girl who faced cyber-bullying to approach state Women's Commission||Hanan Hamid, alias Hanan Hanani, a 20-year-old college girl in Kerala who received much attention two years back for selling fish to meet her educational expenses, is once again in the news. Hanan is facing cyber-bullying over the last few days, allegedly from Congress workers and supporters, after she posted a sarcastic comment against Kerala opposition party leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress. Apart from abusive comments, she was facing body-shaming and threats as well. Hanan told DH that she would be filing a complaint with the Kerala Women's Commission. The commission chairperson M C Josephine had contacted her and ensured proper action. "I felt like being sexually abused in public for making an opinion. No women should face such harassment for expressing political comments. Hence I decided to file a complaint," she said. With many accusing her of not being grateful to the Congress leader who built her a house, Hanan had to come out with a clarification saying that she was still staying in a rented house and had not taken the offer of Ramesh or that of any other person to build a house. She also said that an amount of about Rs 1.5 lakh, which she received from many as assistance, was contributed to the Kerala CMDRF for calamity relief. "I wish to build a house once I complete my studies and secure a good job. Hence I politely declined the offers for constructing a house for me. I did not wish to take huge financial support for free.  I did stage programmes and accepted the financial assistance offered by many organisations as remuneration," said Hanan. Hanan made the sarcastic comment on Ramesh contacting a NRI Congress activist, named Usman, in Doha and enquiring about the hardships faced by the NRIs owing to COVID. But there were reports that Usman was in Kerala by that time and the Opposition leader had just staged a drama. Hanan shot to fame in 2018 when a picture of the girl in college uniform selling fish was published by a vernacular daily. Hanan, who was doing her BSc, could not complete her studies as she soon suffered a serious road accident. The Kerala government had met her treatment expenses. Even when her plight received much attention, Hanan faced cyber-bullying with many even alleging that she was staging a drama to grab attention. A couple of people were then arrested by the police for the cyber-attack against her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-girl-who-faced-cyber-bullying-to-approach-state-womens-commission-839820.html
20-05-2020||South||Kerala revokes decision to postpone tenth, higher-secondary exams; To be held from May||Hours after the Kerala government announced the decision to postpone tenth and higher secondary examinations, the decision was revoked by afternoon as the centre gave nod for conducting examinations by following safety norms. The pending exams will be held from May 26 itself as announced earlier. Even as Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan took an adamant stand on Tuesday against further postponing the pending tenth-standard and higher-secondary examinations, the state Cabinet on Wednesday morning decided to postpone the examinations to next month. However, a few hours later the centre granted permission for conducting the examinations by following adequate safety measures. Hence the Chief Minister said by evening that the examinations would be held as per schedule. The decision to conduct the pending examinations from May 26 was taken during the third-phase of lockdown. But the centre later instructed that schools and colleges should remain shut till May 31. This triggered serious concerns of maintaining social distancing during the examinations and providing proper transport facilities to over 13 lakh students supposed to take the examinations. Opposition parties Congress and BJP also demanded the government to postpone the examinations alleging that the safety of students were being put to risk of COVID-19 infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-revokes-decision-to-postpone-tenth-higher-secondary-exams-to-be-held-from-may-839824.html
20-05-2020||South||Telangana Congress arranges two buses for migrant workers stranded in Hyderabad||Congress in Telangana on Wednesday said 80 migrant workers stranded here due to COVID- 19 lockdown were sent to their native places in Uttar Pradesh and Odisha onboard two buses arranged by it. The buses were made available in line with the directive of the party central leadership to help such workers who are keen on going back to their native places during the ongoing national lockdown, state leaders said. State Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, senior leader Marri Shashidhar Reddy, who heads a PCC Task Force on COVID-19, and others flagged off the buses at Gandhi Bhavan, the party's headquarters in Telangana, here. Each bus carried 40 people and they were provided food, fruits and water for their journey, Shashidhar Reddy told PTI. The migrant workers, who left in the buses on Wednesday, were working in the city, he said. Some buses were operated earlier from Telangana to different states, he said. He also claimed there was no response after the state unit wrote to the Chief Secretary expressing its willingness to contribute towards the "Shramik special" train ticket charges for migrant labourers. The offer was made following Congress president Sonia Gandhi's statement that the party was ready to bear the expenditure for the journey of migrant workers, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-congress-arranges-two-buses-for-migrant-workers-stranded-in-hyderabad-839898.html
20-05-2020||South||Kerala going aggressive to curb local spread of COVID-19||As Kerala is witnessing an obvious spike in COVID-19 cases with return of people from other states and aboard, the state is going aggressive to curb local spread. Of the 24 COVID-19 positive cases reported on Wednesday, 23 came from abroad and other states. So far around 140 persons who came from abroad and other states were tested COVID-19 positive. The number of persons who got infected from them is very minimum so far. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that even as the spike in the number of COVID-19 cases was expected with people return from other countries and states, the state was facing an alarming situation as spread of infection through local contact need to be prevented. Hence more stringent restrictions may be enforced in coming days. The state is strictly enforcing 14 days home quarantine or institutional quarantine for all coming from other states and abroad. Apart from health officials, police, local bodies and even local level residents' associations are engaged to ensure that people did not violate quarantine and cause the risk of spreading infection. Cases were registered against 12 persons on Wednesday for violating quarantine norms. The police also launched a drive against those moving around without wearing masks. As many as 3,396 persons were booked across Kerala on Wednesday alone for not waering mask.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-going-aggressive-to-curb-local-spread-of-covid-19-839951.html
20-05-2020||South||Mettur dam to open for kuruvai cultivation on June 12||For the first since 2011, the sluices of the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur will be opened for the cultivation of kuruvai (short-term crop) in the Cauvery Delta region in the month of June. An announcement by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday has enthused farmers’ in the region as they are hoping for a bumper crop this season as water from Mettur will reach them by the third week of June. Water from the 87-year-old reservoir is usually opened on June 12, the date which was set keeping in mind the arrival of monsoon in Karnataka, but Delta has missed the date for the past eight years as the sluices could not be opened in June. In 2011, the dam was on June 6, a week ahead of the scheduled date, and this year, the water will flow out of the reservoir at 10 am on June 12. The water level at the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur stands at over 100 feet with the storage capacity reaching 65 tmcft. In 2011, kuruvai was cultivated in an area of about 5.5 lakh acres which reduced to 1 to 1.5 lakhs in the past few years due to the non-availability of Cauvery water. Only farmers who have borewell facilities go for kuruvai cultivation. P R Pandian, President of Tamil Nadu All Farmers Organisations Committee, has asked the state government to ensure uninterrupted water from Mettur Dam till the onset of North-East monsoon in October to ensure farmers cultivate paddy in an area of 10 lakh acres. “The government should desilt all lakes and tanks before June 12 and ensure that Cauvery water reaches the tail end. Only then, farmers in the entire Delta region will be happy. We welcome the decision to open the dam on June 12 which will ensure kuruvai cultivation,” he told DH. ‘Mannargudi’ S Ranganathan, general secretary of Cauvery Delta Farmers Association, said the release of Cauvery water from Mettur in June would ensure that the sowing for kuruvai is over by the end of June and crop is harvest in early October. “If all goes well, Cauvery Delta will have a bumper kuruvai harvest this season,” he added. Veera Rajendran, a farmer in the Thiruvayaru area near Thanjavur, told DH that the government should make all efforts to ensure the water reaches all parts of the Delta region. “Only if the water reaches every region, including the tail-end areas, farmers will be happy. And once the water reaches the Delta, we can all begin cultivation. We hope everything will be fine this year,” he added. The Cauvery Delta, which was used to three-crop formula – samba, kuruvai and thaladi – had come down to just one crop a year. Till about a decade ago, cultivation would take place in three seasons – Kuruvai (short-term crop) from June to September, Samba (long-term crop) from August to January and Thaladi from January to May – keeping the farmer busy for the whole year. While the first two seasons primarily cultivated paddy, farmers utilised the third season to cultivate pulses for centuries together by the progressive farming community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mettur-dam-to-open-for-kuruvai-cultivation-on-june-12-839956.html
20-05-2020||South||Coronavirus: Buses to ply from Thursday in Andhra Pradesh, masks and Aarogya Setu app mandatory for passengers||However, the passengers need to book their tickets online prior to their journey and wearing a mask is mandatory for those boarding the buses, APSRTC Vice Chairman and Managing Director M Pratap said. The services were suspended for nearly two months since the lockdown was announced on March 24. "RTC will be resuming intra-state services from tomorrow (May 21).  City services in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada will continue to be suspended for some more time," he said, adding that RTC will ensure that buses reach their destinations before 7 PM everyday. According to him, sanitisers will be made available at all bus stations for the passengers and seats have also been modified to ensure that there is no physical contact between those travelling. Pratap said downloading of Aarogya Setu mobile app is mandatory for passengers to travel in the buses. The RTC will initially run over 1,600 busses without a conductor being present in the vehicle, out of the fleet of 12,600, he added. Pratap said the government has no plans to enhance fares.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-buses-to-ply-from-thursday-in-andhra-pradesh-masks-and-aarogya-setu-app-mandatory-for-passengers-840023.html
20-05-2020||South||Bengaluru doctor turns COVID-19 positive; Six staff in Kerala quarantined||Six employees of a private clinic here and a taxi driver have been put on mandatory 14 days quarantine as a lady gynaecologist running the dispensary tested positive for COVID-19 in Bengaluru. District Medical Officer Dr V Jayashree said the gynaecologist had returned to Karnataka a fortnight ago and tested positive while she was on quarantine there. Six staff members of the clinic at nearby Thamarassery and the taxi driver who dropped her inBengaluruon May 5 have been asked to go on quarantine, she said. Patients had visited the clinic, belonging to the gynaecologist and her doctor husband, till April-end. Sources said the district administration is trying to figure out thecontacts of the gynaecologist, including pregnant women, for being quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bengaluru-doctor-turns-covid-19-positive-six-staff-in-kerala-quarantined-840025.html
20-05-2020||South||Buoyed by extra e-hundi income, TTD resuming laddu sale at 50% discount||Even as the Venkateshwara temple remains closed for pilgrim darshan, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has decided to supply the famous Tirupati laddu prasadam to devotees at half the price. The much sought after laddu would also be made available at the TTD information center in Bangalore, officials said. A 175-gram laddu is now offered at Rs 25 instead of Rs 50 and the price will continue till the darshan of Lord Venkateswara resumes. The generous offer, according to TTD board chairman YV Subba Reddy, is in response to devotees’ generous contributions to e-Hundi. The e-hundi (electronic transfer) collection is at Rs 1.97 crore in April 2020 against the previous year's Rs 1.79 crore for the same month, an increase of Rs 18 lakh. On Wednesday, Reddy reiterated that resuming “Srivari darshan” for devotees depends on the central government decision to lift the lockdown. "We have been receiving many emails and phone calls enquiring as when would we resume darshan. But it is the government's call." “Though they are unable to have the Lord’s darshan for over 60 days now, devotees are generously contributing through e-hundi expressing their immense devotion towards him", the chairman said. The laddu prasadam will be made available at all the TTD Kalyana mandapams and information centres present in all district headquarters in Andhra Pradesh along with Hyderabad, Chennai, and Bengaluru shortly, Reddy said. Devotees wanting laddus in bulk can contact the Srivari Temple Deputy EO on 9849575952 and Potu Peishkar on 9701092777. The commencement date of laddu sale will be decided in two or three days, TTD officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/buoyed-by-extra-e-hundi-income-ttd-resuming-laddu-sale-at-50-discount-840041.html
20-05-2020||State||KSRTC tweaks rules to help passengers on long journey||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation on Tuesday relaxed its rules for long-distance travel. It has decided to operate buses to far off places up to 7 pm. “From Wednesday onwards, bus operation will be extended up to 7 pm. This means, the last bus will be departing bus station at 7 pm will reach next day morning to the respective destinations,” the corportion said in a communication. This comes as a huge relief of passengers travelling to far off districts like Bidar, Kalaburagi, Belagavi and other districts in north and even coastal Karnataka. On Tuesday, hundreds of passengers had to return to their homes as the KSRTC shut operation of buses which could not reach the destination by 7 pm. The corporation faced criticism from many quarters for the rule.The corpration requested passengers to book tickets online to prevent crowding in the bus stations and help ensure social distancing rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ksrtc-tweaks-rules-to-help-passengers-on-long-journey-839703.html
20-05-2020||State||Karnataka: Forest officials capture tiger in Bellur||A tiger that had evoked fear among the residents of a coffee estate in the Ponnampet-Gonikoppa area of Bellur was captured by forest officials late Tuesday night. The tiger had killed cattle in the villages, which were situated on the periphery of the forest, in the last few days. The forest department had placed a cage to capture it at Kumatooru, Nadikeri, Thoochamakeri, T Shettigeri in Virajpet taluk in the last week of April. However, they were unsuccessful.  As the tiger menace increased, the forest officials using the tamed elephant started an operation to capture the tiger 20 days ago. On Tuesday night, following the information provided by the villagers after spotting the tiger, the officials successfully tranquilised the tiger and captured it. The tiger was later shifted to the zoo in Mysuru, officials from the forest department said. The drive was carried out under the guidance of a wildlife expert of Wildlife Institute of India Dr Sanath. Over 50 personnel from the forest department had taken part in the operation using the tamed elephant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-forest-officials-capture-tiger-in-bellur-839759.html
20-05-2020||State||Coronavirus Lockdown: No entry for natives without passes in Karnataka||The natives of Karnataka, attempting to enter the state without passes, were stopped at the borders near Kognoli in Nippani taluk on the Pune-Bengaluru National Highway on Wednesday. Many had been sneaking inside the state through alternative routes in the district and proceeding towards different districts. Among those who have returned, those from Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra in particular have tested positive for COVID-19 in big numbers. Assistant Commissioner of Chikkodi Subdivision Ravi Karlinganavar told DH that most of the people coming to Kognoli for entry into the state were from Maharashtra and Gujarat, wherein maximum number of Covid-19 cases have been reported, and from some other northern states. Their applications on Seva Sindhu portal have been processed and were being allowed entry only after permission is issued by the respective District Administration. There was no blanket ban for entry into the state near Kognoli, he stated. People having permission were being allowed and guided to proceed towards respective districts, he informed. Sources in the police said that the borders have not been closed for movement of people in the state. Those who have been issued passes after applying through the Seva Sindhu portal of the state are being allowed. People not having passes were entering into arguments with police personnel who were asking them to back off at the borders||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-no-entry-for-natives-without-passes-in-karnataka-839762.html
20-05-2020||State||Karnataka: Bidar records 10 new cases||Bidar district recorded 10 fresh COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday while Kalaburagi saw seven cases. The infection was confirmed in a person in Yadgir district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bidar-records-10-new-cases-839836.html
20-05-2020||State||Karnataka: Hassan district reports 21 COVID-19 positive cases||Hassan district has reported 21 COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday, while Mandya district confirmed eight positive cases.  The number of positive cases in Mandya was less when compared to the Tuesday morning bulletin which confirmed 62 positive cases. However, Hassan recorded the highest of 21 cases taking the total to 54 cases. Mandya's tally is 168 cases. More positive cases may be expected by evening as hundreds of samples are awaiting results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hassan-district-reports-21-covid-19-positive-cases-839839.html
20-05-2020||State||Karnataka: 40-year-old Bengaluru returnee tests positive in Mangaluru||A 40-year-old woman who had arrived from Bengaluru to Mangaluru has been tested positive for COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada district, on Wednesday. The woman had arrived Mangaluru on May 10 and is a resident of Kuttikala in Neerumarga. As she was suffering from breathlessness, she was admitted to Wenlock Hospital on May 17 and her throat swab samples tested positive on Wednesday, said DC Sindhu B Rupesh. Dakshina Kannada district has so far registered 55 cases, of which 17 have been discharged so far. There are 33 active cases in the district. While, Udupi has registered six more positive cases, on Wednesday. The total number of positive cases registered in Udupi is 22 and three have been recovered and discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-40-year-old-bengaluru-returnee-tests-positive-in-mangaluru-839843.html
20-05-2020||State||Inter-district bus service starts in Kodagu||The movement of KSRTC buses to other districts started from Kodagu on Tuesday after 60 days of lockdown. Most of the passengers left for Bengaluru. As there was a shortage of passengers travelling to Hassan, Davangere, Shivamogga and Chitradurga, buses did not ply to these places. The first bus from the KSRTC Bus Stand started at 10 am. The passengers waited in the queue and wore masks. They maintained social distance inside the buses. A total of three buses ferried passengers to Bengaluru. KSRTC Divisional Controller Achyuth said that the necessary precautions have been taken as per the government orders. The passengers were subjected to thermal screening. Passengers must provide their Aadhaar card and mobile phone numbers, he added. Meanwhile, it is learnt that private bus transportation may not start soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/inter-district-bus-service-starts-in-kodagu-839979.html
20-05-2020||State||CPM workers demand relief for lockdown victims||CPM workers staged a protest in front of deputy commissioner’s office here on Wednesday seeking financial aid to ordinary people to rebuild their lives in the wake of Covid-19 and subsequent lockdown. The state was facing financial crisis before the outbreak of Covid-19. The economy has been badly hit by lockdown landing farmers, labourers, poor people and dalits in great distress, they said. “The government is not making any efforts to help poor people. The government is showing interest to provide resources of capitalists and corporate companies. Anti-people laws are being implemented using ordinance,” CPM district leader Narayanaswamy alleged. “The government has amended the APMC Act to exploit farmers. The  farmers will be in the hands of corporate companies. Efforts are on to appoint administrative committees to gram panchayats. There are no policies to improve per capita income and to improve the economy,” he charged. “The Karnataka government is exploiting farmers by amending the APMC Act. The Labour Act is being amended to extend working time upto 12 hours,” alleged CPM taluk unit secretary T M Venkatesh. The protesters sought the government not to privatise power sector and withdraw the decision to appoint administrative committees to gram panchayats immediately. They urged the government to continue the sitting members of gram panchayat, sought the government to provide food kits for three months based on work and disburse Rs 7,500 monthly pension. CPM district committee members M Vijikrishna, N N Sriram, Sushila and Asha were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cpm-workers-demand-relief-for-lockdown-victims-839980.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||63 new COVID-19 cases reported in Karnataka, tally touches 1,458||Sixty-three new COVID-19 cases have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of infections in the state to 1,458, the health department said on Wednesday. With 40 deaths and 553 discharges, there are 864 active coronavirus cases in the state, the department said in its mid-day situation update. Ten patients who have recovered, have been discharged so far on Wednesday, it said. The fresh cases, which were confirmed from last evening to this noon include- 21 from Hassan, Bidar-10, Mandya-8, Kalburagi- 7, Udupi- 6, Tuamakuru and Bengaluru urban- 4, and one each from Yadgir, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada. However, the department has not shared the details of patients newly tested positive like- age, gender, their travel or contact history- in its mid-day bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/63-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-karnataka-tally-touches-1458-839778.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Two-month fishing ban along Karnataka coast to begin on June 1||The annual two-month monsoon trawling ban along the Karnataka coast will come into force from June 1, as per the notification issued under the Karnataka Marine Fishing (regulation) Act. All fishing activities with mechanised and traditional boats using inboard or outboard engines of over 10 HP capacity using nets or other means has been banned from June 1 to July 31. The ban is not applicable for fishing with traditional and country boats which use engines of less than 10 HP capacity. Fishing boats which violate these orders and the fishermen concerned face the risk of being punished as per the Marine Fishing Act 1986, besides losing diesel subsidy for a period of one year. The order, issued in the interest of all the fishermen in coastal areas, has to be followed by all the fishermen, a release from the office of the Dakshina Kannada district fisheries deputy director here said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-month-fishing-ban-along-karnataka-coast-to-begin-on-june-1-839799.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Despite consent withdrawal, Karnataka’s ban on entry of people from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu continues||The Centre's decision to withdraw consent of states for operating Shramik trains carrying migrants to different parts of the country will not come in the way of Karnataka's prohibition on entry of people from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. According to authorities, only two Shramik trains carrying native residents have arrived in Karnataka till date and none of them originated in the states from which entry has been restricted. IAS officer N Manjunath Prasad, the nodal officer for inter-state travel, told DH that most Kannadigas in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu had arrived by road.  Sources in South Western Railway said that there are no Shramik trains scheduled from these states as yet. Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan, who is also a member of the Karnataka’s COVID-19 task force, told DH that though the state government had its own view on the issue, the Centre's decision will now prevail. "We will abide by it in the larger interest of humanity. Migrant workers have suffered enough. So, for their sake, we have to show magnanimity and accept the decision,” he said. As many as 2.5 lakh persons belonging to 1.4 lakh families have applied to return to Karnataka. However, many have cancelled their plans to return after learning about institutional quarantine, according to official sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/despite-consent-withdrawal-karnataka-s-ban-on-entry-of-people-from-maharashtra-gujarat-tamil-nadu-continues-839847.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CPM workers protest, seek relief to farmers, distressed||Kolar, DHNS: CPM workers staged a protest in front of deputy commissioner’s office here on Wednesday seeking economic support to ordinary people to rebuild their lives in the wake of Covid-19 and subsequent lockdown. The state was facing financial crisis before the outbreak of Covid-19. The economy has been badly hit by lockdown landing farmers, labourers, poor people and dalits in great distress, they said. “The government is not making any efforts to help poor people. The government is showing interest to provide resources of capitalists and corporate companies. Anti-people laws are being implemented using ordinance,” CPM district leader Narayanaswamy alleged. “The government has amended the APMC Act to exploit farmers. The  farmers will be in the hands of corporate companies. Efforts are on to appoint administrative committees to gram panchayats. There are no policies to improve per capita income and to improve the economy,” he charged. “The Karnataka government is exploiting farmers by amending the APMC Act. The Labour Act is being amended to extend working time upto 12 hours,” alleged CPM taluk unit secretary T M Venkatesh. The protesters sought the government not to privatise power sector and withdraw the decision to appoint administrative committees to gram panchayats immediately. They urged the government to continue the sitting members of gram panchayat, sought the government to provide food kits for three months based on work and disburse Rs 7,500 monthly pension. CPM district committee members M Vijikrishna, N N Sriram, Sushila and Asha were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cpm-workers-protest-seek-relief-to-farmers-distressed-839888.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Need more funds for Jal Jeevan Mission, BS Yediyurappa tells Centre||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa told Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Wednesday that the Centre should hike its fund allocation for Karnataka to meet the target of providing tap water connection to 15 lakh households this year.  Under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), Karnataka wants to provide functional tap connection to 15 lakh families at a cost of Rs 2,300 crore, of which Rs 1,150 crore will come from the Centre and state governments.  “Rs 2,300 crore will not be sufficient to fulfil the target of 15 lakh household connections. This target will be achieved by using the JJM funds, the 15th Finance Commission funds and the state-funded rural water supply scheme. However, I urge the Government of India to increase our allocation from the current Rs 1,150 crore,” Yediyurappa told Shekhawat during a video conference. Karnataka has 88 lakh rural households, Yediyurappa said, of which 25 lakh have tap water connections. Under JJM, Karnataka needs to cover the other 63 lakh rural families in phases.  Referring to Karnataka as a “drought-affected” and “water-starved” state, Yediyurappa said most of the rural water schemes depended on ground water. “The ground water sources are very unreliable,” he said. “In many districts, the depth of the bore wells has gone up to 1,000-1,400 feet. In such districts, providing functional household connection with 55 litres per capita per day (LPCD) by depending entirely on borewells is difficult,” he pointed out.  That is why Karnataka has implemented 474 multi-village schemes (MVS) by drawing water from rivers and reservoirs, serving 6,660 villages and 1.23 crore persons. “MVS are very costly. The Government of India, while funding JJM, must look at the actual cost of providing water through MVS based on our schedule of rates,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/need-more-funds-for-jal-jeevan-mission-bs-yediyurappa-tells-centre-839952.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Salons asked to turn away people with fever, cold||Salons must turn away people with fever, cold or cough and bar entry to those coming for a hair cut without face masks. The standard operating procedure from the BBMP, issued a day after the state allowed salons to open, also asks the salons to make hand sanitisers available at the doorstep and provide masks, hat and apron for their employees. “Each customer should get a use-and-throw towel/paper sheet (to cover their shoulders,” the SOP stipulated. The utensils used to serve a customer must be disinfected for 30 minutes using 7% of Lysol. Salon owners must take care to ensure one-metre distance is maintained between customers and avoid crowding in the premises. Door handles, floor of the saloon, lounge area, stairways and the whole premises must be disinfected twice a day with 1% sodium hypochlorite. “All disposables, including blades and razers, must be disinfected and handed over to a biomedical waste disposable agency,” the guidelines stated. Shops should also display posters to create awareness about Covid-19. The posters can be downloaded at https://karunadu.karnataka.gov.in/hfw.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/salons-asked-to-turn-away-people-with-fever-cold-839968.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||482 persons with disabilities deprived of monthly pension in district||A whopping 482 persons with disabilities have been deprived of monthly pension for the last few months due to various reasons, according to a survey by the Commissionerate for Persons with Disabilities. The top brass has sent a list of such beneficiaries to multi-purpose rehabilitation workers in the taluk panchayat offices to rectify errors. “The monthly pension is cancelled if fake documents are submitted or after the death of beneficiary. It is not known how a large number of beneficiaries have been deprived of the facility. A report will be sought to fix the problems,” Persons with Disabilities and Senior Citizens Welfare Department district officer Jyothi said. According to an office-bearer of Karnataka Vikalachethanara Samsthe, beneficiaries have been thronging post offices, revenue departments and taluk offices for the pension without any results. The revenue department officials point out that the monthly pension payment system was handed over to Khajane-2. During the changeover, the Aadhaar cards of many beneficiaries did not match which may cause the problem. The beneficiaries awaiting the pension alleged that the officials were transferring the responsibility instead of find out solution. They were sent back from the offices on the ground that valid documents were not submitted on time. According to them, many beneficiaries did not submit the documents as they are illiterate and are unaware of the government recent orders. “Many beneficiaries are bed-ridden. They contact me seeking relief. The officials transfer the responsibility when I meet them for solution,” Samsthe secretary Kiran Nayak told DH. Tahsildar Nagaprashanth did not attend calls for official clarification. “About 175 beneficiaries in Chikkaballapur taluk alone are awaiting the pension. A survey should be conducted to identify such people for relief,” he said. “The officials had entered in records that Mamatha, a beneficiary from Nandi hobli, was dead though she is still alive. She was produced before the officials to rectify errors,” he said. In another instance, the officials disbursed the pension to a beneficiary for three years even after her death. “I am physically disabled. My brother is mentally ill. I haven’t received the pension for the last six months,” Sumitha, a beneficiary from Kelaginathota said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/482-persons-with-disabilities-deprived-of-monthly-pension-in-district-839969.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Supreme court sets aside HC order on group housing by NICE||The Supreme Court on Tuesday set aside the Karnataka High Court’s order of 2019 allowing Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprise (NICE) Ltd to construct a group housing in 42 acres 30 guntas of land in Bengaluru. The court said the project proponents cannot go beyond the stipulations and specifications mentioned in the framework agreement and the project technical report without prior approval of the state. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said that prior approval of the state for deviation is the “quintessence”. Acting on a plea by the Karnataka government and the Bangalore Mysore Infrastructure Corridor Area Planning Authority, the court declared that it is not open to the project proponents to develop the land in any other manner, unless permitted by the state. “The right in favour of project proponents to carry on development work on the lands referred to in the framework agreement of April 3, 1997 and in the project technical report of August, 1995, would ensure only in conformity with the stipulations and specifications,” it said. The court, however, asked Nice, the project proponents of the Bengaluru-Mysuru Infrastructure Corridor Project on over 20,000 acres of land, to first approach the state for its prior permission to allow them to deviate from the stipulations and specifications.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/supreme-court-sets-aside-hc-order-on-group-housing-by-nice-839972.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, plan to supply treated B'luru sewage to Magadi||Minister for Minor Irrigation J C Madhuswamy on Wednesday said that the government would implement a project to flow treated water to Nelamangala and Magadi. He was speaking after inspecting pump house of the KC Valley project at S Agrahara and Jannaghatta tanks here. He said,”About 18 tmc sewage water is available in Bengaluru which may be treated for reuse. Only about 4 tmc of water is being used at present. The government will implement a project to flow the treated water to Nelamangala and Magadi.” The minister sought farmers’ cooperation in filling tanks in the region with KC Valley project water.  “In the first phase, 126 tanks will be filled with water, while in the second phase 137 tanks will receive water. The water flow was affected as farmers were drawing water illegally. The problems have been solved. Farmers should cooperate so that water reaches all tanks in the taluk,” he said. The project was implemented to revive ground water in the region. About 400 MLD water should have flowed by now. The required quantity of water would reach all tanks by September, he said. “The officials claim that check dams in the areas identified for the flow of the project water are unscientific. I can’t buy such versions. Check dams have been constructed so store rain water. The government can’t tolerate efforts to dismantle the check dams,” he clarified. “Valve will be fixed at all check dams so that the water flows smoothly. Water in the check dams will be stored after all tanks in the region are filled with water,” he said. MP S Muniswamy, MLCs R Chowda Reddy, Y A Narayana Swamy, Zilla Panchayat president C S Venkatesh, deputy commissioner C Satyabhama, assistant commissioner Somashekhar and tahsildar Shobitha were present. Members of Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene attempted to gherao Madhuswamy for using certain words against them for seeking measures to clear encroachments on tanks. The women objected the use of certain words by the minister which led to an argument. Madhuswamy lost cool and directed the police to take away the women.Situation turned tense as the women began an argument with the police. However, they were taken away later from the place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-plan-to-supply-treated-bluru-sewage-to-magadi-839974.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lack of orders, workers hamper industries in Tumakuru district||The industrial establishments in the district, which have opened their shutters following relaxation of lockdown norms, are yet to begin production even after a week. Vasanthanarasapura, Antarasanahalli, Hirehalli and Satyamangala are the major industrial hubs in the city. to be specific, Vasanthanarasapura, which lies on Chennai-Mumbai corridor is evolving itself into a major industrial hub. Tumakuru is home to 9,000 industries including small, micro and major units of which 7,860 have opened shutters. However, most of them have not commenced production. While the industrialists plan to begin production with the raw material in stock, supply chain and logistics have proved to a huge challenge. The products made in Tumakuru were transported to Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and some states in North India. However, there is neither any demand from the purchasers and no one has placed any orders. Apparently, in the absence of orders, the industrial units cannot be taken up any production. To make the matters worse, most of the industrial workers from North India who were employed at these factories, have returned to their home states. Thus, lack of demand and manpower has crippled production. Tumakuru District Chamber of Commerce and Industries H G Chandrashekhar said industries were faced with twin challenges of lack of orders and scarcity of workers.  “Though some industries have orders they cannot take up production unless the orders are confirmed. Some have goods ready but there is no demand,” he said. The industries need money for resuming production.  The Rs 20-lakh crore revival package declared by the prime minister lays emphasis on industries. But, it takes time to reach local banks for disbursal. Moreover, people too not in any mood to purchase, as they used to do before. It may take another six months for the situation to come to normal, he opined. There are around 100 granite-based industries in the district and 80% of them have not started production, said H B Rudresh, owner of a granite unit.  “We travel to Madakashira and places outside Karnataka for purchasing raw material. However, we cannot do so now due to ban on inter-state movement. We cannot rely on suppliers alone and our presence is necessary,” he said. Most of the workers in granite industry are from North India. “Furthermore, the granite processing - cutting, polishing and loading - are all interlinked. None of these steps could be skipped. The production is hampered in the absence of labourers to carry out any of these operations,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lack-of-orders-workers-hamper-industries-in-tumakuru-district-839976.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NWKRTC plans QR code for purchasing bus tickets||To minimise the human contact in buses, the North-Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) has decided to introduce online payment for instant tickets through mobile apps. NWKRTC Managing Director Rajendra Cholan said here, talks are on with multiple mobile payment apps, and based on the software that suits  requirements, the NWKRTC will sign a memorandum of understanding with that company. He said, the software development is in the final stage, and in the next two-three days, all the 4,500 buses under the NWKRTC jurisdiction will have a QR-code payment system. Sources in NWKRTC informed DH that online payment mode was in pipeline, however, Covid-19 has advanced its implementation. Cholan also informed that to minimise physical contact of both passengers and staff, the NWKRTC is also considering ‘rounding’ the fare to the nearest value. “A Rs 16 ticket may cost Rs 15, and Rs 18 ticket may cost Rs 20 henceforth,” he said, and added that a proposal in this regard is in before of the board. As a safety measure, all the drivers of NWKRTC have been instructed not to ‘pick up’ a bus that has not been sanitised. Buses will be sanitised after every trip. Only those passengers who have been screened at the bus stands will be allowed to board the buses. Mobile and Aadhar details of each passenger will be documented so as to ensure ease of contact tracing in case someone turns positive for Covid-19, he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nwkrtc-plans-qr-code-for-purchasing-bus-tickets-839978.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Children of migrants get parting gift from railway officials||To cheer up the children of 5,000 migrant workers boarding trains every day, railway officials have turned to the famous Channapatna toys.  The Bengaluru division of the South Western Railway (SWR) gifted more than 700 wooden toys to the children boarding the 11 trains that left on Tuesday.  The gesture not only brightened the children’s faces, but also left an imprint on the minds of officials. “Every day we are busy and stressed out over making arrangements for migrant workers, sometimes at short notice. Today, I was so happy to see the children smile from the windows and feel proud of their new possessions,” said divisional railway manager Ashok Kumar Verma.  Verma said he hit upon the idea after seeing the photographs of Shramik trains sent by his public relations team. “In almost all these photos, the children had a blank or worried look,” he said. “They have a 60-hour journey ahead. Adults understand the exigency of our times, but children cannot. I had an informal discussion with officials on a WhatsApp group about arranging the toys and that’s how things happened,” he said.  While a company sponsored some of the toys, officials, worried about giving them plastic, decided to look for things that would last beyond a day in a child’s hands. When one of the officials suggested the Channapatna toys, others nodded in approval.  The wooden toys, which have got GI-tag, will create waves in the interiors of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Assam, Tripura and many other states. “We hope their (toys) market widens,” Verma said.  The Container Corporation (Concor) of India, which sponsored the toys, has decided to continue it in all the other trains. Concor Group general manager Anup Dayanand Sadhu said: “We will continue to support the programme under our corporate social responsibility scheme. It seems to be a good programme in times of uncertainties,” Sadhu told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/children-of-migrants-get-parting-gift-from-railway-officials-839983.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||One-time incentive for Asha workers disbursed||The state government on Wednesday started disbursal of a one-time financial incentive to Asha workers. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had recently announced a one-time incentive of Rs 3,000 to the workers, following a demand from them to increase their monthly remuneration from Rs 6,000 to Rs 10,000. According to an official release, the government has disbursed the incentive to 3,110 Asha workers in Mysuru, Ramanagara and Bengaluru Rural districts as on Wednesday. There are a total of 41,711 Asha workers across Karnataka. The incentive is being facilitated through various cooperative societies under the Cooperation department. At present, a total of Rs 92.36 lakh incentives have been distributed to the frontline workers, an official release stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/one-time-incentive-for-asha-workers-disbursed-839987.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Online classes no child’s play, feel experts||The fate of online classes for schoolchildren will be decided in a couple of days as the Department of Primary and Secondary Education has sought a report from Nimhans in this regard. Considering the objections by parents and child rights activists, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar had, on Monday, written to the director of Nimhans (National Institute for Mental Health and Neurosciences), seeking a report on the impact of online classes on children’s health, mental and physical. Nimhans director Dr Gangadhar told DH, “Online education is not recommendable for children. Reports of the World Health Organization clearly say that kids should not have screen contact for more than an hour in a day. For smaller children, it is not advisable at all.” He said he will discuss the matter with his senior colleagues and submit a report to the government. “I am not endorsing online education for nursery and kindergarten children. Instead, I am thinking of recommending to the education department to come out with an online class plan for parents. Let the department and schools teach parents how to teach their kids by sending them video content,” he explained. “This is the best time for home schooling. Let the government bring back that system of home education and let children get direct admission to class 4, because most parents, nowadays, are capable of teaching their kids and schools just have to provide content,” he said.   “Instead of making children sit in front of the computer/mobile phone screen for hours, let schools send content to parents and advise them how to teach the same.” The department is framing guidelines, considering the complaints. Recently, Suresh Kumar issued a warning to such schools on social media, saying, “Action awaited for the schools which are conducting online classes for LKG and UKG kids.” Many schools started online classes for the academic year 2020-21 on Monday. This includes LKG and UKG classes. Despite opposition from the parents, the schools are continuing the classes. “Looking at the screen continuously strains the eyes of children,” Dr G V Diwakar, an ophthalmologist, said. “Screen time recommended for kids is not more than 30 minutes in one go and not more than 2 hrs in a day. Looking at the screen for more than 30 minutes is stressful for the eyes. Mobile phone screens are not recommended at all.” The Karnataka Child Rights Observatory has demanded that the government frame guidelines for online classes to protect rights of the children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/online-classes-no-child-s-play-feel-experts-840003.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Stir against quarantine centre in S’mogga, facility ransacked||Tension prevailed for a while when police resorted to lathi charge to disperse irate residents of Bapujinagar in the city, who damaged chairs tables and surveillance cameras installed in a possible quarantine centre on Wednesday evening. A group of residents of the area led by Deputy Mayor Surekha Muralidhar staged a flash protest in the area, opposing the district administration's plan to use B Krishnappa Hostel as a quarantine facility. It had been decided to keep people who had come from other states, including those from Mumbai, under institutional quarantine in the hostel. The residents stopped the police when they were making necessary arrangements at the hostel. Surekha argued with the police, saying that the area already had two quarantine centres. So, it was not fair to have another quarantine centre here, as people were scared that they might contract Covid-19, she said. Heated arguments broke out between the police and the residents. Security has been beefed up in the area to prevent the situation from going out of control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stir-against-quarantine-centre-in-s-mogga-facility-ransacked-840004.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Vanivilas water to be routed to Chitradurga, to fill tanks||Months after releasing water from upper canals of Bhadra into Vanivilas Sagar dam in Chitradurga district, the state government is now set to rejuvenate tanks in that region.  According to Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, after ensuring an annual flow of 5.25 tmc feet to the dam, an excess of 5 tmc feet water was still available. This will be made available to the people in the region, by filling up as many as 12 tanks, he said. For this purpose, about 0.868 tmc feet of water will be used.  Also, the state government had taken up the Upper Bhadra project on a priority basis and aimed to complete the lift irrigation work at Tarikere this year, making way for filling up 79 lakes, Jarkiholi said.  In April, the government had begun allowing water into Vedavathi river basin, providing water to Hiriyur, Challekere and Molakalmooru, according to the minister. With this, six barrages have been filled in Hiriyur taluk, five in Challakere, apart from fulfilling the drinking water requirement in Molakalmuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vanivilas-water-to-be-routed-to-chitradurga-to-fill-tanks-840005.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Debt set to grow as Karnataka government looks to borrow Rs 15,000 cr||The debts of the state, already starved of funds, are set to grow as the government is looking to raise an additional Rs 15,000 crore from the market. This, after the Centre raised the borrowing limit of states from 3% to 5% of the gross state domestic product (GSDP). At 3% of GSDP, Karnataka is eligible to borrow around Rs 50,000 crore from the market, and the Rs 15,000 crore will be in addition to this. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has directed officials to explore various options for the borrowing that will be used to finance various expenses of the government, even as its revenues trickled for the second consecutive month due to the lockdown. Finance Department officials confirmed the proposal, adding that it will be explored after the existing limit of around Rs 50,000 crore is utilised. According to sources, discussion on borrowing the amount was held recently after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman raised the borrowing limit for states in the fifth tranche of the economic stimulus package. The decision came after indications that the state’s revenue sources will remain affected for a considerable duration, affecting its ability to maintain expenditure incurred in paying salaries and funding essential works in the financial year. The additional Rs 15,000 crore will peg the state’s borrowings from the market at around Rs 65,000-66,000 crore, which is 3.82-3.88% of the GSDP worth Rs 16,98,685 crore. According to the state budget, total liabilities at the end of 2020-21 fiscal is projected at Rs 3.68 lakh crore, which is expected to change due to the coronavirus-induced economic slowdown. Even with the additional borrowings, liabilities of the state are expected to remain within the limit of 25% of GSDP as mandated in the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act. The total liabilities at the end of 2019-20 were Rs 3.27 lakh crore. It can be recalled that the government has been wary of borrowing additional funds from the markets due to high interest rates, which will bite into the government’s subsequent budgets. When contacted, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) I S N Prasad sai d that though there was a proposal, the government was yet to take a final call on the same. “First we need to use our existing limits. We will decide later,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/debt-set-to-grow-as-karnataka-government-looks-to-borrow-rs-15000-cr-840007.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Need more funds for Jal Jeevan Mission: BSY to Centre||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa told Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Wednesday that the Centre should hike its fund allocation for Karnataka to meet the target of providing tap water connection to 15 lakh households this year.  Under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), Karnataka wants to provide functional tap connection to 15 lakh families at a cost of Rs 2,300 crore, of which Rs 1,150 crore will come from the Centre and state governments.  "Rs 2,300 crore will not be sufficient to fulfill the target of 15 lakh household connections. This target will be achieved by using the JJM funds, the 15th Finance Commission funds and the state-funded rural water supply scheme. However, I urge the Government of India to increase our allocation from the current Rs 1,150 crore,” Yediyurappa told Shekhawat during a video conference. Karnataka has 88 lakh rural households, Yediyurappa said, of which 25 lakh have tap water connections. Under JJM, Karnataka needs to cover the other 63 lakh rural families in phases.  Referring to Karnataka as a "drought-affected" and "water-starved" state, Yediyurappa said most of the rural water schemes depended on ground water.  "The ground water sources are very unreliable,” he said. "In many districts, the depth of the borewells has gone up to 1,000-1,400 feet. In such districts, providing functional household connection with 55 litres per capita per day (LPCD) by depending entirely on borewells is difficult," he pointed out.  That is why Karnataka has implemented 474 multi-village schemes (MVS) by drawing water from rivers and reservoirs, serving 6,660 villages and 1.23 crore persons. "MVS are very costly. The Government of India, while funding JJM, must look at the actual cost of providing water through MVS based on our schedule of rates,” Yediyurappa said.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa directed officials from the Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) department to ensure rural areas do not suffer from drinking water shortage. There are 659 villages in 14 districts facing drinking water shortage which is being addressed through 389 tankers and 706 private borewells, officials informed the CM. Officials were also asked to ensure migrants returning to their villages get employed under MGNREGA, for which Rs 6,315.70 crore has been earmarked this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/need-more-funds-for-jal-jeevan-mission-bsy-to-centre-840009.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DyCM C N Ashwath Narayan says labour laws amended, deletes tweet later||A tweet by Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, which was soon deleted, has fuelled further speculation on the government's plan to amend labour laws in favour of industries.  In the deleted tweet thread, Narayan said, "Amendments have been made to the labour laws to ensure that our manufacturers remain competitive with the rest of the country and the world, (and) have the ability to adapt to the hygeine requirements resulting from the pandemic." Not making these changes will make our manufacturers non-competitive and lead to closures, Narayan also tweeted. "We only have the best interests of everyone in mind," he said. Narayan's office claimed that the tweets were posted due to oversight and that the government was still discussing amendments to labour laws. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, when contacted, said that though there was no discussion to amend labour laws in the recent Cabinet meeting, his department had petitioned Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for some relaxations. "Among them is extension of working hours in industries for labourers. No decision is made yet," Shettar said. There were rumours that the state was mulling amending labour laws in the footsteps of the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dycm-c-n-ashwath-narayan-says-labour-laws-amended-deletes-tweet-later-840012.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Speculation rife as state withholds COVID-19 infection data in midday update||States with high caseload like Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu do not mention the source of infection and travel history of COVID-19 patients in their daily media bulletins. When Karnataka followed suit in its afternoon update on Wednesday, speculation was rife on social media on whether it was an indication of an explosion of infections in the coming days. Contact history and travel history are crucial in understanding the circumstances under which patients became light spreaders, spreaders, and super-spreaders in various districts. A tweet by the health department's official Twitter handle @DHFWKA said, "Bulletin's format has been changed from today" This tweet took the twitterati by surprise. Among a flood of tweets, Dr Rajath Athreya, a neonatologist wrote, "It would really help to go back to old formats and that healthcare community also needs to know if new cases are from clusters/contacts/travel or if it is in a patient with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) or influenza-like illness (ILI)." Another Twitter user @gparnaik wrote, "Till now they were blaming travellers for being the reason for spread, may be it is not the case anymore. Simple, hide the data. Who will dare question them right?" @sumanthsharmas tweeted, "Are you hiding information purposefully?" On Tuesday, the state, for the first time, saw 149 cases in a single day. The state has already stopped mentioning which patients are in the ICU and only gives out the total number. Putting all speculation to rest, the evening bulletin was released with all travel history and contact history details of individual patients. Minister Suresh Kumar said, "We do not intend to cover up any data and are not embarrassed about it. It is getting difficult to spell out all details by noon for our staff. But hereafter, we will release it in the form of annexures at noon itself." Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said, "Karnataka is one of the five states in the country that gives a midday update. We do not want to get the counting wrong when there are close to 100 cases because the media will  question us. That is why we did not release the data on Tuesday afternoon. We need to be appreciative of the state's efforts at transparency."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/speculation-rife-as-state-withholds-covid-19-infection-data-in-midday-update-840029.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'50 approved Covid-19 testing labs in state'||Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, in-charge of Covid-19 briefings, said on Wednesday, a total of 50 labs had been approved for the Covid-19 testing in the state and that 46 labs had already started functioning.  On Aarogya Setu app, the minister said, "The Centre's Aarogya Setu app has seen 63,53,248 downloads in the state. In Bengaluru alone, it has seen 28,53,306 downloads. But the state is yet to collate how many people were traced via Aarogya Setu in comparison to its own contact tracing apps." Kumar said, vehicles plying in containment zones ferrying suspected or confirmed patients such as ambulances or vehicles carrying migrant labourers should be sanitised. "A detailed advisory regarding this has been issued," he added. "180 people arrived in Bengaluru by Rajdhani Express. Swab samples of 22 passengers have been sent for testing. There is one pregnant woman and 15 elderly passengers (60 years and above).  None of the 94 passengers who arrived in a recent flight are symptomatic," Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/50-approved-covid-19-testing-labs-in-state-840035.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mumbai-linked COVID-19 cases mount in Karnataka||COVID-19 cases linked to Mumbai, the virus hotspot, continued to mount in old Mysuru and Kalyana Karnataka districts. As many as 51 of the 67 COVID-19 cases reported in the state on Wednesday are with a travel history to Mumbai or other Maharashtra cities. Hassan and Mandya districts continued to see COVID-19 explosion, courtesy Mumbai returnees. Hassan district alone accounted for 21 of the 67 cases reported in the last 24 hours. Of the 21 cases, Channarayapatna taluk reported 16 while Hassan and Holenarsipur taluks saw three and two cases respectively. According to Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh, “All but two cases, have a travel history to Mumbai, Thane and Ratnagiri in Maharashtra. A 42-year-old man from Hassan, a Chennai returnee, and his 35-year-old wife, have tested positive for virus,” he said. Mumbai link to infections continued to trouble Mandya. The district saw eight new cases of coronavirus - seven from KR Pet taluk and one in Nagamangala taluk. Among the eight cases are five women and a six-year-old girl. After a brief lull, Tumakuru district witnessed four new cases on Wednesday.  Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar told reporters, “Six people of two families from Koratagere and Turuvekere taluks had returned home from Mumbai recently. They were stopped at Sira check-post and quarantined at Atal Bihari Vajpayee residential school. Samples of four persons - two women and as many children aged 10 and 12 - have returned positive for disease while two others’ returned negative.” Kalyana K’taka In Kalyana Karnataka region, Kalaburagi recorded seven fresh cases while Raichur and Yadgir reported four and one infection respectively with a travel history to Mumbai. All 12 cases in the aforementioned districts were under institutional quarantine when their samples returned positive for COVID-19. Raichur, which reported its first COVID-19 cases on May 18, saw four women aged between 12 and 40, contract the virus on Wednesday, taking the district’s case count to 11. Tablighi link returned to haunt Bidar district. The district witnessed 10 secondary contacts of the Tablighi members, with interstate travel history, test positive for coronavirus. The new cases include four minors and three women. Six districts of Kalyana Karnataka region combined have 148 active cases, as on May 20. Six people from Udupi, with a travel history to Mumbai, have tested positive while a 40-year-woman from Dakshina Kannada, a severe acute respiratory infection case, has contracted virus on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mumbai-linked-covid-19-cases-mount-in-karnataka-840037.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||1.90 lakh people have sought return to Karnataka||A total of 1.90 lakh Kannadigas have applied to return to Karnataka, of whom the state government has approved 1.26 lakh till date. Out of these people, 1.1 lakh are either currently in or have been recently released from institutional quarantine. A majority of those who want to return are from neighbouring states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Telangana. According to data from the State COVID-19 War Room, 37% of these applicants - 70,739 - have sought to return to Bengaluru. Of the applications, less than half are approved till date. Karnataka has temporarily prohibited interstate movement from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat due to a high load of COVID-19 cases being reported from returnees of these states. Since the Centre relaxed norms for interstate travel of migrants, more than 1.10 lakh people returned to the state and they are kept in 14-day institutional quarantine. The return also caused the cases to surge in Karnataka as returnees from Maharashtra added 217 positive cases to the state's toll between May 18-20. Shramik trains Meanwhile, the Centre's recent decision to withdraw consent of states for operating Shramik trains to different parts of the country, will have no bearing on Karnataka yet. The prohibition on entry of people from Maharastra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu will continue, as no Shramik trains were scheduled from these states to Karnataka. According to authorities, only two Shramik trains ferrying local people have arrived in Karnataka till date and none of them originated in the states from which entry was restricted. N Manjunath Prasad, nodal officer for inter-state travel told DH that most Kannadigas in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu had arrived by road. Sources in South Western Railway said that there were no Shramik trains scheduled from these states as yet. Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, who is also a member of the Karnataka’s COVID-19 task force told DH that though the state government had its own view on the issue, Centre's decision will prevail if any trains are dispatched to Karnataka. "We will abide by it in the larger interest of humanity. Migrant workers have suffered enough. So for their sake, we have to accept the decision,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/190-lakh-people-have-sought-return-to-karnataka-840039.html
20-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Flagship B’luru Tech Summit postponed||Karnataka has postponed its flagship annual Bengaluru Tech Summit (BTS) to November 18-20 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.  The BTS was scheduled to be held September 21-21, this year.  However, owing to the anticipated difficulties for international delegates to travel because of the Covid-19 lockdowns, the summit has been postponed, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, the IT/BT minister, said in a statement.  This year, the BTS will focus on leveraging technology to tackle challenges thrown up by the Covid-19 pandemic, the government said. The summit will have symposiums amd tech talks by experts and technologists. The government has already planned social distancing protocols to be followed at the summit, Narayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/flagship-b-luru-tech-summit-postponed-840048.html
20-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Fire at oil factory in Akola; no casualty||A fire broke out at an oil factory unit in Maharashtra's Akola district on Tuesday night, gutting the entire premises, a fire official said on Wednesday. No casualty was reported in the incident, he said. The blaze erupted in the private unit located in the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) area here around 8 pm on Tuesday, the official said. Oil used in inverters and automobiles was manufactured at the unit, he said. Firefighters rushed to the spot and managed to douse the flames after about an hour, he said. The oil and other material kept in the premises were completely destroyed in the blaze, he said. A probe was underway to ascertain the cause of the fire, an official at MIDC police station said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-fire-at-oil-factory-in-akola-no-casualty-839740.html
20-05-2020||West||Naxals torch four vehicles in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli||Naxals set ablaze four trucks in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district ahead of the bandh called by them to protest the killing of an associate, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place on Savargaon-Murumgaon road around Tuesday midnight, a release from the office of Gadchrioli superintendent of police said. The rebels blocked the road in Dhanora taluka and torched the four heavy vehicles, an official said. Naxals have called a bandh in the district on Wednesday to condemn the killing of woman rebel Srujjanakka, who was killed by police here on May 1. There were around 155 cases of serious offences registered against her in Gadchiroli, including killings of 34 tribals, the police release said. On Sunday, two policemen were killed and three others injured in an encounter with Naxals in Poyarkoti-Koparshi forest area of the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/naxals-torch-four-vehicles-in-maharashtras-gadchiroli-839768.html
20-05-2020||West||Missing COVID-19 patients cause for concern in Mumbai||Even as Mumbai's COVID-19 count witnesses a significant rise with each passing day, missing coronavirus patients are proving to be a major cause for concern for the city's civic body, which has adopted all possible means to trace them. This was a common occurrence in cases where people experience mild symptoms of the infection or are asymptomatic and undergo testing in private labs, an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. "When people who get tested don't furnish their correct contact details like address or phone number, we have to go looking for them after they test positive for the infection. Even testing labs make mistakes while entering contact details of the patients," the official said. For the civic body, which is already burdened with the arduous task of containing the pandemic, untraceable patients are a major concern, as they can worsen the situation. Mumbai reported its first case of coronavirus on March 11 and as of Tuesday, the city has recorded over 22,700 cases. According to a senior civic official, the BMC adopts all possible means to track down these missing patients from searching for their names on voter's list or tracing them using property card records. Once they are found, these patients were admitted to the BMC's COVID-19 facilities, depending on their health condition, asymptomatic or otherwise, he said.  "We have to rifle through property card records or voters lists and even take the help of local representatives to trace missing patients," the official said.   In some cases, the civic body even had to check the CCTV footage from private testing labs where these missing patients had been tested, he added. Most of these untraceable patients were from slum- dominated areas, where people have some fears and misconceptions about testing positive, which prompt them to furnish fake details to avoid hospitalisation, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/missing-covid-19-patients-cause-for-concern-in-mumbai-839788.html
20-05-2020||West||Mumbai needs to self-isolate to check COVID-19 spread: Milind Deora||Congress leader Milind Deora on Wednesday said Mumbai needs to self-isolate from the rest of the country for some time to contain the spread of COVID-19. The city is the worst hit in the country by the pandemic and the need is to ensure people stay at home as much as possible, the former MP from south Mumbai told PTI. "The need of the hour is for Mumbai to self-isolate from the rest of the country for some time," he said. Deora, in partnership with the Godrej group, has set up quarantine and isolation facilities for asymptomatic COVID-19 patients from congested areas in south Mumbai. These facilities at four different places comprise total 900 beds and will be handed over to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, the former city Congress chief said. He stressed the need for more quarantine and isolation facilities for residents of slums and chawls (small tenements) since they are unable to self-isolate due to their congested residential environments. Religious, social and political gatherings should not be allowed at any cost in Mumbai, Deora said. Densely populated cities like Mumbai and New York are hit the hardest by the pandemic, he said, adding that poor people in urban areas are affected the most because of hygiene and space constraints. The Congress leader said work from home culture needs to be encouraged. "People in sectors like the Information Technology and financial services, which are a big part of Mumbai's economy, should work from home while the hospitality sector should find new business models like home deliveries," he said. He also said that since most of the migrant workers have left for their native places, there will be a labour shortfall in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-needs-to-self-isolate-to-check-covid-19-spread-milind-deora-839791.html
20-05-2020||West||Mumbai's street food business in jeopardy due to lockdown||Mumbai's popular street snacks like 'bhel puri', 'paani puri' and 'vada pav', which used to be relished by people cutting across community and class barriers, have no takers now during the lockdown, throwing street food vendors and roadside stalls out of business. Till some time back, street food was a thriving business in Mumbai, but since the coronavirus outbreak, many vendors have returned to their native places while others are staring at an uncertain future. Kanhaiya, who ran a paani puri stall at Bhuleshwar in Zaveri Bazaar of south Mumbai, returned to his native village near Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh after his business dried up. "In mid-March, when some coronavirus cases were detected in the state and the government ordered closure of malls, swimming pools, gyms, I realised that I should leave for my native place. When malls are shut, what value will I have," he told PTI over phone from his village. He is now busy working at his family farm land, growing wheat, sugarcane and paddy. Asked if he willcome back, Kanhaiya said, "Let's see how the situation unfolds. Even though I have a farm in the village and a house of my own, agriculture is unreliable. Never know what you have sown will remain, it depends on rain. At my shop in Mumbai, I could at least make some savings." He has been missing his stall at Bhuleshwar, which was the hub of wholesale and retail cloth, gold, diamond, steel, plastic and readymade garments. Taxi drivers and low wage workers frequently visited the area, where 'puri bhaji', 'bhel puri', 'vada pav' and 'dosa' were available at prices ranging from Rs 10 to Rs 200. Three khau gullies in Bhuleshwar, streets near the Churchgate station, Flora Fountain in Fort, Bombay Stock Exchange and other areas in south Mumbai used to be packed with food stalls and canteens selling snacks at cheap prices on normal days, but now these areas wear a deserted look. Pappu Singh, another 'paani puri' vendor from Vile Parle area, also left for his native village Khedlakhurd in Dausa district of Rajasthan amid the lockdown. "I used to earn Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 every month and lived at a rented room in Vile Parle with my sons. I came back when business started suffering," he told PTI over phone. "I am penniless since the last two months. There is no water or work in my village. I have been surviving on roti- mirchi (flat bread and chilly)," he said. "There is nothing in my farm. I will sow bajra (pearl millet) if there is good rain. I am waiting for the situation to normalise so that I can resume work," he added.  His son Narender singh, who works at a 'bhel puri' shop in Vile Parle, however, did not leave Mumbai as he felt the lockdown will not prolong. "I and seven workers are staying at the 'bhel puri' shop and we are getting food. The owner hails from our village," Narender said. His employer Sandeep Sharma, owner of the 'Sharma Bhelpuri' outlet in Vile Parle, said his business is affected by this unprecedented crisis. "My 16 employees were mostly from my native place in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Some from UP have left and those who stayed back are living in my shop and godown. They are my family, so it is my duty to look after them in such harsh times," Sharma said. He also feels it is time to reinvent the business model once the COVID-19 crisis ends. "We are thinking of starting 'sev puri' and 'paani puri' takeaways and supply our 'chutneys' hygienically packed to general stores which are open," Sharma said. "Business is anyways low during monsoon. I don't think people will prefer eating'bhel puri' and 'paani puri' when normalcy returns. They will be scared to eat outside and would rather spend on more important things in life," he added. Santosh Sawant, a 'vada pav' stall owner in suburban Santacruz, said business owners like him are now confused about their future. "When my business shut two months ago, I looked after my staff members who were staying in two rooms that I own. I gave them moneyand food. But, on May 15, they left for their native places without informing me. They were my employees for last 15 to 20 years and I can't start my business again without them," he said. But, Sawant is hopeful that his employees will return as he used to acknowledge their hard work. "My focus has always been on quality food and my customers know it. I am sure when things normalise, my business will resume. But I am working on how to take it forward. I am thinking of taking home delivery orders right now," he said. Sagar, whose mother used to supply tiffins to staff at the Vidhan Bhavan, secretariat and the Shipping Corporation of India in south Mumbai, said his business was already down after his father died last year and mother became ill. Since the lockdown, their tiffin service has completely shut down.     Sagar said his mother used to sit on the footpath opposite the secretariat in the afternoon to get more customers who would stop by for a quick lunch of Malvani food. "Since our business closed, I even tried taking up other jobs, but didn't have much luck after everything came to a standstill due to the lockdown," he said. Franchise broker Pravin Jagtap said nearly five lakh people worked in the micro-business sector of fast food and takeaway joints, which has been badly hit by the lockdown. A lot of youngsters had joined the business before the COVID-19 crisis took it all away. "Those who have paid the one-time franchise fees and have taken loan will not be able to pay the shop rent and bank dues due to business losses. After the situation normalises, these shops will have to be careful about health and hygiene issues to get customers back," he said. Rents will also be unaffordable in future and prices will go up due to inflation, he claimed. "Mumbaikars have already forgotten the habit of eating out," Jagtap said. Writer and culinary expert Ajit Joshi said," The street food of Mumbai, that found a place in Bollywood films, international documentariesand food shows, is going to be missed." A large number of office-goers used to depend on the street food, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-street-food-business-in-jeopardy-due-to-lockdown-839826.html
20-05-2020||West||COVID-19: Elderly patient dances her way out of Pune hospital||A video clip of the Mangalwar Peth resident, who was discharged from the Aundh Civil Hospital, has gone viral on social media. In the clip, the sexagenarian, who suffers from arthritis, can be seen breaking into a dance with her walking stick in hand, as she exits the hospital with medical staff cheering her on. "The woman is a diabetic and suffers from arthritis. She was admitted to the hospital a few days ago after she tested positive. Her condition was serious as she suffered from breathlessness and cough and was shifted to the ICU," said Dr Sharmila Gaikwad, one of the doctors who treated her. After spending 10 to 12 days in the ICU, the elderly patient was shifted to a general ward once her condition improved and she subsequently tested negative for the infection, she said. "When we told her that she could now go home, she was ecstatic and she could not contain her happiness and danced while our medical staff cheered her on," she said. While leaving the hospital, the sexagenarian thanked all the staff and nurses. "When she was admitted, she was worried whether she would ever be able to go back home," a nurse from the hospital said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-elderly-patient-dances-her-way-out-of-pune-hospital-839876.html
20-05-2020||West||Gujarat: 16 hospitals get notice for turning away coronavirus patients||The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Wednesday served notices to 16 private hospitals for refusing to admit COVID-19 patients referred to them by the civic body. In the notices served under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the AMC has alleged that despite its order and an appeal made by Ahmedabad Medical Association, 16 hospitals had refused to cooperate and provide beds for COVID-19 patients. The civic body had declared 16 hospitals as designated COVID-19 facilities in an order on May 16 and directed them to provide 50 per cent of their beds for patients referred by the AMC, a release stated.  Additional Chief Secretary Rajiv Kumar Gupta, who is overseeing the AMC's coronavirus operation, confirmed that notices were served to 16 private hospitals for non-compliance of the civic authority's order under Epidemic Diseases Act. Notices were served to major hospitals including Sterling Hospital, Life Care Hospital, SAL Hospital, Rajasthan Hospital, SFVP Hospital, Global Hospital and Sardar Hospital. The release stated that notices were served to these hospitals for "deliberately and willingly disobeying and causing grave prejudice to the safety and security of the public at large".  The civic body has also warned of action "under civil and criminal law, including filing of FIR, against erring hospitals", the release read. With the rise in COVID-19 cases, government hospitals are swamped with patients, because of which the AMC had designated these private hospitals as dedicated COVID-19 facilities. The worst-hit district in Gujarat, Ahmedabad has recorded 8,945 cases so far, of which 576 patients have succumbed to the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-16-hospitals-get-notice-for-turning-away-coronavirus-patients-839891.html
20-05-2020||West||Over 2,000 migrants sent back home from Rajasthan's Bundi district: Administration||The Bundi district administration in Rajasthan has sent back home over 2,000 of more than 3,000 migrant workers who had registered themselves with it, officials said on Wednesday. Similarly, over 1,200 migrant workers from the district have returned from other parts of the country, they said.  So far, the administration has facilitated the return of 2,310 of the 3,117 migrant workers from 26 states who were stranded in the district due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, according to Bundi Collector Antar Singh Nehra. Nearly 145 migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh will be sent back home on buses, which will also bring back to Bundi 87 workers from the neighbouring state, he said. As many as 470 workers from Bihar and 132 from West Bengal are still stuck in Bundi and discussions are being held with the respective state governments to facilitate their return, he added. Similarly, 1,232 of the total 2,564 migrant workers from Bundi stuck in other states have reached home. The process to bring back home the remaining workers is underway, Nehra said.  A helpline-cum-control room set up by the Bundi district Congress Committee has facilitated the return of 250 migrant workers to 22 states in the last 19 days, a party leader said. At least 71 migrant workers hailing from Bihar are still struck in Bundi and are staying in the municipal council's 'rain-baseras' where they are being provided food by the district administration, district Congress vice president Charmesh Sharma said. He said Urban Housing and Development Minister Shanti Dhariwal has specially allotted funds to the state's municipal bodies for providing food to the migrant workers staying in government 'rain-baseras'. "The party workers contribute for travel expenses of migrant workers," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-2000-migrants-sent-back-home-from-rajasthans-bundi-district-administration-839926.html
20-05-2020||West||We have to live with coronavirus and also fight it: Gujarat CM||As Gujarat battles a rising number of coronavirus cases, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Wednesday sought people's participation in fighting the viral infection and announced launching of a week-long online campaign for the same. Rupani said the campaign, to be run between May 21 and May 27, is aimed at making people aware about three basic rules to fight coronavirus - children and elderly citizens should remain indoors, not venturing out without mask and always maintaining social distancing.  The week-long campaign has been named 'Hu Pan Corona Warrior', which means "I am also Corona Warrior". "Now, its a direct battle against coronavirus. We have to live with coronavirus and also fight against it. "I urge people to remain vigilant. A week-long campaign will be launched from Thursday to spread awareness among masses about three simple rules to be followed by everyone to fight the pandemic," he said in a video message.  During this one week, celebrities and prominent citizens will address people and share their views about ways to fight the pandemic, said Rupani. To spread the message, Rupani urged citizens to take selfies with grandparents and post them on social media platforms with hashtag 'HuPanCoronaWarrior'. Barring containment zones, Gujarat has lifted a majority of restrictions on businesses and people's movement across the state in the fourth phase of the lockdown. With 12,141 COVID-19 cases and 719 fatalities till May 19, Gujarat is one of the worst coronavirus-afflicted states in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/we-have-to-live-with-coronavirus-and-also-fight-it-gujarat-cm-839936.html
20-05-2020||West||Gehlot directs officials to make arrangements to quarantine migrants returning to Rajasthan||Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday asked state officials to make adequate arrangements to quarantine migrants returning to the state and ensure that home-quarantine norms are strictly followed. The chief minister spoke with district collectors, superintendents of police, sub-divisional level officers, CMHO, block CMHO and tehsildars through video conference here.  Gehlot said quarantine arrangements and testing facilities should be strengthened in districts where the number of migrants returning from outside are high. He added that home quarantine norms should be strictly followed and violators sent to institutional quarantine. COVID testing centres should be set up in districts with no such facilities, the chief minister said.  Gehlot said containment zones should be monitored with special attention and effective curfew strictly enforced in the fourth phase of the lockdown. He directed that social distancing and wearing of masks in public places should be ensured. Health Minister Raghu Sharma said the testing capacity of the state was 15,000 per day and attempts were being made to increase that to 25,000 by the end of the month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gehlot-directs-officials-to-make-arrangements-to-quarantine-migrants-returning-to-rajasthan-839945.html
20-05-2020||West||Can't differ with Centre on flights but care needed: Maharashtra Minister||Mumbai and Pune, home to busy airports in Maharashtra, have emerged as COVID-19 hotspots and account for a major chunk of the positive cases in the state. Speaking to reporters here, Patil said the state will have to accept the Centres decision if passengers travelling in these flights have medical certificates and are ready to be quarantined on their arrival in Maharashtra. Earlier in the day, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri announced that the domestic passenger flights will resume from May 25 in a calibrated manner. It is important what norms they (the Centre) apply to passengers. We will have to accept it (the decision) if the passengers have medical certificates, are properly tested and are ready to get quarantined (on arrival), Patil said during a press conference online. It will not be right if we take a different position than the decision made at the national-level. But it is our concern, due care should be taken so that (new positive) cases are not added in Mumbai and Pune, which have already witnessed a huge numbers of cases, the Water Resources Minister added. All scheduled commercial passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 25, when the Modi government imposed a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cant-differ-with-centre-on-flights-but-care-needed-maharashtra-minister-839966.html
20-05-2020||West||Plan to fight COVID-19 strategically for June-July: Maharashtra Governor||With projections of a major spike in COVID-19 cases in June-July,  Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday asked the state administration to strategically plan to combat the possible emerging situation. Koshyari asked the government to keep a dashboard providing handy information about availability of beds, availability of doctors, nurses and para medical staff for the entire state so that the same could be deployed where needed most. The Governor asked the state administration to prepare itself for the challenge considering the likely situation of COVID-19 in the State in the months of June and July.  He asked the government to keep enough medical facilities, doctors, staff and beds ready considering the likely case load in the months of June and July, Presiding a high level review meeting on Wednesday evening with senior government officials at Raj Bhavan, Governor Koshyari asked the government to take special measures for containment zones like Dharavi. The Governor asked the government to think of incetivising frontline workers like sanitation workers, police, health workers, ward boys who are doing good work in the battle against COVID-19. The Governor asked the administration to make sure that non-Covid general patients do not suffer anywhere in the State for want of medical facilities. A presentation on COVID-19 situation in Mumbai was made by Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, while Additional Chief Seceetary (Health) Dr Pradip Vyas apprised the Governor of the government’s  preparedness in the State. The Governor also took review of transportation of migrant workers to their home States and the status of relief camp for migrant workers. The meeting was attended by Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta, ACS (Home) Sanjay Kumar, Director General of Police Subodh Jaiswal, ACS Sitaram Kunte, ACS Nitin Kareer, ACS Manoj Saunik and senior government officers Abha Shukla, Sanjay Mukherjee, Bhushan Gagrani, Saurabh Vijay and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/plan-to-fight-covid-19-strategically-for-june-july-maharashtra-governor-840050.html
20-05-2020||West||Maharashtra DyCM slams BJP over planned protest amid COVID-19 crisis||Hitting out at the BJP over its plan to hold a protest on the state government's "failure" in tackling the COVID-19 outbreak, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday said there was no wisdom in turning one's courtyard into a battlefield during a crisis. Pawar said the BJP's planned "Maharashtra Bachao" (Save Maharashtra) protest is an insult of the people of the state and doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, policemen and others, who are at the forefront of the fight against COVID- 19.  Claiming the Shiv Sena-led government in Maharashtra has "failed" to check the spread of coronavirus and the rising fatalities unlike Kerala, the BJP on Wednesday appealed to people to register a protest on May 22. "There is no wisdom in turning one's courtyard into a battlefield. Today, the doctors, nurses, paramedical staffers, sanitation workers, police and every citizen is fighting coronavirus," Pawar said in a statement. "So, staging protests instead of giving them strength is nothing but an insult of the people of the state and the COVID-19 warriors," the senior NCP leader said. Noting the BJP workers' plan to use black placards and masks to mark their protest, Pawar wondered how come one can think of such a "black protest" amid the fight against COVID- 19. "This is an untimely, enigmatic protest. This protest will not benefit Maharashtra and the BJP," he added.  Maharashtra Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat also tore into the BJP, saying the "Maharashtra Bachao" protest is in fact "Save BJP" agitation and a "farce" aimed at underscoring the existence of the party "which was not seen anywhere" in the fight against the disease. Thorat, who is the state unit chief of the Congress, said that the BJP's position is contradictory to its leader Devendra Fadnavis's statement no politics should be played amid the crisis. Thorat alleged that instead of helping the state, Fadnavis chose to contribute money to the PM Cares Fund (for COVID-19 relief work) and said the latter's loyalty rested with the BJP leaders in Delhi and not the state. "How come the BJP leaders think of politics during a crisis situation? The BJP's behavior in this hour of crisis is nothing but Maharashtradroh (treason with Maharashtra)," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-dycm-slams-bjp-over-planned-protest-amid-covid-19-crisis-840057.html
