21-05-2020||First Edit||A tranche of cash for the poor, FM?||The explanations given by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman about the stimulus package which she unveiled last week have not helped to remove the widespread sense that it is not adequate to counter the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown on the economy. She has said that the large sums that would go into the economy through credit enhancement and facilitation measures would have a multiplier and trickle-down effect and would create demand. But the credit pipeline may still remain choked as in the past, and even if it opens up and businesses get going, there may not be enough demand in the economy to respond to it. It will also take a long time for the money to trickle down and create demand, while the need is to create it here and now. This has again brought attention to the need to put cash in people’s hands immediately. It is also now known that the actual fiscal stimulus proposed through the package is barely 1% of the GDP, and not 10% as claimed earlier. The 10% claim may have been made to show that India’s package is similar to those announced by some other countries like the US and the UK, which, it may be noted, decided to cover up to 80% of the salaries of the staff and workers of private companies provided the companies did not sack them. Compared to this, very little has been passed on or promised to those who have been hit by the more severe lockdown in India. The migrant workers are the worst hit, but the minister simply said there is not enough data about them to help them. That’s not a convincing reason for not helping people in distress who are in camps across the country, restrained from going home for weeks. Data is needed when the help is to be targeted to specific groups. In the situation created by the lockdown, the millions in distress are right in front of the government’s eyes.  The minister also suggested that the government had refrained from a large fiscal package because it had learnt lessons from the big stimulus package of the UPA government after the 2008 global financial crisis. But the two situations are entirely different. The economy was not as badly hit then as it is now. It was the continuation of the stimulus for a much longer period than needed that caused high inflation during the UPA regime. The present need is to stimulate demand and increase people’s buying power. The minister has done well, however, to hint that the government may consider this in the weeks to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-tranche-of-cash-for-the-poor-fm-840427.html
21-05-2020||Gadag, Haveri, Ballari||11 persons from Ballari test positive for COVID-19||Among women are a nursing mother and a pregnant woman. The infections have been confirmed in six people from Ballari city, three from Rupanagudi in Ballari taluk and two from Chaganur.    A nine-month-old of the nursing woman is with its grandparents. The child's throat swab will be collected in consultation with the expert doctors and will be sent for lab testing, he explained.  About 187 people including 49 people who are the primary contacts of the infected have been kept at a quarantine centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gadag-haveri-ballari/11-persons-from-ballari-test-positive-for-covid-19-840160.html
21-05-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Five more persons test positive for COVID-19 in Dharwad||Those who tested positive on Thursday include two girls, two women and a man. According to the health bulletin issued by the department of health, two girls aged six and nine years, two women aged 29 and 24 years, and a 35-year-old man have tested positive in the district. They have been identified as P 1505 (six-year-old girl), P 1506 (29-year-old female, mother of P 1505) , P 1507 ( (nine-year-old girl), P 1508 (24-year-old female, mother of P 1507), and P 1509 (35-year-old man, father of P 1507). While P 1505 and P 1506 had returned from Telangana to Dharwad and was kept under institutional quarantine after screening at UAS, Dharwad, P 1507, P 1508 and P 1509 had returned to Dharwad from Mumbai and had been kept under institutional quarantine. The samples of their throat swab had been sent for testing and the result on Thursday said they had been infected by COVID-19. Sources said all the five are natives of Dharwad city. Their travel history is awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/five-more-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-dharwad-840197.html
21-05-2020||In Perspective||Atmanirbhar Bharat: Enthusiastic misdiagnosis, erroneous prescription||Under the auspices of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a ‘stimulus’ package of Rs 3 lakh crore in collateral-free loans and an additional Rs 20,000 crore subordinate debt for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the country. In addition to this, the definitions for the qualifying criteria of MSMEs have been tweaked. The initiative aims to “essentially spur growth and build a very self-reliant India,” as per the finance minister. However, what’s been offered under the initiative does not seem to reflect the intention with which it was conceived. Two main issues reflect this dissonance between thought and action. Firstly, by the finance minister’s own admission, the collateral-free loans are supposed to help 4.5 million enterprises and the subordinate debt is supposed to help another 200,000 units. All in all, the move is said to benefit 4.7 million enterprises. That number represents only 7.5% of the total number of MSMEs in the country. Even assuming that the initiatives are targeted mainly toward the Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) section, they still constitute a mere 0.5% of the larger MSME universe. As far as employment is concerned, SMEs are estimated to provide 40% of the total MSME jobs. Despite good intentions, therefore, these initiatives will still fail to aid the majority of the MSMEs in the country. Secondly, and most importantly, it is not a crisis of liquidity that is plaguing the economic environment. Even if it were, the RBI’s significant repo and reverse repo rate cuts is enough to patch that wound. The current crisis, for which the sudden and long COVID-19 lockdown is the immediate reason, is an extension of the inheritance of “record levels of low demand” from the pre-COVID-19 months. As stated by the RBI and the State Bank of India on numerous occasions regarding the decline in lending, it is not that the banks have a funds crunch. Rather, they are wary of loan repayment defaults. This wariness is simply due to the prevailing state of low demand in the economy which threatens the health of all businesses. The banks’ hesitation to lend is warranted. The banks are simply ‘too big to fail’ in our economy. This wariness resulted in the demonisation of the SBI and its chairperson by the finance minister. The current scenario looks eerily similar to the weeks and months following the November 8, 2016 demonetisation, except for the liquidity factor. Prior to demonetisation, the economy enjoyed a comfortable level of demand and, to go by government figures, an enviable rate of real GDP growth. However, demonetisation caused a sudden contraction in demand that in turn led to a contraction in various economic activities. This contraction was most severe in the case of MSMEs (see RBI’s ‘Macroeconomic Impact of Demonetisation, 2017; Annual Report, 2018). Following demonetisation, employers could not pay their employees, nor could they maintain production due to rising inventories. Although the situation improved later, demand never returned to the pre-November 2016 levels. It is this disastrous effect of demonetisation that Modi 2.0 inherited from Modi 1.0, and which continues to haunt the economy even today. Now, just as then, the MSMEs and their workforces – the migrant workers – are bearing the worst brunt of low demand in the economy. Migrants and MSMEs The mishandling of the migrant communities, who work mainly as daily wage labourers in various pockets of the country, has led to a streak of tragic deaths and disappearances of labourers as they trail towards their hometowns. “COVID-19 is here to stay,” said the World Health Organization exactly on the day the finance minister belatedly addressed the plight of the migrant labourer community. A large chunk of the migrant workers are returning to the North and East of the country, to the states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal. These three states account for 33% of the total number of MSMEs in India, according to the 73rd round of NSSO 2015-16 report. If we stop talking in euphemisms for a moment, we can say that the first ‘M’ in MSME exists because of the failure of successive governments in providing formal sector jobs to those who are now involved in the ‘Micro’ enterprises. It is a poor alternative for proper employment, but it is employment, nonetheless. Micro enterprises constitute more than 99% of the total MSMEs. The migrants who made it to their hometowns alive can only hope to be absorbed into the Micro enterprises category as the Small and Medium enterprises have already fired, and still continue to fire, their employees. In this situation, the reforms and support toward MSMEs should have gravitated more towards Micro enterprises than the SMEs. The recent developments are akin to the classic situation of puncturing the lifeboat after having sunk the ship. Way forward The loans will only delay the inevitable -- economic contraction. Instead, what might give better relief to the MSMEs might be interest waiver for, say, four months since the lockdown was imposed. But to really prevent the inevitable, the government would be well advised to do all in its power to increase demand, even if it means transferring cash directly to the poor. Kickstarting stalled infrastructure projects and initiating new ones will also aid  migrant labourers. In fact, that will prop up demand and infrastructure in one shot. The government need not bother itself with criticisms about crowding out private investment since there is nearly no private investment to begin with anyway. (The writer is Adjunct Professor, Department of Commerce, Economics and Management, PES University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/atmanirbhar-bharat-enthusiastic-misdiagnosis-erroneous-prescription-840429.html
21-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hassan reports 13 new COVID-19 +ve cases; Mandya sees 33 fresh infections||Out of 13 new cases, 11 have a travel history to Mumbai and two are from other places in Maharashtra. This includes 10 male and three female patients. The Mandya district continued to report a spurt in COVID-19 cases with 33 fresh cases being recorded on Thursday. This includes 10 male and five female.  While 11 patients have a travel history to Mumbai, three patients have a contact history with P869. Contact tracing is on for one patient. The total number of cases in the district stands at 201. All are being treated at the designated hospitals in their respective districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-reports-13-new-covid-19-ve-cases-mandya-sees-33-fresh-infections-840220.html
21-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Nine including minor girl test COVID-19 positive in Belagavi||Nine persons, including a 7-year-old girl tested positive for COVID-19 taking the tally of positive cases to 119 in Belagavi, Karnataka, according to the morning bulletin of Health Department on Thursday. Among those tested positive are five female and four male. Three of them had returned from Shikarji in Jharkhand, two from Ajmer in Rajasthan, two from Mumbai in Maharashtra, one from Kolhapur in Maharashtra, another was contact of P-721. Patient P-1489 female (65 years), P-1490 female (63 years) and P-1493 male (75 years) have travel history of Shikarji, P-1491 male (24 years) and P-1492 male (25 years) have travel history of Ajmer, P-1497 male (27 years) and P-1504 female (29 years) have travel history of Mumbai, P-1496 female (7 years) has travel history of Kolhapur and P-1562 female (43 years) was contact of P-721. They have been admitted in Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nine-including-minor-girl-test-covid-19-positive-in-belagavi-840223.html
21-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga records six more coronavirus cases||Shivamogga recorded six more COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday. With this, the number of cases rose to 30. Speaking to media persons, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar said they returned to the district from Tamil Nadu and they have been put under quarantine. So, people need not panic. They were shifted to McGann hospital after they were tested positive. It may be mentioned here that the throat swab tests of 11 police tested negative for COVID-19. However, they are in home quarantine. They were part of a probe team which was entrusted with the responsibility of discovering how the girl from Shikaripur taluk was infected by COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-records-six-more-coronavirus-cases-840237.html
21-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||33 new Covid cases in Mandya; 13 in Hassan||Mandya district continued to report a spurt in Covid-19 cases with 33 more fresh cases reported on Thursday. This includes 21 male and 12 female patients. While 28 patients have a travel history of Mumbai and parts of Maharashtra, three patients have a contact history with Patient (P) 869, one patient with contact history of 896. Contact tracing is on for one patient. The total number of cases is 201. In all, there are 176 active cases and 25 people have been recovered and discharged. Hassan recorded 13 more fresh cases on Thursday. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 66. Out of 13 new cases, 11 have contact history of Mumbai and two from other places in Maharashtra. This includes 10 male and three female patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/33-new-covid-cases-in-mandya-13-in-hassan-840398.html
21-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Increase green cover in Mysuru: S T Somashekar||Cooperation and District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar urged the Forest department authorities to concentrate on increasing the green cover on Chamundi Hill. Addressing the officials in a preparatory meeting ahead of World Environment Day, at Zilla Panchayat auditorium here, on Thursday, the minister said that Mysuru should be a role model in terms of greenery. He urged the Forest department officials to conduct a study on improving green cover and also about planting saplings. The minister said that the saplings must be planted at proper places and the plant must survive for a longer time. “If saplings are planted under electric power lines, they have to be removed after they grow fully. Such things must be considered seriously. No other department must remove the saplings in the name of development,” he added. The minister said, “There are complaints that saplings were being destroyed atop the Chamundi Hill. All departments concerned must work together to improve the green cover atop the hill.” Somashekar called upon the officials to come out of Covid-19 and celebrate Environment Day in a significant manner. Several programmes are planned for Environment Day and they will be finalised in a meeting on Friday. MP Pratap Simha said, “We can create a record, by planting more saplings.” However, MLA S A Ramadass said, “The saplings must be planted scientifically rather than concentrating on numbers. A study must be conducted and available resources must be utilised to grow plants.”  University of Mysore (UoM) Vice Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar said, “The varsity has entrusted students to plant and also to take care of the saplings on the varsity premises.” He requested the support of Forest department to grow more saplings. Karnataka State Open University VC S Vidyashankar said, “The varsity distributed four saplings to each staff. While two saplings will be planted on the varsity campus, the remaining two will be planted at their house.” Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde explained about the programmes for Environment Day. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar and MLA L Nagendra were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/increase-green-cover-in-mysuru-s-t-somashekar-840400.html
21-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Congmen not fit to be Opposition leaders: K S Eshwarappa||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K S Eshwarappa criticised Congress leaders for commenting against the Union government and said that they are not worth to be the Opposition leaders. Eshwarappa was speaking to reporters after visiting Suttur Mutt seer Shivarathri Deshikendra Swam, here, on Thursday. He said, "Commenting against the ruling party is the only job of the Congress leaders. They have been criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Rs 20 lakh crore special package." "I will urge the PM to get advise of Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar, before announcing any programme. While the whole world is appreciating Modi for his efforts and measures to combat COVID-19, Congress leaders are speaking against him. We do not need a certificate from them,” the minister slammed. Eshwarappa accused Congress leaders of going against the Indian Constitution and said Congress workers, led by Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar, staged a protest in front of Vidhana Soudha, without obtaining permission. “Siddaramaiah was chief minister and Shivakumar is Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president, but they went against the Constitution," he accused. When asked about the Amendment to the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act, Eshwarappa said, "It is one of the reforms, which will provide adequate choices to farmers to sell their produce at attractive prices, without any barriers. But, the Congress leaders are opposing farmers' interest." As the gram panchayat elections are postponed, due to COVID-19, the government is thinking of appointing administrative committees, but, Congress leaders are opposition it also, he lamented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congmen-not-fit-to-be-opposition-leaders-k-s-eshwarappa-840405.html
21-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||11 of three Ballari families contract COVID-19||Eleven members of three families, including a pregnant woman and a nursing mother, from Ballari taluk, who’d returned home from Mumbai recently, have tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. According to Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul, A total of 11 members from three families -seven women, three men and a transgender- have contracted the virus. The infected are from Ballari city, Rupanagudi, Gollaranaganahalli and Chaganur. They were working at a fish market in Mumbai. The throat swab sample of the newborn (nine-moth-old) will be drawn with the help of the experts.” As many as 187 people, who were in contact with the 11 infected, had been sent to institutional quarantine, the deputy commissioner said. DAR personnel have been deployed at the quarantine centre to prevent the repeat of Hosayaragudi quarantine centre episode, where two under quarantined had escaped, SP C K Baba said. Raichur sees five more cases After reporting zero cases till May 18, Raichur district has recorded as many as 16 cases, including five new cases on Thursday. A family of five, including three children, with a travel history to Mumbai, have tested positive for the virus. The infected had returned from Vile Parle and Andheri regions of Mumbai.  They had been admitted to the OPEC Hospital. A total of 10,080 people, mostly the interstate travellers, had been placed under the institutional quarantine across the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/11-of-three-ballari-families-contract-covid-19-840409.html
21-05-2020||Karnataka Districts||Head constable tests positive for COVID-19; 2 police stations closed||A Head Constable, deputed on security purpose at a quarantine centre in K R Pet town, has tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Both the rural and the town police stations, which are on the same premises have been closed for four days, as there is a possibility of the constable visiting both the stations. The police personnel at both the stations are also under quarantine, it is said. The police stations will function temporarily at Kikkeri station. The premises would be sprayed disinfectants and sanitised. The constable has been shifted to the designated Covid hospital in Mandya, according to Superintendent of Police K Parashuram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/head-constable-tests-positive-for-covid-19-2-police-stations-closed-840434.html
21-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||Congress asks BS Yediyurappa to withdraw FIR against Sonia Gandhi||The Karnataka Congress has urged Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to withdraw a first information report (FIR) registered against Congress president Sonia Gandhi in connection with a complaint filed by a BJP activist.  The Sagara town police in Shivamogga district has registered a case based on a complaint by KV Praveen Kumar, who alleged that the Congress’ official Twitter handle @INCIndia posted a message suggesting that the PM-CARES fund was being misused.  A delegation led by Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar will meet Yediyurappa on this issue. “The complainant has filed this complaint with a political motive on false information stating that Sonia Gandhi has tweeted stating that Prime Minister has been misusing the PM-CARES fund (sic),” Shivakumar said in his petition to Yediyurappa. “Sonia Gandhi being an MP and Congress president had tweeted with the intention of forcing the Prime Minister to use the PM-CARES fund for the welfare of the people of the country,” Shivakumar said. “Unfortunately, this was misinterpreted by the BJP leadership and it instigated Praveen Kumar to file this complaint based on false information without examining its truthfulness,” he added. "That a FIR was registered against Gandhi was “a blatant misuse of the process of law with an intention to snub the right to healthy criticism,” Shivakumar said, demanding not just withdrawal of the FIR but also action against the police officer concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-asks-bs-yediyurappa-to-withdraw-fir-against-sonia-gandhi-840258.html
21-05-2020||Karnataka Politics||BSY rebukes minister for calling lady farmer ‘rascal’||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday publicly chided Law Minister J C Madhuswamy for yelling at a woman farmer in Kolar, an incident that attracted widespread criticism.   The incident occurred on Wednesday, when Madhuswamy, who is also the minor irrigation minister, was inspecting the Koramangala-Challaghatta (KC) Valley project, under which Bengaluru’s sewage is treated and pumped into lakes in Kolar.  During his visit, farmer Nalini Gowda questioned Madhuswamy on the encroachment of the 1,022-acre S Agrahara lake. At one point, Madhuswamy lost his cool and yelled, “Aye! Shut your mouth, rascal,” and asked the police to take her away. Before this, Madhuswamy told her, “Make a request. I’m a very bad man. You can only air your grievance. Don’t command us.”  A video of this exchange was aired by news channels.  “What (Madhuswamy) said is not right. I have warned him. None can forgive such an explicit manner of talking to a woman. That too, a minister behaving like that doesn’t bode well. I will talk to that woman also and I’ll ensure this doesn’t happen again,” Yediyurappa told reporters. The incident came as an opportunity for the Opposition Congress, which is already attacking the Yediyurappa administration on the Covid-19 crisis. Criticising Madhuswamy’s behaviour, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah demanded an apology and asked Yediyurappa to drop him from the Cabinet.  On his part, Madhuswamy said he felt intimidated and so the incident happened. “I apologise. Maybe, I shouldn’t have said that,” he said. “I’ll even step down if my leaders ask, but at the same time, as someone with self-respect, I won’t surrender to anyone. People should realise that we go to their villages to listen to their problems,” the minister said. “If they start abusing us publicly, how can we work? We heard the woman out and then told her that we know our responsibility. We asked her to close the issue. She didn’t stop and I got tempted (sic).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsy-rebukes-minister-for-calling-lady-farmer-rascal-840395.html
21-05-2020||Main Article||Coronavirus: No 'Vande Bharat’ for migrants||The COVID-19 lockdown has seriously affected the livelihood options for migrant workers and daily wage-earners. While the government has announced that they will be given free ration even if they are not linked with local fair price shop (FPS), part of the Public Distribution System, which is the case with most migrant workers across India including the brick kiln workers in Kanpur and other places, the ground reality is very different. Families with ration cards are discovering that a number of units from their ration cards have been struck off, reducing their quota of ration; those without ration cards are finding it difficult to get them made; and those who are fortunate enough to get ration cards made are being told by the FPS owners that they will start getting their ration only after three months, the period during which 5 kg of free ration is to be distributed per person. Even after two months of the unprecedented lockdown, there are no arrangements for the benefit of stranded migrant workers in the country. With no means to go back to their respective villages, having lost their informal sector jobs and left with no means to earn a livelihood, the migrant workers and their families, including young children, have been forced to walk the highways from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, etc., to their homes in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and elsewhere.   Did Prime Minister Narendra Modi not have an idea of the problems the millions of migrant workers were going to face when he imposed the lockdown with four hours’ notice, asked people to stay at home and to clap and bang vessels and light lamps from their balconies? He asked owners of private enterprises to continue paying salaries during the period of the lockdown. That most businessmen, who happily participated in the clapping and lighting lamps on a call by the same Prime Minister, didn't heed his call to pay salaries to their employees is obvious from the mass exodus from cities and industrial centres. When it became unbearable to stay in small closeted spaces with more people than could be accommodated, with no income for weeks, people became desperate and poured out on to the roads. The fear of dying of hunger and claustrophobia was gnawing more than the threat of coronavirus. The government, which should have arranged transport for them in the first place, was caught unawares. It vacillated between keeping them confined in camps and letting them go home. Apprehensive of a workers' revolt, it continued to play hide and seek. We are already witness to scenes of violent clashes between workers and police trying to contain them. The police were getting confusing signals from the top. The result was total mismanagement. The tragedy of migrant workers in transit is a uniquely Indian phenomenon and hence points to the utter ineptitude of the government. Truth is also emerging that the government was under pressure from the capitalist class not to let the workers return home for fear that it would result in labour shortages, which would hit their operations. Some in Gujarat went as far as to suggest that punitive action should be taken against migrant workers who returned to their villages. Not willing to grant workers any rights or enter into any long term written contracts with them to offer any kind of social security in the best of times, the owners of private companies now want to treat them like bonded labourers. While unwilling to be held accountable by the government or society for their responsibilities towards their workers, the capitalist class now wants to hold workers hostage. Hence the government did not show the kind of alacrity in helping the migrant workers go home that they did in transporting students from the coaching factories of Kota or pilgrims from Gujarat visiting Haridwar and Varanasi. This compounded the tragedy. First, when the police would not allow them to travel by road, the workers took the rail tracks route. It was only after the accident near Aurangabad in Maharashtra on May 8 in which a train ran over 16 workers, killing them in their sleep, that authorities allowed them to travel by road, too. Workers took whatever vehicle they could manage -- bicycles, motorcycles, hitching rides on trucks, and autorickshaws from Mumbai and Delhi going into the hinterlands. Police reversed policy again after the Auraiya road accident in which 25 people were killed on May 16, disallowing road travel again. This time, the migrant workers had no option but to sneak through agricultural fields and remote internal roads. Even people engaged in relief operations were finding it difficult to reach help to the needy travellers avoiding the police. The common people had to struggle on three fronts simultaneously -- the threat of coronavirus, the scare of death by hunger and exhaustion, and the highhanded ways of the government. The government should have anticipated the sheer numbers of workers stranded and accordingly arranged trains and other transport facilities for them to reach their villages as they have a right to life and dignity just like the middle class and the rich of the country. If the government could not do it before imposing the lockdown due to lack of foresight, they could do it even now to alleviate the pain and suffering of millions. Immediate proper transportation facilities, preferably by trains with feeder bus services, mobile medical facilities for the migrant workers, hygienic, comfortable accommodation with food and water while they are in transit and before they reach their homes should be arranged by the government. The government should make it clear whether the pompous sounding ‘Vande Bharat’ programme is meant only for Indians stranded abroad or does it have a plan to rescue migrant workers in the country, too? (Vijaya Ramachandran is an activist based in Kanpur; Pandey is with the Socialist Party (India), Lucknow)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/coronavirus-no-vande-bharat-for-migrants-840428.html
21-05-2020||Mysuru||One more person tests COVID-19 positive in Mysuru||The 18-year-old patient is designated as P-1510. The patient has an interstate travel history. He had travelled history of Mumbai, Maharashtra, according to the DC Abhiram G Sankar.  It has to be noted that the district reported a total of 92 cases and 90 of the recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/one-more-person-tests-covid-19-positive-in-mysuru-840218.html
21-05-2020||National||For every positive COVID-19 test more than 20 negative tests have been done: ICMR||For every positive COVID-19 test more than 20 negative tests have been done, the ICMR said Wednesday, asserting there has been a 1,000-fold increase in the quantum of test per days in the last two months. A total of 25,12,388 samples have been tested by 9 AM of May 20, and the testing capacity has been scaled up to 1 lakh tests per day, it said. Starting with less than 100 COVID-19 tests per day just two months ago, a 1000-fold increase in just 60 days was made possible by dedicated teams from research institutions, medical colleges, testing laboratories, ministries, airlines and postal services working together, the ICMR said in a statement. In January, India had only one laboratory testing for COVID-19, at the Indian Council of Medical Research's National Institute of Virology, Pune. "Today there are 555 laboratories across the country, performing molecular tests for diagnosis of COVID-19 - an unparalleled achievement in the history of the Indian health system," the apex health research body said. Faced with an unprecedented challenge, both in terms of technicalities and scale, Indian scientists had to innovate extensively, health workers had to train and learn on the job, administrators had to coordinate multiple actions round the clock amid the challenges of a nationwide lockdown. In the absence of an effective treatment, prevention is the best strategy, which revolves around testing. In a diverse country like India, for inclusive and equitable access to testing, optimization of resources, based on the evolving epidemic was an essential part of sustainable scaling up.  "As the epidemic evolved, India's testing strategy underwent iterative calibration to keep pace with the changing epidemiology and extent of infection. This ensured that access to tests was assured for risk groups that needed it the most; wasteful, unnecessary testing was avoided; and testing infrastructure was optimally scaled up without taking away resources from other key public health interventions," ICMR said. This is evidenced by the fact that for every positive test more than 20 negative tests have been done throughout the course of the epidemic, it said. "With its testing capabilities now matching the most advanced countries in the world, Indian institutions have risen to the occasion in an emergency situation. In the days ahead their contributions will be required even more as India continues to grapple with the clear and present danger still posed by COVID-19," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-every-positive-covid-19-test-more-than-20-negative-tests-have-been-done-icmr-840076.html
21-05-2020||National||Teachers, students oppose DU's online open-book exam move||Teachers and students came together on social media to oppose the Delhi University's move to hold online open-book exams if the coronavirus situation does not improve. Students and teachers took to Facebook and Twitter to voice their dissent against the move using "#DUwithSolutions". It was one of the top 10 trends on Twitter on Wednesday. The Delhi University Teachers Association and Delhi University Students Union have also joined hands to oppose the move and have the support of the Left-backed student bodies as well as Congress-affiliated National Students Union of India. "The DU administration that cannot consult statutory bodies online to take a collective decision, that has not bothered to reach its students online to ascertain how they are situated and that cannot give academic responses to feedbacks received from the DUTA, University departments, various organisations and individuals is thrusting upon students a mechanism that is unjust and bereft of sanctity," the DUTA said. The manner in which decisions are being taken in violation of statutory processes and disregarding the need for consultation and dialogue can only result in callous and horrendous moves, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/teachers-students-oppose-dus-online-open-book-exam-move-840097.html
21-05-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: May 21, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-may-21-2020-edition-840098.html
21-05-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on May 21||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,17,481 as of May 21. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 3,536   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 42,298 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-may-21-840099.html
21-05-2020||National||Nasal samples from dead bodies must be collected for COVID-19 test before sending to mortuary: ICMR||Nasal swab samples from bodies of suspected COVID-19 cases should be collected for testing of coronavirus infection at the emergency before moving the body to mortuary, the ICMR said. According to the 'Standard Guidelines for Medico-legal autopsy in COVID-19 deaths in India' released by the ICMR on Tuesday, if the COVID-19 test report is awaited, the dead body must not be released from the mortuary until the final report is received and after the formalities, it must be handed over to the district administration. "It is advisable to collect Nasopharyngeal swab at the emergency department/casualty/ward/ICU and should be sent for COVID-19 RT-PCR test in all suspected cases before moving the body to mortuary for preservation if the same was not sent in due hospital course," the guidelines said. Asymptomatic infected people and patients in incubation period may not meet the diagnostic criteria for suspected cases, but if they have possible epidemiological history, all dead bodies without reliable clinical/epidemiological history and all unidentified dead bodies should be treated as suspected COVID-19 deaths. "Cases with negative swab results also should be treated as suspected COVID-19 deaths as false negative result is not uncommon," the guidelines stated. At no time, more than two relatives must be present near the body and they must maintain a distance of at least one meter from the body. The body must be identified through the plastic bag, without opening the bag, and it must be done in the presence of law enforcing agencies. "The body must be taken to the burial/cremation ground in presence of law enforcing agencies, where not more than five relatives of the deceased should be allowed," it said. In case of burial, upper surface should be cemented and earmarked. The body must be cremated in electric crematorium, wherever possible, so that the movement and handling of the body is minimised, the guidelines stated. Religious rituals which require touching the bodies should be avoided like bathing, kissing and hugging of the dead bodies, the document said, adding the ashes do not pose any risk and can be collected to perform the last rites. As for the ideal depth of burial of dead body, the ICMR said as per available literature and reports, the burial is being done at a depth of six to eight feet. During autopsy or while handling the dead body, if anyone get accidental occupational exposure with body fluids/tissues of a COVID-19 patient, then immediately the entire exposed area should be washed with soap and water with minimum contact time of 20 seconds. This should be followed by application of 70 per cent alcohol based disinfectant.  The exposed clothes/ articles should be disposed off according to the established practices. The matter should be reported to the hospital administration to evaluate the necessary steps accordingly, the ICMR added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nasal-samples-from-dead-bodies-must-be-collected-for-covid-19-test-before-sending-to-mortuary-icmr-840103.html
21-05-2020||National||Isolate countries that support terrorism: Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said on Thursday all countries must come together to isolate nations that support and abet terrorism. In his message on Anti-Terrorism Day, Naidu paid tributes to the men and the women who sacrificed their lives to "safeguard the motherland from the evil of terrorism". "Terrorism is the enemy of humanity and the biggest threat to global peace. All countries must come together to isolate nations that support and abet terrorism in any form," he said. Fight against terrorism is not the responsibility of security forces alone but the the duty of every citizen to fight the evil, Naidu said. "All Indians must always remain united to defeat the scourge of terrorism," the vice president said in his message tweeted by his secretariat. Anti-Terrorism Day is observed to mark the death anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi who was assassinated on this day in 1991.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isolate-countries-that-support-terrorism-vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-840123.html
21-05-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi pays tributes to Rajiv Gandhi on his death anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid tributes to Rajiv Gandhi on his death anniversary. Former prime minister Gandhi was assassinated on this day in 1991 in Tamil Nadu's Sriperumbudur by a suicide bomber during an election campaign.  On his death anniversary, tributes to former PM Shri Rajiv Gandhi. "On his death anniversary, tributes to former PM Shri Rajiv Gandhi," Modi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-pays-tributes-to-rajiv-gandhi-on-his-death-anniversary-840130.html
21-05-2020||National||AAI issues SOP for domestic flights' resumption; Aarogya Setu not mandatory for children below 14||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) to airport operators on Wednesday for recommencement of domestic flights from May 25 onwards, saying Aarogya Setu app is not mandatory for children below 14 years of age. "Passengers shall compulsorily walk through screening zone for thermal screening at a designated place in the city side before entering the terminal building," the AAI said in its SOP, which has been accessed by PTI. Airport operators must make appropriate arrangements for sanitisation of a passenger's baggage before his or her entry into the terminal building, said the SOP dated May 20. The AAI manages more than 100 airports across the country. However, major airports like Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad are managed by private companies.  Civil Aviation Minister had announced on Wednesday that domestic flight services would resume from May 25 onwards in a calibrated manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aai-issues-sop-for-domestic-flights-resumption-aarogya-setu-not-mandatory-for-children-below-14-840135.html
21-05-2020||National||CISF conducts flag march in Mumbai to enforce coronavirus lockdown||Personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force conducted a flag march in an area of south Mumbai on Wednesday night to enforce strict implementation of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Five companies of the Central Armed Police Forces, including personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), reached Mumbai on Monday for deployment in areas severely affected by COVID-19, including slums of Dharavi, an official said on Thursday. Armed with their weapons, batons and shields, the CISF personnel conducted a flag march in Bhendi Bazaar area on Wednesday night, he said. More than 700 Mumbai Police personnel have so far contracted the coronavirus infection. Of them, 10 have died of the disease till now. With the deployment of central forces, the Mumbai Police personnel will get some relief in lockdown duties, the official said. The central forces will assist the Mumbai Police in maintaining law and order and to prevent any untoward incident in the city during the lockdown. Personnel of the central forces have been deployed in zones 1,3,5,6 and 9 of the city covering some areas of south and central Mumbai and parts of eastern and western suburbs, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cisf-conducts-flag-march-in-mumbai-to-enforce-coronavirus-lockdown-840145.html
21-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Man stranded at Delhi-Ghaziabad border finally boards Shramik train to attend father's funeral||As his father's health worsened, Mohammad Shamshad, 28, made all efforts to rush back to his village in Hardoi district in Uttar Pradesh. But he found all roads that could take him home blocked at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border. Sitting under a flyover on the Delhi-Ghaziabad border on Wednesday afternoon, Shamshad broke down after he received a call from his mother and sister-in-law that his father was no more. Working as a weaver in an exports company in Haryana, Shamshad received a call from his mother two days back, informing him his father was critical. She asked him to rush back home. His 65-year-old father Mohammad Salaam had been an asthma patient. Shamshad immediately left his house in Kapashera area in southwest Delhi with his wife and four-year-old son early morning in a rented car. When he reached the Anand Vihar Interstate Bus Terminal, the police stopped him and asked him to go back. “I pleaded before them to allow me to go, but they did not relent,” he said over the phone as he was travelling in a Shramik Special train. The police have been stopping the movement of migrant workers on the Delhi-Ghaziabad border as thousands have been making efforts to go back to their villages and towns. Undeterred, he tried to cross over to the other side again, but this time with the help of an auto driver, who charged him Rs 50 per person for the ride. But he and his family were dropped under the flyover and not in Ghaziabad. Helpless, he ran helter-skelter, pleading before people to help so that he can at least attend his father's funeral. By then his plight had been captured by the media. Shamshad and his family later went to Ghaziabad bus stand from where buses were picking up migrant labourers who were to be ferried to the Ghaziabad Railway station. By evening, he managed to board a Sharmik train that could drop him to Hardoi. "I can now at least the last rites of my father," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-man-stranded-at-delhi-ghaziabad-border-finally-boards-shramik-train-to-attend-fathers-funeral-840147.html
21-05-2020||National||At least 19 million children at imminent risk due to Cyclone Amphan in India, Bangladesh: UNICEF||At least 19 million children in parts of Bangladesh and India are at "imminent risk" from flash flooding and heavy rain as Cyclone Amphan makes landfall and the state of West Bengal is expected to take a direct hit from the powerful storm, the UN's children agency has warned. The extremely severe cyclonic storm Amphan made a landfall at Digha in West Bengal and Bangladesh on Wednesday, leaving a trail of destruction. At least three persons were killed in India and seven in Bangladesh. The UNICEF said that at least 19 million children in parts of Bangladesh and India are at “imminent risk from flash flooding, storm surges and heavy rain as Cyclone Amphan makes landfall.” West Bengal, “home to more than 50 million people, including over 16 million children, is expected to take a direct hit from the powerful storm,” the UN agency said in a statement on Wednesday. The UNICEF said it is also very concerned that the COVID-19 could deepen the humanitarian consequences of Cyclone Amphan in both the countries. Evacuees who have moved to crowded temporary shelters would be especially vulnerable to the spread of respiratory diseases like COVID-19, as well as other infections. “We continue to monitor the situation closely,” said UNICEF Regional Director for South Asia Jean Gough. “The safety of children and their families in the areas that will be impacted is a priority and it is good to see that the authorities have planned their urgent response factoring in the on-going COVID-19 pandemic.” Across the region, the UNICEF is “working closely with the governments of Bangladesh and India and stands ready to support humanitarian operations to reach children and families affected by Cyclone Amphan.” Based on the storm’s current trajectory, Cox’s Bazar in Bangladesh – now sheltering over 850,000 Rohingya refugees – is likely to experience high winds and heavy rains which may cause damage to homes and shelters in the refugee camps and Bangladeshi communities. This population is already highly vulnerable and cases of COVID-19 have recently been confirmed in the camps and host communities. The UNICEF said it is working with the Deputy Commissioner’s Office in Cox’s Bazar, the Office of the Refugee Relief and Repatriation Commissioner, and humanitarian partners to help ensure Bangladeshi and Rohingya children and families remain protected. These efforts include raising awareness among Rohingya and Bangladeshi communities on cyclone preparedness and prepositioning emergency life-saving water, sanitation, hygiene and medical supplies to meet immediate humanitarian needs. Meanwhile, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’ spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said at the daily press briefing that UN teams on the ground continue to work with the Government of Bangladesh to prepare and support those in need in the wake of the cyclone. “Given the current pandemic, this support includes distributing personal protective equipment, disinfectants and other materials to evacuation shelters. To reduce the person-to-person contact during the delivery of aid, e-cash distributions will be used,” he said adding that the UN along with its partners is mobilising more than 1,700 mobile health teams and preparing for emergency food deliveries. “The Super Cyclone is taking a westerly trajectory towards India, but nearly 8 million people in Bangladesh remain at risk,” he said adding that the Bangladesh government has evacuated more than 2 million people in high-risk areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-least-19-million-children-at-imminent-risk-due-to-cyclone-amphan-in-india-bangladesh-unicef-840153.html
21-05-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Trains, domestic flights to restart as COVID-19 cases shoot up||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, Dhanyata M Poovaiah brings news highlights that matter to you. DH journalist Akash Sriram brings in DH Fact Check.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-trains-domestic-flights-to-restart-as-covid-19-cases-shoot-up-840167.html
21-05-2020||National||Death toll due to COVID-19 rises to 3,435; cases climb to 1,12,359; MoHFW||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 3,435 and the number of cases to 1,12,359 in the country on Thursday, registering an increase of 132 deaths and 5,609 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 63,624, while 45,299 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said. "Thus, around 40.32 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. The total confirmed cases include foreigners. The increase of 132 deaths reported since Wednesday morning includes 65 were from Maharashtra, 30 from Gujarat, nine from Madhya Pradesh, eight from Delhi, four each from Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh and three each from West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. Of the 3,435 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 1,390 fatalities. It is followed by Gujarat at 749 deaths, Madhya Pradesh at 267, West Bengal at 253, Delhi at 176, Rajasthan at 147, Uttar Pradesh at 127,Tamil Nadu at 87 and Andhra Pradesh at 53. The death toll reached 41 in Karnataka, 40 in Telangana and 38 in Punjab. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 18 fatalities due to the disease and Haryana 14, while Bihar has registered 10 deaths and Odisha six. Kerala and Assam have reported four deaths each so far. Jharkhand, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh each have recorded three COVID-19 fatalities, while Meghalaya and Uttarakhand have reported one fatality each, according to the data provided by the health ministry. According to the ministry's website, more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities, the existence of multiple disorders in the same person. According to the health ministry data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 39,297, followed by Tamil Nadu at 13,191, Gujarat at 12,537, Delhi at 11,088, Rajasthan at 6,015, Madhya Pradesh at 5,735 and Uttar Pradesh at 5,175. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 3,103 in West Bengal, 2,602 in Andhra Pradesh and 2,005 in Punjab. It has risen to 1,661 in Telangana, 1,674 in Bihar, 1,462 in Karnataka, 1,390 in Jammu and Kashmir and 1,052 in Odisha. Haryana has reported 993 coronavirus infection cases so far while Kerala has 666 cases. A total of 231 people have been infected with the virus in Jharkhand and 202 in Chandigarh. Tripura has reported 173 cases, Assam 170, Uttarakhand 122, Chhattisgarh 115 and Himachal Pradesh 110. Goa has registered 50 cases so far. Ladakh has reported 44 COVID-19 cases, while the Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered 33 infections. Manipur has 25 cases, Puducherry 18 and Meghalaya 14. Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Dadar and Nagar Haveli have reported a case each till how. "1,403 cases are being reassigned to states," the ministry said on its website, adding "our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR". State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-rises-to-3435-cases-climb-to-112359-mohfw-840186.html
21-05-2020||National||Congress leader Pankaj Punia arrested in Haryana for 'objectionable' tweet||Congress leader from Haryana Pankaj Punia has been arrested by police in Karnal for allegedly "hurting religious feelings" through a social media post, a police official said on Thursday. Punia, a former secretary of Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, was arrested late Wednesday night following a written complaint by a Karnal resident at Madhuban police station that he allegedly "hurt religious feelings" and "promoted enmity between different groups on ground of religion" through his tweet, the official said. "Pankaj Punia was arrested from Madhuban area," Station House Officer, Madhuban police station, Inspector Tarsem Chand said. A similar complaint against Punia, also a member of the All India Congress Committee, was registered on Wednesday by the Uttar Pradesh Police. An FIR was registered against Punia at the Hazratganj Police Station in Lucknow for his alleged objectionable tweet. Chand said in the case registered in Madhuban police station, Punia has been booked under IPC sections related to promoting enmity between different groups (153 A), outraging religious feelings (295 A), public mischief (505-2), and Section 67 of the Information Technology (Amendment) Act 2008. In his complaint, the complainant has alleged that "one person namely PankajPunia@INC has posted provocative falsehood to promote enmity between sections of society on ground of religion and his acts are prejudicial to maintenance of harmony". On Tuesday, Punia in his tweet, now removed, had targeted the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, referring to the politics over plying of buses by the Congress for ferrying migrants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leader-pankaj-punia-arrested-in-haryana-for-objectionable-tweet-840188.html
21-05-2020||National||Nearly 1.5 lakh tickets booked in first 2 hrs for trains running from June 1||Almost 1.50 lakh tickets were booked within two hours of opening the bookings for the 100 pairs of passenger trains that the railways will operationalise on June 1, officials said Thursday. On Wednesday, railways issued a list of 100 pairs of trains that it will operate from June 1. The list included popular trains such as Durontos, Sampark Krantis, Jan Shatabdis and Poorva Express. This is the second slew of special passenger services that marked the Railways graded restoration of its trains which were suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic. "At 12:00 Hours, 73 trains were available in the system for booking. 1,49,025 tickets were booked having 2,90,510 passengers," said a railway spokesperson. These trains will have both AC and non-AC classes and fully reserved coaches. The railways said these trains will be "special trains run on the pattern of regular trains", covering tier 2 cities and also major state capitals like Mumbai and Kolkata. Officials said from now on, all such special trains will have both these categories to accommodate all classes of passengers. The trains that will run from June 1 include 17 Jan Shatabdi trains and five Duronto Express trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-15-lakh-tickets-booked-in-first-2-hrs-for-trains-running-from-june-1-840194.html
21-05-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 4.0: Piyush Goyal says more trains to resume, counter ticket booking from June 22||There will be resumption of more trains coming days, Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal announced here on Thursday as the Minister emphasis on taking country towards normalcy after two months of lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic. "We are going to announce the resumption of more trains in the coming days. Time to take India towards normalcy,"  the Minister said day after annoucing the operation of 200 long distance trains with fixed time table from June 1.    "The railways permitted operation of shops at railway stations. However, only takeaways will be allowed," Goyal said during his conversation with BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra here. Though earlier announced tickets should be booked through online only for 200 special trains, on Thursday, the national transporter said ticket booking will be allowed common service centres and ticket booking counters at different stations and other places from Friday. The zonal railway officials have to decide on how much counters should open for booking. Social distance maintaining while booking tickets will be must. The railways announced the operation of 200 long distance trains from June 1 and resumed ticket booking at 10 pm Thursday. However, a huge rush for tickets led to glitch in the system forcing the railways appeal public to have patience. However, by night all trains data was fed to the online booking system, said railway official. The demand for the ticket was so much that within two-hour of booking started for 73 trains more 1.5 lakh tickets booked having 2.9 lakh passengers", railways said. "So many people will log in at the same time and all 200 trains would take time to FIRE up on reservation systems. There would be issues due to weather conditions in Eastern part of India so firing up from those locations would also get impacted. Firing of trains is a time consuming exercise and it means actual loading of all info train journey , it's booking parameters etc on IT system and this is done simultaneously from both the originating zone and terminating zone, the statement said. However Shramik Special and Special Rajdhani Express trains will run. The Railway Minister said 2050 Shramik Special operated since May 1 ferrying 30 lakh stranded people mostly migrants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-40-piyush-goyal-says-more-trains-to-resume-counter-ticket-booking-from-june-22-840200.html
21-05-2020||National||Is militancy making a comeback to Srinagar?||The killing of two paramilitary BSF jawans on the outskirts of Srinagar city on Wednesday(May 20) evening has come as a reminder from the militants that its presence has increased in the city, which was not long ago was considered as a zero-militancy zone. The hit-and-run attack near Pandach came just a day after the top commander of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen, Junaid Sehrai, was killed in an intense gunfight with security forces in the congested Nawakadal area of old city Srinagar. In the Pandach attack, the militants also snatched two weapons of the slain soldiers.  Even as militants fired gunshots or lobbed grenades at some places, there was no major militant strike for over 18 months in Srinagar. The worry for the security agencies is that the latest two incidents occurred in the city at a time when militants are on the defensive in south Kashmir, where they have suffered heavy losses in recent months. Immediately after the killing of Sehrai on Tuesday, J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh said that he was tasked to lure local youth into militancy and for grenade throwing in Srinagar. “He would hold meetings with the youth (in Srinagar) and lure them towards militancy,” he said in a presser. Though the police chief evaded a direct answer when asked about the number of active militants in the city, he said 14 are active after Sehrai’s death in the Central Kashmir districts of Srinagar, Budgam, and Ganderbal. However, sources said, in the recent two years the Hizbul has covertly built a network of over-ground-workers (OGWs) in Srinagar through which they can carry attacks “at will.” “The Pandach attack probably is also the handiwork of the OGW network. After becoming a militant in March 2018, Junaid Sehrai was tasked to revive militancy in Srinagar and neighbouring Ganderbal districts. To some extent he succeeded in his mission as several youths came under his influence,” they said. The police categorise “anybody who supports the militants” as an OGW. A person providing a safe house, passage, information, or acting as a messenger for militants automatically comes under the radar of the police as an OGW. Sources said the militants are trying to make new bases in Srinagar as they are on run from south Kashmir due to relentless operations by security forces. “Though people of Srinagar were not interested in providing logistic support to militancy for the long years, there has been marginal recruitment of militants after August 2019. The militant handlers are trying to encash palpable scepticism, pessimism, and cynicism in the air after the abrogation of Article 370,” they said. A senior police officer involved in counter-insurgency operations told DH that to keep the ‘waning’ morale of militants high, Pandach-like attacks may happen in the city. “Militants are of asymmetrical techniques like hit-and-run as a reaction to a major crackdown on them. The militant handlers want to keep the city on the boil. However, we will thwart all their attempts,” he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-militancy-making-a-comeback-to-srinagar-840202.html
21-05-2020||National||A day after death, Srinagar lady tests positive for COVID-19||An 80-year-old lady from Srinagar tested positive for COVID-19, a day after her death at SMHS hospital, taking the toll of viral illness in Jammu and Kashmir to 20. Dr. Salim Khan, nodal officer for COVID-19 at Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar said the lady from the Bemina area of Srinagar, who died at SMHS on Wednesday (May 20), tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday (May 21). He said that she was admitted with bilateral pneumonia and hypertension on May 19 and was kept in an isolation ward where she died on Thursday. “Her body was kept in the GMC mortuary and her reports came COVID-19 positive today,” Dr. Khan added. The mortality attributed to coronavirus has increased in the past week in Kashmir where eight positive people have died since May 17. Although doctors said all these patients suffered from other life-threatening illnesses, the deaths have steepened the mortality graph of the viral illness.  Till Wednesday evening J&K had reported 1,390 COVID-19 positive cases out of which 678 have recovered and 694 are Active Positives. While J&K crossed one lakh tests conducted on Wednesday, the majority of new cases were people returning to J&K from other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-day-after-death-srinagar-lady-tests-positive-for-covid-19-840209.html
21-05-2020||National||No stone will be left unturned to help Amphan-hit states: Modi||The Centre is continuously monitoring the situation in cyclone Amphan-hit West Bengal and Odisha with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday(May 21) saying no stone will be left unturned in helping the affected people as efforts are on to restore normal activities. West Bengal informed the Centre that there were major damages to agriculture, power and telecommunication facilities in cyclone-hit areas, while Odisha said damages have been mainly limited to agriculture. Home Minister Amit Shah dialled Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee to offer "all possible help" from the Centre even as National Crisis Management Committee headed by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba took stock of the situation with top Central and state officials. "Have been seeing visuals from West Bengal on the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan. In this challenging hour, the entire nation stands in solidarity with West Bengal. Praying for the well-being of the people of the state. Efforts are on to ensure normalcy. No stone will be left unturned in helping the affected," Modi tweeted. Shah said the Centre was "closely monitoring" the cyclone Amphan and are in continuous touch with concerned authorities. Following the forecast by Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), West Bengal had evacuated five lakh people and Odisha two lakh with the help of NDRF. This has resulted in minimal loss of human lives, considering the fact that the intensity of the Amphan was next only to that of the Super Cyclone that struck Odisha in 1999 causing large scale devastation, an official statement said. During the NCMC review meeting, Gauba directed all central ministries and agencies to remain in close touch with Odisha and West Bengal State governments and provide all required assistance expeditiously. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) will be sending teams to carry out an early assessment of damages and submit a report. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has moved additional teams to West Bengal to speed up restoration work, especially in Kolkata. The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has been instructed to ensure adequate availability of food grains, especially rice, to West Bengal so that marooned people are provided immediate sustenance, officials said. Ministry of Power and Department of Telecommunications will assist the two states in the early restoration of electricity and communication channels. The Railways, which suffered major damages to its infrastructure, is in the process of restarting its operations at the earliest. Chief Secretaries of West Bengal and Odisha as well as senior officers from the Ministries of Home Affairs, Defence, Shipping, Civil Aviation, Railways, Petroleum and Natural Gas, Power, Telecommunications, Steel, Drinking Water and Sanitation, Health, IMD, National Disaster Management Authority and NDRF attended the review meeting||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-stone-will-be-left-unturned-to-help-amphan-hit-states-modi-840214.html
21-05-2020||National||Congress pays tribute to Rajiv Gandhi on his death anniversary||The Congress on Thursday paid rich tribute to former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on his death anniversary and decided not to issue advertisements in his memory, rather utilise the money in helping migrants. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi described him as a "true patriot, liberal and who put the country on the path of progress and self-reliance with his farsightedness". "In memory of my beloved father, Shri Rajiv Gandhi, who was martyred this day in 1991. He was a wonderful father; gentle, kind, compassionate and patient. I miss him. But he will always stay alive in my heart and in the wonderful memories I have of him," Rahul Gandhi wrote on Twitter In another tweet in Hindi, he said, "I am proud to be the son of a true patriot, liberal and philanthropic father. As prime minister, Rajiv ji put the country on the path of progress. With his farsightedness, he took steps to make the country self-reliant. Today on his death anniversary I salute him with affection and gratitude." Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted, "To be kind to those who are unkind to you; to know that life is fair, no matter how unfair you imagine it to be; to keep walking, no matter how dark the skies or fearsome the storm; to nurture a strong heart, and fill it with love no matter how great it's sorrows; these are the gifts of my father's life." She also tweeted a photo of her with Rajiv Gandhi, saying this was her last photo with her father. "The Congress party has decided that due to coronavirus pandemic, instead of giving advertisements in his memory and while paying respects to him, the entire amount so saved will be utilised for helping migrant labourers and workers. "Congress workers in the entire country have also taken this pledge to make efforts and focus on helping the needy," a message from the party said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-pays-tribute-to-rajiv-gandhi-on-his-death-anniversary-840225.html
21-05-2020||National||Over 50 million Indians lack handwashing access, at high COVID-19 risk: Study||More than 50 million people in India do not have access to effective handwashing, putting them at a greater risk of acquiring and transmitting the novel coronavirus, according to a study. Researchers from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington in the US found that without access to soap and clean water, over 2 billion people in low- and middle-income nations -- a quarter of the world's population -- have a greater likelihood of transmitting the coronavirus than those in wealthy countries. According to the study, published in the journal Environmental Health Perspectives, more than 50 per cent of the people in sub-Saharan Africa and Oceania lacked access to effective handwashing. "Handwashing is one of the key measures to prevent COVID transmission, yet it is distressing that access is unavailable in many countries that also have limited health care capacity," said Michael Brauer, a professor at IHME. The study found that in 46 countries, more than half of people lacked access to soap and clean water. In India, Pakistan, China, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Ethiopia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Indonesia, more than 50 million persons in each country were estimated to be without handwashing access, according to the study. "Temporary fixes, such as hand sanitizer or water trucks, are just that -- temporary fixes," Brauer said.  "But implementing long-term solutions is needed to protect against COVID and the more than 700,000 deaths each year due to poor handwashing access," Brauer said. He noted that even with 25 per cent of the world's population lacking access to effective handwashing facilities, there have been "substantial improvements in many countries" between 1990 and 2019. Those countries include Saudi Arabia, Morocco, Nepal, and Tanzania, which have improved their nations' sanitation, the researchers said. The study does not estimate access to handwashing facilities in non-household settings such as schools, workplaces, health care facilities, and other public locations such as markets. Earlier this month, the World Health Organization predicted 190,000 people in Africa could die of COVID-19 in the first year of the pandemic, and that upward of 44 million of the continent's 1.3 billion people could be infected with the coronavirus, the researchers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-50-million-indians-lack-handwashing-access-at-high-covid-19-risk-study-840234.html
21-05-2020||National||Migrant worker from MP collapses and dies before boarding train in Karnataka||Tragedy struck an elderly migrant worker who was looking forward to joining his family as he died on reaching a nearby railway station to board a Shramik Special train to his home state Madhya Pradesh, police said on Thursday. The 69-year old man, who worked in a coffee estate in Chikkamagaluru, collapsed and died soon after getting down from a state-run KSRTC bus that brought him and others to the Chikkabanavara Railway station on Wednesday. According to police, fellow labourers said he had been ailing for quite some time. The cause of his death would be known only after a post-mortem, police added. Karnataka government has been sending back thousands of migrant workers stranded in the state due to the COVID-19 lockdown by arranging the special trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-worker-from-mp-collapses-and-dies-before-boarding-train-in-karnataka-840249.html
21-05-2020||National||Ticket bookings to open at physical facilities across India, more trains to be announced: Rail Min||Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday said booking of train tickets will resume at around 1.7 lakh common service centres across the country from Friday. Common Service Centres are physical facilities for delivering e-services of the government at rural and remote locations where availability of computers and internet is negligible or absent. The minister also said that bookings will also resume at counters at specific stations over the next two to three days. "We are developing a protocol to identify the stations...we will also soon announce the resumption of more trains," Goyal said during a conversation with his party colleague and BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra. The Railway Minister also praised Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani for their cooperation with the railways in running the Shramik Special trains and criticised West Bengal and Jharkhand for their non-cooperation. Goyal also said within 2.5 hours of opening bookings for the 100 pairs of special trains that will run from June 1, 4 lakh passengers have booked tickets. People have also started reverse bookings to come back to work, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ticket-bookings-to-open-at-physical-facilities-across-india-more-trains-to-be-announced-rail-min-840255.html
21-05-2020||National||BCI expresses dissatisfaction with virtual courts, wants to conduct opinion poll||The Bar Council of India has expressed its dissatisfaction with the functioning of virtual courts across the country after the countrywide lockdown was imposed in March to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. It claimed the public and advocates are in dark as to what is happening in courts across the country. The BCI also decided to conduct an opinion poll through state Bar Councils and Bar associations to discuss the feasibility of holding physical courts and the methods of listing and hearing. "The BCI has received complaints of pick and choose in fixing urgent matters in some high courts. There are technical problems as well. We cannot expect an effective hearing in the process,"  Srimanto Sen, Secretary, BCI said. In a press release, the apex regulatory body of the legal profession and education alleged that some people are trying to take undue advantage of lockdown.  "The legal profession is being attempted to be highjacked by a few blessed lawyers and a few law firms, which have a high-level connection. The entire system is likely to go out of the hands of common advocates. In such a situation, the Supreme Court and the High Courts cannot keep its eyes shut," it said. It also took objections to illegal advertisements being put out by some lawyers on a website and decided to issue show cause notice in this regard. It also sought financial assistance from the Union and State governments to needy advocates, clerks, and their families, facing distress situations due to lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bci-expresses-dissatisfaction-with-virtual-courts-wants-to-conduct-opinion-poll-840256.html
21-05-2020||National||16 more test COVID-19 positive in Himachal Pradesh; total cases climb to 127||Sixteen more people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday, taking the total number of cases reported in the state so far to 127, officials said on Thursday. With 54 people cured, the number of active cases in the state now stand at 69, which include 32 from Kangra, 15 from Hamirpur, five each from Solan and Bilaspur, four from Mandi, three from Chamba, two each from Sirmaur, Una and one from Kullu. Four people have so far died of the disease. Out of these fresh cases, reported from Kangra, Hamirpur and Solan districts, 10 had returned from Mumbai and five from West Bengal while one had come in contact with a local COVID-19 case, they said. The state had reported 18 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Special Secretary (Health) Nipun Jindal said six Mumbai returnees, including a woman, in Kangra district and five West Bengal returnees in Solan district have tested positive for the infection. They were already in institutional quarantine, and are being shifted to Baijnath, he said. A district official has confirmed five cases in Hamirpur on Thursday, however the details are not available immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-himachal-pradesh-total-cases-climb-to-127-840257.html
21-05-2020||National||All benches of Delhi HC to take up urgent matters via video conferencing from May 22||The Delhi High Court has decided that from Friday all its judges will sit everyday to take up "urgent matters of all kinds" via video conferencing. The step follows the high court and the lower courts together having taken up 20,726 urgent matters during the COVID-19 related lockdown from March 24 to May 19. "As per the latest initiative taken by Chief Justice D N Patel and other Judges of the High Court of Delhi,  now, w.e.f. May 22, 2020, all the division benches and all the single-judge benches shall take up urgent matters of all kinds, through video conferencing, during the suspended functioning of the Court. "All such benches would sit daily on all the working days," said a note, issued by the office of high court Registrar General Manoj Jain. Till now, urgent matters were being taken up by two division benches and ten single-judge benches, but the judges of these benches were sitting on rotation basis. There are presently seven division benches and 19 single-judge benches in the high court. The note further said that the roster benches would also take up the matters which are at the stage of final arguments and in which consent has been received from both the sides agreeing for disposal of case on the basis of written submissions alone. It also said that the existing procedure of mentioning of urgent matters, via weblink before joint registrar concerned, would continue to be in force till further orders.   "Non-urgent matters shall be taken up by the roster benches on resumption of regular hearings and as per the order of Chief Justice," it also said. The seven division benches and 19 single-judge benches are also referred to as roster benches as each of them deal with cases based on specific categories (or roster) decided by the Chief Justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-benches-of-delhi-hc-to-take-up-urgent-matters-via-video-conferencing-from-may-22-840261.html
21-05-2020||National||2 Dalit minor girls raped in separate incidents in Rajasthan's Jhalawar||Two Dalit minor girls were allegedly raped by youths in separate incidents in Rajasthan's Jhalawar district, police said on Thursday. The two incidents took place within a span of 18 hours of each other on Tuesday night and Wednesday noon, respectively, at two separate places under Khanpur police station area of Jhalawar district, they said. In the first case, a 16-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped by a neighbour in a village under Khanpur area on Wednesday noon when her parents had gone to work at an MGNREGA site in the village, SHO at Khanpur police station Kamal Chand Meena said. The rape survivor reached the police station on Wednesday afternoon after her parents had returned from work and lodged a case of rape against the youth, he added. In the complaint, the girl alleged that the accused youth entered her house on Wednesday noon while she was alone at home and he raped her there threatening not disclose of the act to anyone outside, the SHO said. Police lodged a case of rape against the accused under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code, relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and Section 3 of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, he added. The accused had escaped from his house after the case was lodged against him and efforts are underway to arrest him, the policeman said. The girl underwent a medical examination on Wednesday evening while the case has been handed over to Circle Officer DSP Bhanwar Singh Hada for further investigation, the SHO further said. In the other incident, a 13-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped by a 19-year-old youth from her neighbourhood on Tuesday night in another place under Khanpur police station area, the SHO said. Along with her parents, the victim reached the police station on Wednesday morning and lodged a case of rape against the youth, he added. The girl alleged that the accused would often tease and trouble her with repeated mobile calls and kept nagging her to meet him in an isolated place, the SHO said. On Tuesday night, the accused apparently called the girl and told her to come outside while the other members of her family were asleep and raped her there, according to the complaint. A case of rape was lodged against the accused under Section 376 of the IPC, relevant sections of the POCSO Act and Section 3 of the SC/ST Act, the police official said, adding that the matter has been forwarded to DSP Bhanwar Singh Hada for further investigation. A medical examination of the rape survivor was carried out on Wednesday and the accused was detained for interrogation on Thursday, the SHO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-dalit-minor-girls-raped-in-separate-incidents-in-rajasthans-jhalawar-840266.html
21-05-2020||National||Sensex rises 114 pts; FMCG, auto stocks rally||Equity benchmark Sensex rose 114 points on Thursday as investors accumulated FMCG, auto and IT stocks amid gradual reopening of the economy. After rising to an intra-day high of 31,188.79, the 30-share index settled 114.29 points or 0.37 per cent up at 30,932.90. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 39.70 points, or 0.44 per cent, to 9,106.25. ITC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 7 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, Hero MotoCorp, Maruti, Bajaj Auto, Sun Pharma, TCS and HCL Tech. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Bajaj Finance, HDFC and L&T were among the laggards. Buying was seen in frontline stocks of sectors like auto, IT, metals and FMCG as traders took note of gradual opening of the economy, raising hopes of economic recovery, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. However, at the fag-end of the session, some selling was witnessed as negative global cues continued for the second straight day and traders booked profits as weekly expiry neared, leading to indices losing the majority of the gains, he added. Concerns over the long-term impact of COVID-19 and worsening China-US relations too kept investors on the edge, traders said. The number of COVID-19 cases in India spiked to over 1.12 lakh, while the death toll rose to 3,435, according to the health ministry. Globally, the number of cases linked to the disease has crossed 49.96 lakh and the death toll has topped 3.28 lakh. Bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended in the red, Seoul closed with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with significant losses in early deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude futures climbed 1.79 per cent to USD 36.39 per barrel. On the currency front, the rupee appreciated 19 paise to provisionally close at 75.61 against the US dollar. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sensex-rises-114-pts-fmcg-auto-stocks-rally-840268.html
21-05-2020||National||US says India must lower tariffs to lure companies leaving China post-COVID-19||The United States has nudged India to bring down tariffs and adopt a more open policy to lure businesses and take advantage of the moves to lessen the dependence of the global supply chains on China in the post-COVID-19 world.  Even as New Delhi has been trying to dispel the perception that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s push for “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (Self-reliant India) might lead to protectionism, a senior US diplomat said that the post-COVID-19 environment would offer India “a real moment of opportunity”, but PM Modi’s government should lower tariffs and adopt “more open and welcoming” policies. “I think what we should focus on, again, in this post-pandemic environment, when countries are looking at a little bit of de-globalization and of onshoring of more of the critical production, at the same time…I think there’s a very vigorous effort to diversify supply chains,” said Alice G Wells, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary at the Bureau of South and Central Asia at the US State Department. “And, this is a real moment of opportunity for India by adopting more open and welcoming policies, by reducing tariffs that allow manufacturing companies inside of India to be part of a global supply chain.”  The coronavirus was previously unknown before the outbreak began at Wuhan in China in December 2019. The lockdowns enforced by nations to contain the pandemic had a devastating impact on the global economy and fuelled speculation that many international companies might seek to diversify global supply chains to lessen reliance on China. Wells hinted during an online interaction with journalists that President Donald Trump’s administration in Washington D.C. would like to see the US companies prefer India while moving out of China in the post-COVID-19 scenario, but the Modi government should ensure a level-playing field for them.     “It’s a real moment of opportunity for us (India and the US) to create trusted supply chain relationships with one another” added the senior US diplomat, who is set to retire by the end of this month after overseeing America’s relations with South Asian and Central Asian nations for the past three years. She reiterated that the US remained concerned as India continued to be “a quite protected market” that could be difficult and sometimes did “not provide a level playing field for foreign companies”.  Wells, however, said that she could not predict whether the proposed trade deal between India and the US could be inked this year, but added that the “impetus” for concluding the pact was “very much present”  India-US bilateral trade has been growing at an average rate of 10% year-on-year and grew from $100 billion in 2014 to $160 billion in 2019. But ever since Trump took over as American President in January 2017, he, himself, as well as other officials of his administration have been complaining that the although the US was India's largest export market and accounted for about 20% of its total export, India was only the 13th largest export market of the US, “due to overly restrictive market access barriers”. A limited-scope trade deal was expected to be among the big-ticket deliverables of the US President's visit to India last February, but it had to be taken off the table for now as negotiators led by Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer failed to narrow differences between the two sides. Modi and Trump, however, agreed to add a legal framework to the understanding the interlocutors of India and the US reached so far as well as to try to work out a “bigger trade deal” in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-says-india-must-lower-tariffs-to-lure-companies-leaving-china-post-covid-19-840271.html
21-05-2020||National||UP govt putting in jail those helping migrant labourers: Priyanka Gandhi||A day after the standoff between the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government and the Congress over the latter's offer to provide 1,000 buses for migrants, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra claimed those trying to help stranded labourers are being jailed and asked party workers to carry on with the fight. Uttar Pradesh Congress chief was arrested twice on Wednesday -- first in Agra for sitting on a dharna to protest against UP government not granting permission to allow buses arranged for migrants by the Congress enter the state. He was granted bail by an Agra court and released, before being rearrested by a team of Lucknow police in a second case filed here in connection with the Congress' standoff with the state government. "Have you seen the method of Yogi (Adityanath) government to fight the coronavirus epidemic? When the Congress arranged buses for migrant labourers, the Yogi government sent Uttar Pradesh Congress president to jail in a false case," Priyanka Gandhi, the general secretary of the party, said in a message. The party's Uttar Pradesh unit's media convenor said Lallan Kumar said she asked the party workers not to be afraid and carry on the fight for the migrant workers. Gandhi said, "The entire nation is standing united to fight the epidemic but the UP government is putting those making arrangements of bus, train tickets, food and ration for the labourers in jail." Referring to the 30th death anniversary of her father, former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, she has said, "Rajiv ji gave his life for the country. He loved Hindustan and its people. He could not see their pain. We have learnt from him to help the weak." Lalan said that Priyanka Gandhi has called upon about 50,000 Congress workers of the state to raise their voices for the labourers through 'Facebook live' on Thursday against the "oppression", as that would be the "proper tribute for Rajiv Gandhi".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-govt-putting-in-jail-those-helping-migrant-labourers-priyanka-gandhi-840276.html
21-05-2020||National||Jharkhand to start 'community kitchens' on highways for migrants||The Jharkhand government has begun the process of setting up community kitchens along the highways to provide food and water free of cost to migrants returning home, Chief Minister Hemant Soren said. The kitchens are coming up at a distance of 20 km from each other on the national as well as the state highways in the state, he said. The CM said 94 spots have been identified along the highways for the purpose and they will begin functioning soon. The respective district administration will run the kitchens, the CM said on Wednesday. These kitchens are in addition to the state governments 6,432 "Didi Kitchens" already set up during the COVID-related lockdown period, feeding two meals to about 45,000 people every day, Soren said. Along with its own natives, Soren said the facility would also be extended to migrants from other states passing through Jharkhand. "Jharkhand has to set an example of humanity and harmony, as people should not lose humane (touch)," Soren said. The chief minister said that lodging and food arrangements for six lakh out of nearly seven lakh stranded migrant workers of Jharkhand have been made in coordination with the states concerned. "Buses are being sent for those mazdoors (labourers) who want to return home, besides bringing them by Shramik trains," Soren said.  After the chief minister's instruction, migrants spotted on national/state highways walking to their destinations, are helped by the patrolling teams by offering them food packets, official sources said. They are gathered at a safe place and after an accumulation of good numbers they are sent to their areas by the state-sponsored buses, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-to-start-community-kitchens-on-highways-for-migrants-840281.html
21-05-2020||National||Cyclone Amphan in India, Bangladesh snaps power supply to 5 million homes||The biggest cyclonic storm over the Bay of Bengal in two decades wreaked havoc along India’s east coast and in Bangladesh, killing several people, flooding low-lying areas and affecting power supply. Amphan is likely to continue to move north-northeastward and weaken further into a depression on Thursday, according to the India Meteorological Department. The storm, which started as a category 5 hurricane and made a landfall Wednesday, will carry sustained wind speeds of 30 to 40 kilometers (19-25 miles) per hour, which may rise to 50 kilometers per hour, it said. In Bangladesh, at least 12 people were killed, private broadcaster Somoy TV reported. The cyclone snapped power supply to about 5 million homes and caused tidal surges, flooding homes and some coastal areas, according to the report. While in India’s West Bengal state as many as 12 people were killed, said Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. “I have never seen anything like this in my life,” Banerjee said. “Electricity and water supply is disconnected. Crops have been damaged. Many areas have been destroyed. We have lost communication.” The storm had prompted Bangladesh to evacuate about 2.4 million people to storm shelters, while India’s West Bengal moved 500,000 people into relief centres. There are concerns that the coronavirus infections may rise in cyclone shelters as people don’t have enough masks and social distancing rules are not strictly being followed at many places. “Disasters also wreak havoc on fighting of a pandemic” as all attention and resources shift to relief operations, said Bhubaneswar-based Bhuputra Panda, associate professor with Public Health Foundation of India. The possibility of an increase in infections has risen sharply as even some quarantine centres have been converted into cyclone shelter homes, he said. “It’s a big disaster. This is a bigger disaster than even COVID-19,” Banerjee told reporters late Wednesday. Light to moderate showers are expected to continue in some areas of West Bengal, while heavy rainfall is likely at some places in northeastern states of Assam and Meghalaya, India’s weather office said. India’s National Disaster Response Force personnel are clearing roads that are blocked by uprooted trees, broken electric poles and hoardings, it said on Twitter. The cyclone has now turned into a land depression, according to a bulletin by Bangladesh’s meteorological office. The country has lowered its danger warnings for ports, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-amphan-in-india-bangladesh-snaps-power-supply-to-5-million-homes-840283.html
21-05-2020||National||Coronavirus: Migrant children battle heat, hunge and the long journey homeward||An infant crying of thirst or maybe hunger, an exhausted boy asleep over a strolley dragged by his mother, two sisters trying in vain to shield their little brother from the scorching sun with a flimsy ‘gamcha’.   As India’s migrant crisis continues unstoppably and lakhs walk, hitchhike and scramble for buses and trains to go home, holding on to their few belongings and dependent on charity for food, children are the most vulnerable. Many children are just wilting. The hunger and the heat, the stress and the strain of the traumatic journey to their home states are taking a terrible toll, said their parents.    Sitting in an open ground in Kundli, on the Delhi-Haryana border, waiting for a bus to take her to her village in Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh, Neha Devi wondered how to protect her seven-month-old baby.    As the sun beat down mercilessly and the hours passed by with the family no closer to boarding a bus, she tried to calm little Nancy, crying incessantly in the heat.   Neha, just 22 herself, tried feeding her water from a steel glass, and Nancy tried to grab the glass and thirstily took some sips. But the crying didn’t stop.   The young mother tried to cover her with one end of her sari, but the sun was blazing down, the temperature was over 40 degrees Celsius and there was no shade. Nothing worked.     "She is troubled by the heat," Neha said.    Neha's husband Harishankar, who made a living selling ‘golgappas’ in a village near the Haryana town of Sonipat on Delhi border, has been out of work since the lockdown started on March 25. With their savings drying up, they had no option but to head back.   Not far from them, two sisters and their brother huddled together. They had one thin towel, ‘gamcha’, between them. Sheetal is nine, Sakshi seven and Nitin three. The two sisters used the gamcha to cover their brother and themselves, but not very successfully.   The family had been waiting for a bus for 10 hours.   Their parents, Rajput Singh, 35, and Sunita looked on helplessly, worried about their children and how they will endure the difficult journey to their village in Uttar Pradesh’s Mau district. The future of their children is a matter of concern but there was no choice but to go back, they said. Rajput Singh was a daily wager doing odd jobs in Akbarpur Barota village in Sonipat but with no work and no money to feed his family he has to head homewards.     Both Sheetal and Sakshi study in a government school in Akbarpur Barota but due to the lockdown, they are going back home.    Asked what will happen to their studies, their mother Sunita said, "We will see. We will try coming back once the situation eases." If the first wave of migration of labourers in the early days of the lockdown was mostly about men returning to their homes, the second wave is about families making the long journey.   Last week, a video showing a woman in Agra dragging a wheeled bag and her son over it as she walked to her home somewhere, was circulated widely, mirroring the struggles of lakhs of migrant families.  Across the expanse of the national capital and its borders, hundreds of such families can be seen waiting or walking, many of them with children.   The availability of food and milk is a constant source of concern.   "Elders can have dal and rice, but what about kids," said Shivshankar Yadav (27), sitting in a little patch of shade under a metro pillar in Anand Vihar on the Delhi-Ghaziabad border. His wife Aarti (25) and two daughters, Anshi (3) and Priyanshi (2) were with him, the two toddlers showing signs of extreme fatigue.    "Children need milk. If there is no money, how can one buy it," Yadav said. He worked at a garment factory in Noida and had not been paid since the lockdown began, So, the family packed their bags and somehow made it from Noida in the hope that they could take a bus or a train to Sultanpur.   Their worries were echoed by Kuldeep Kumar and Ajay Kumar, both fathers in their 20s heading home with their wives and infants to Rae Bareli in Uttar Pradesh. Both had lost their jobs at the Kundli Industrial Centre and boarded a bus from Sonipat to Uttar Pradesh only to be dropped to a shelter home a few kilometres away because they couldn’t manage to get seats. The shelter home, they said, has barely any facilities.   "We can sustain ourselves. But will our children make it,” said Kuldeep, anxious about the well-being of his 10-month-old daughter. The shelter home, he said, has no milk and only brackish water. Ajay’s son is seven months. And he is concerned too. Their anxiety that finds echo in distant corners of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-migrant-children-battle-heat-hunge-and-the-long-journey-homeward-840293.html
21-05-2020||National||Limits on air fares set in seven bands as per flight durations: Hardeep Singh Puri||Limits on air fares have been set in seven bands as per the flight durations and they would be in place till August 24, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday. The minister said the first band, which would have its specific lower and upper limits of air fare, will consist of flights that are of less than 40 minutes duration. Second, third, fourth and fifth bands of upper limit would be of flights with durations of 40-60 minutes, 60-90 minutes, 90-120 minutes and 120-150 minutes, he said. The sixth and seventh bands would consist of flights with durations between 150-180 minutes and 180-210 minutes, he stated. Aviation Secretary P S Kharola, who was also present at the press conference, said 40 per cent of the seats would have to be sold at the mid-point of the lower and upper air fare limits set for the flights. The minister said he can't comment right now on when flight operations would be restored completely. If a passenger does not have the Aarogya Setu app on her or his phone for some reason, she or he can give a self-declaration form, the minister said, adding that such a passenger will not be stopped from boarding the flight. The minister added that private carriers will join the Vande Bharat mission to repatriate Indians stranded abroad amid the coronavirus pandemic. Domestic flight operations will resume in India from May 25. All commercial passenger flights were suspended in the country from March 25, when the Modi government imposed a lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/limits-on-air-fares-set-in-seven-bands-as-per-flight-durations-hardeep-singh-puri-840295.html
21-05-2020||National||PIL filed in Supreme Court for relief to migrant workers||A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday seeking a direction to the Centre and some states to immediately provide transport facilities, food, shelter, medical support to migrant workers stranded across the country following the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. Advocate Nachiketa Vajpayee also sought an order to the Union as well as state governments of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh to comply with the directions of the apex court of March 31 asking them to deal with the workers with kindness and provide them all the facilities as per the advisories. The petition filed by advocate Deepak Prakash contended that the continued suffering of millions of migrant workers and death in some cases called for immediate interference of this court. It claimed that despite numerous advisories and orders, there existed a severe lack of coordination among the authorities in some states, leading to insufficiency in providing relief to stranded migrant workers. "The mass movement of migrant workers is prevalent in states of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, and Delhi where the situation has gone out of control. With each passing day, there are numerous violations of precautionary norms," the plea claimed.  It stated that the panic and exodus of migrant workers need to be curtailed expeditiously, otherwise it would lead to an exponential growth of the deadly virus. It also referred to mowing down of 16 workers by a goods train in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district on May 8.  The petitioner cited several disturbing images and reports of the distressed migrant workers walking on roads to reach their native places, showing a gross violation of their basic as well as fundamental rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-supreme-court-for-relief-to-migrant-workers-840300.html
21-05-2020||National||21 cops test positive for COVID-19 in J&K||At least 21 policemen, posted in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday (May 21). A senior police official said the 21 policemen posted at a reserve camp in higher secondary school Chawalgam, Kulgam for the last three months were tested positive for coronavirus. He said one policeman among the reserve company was tested positive a few days back after which samples of all cops posted there were taken.  It can be noted that around 80 policemen posted at the Anantnag District Police Lines were tested positive for COVID-19 recently. Officials are perturbed as many of those who tested positive were posted at the mess and clothing stores or manned the gates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/21-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-jk-840301.html
21-05-2020||National||Khadi face masks to hit overseas markets||The hugely-popular Khadi face mask is set to go global! The Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) will now explore the possibility of exporting the Khadi cotton and silk face masks to foreign countries after the Ministry of Commerce and Industries lifted the ban on the export of non-medical/ non-surgical masks of all types. A notification in this regard was issued on May 16, by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). The move comes days after Hon’ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “Local to Global” call in wake of the “Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan”. Keeping in view the huge demand for face masks during the global Covid-19 pandemic, the KVIC has developed double-layered and triple-layered Cotton, as well as Silk, face masks respectively, available in two colors for men and in multiple colors for women. The KVIC has so far received orders to supply 8 lakh masks and has already supplied more than 6 lakh masks during the Lockdown period. KVIC received orders from the Rashtrapati Bhavan, Prime Minister’s Office, Central Government ministries, J&K government, and orders through email from the general public.  Apart from the sale, over 7.5 lakh Khadi masks have been distributed free to the district authorities by Khadi Institutions across the country. The KVIC plans to supply khadi face masks in countries like Dubai, USA, Mauritius, and several European and Middle East countries where Khadi’s popularity has significantly grown over the last few years. The KVIC plans to sell Khadi masks in these countries through the Indian embassies. KVIC Chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena said: “The export of Khadi masks will lead to a spike in production and ultimately create large scale employment opportunity for artisans in India".  "Face Masks are the most critical tool to fight the coronavirus pandemic. These masks prepared from Double Twisted khadi fabric not only meet the quality and scale of demand but are cost-effective, breathable, washable, reusable, and bio-degradable” Saxena added. KVIC is specifically using Double Twisted Khadi fabric for the manufacturing of these masks as it helps retains moisture content inside, while providing easy passage for the air to pass through. What makes these masks more special is the hand-spun and hand-woven cotton and silk fabrics. Cotton acts as a mechanical barrier while silk is an electrostatic barrier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/khadi-face-masks-to-hit-overseas-markets-840306.html
21-05-2020||National||Ujjwala beneficiaries get 6.8 crore free cylinders||Half-way through the free gas cylinder scheme, over 8 crore Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana beneficiaries have got 6.8 crore free LPG cylinders during April to mid-May, the oil ministry said on Thursday. Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package for healing COVID pain of poor, the government had in March announced distribution of three 14.2-kg LPG cylinders free of cost to Ujjwala beneficiaries from April to June. Three cylinders for eight crore beneficiaries translated into giving away of 24 crore cooking gas bottles for free. "During April 2020, oil marketing companies (OMCs) have delivered 4.53 crore cylinders to PMUY beneficiaries under PMGKP. As on May 20, 2020, OMCs have delivered a total of 6.79 cylinders to PMUY beneficiaries under the package," the ministry said a statement. At this pace the total cylinders given away from April to June would be not more than 14 crores, a far cry from 24 crores provisioned for which the government had said Rs 13,000 crore would be spent. The statement said beneficiaries got the cost of LPG refill in their accounts, which they used to buy cooking gas from local distributors. "The beneficiaries were given funds in advance through direct benefit transfer (DBT) in their accounts so that there was no difficulty in availing this facility," it said. Supply chain personnel, it said, have not only been ensuring timely supply of cylinders but also creating awareness amongst the beneficiaries about the hygiene and various health guidelines. As part of the economic response to COVID-19, the government on March 26 launched a pro-poor scheme 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package' (PMGKP). Under this scheme, the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas is providing free of cost LPG cylinders to over 8 crore PMUY beneficiaries for 3 months with effect from April 1, 2020. The government had given out over 8 crore free cooking gas connections to poor women particularly in the rural area since the launch of the Ujjwala scheme in 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ujjwala-beneficiaries-get-68-crore-free-cylinders-840314.html
21-05-2020||National||Kerala CM remembers nurse who died battling Nipah; lauds health workers for efforts to contain COVID-19||Amid the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Thursday lauded health workers for their selfless service and paid tributes to a nurse who lost her life in the line of duty during the deadly Nipah outbreak of 2018. Lini Puthussery died after contracting Nipah from a patient she took care of at a Perambra hospital in Kozhikode district in 2018. Nipah had claimed 17 lives in the state. "Today, we remember sister Lini, the brave nurse who lost her life in the line of duty during the Nipah outbreak of 2018. The selfless service of people like her form a protective shield over humanity. Lest we forget them," Vijayan tweeted. The Chief Minister said the state was remembering Lini at a time when the world was fighting another deadly virus, COVID-19 and thousands of health workers like her are the strength of Kerala in this struggle.  "The care given by the nurses to the patients and the vigil taken by them to contain the spread of the virus plays a vital role in keeping our country safer. Nurses from Kerala is at the forefront of the battle against COVID-19 across the world," Vijayan said in a Facebook post. He said it gives courage and hope to hear news that health workers who contracted the virus were cured and have reported back for work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-cm-remembers-nurse-who-died-battling-nipah-lauds-health-workers-for-efforts-to-contain-covid-19-840322.html
21-05-2020||National||Lockdown extension adding to misery of migrant workers||His regular income reduced to nil, Raghu is working harder than ever to make ends meet but is still compelled to sleep on an empty stomach. With additional pressure from his landlord to pay rental dues before he can go back to his family in Jharkhand, the place that was a “city of dreams” for the daily wager till just two months ago has now turned into a “nightmare”. Though many of his fellow migrant workers left for their native places soon after the lockdown was announced in March, Raghu, in his 30s, stayed back here in the hope that the situation would soon improve. But subsequent extensions of the lockdown kept adding to his misery. After losing employment as a daily wage labourer and not having any savings when the lockdown came into force, Raghu said he started doing multiple odd jobs like gardening, sweeping, getting groceries for people to earn money and arrange two meals a day. But there was neither sufficient work nor money. He said he borrowed Rs 1,000 from a "bangla wala sahib” to buy food and medicines. “The sahib is now asking for that money as many activities have reopened and he thinks I have the means to pay him back now," said Raghu. Providing additional distress, his landlord is also demanding rent for the house where he stays here. Raghu now feels that if not of coronavirus, he will die of hunger if he stays in this city anymore. "I have spent many nights awake in the last two months out of hunger. It is also the worry of not seeing my family back in Jharkhand that is keeping me up at night. I just want to go back home," said Raghu. "I have started seeing the city in a different light now. While it was a city of dreams for me till early this year, now it is nothing more than a nightmare that I want to escape," he said. Suresh, a rickshaw puller who hails from Champaran in Bihar, took up any job he could find in the last two months to provide for his daughters. "Dusting houses, cleaning, sweeping, taking dogs out for walks or getting groceries for families who were too scared to step out. I tried my best. I did it all but still I earned just 10 per cent of what I would earlier make," said Suresh, a resident of Aghapur village in Noida sector 41. "I have four daughters who all study here. Schools were closed but I still didn't leave for my village as I didn't want to disturb their studies. But now I do not have money to even feed them. There is no point in living here anymore," he said. But he has been asked by his landlord to pay the rent he owes for his small accommodation before leaving. "I have paid Rs 1,000 and need Rs 500 more to clear my dues. Then I will leave this city and never return," he said. Raju, a 42-year-old rickshaw puller here, has also been working much harder than before to arrange money to get out of this "big city" soon. He starts his day at 5.30 am and stays out in the streets with his cycle-rickshaw till 10 pm but there are not enough customers to ferry due to the lockdown. When he told the owner of the house where he stays about his decision to leave for his hometown Bulandshahr, Raju was asked to first clear the pending two months’ rent of Rs 3,000. "I told my house owner that I will pay him in instalments as soon as I find work in my home town but he did not agree," he said. But since he has barely earned anything in the last two months due to the lockdown, Raju is not sure how he can now arrange the money in a short span of time. "I just want to leave but I have been asked to pay the amount before leaving. Earlier, on the government's directive the owner of my home did not ask for rent but when he saw a number of people going back to their villages, migrants like us were pressured to pay our rent before leaving," Raju said. India is presently in the midst of one of the biggest reverse migrations of thousands of people who started returning to their home towns in view of loss of livelihood during the ongoing lockdown imposed due to the coronavirus pandemic. The nationwide lockdown, initially imposed from March 25 to April 14, has been extended thrice and will last at least till May 31. It aims to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus that has claimed 3,435 lives and infected 1,12,359 people in the country so far. India's economy has been severely hit by the lockdown. Thousands of migrant workers across the country are walking back to their homes hundreds of kilometers away due to lack of transport facilities after losing their means to livelihood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-extension-adding-to-misery-of-migrant-workers-840326.html
21-05-2020||National||Bihar girl, who cycled down 1200km carrying father, will be called for trial by cycling federation||In what could be a life-changing opportunity, the cycling federation will invite 15-year-old Jyoti Kumari to appear for a trial next month, impressed with her sheer doggedness with which she pedalled her way to Bihar from Gurugram, carrying her ailing father. Stuck in Gurugram due to nation-wide lockdown, a tenacious Jyoti asked her father to sit on the rear side carrier of her cycle and took him to his native place, covering 1200km in seven days. Cycling Federation of India Chairman Onkar Singh told PTI that if Kumari, a class eight student, passed the trial, she will be selected as a trainee at the state-of-the-art National Cycling Academy at the IGI Stadium complex here. The academy, under the aegis of Sports Authority of India, is one of the most advanced facilities in Asia and has the recognition of UCI, the world body of the sport. "We spoke to the girl this morning and we have told her that she will be called to Delhi next month as soon as the lockdown is lifted. All the expenses of her travel, lodging and other will be borne by us," Singh said. "If she needs to accompany somebody from home, we will also allow that. We will see in consultation with our Bihar state unit on how she can be brought to Delhi for a trial," he added. Asked about the rationale behind offering trial to the youngster, Singh said, "She must have something in her. I think cycling down more than 1200km is not a mean job. She must be having the strength and physical endurance. We want to test it." "We will make her sit on the computerised cycle we have at the academy and see if she satisfies the seven or eight parameters to get selected. After that she can be among the trainees and she will not have to spend anything." He said the CFI always try to find out talent for grooming. "We have nearly 10 cyclists in the age group of 14-15 in the academy. So we want to nurture young talents." Jyoti's father, Mohan Paswan, an autorickshaw driver in Gurgaon got injured and the lockdown left him without any source of income. He had to return the autorickshaw to the owner. "She is indeed my Shravan Kumar. The journey back home has been nothing short of a pilgrimage. Having arrived feels like salvation," Paswan said. The father and daughter duo started their journey from Gurgaon on May 10 after buying a cycle with whatever money they had and reached their village on May 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-girl-who-cycled-down-1200km-carrying-father-will-be-called-for-trial-by-cycling-federation-840330.html
21-05-2020||National||Rajiv Gandhi remembered on 29th death anniversary||Former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi was remembered in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on his 29th death anniversary on Thursday. TNCC President KS Alagiri led the partymen in remembering the late leader in Tamil Nadu, while Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy and others paid homage to Gandhi in the neighbouring union territory. Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated on May 21, 1991 in Sriperumbudur town near here by a suicide bomber during an election campaign. Alagiri paid floral tributes at the Rajiv Gandhi memorial in Sriperumbudur. The TNCC chief, accompanied by senior party leaders including Lok Sabha MPs, also took the anti-terrorism day pledge. In Puducherry, Narayanasamy garlanded the statue of Gandhi at Ellaipillaichavady junction on Puducherry-Tindivanam route. Speaker V P Sivakolundhu, Ministers, legislators, freedom fighters and functionaries of different wings of the ruling Congress were among those who paid tributes. The chief minister also administered the anti-terrorism day pledge to all those present at the venue. Earlier, Narayansamy and others paid homage to Rajiv Gandhi at the PCC office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajiv-gandhi-remembered-on-29th-death-anniversary-840343.html
21-05-2020||National||India rejects China's allegations that Indian troops trespassed across the LAC||India on Thursday rejected China's allegations that Indian troops crossed over to the Chinese side of the frontier in Ladakh and Sikkim, asserting that New Delhi has been taking a responsible approach towards border management. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said it was the Chinese side that recently undertook activities hindering India’s normal patrols in the areas. "Any suggestion that Indian troops had undertaken activity across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Western Sector or the Sikkim sector is not accurate," Srivastava said. "Indian troops are fully familiar with the alignment of the Line of Actual Control in the India-China border areas and abide by it scrupulously. All Indian activities are entirely on the Indian side of the LAC," he said. The LAC is the de-facto border between the two countries. "In fact, it is the Chinese side that has recently undertaken activity hindering India's normal patrolling patterns. The Indian side has always taken a very responsible approach towards border management. At the same time, we are deeply committed to ensuring India's sovereignty and security," he said. China has accused India of unilaterally attempting to change the status of the un-demarcated border in Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-chinas-allegations-that-indian-troops-trespassed-across-the-lac-840344.html
21-05-2020||National||India's COVID-19 death rate less than global figures: Health Ministry||The mortality rate in COVID-19 cases in India is 3.06 as against the global rate of 6.65, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, crediting the efforts towards timely case identification and proper clinical management for this low figure. An analysis of the deaths show 64 per cent of the fatalities in males and the remaining 36 per cent in females, the ministry said. Providing an age distribution of the fatalities, the ministry said 0.5 per cent of the deaths are reported in the less than 15 years age group, 2.5 per cent between 15 and 30 years, 11.4 per cent in those aged between 30 and 45, 35.1 per cent between 45-60 years and 50.5 per cent fatalities among people aged above 60 years.  Further, 73 per cent of the deaths had underlying co-morbidities. Elderly people (above 60 years of age) and people having co-morbidities are identified as high-risk groups for COVID-19. "The case mortality rate in India is 3.06 per cent, which is much lesser in comparison to the global case mortality rate of 6.65 pc. This brings into focus our efforts towards timely case identification and proper clinical management of the cases," the ministry said in its statement. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 3,435 and the number of cases climbed to 1,12,359 in the country in a 24-hour span till Thursday 8 AM, registering an increase of 132 deaths and 5,609 cases.  A total of 45,299 patients have recovered so far and 3,002 people have been cured in the last 24 hours, the ministry said.   "The recovery rate is improving continuously and is 40.32 per cent currently," it said. India currently has 63,624 active cases. These are all under active medical supervision. Of the active cases, around 2.94 per cent of the cases are in ICU,  the statement said.   It is advised that community awareness on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour is an important intervention for prevention for the spread of this disease, the ministry said as it stressed on the need to focus on personal hygiene, hand hygiene, and respiratory etiquettes and environmental sanitation.      Face covers and masks should be used in public places and physical distancing should be followed. Large gatherings should be avoided. Individuals in high-risk groups should stay at home except for essential and health purposes, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-death-rate-less-than-global-figures-health-ministry-840348.html
21-05-2020||National||Western Ghats: Maharashtra wants 2,092 villages included in eco-zone||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday sought inclusion of 2,092 villages in the eco-sensitive zone of the Western Ghats where development will be restricted. Thackeray made the demand during a video conference with Union environment minister Prakash Javdekar on the finalisation of the eco-sensitive zone, an official statement said here. Chief Ministers of Karnataka and Goa and senior officials from Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat also took part in the meeting. The National Green Tribunal has directed the Ministry of Environment and Forests to submit a report on the finalisation of the eco-sensitive zone in theWestern Ghats. The region, which covers the coastal Konkan area of Maharashtra, is one of the richest biodiversity areas and needs to be conserved, the tribunal had said. Thackeray said his government wanted to protect the environment while achieving development. Maharashtra wanted the eco-sensitive zone to be protected, he added. After the finalisation of the eco-sensitive zone, hydropower projects and certain industries will be allowed in such areas with some restrictions while mining, thermal power projects and big construction projects will not be allowed, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/western-ghats-maharashtra-wants-2092-villages-included-in-eco-zone-840350.html
21-05-2020||National||Government fixes price bands for air fares as flights resume||As domestic flights resume on Monday after two months, airlines will have to sell tickets within the price band prescribed by the government depending on the duration of air travel. The government has decided to set an upper limit for domestic airfares to avoid a sharp spike in ticket prices and a lower limit to ensure that the airlines remain viable, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri told reporters here. Puri said that the flight operations will resume between all cities from next week, albeit with only one third of the capacity approved during the summer schedule 2020. A Delhi-Mumbai air ticket would cost anywhere between Rs 3,500 and Rs 10,000, with an obligation on the airline to sell 40% of the seats at less than the midpoint of the price band fixed by the government. “The midpoint for the Delhi-Mumbai price band is Rs 6,700. So, 40% of the tickets have to be sold at a price less than Rs 6,700. This is how we are ensuring that the fares do not go out of control,” Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Kharola said, adding that these fares were excluding GST, Passenger Service Fee and User Development Fee.  Airlines were expected to start bookings from Friday after making relevant adjustments to their ticketing software after taking into account the price bands fixed by the government. Limits on airfare have been set in seven bands as per the flight durations and would be in place for a three month period till August 24, Puri said adding that the “realistic” prices were arrived at after studying corresponding rail fares. The airfare will be categorised in seven bands depending on the duration of the flight. Flights with travel duration of less than 40 minutes will come under section one, while flights between 40 minutes and 60 minutes will come under section two. Destinations 60 to 90 minutes apart will be under section three, while section for would comprise flight duration of 90 and 120 minutes. Section five will cover destinations that are 120-150 minutes away, while cities with flight durations of 150-180 minutes and 180 and 210 minutes will fall under categories six and seven respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-fixes-price-bands-for-air-fares-as-flights-resume-840367.html
21-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Assam goes for 'ruthless' quarantine after spike in positive cases||Alarmed by the recent spurt in COVID-19 positive cases, the Assam government has decided to be  "ruthless" in enforcing 14-days quarantine for all those returning from the rest of the country. Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told reporters here on Thursday that the state could not afford any leniency in enforcing the quarantine, be it at home or in government centres in order to achieve its target to prevent mass infection. "We have decided to adopt a policy of ruthless quarantine with a human heart. This means, we will be very strict in enforcing quarantine and at the same time will take care of the problems faced by those coming back from outside of their family members during the 14-days. From now onwards, the health department will spend Rs. 500 per day for food of each lodged in institutional quarantine centres. For those spending the quarantine in private hotels, the government will pay Rs. 2,000 per day for room rent and Rs. 500 for food," Sarma said. Those coming negative in tests after seven days, the deputy commissioner will take a call to allow them to go home. Then again the government will pay another Rs. 2,000 as one-time assistance and Rs. 500 for transportation during the next seven days of quarantine, he said.  "We have formed committees at the village level and instructed the district administration and police to strictly enforce the quarantine," Sarma said.  The COVID-19 positive cases in Assam were low compared to the rest of the country till May 4 but the number of cases started increasing after those living in the rest of the country started returning home. The state reported 41 positive cases (mostly Nizamuddin returnees) till April 30 but the number went up to 199 till Thursday (May 21). Eleven positive cases were reported on Thursday, all returned from other states. Of these, 54 have recovered while four died.  Sarma said a total of 37,000 people returned from states in West, South India and Bengal by both road and trains. All those showing symptoms during preliminary screening have been provided institutional quarantine while the rest must be in-home quarantine for 14-days.  The health department also decided to transfer the second installment of Rs. 2,000 each to bank accounts of 3.61 lakh people, who are stranded in other states and decided not to return home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-assam-goes-for-ruthless-quarantine-after-spike-in-positive-cases-840371.html
21-05-2020||National||India blames China for flare-ups along boundary, vows to protect sovereignty||India on Thursday accused Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of hindering “normal patrolling” by its soldiers and thus escalating tension along the disputed boundary between the two neighbouring nations in eastern Ladakh and northern Sikkim. New Delhi also turned the table on Beijing and tacitly criticised China’s recent aggression in the disputed South China Sea. “The South China Sea is a part of global commons. India, therefore, has an abiding interest in peace and stability in the region” Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said in New Delhi. “India firmly stands for freedom of navigation and overflight and unimpeded lawful commerce in the international waters in accordance with international laws notably the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea,” he added. India vowed to protect its sovereignty and ensure its security even as it asserted that its troops had not crossed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and transgressed into the territory claimed by China. “Any suggestion that Indian troops had undertaken activity across the LAC in the Western Sector (Ladakh) or the Sikkim Sector is not accurate. Indian troops are fully familiar with the alignment of the Line of Actual Control in the India-China border areas and abide by it scrupulously,” Srivastava said in New Delhi. The LAC marks the de facto border between India and China in the absence of a settled boundary. “All Indian activities are entirely on the Indian side of the LAC. In fact, it is Chinese side that has recently undertaken activity hindering India’s normal patrolling patterns,” said Srivastava, adding: “Indian side has always taken a very responsible approach towards border management. At the same time, we are deeply committed to ensuring India’s sovereignty and security”. China on Monday accused India of trespassing into its territory and illegally building defence facilities in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. The Global Times, a state-owned newspaper of the communist country, published a rare report on escalating tension between the two sides. It alleged that Indian Army soldiers had been trespassing into territory of China since early May. It also accused Indian Army of “illegally” constructing defence facilities in its territory in the Galwan Valley region. New Delhi dismissed the allegation, insisting that the Indian Army soldiers had never transgressed into the territory of China. The Chinese PLA had rather first deployed additional troops, who had set up as many as 80 tents near the disputed boundary. The Indian Army had later sent additional troops to beef up defence, but none of its soldiers had crossed the LAC transgressed into the territory claimed by China. What apparently rattled the Chinese PLA and prompted it to deploy additional troops in Galwan Valley was a new strategic road constructed by the Border Roads Organization of the Government of India in the region. The road, according to the sources in New Delhi, however, lay completely within the territory of India. The build-up on the both sides of the LAC in eastern Ladakh continued on Thursday, even as the two sides had engagements – both between Indian Army and Chinese PLA as well as at the level of diplomats – to diffuse tension along the disputed boundary. The Indian Army and Chinese PLA soldiers also had a skirmish during a brief face-off in northern Sikkim on May 9. Four Indian Army soldiers and 11 Chinese PLA personnel suffered injuries in the scuffle. “The Indian troops strictly follow the procedures laid down in various bilateral agreements and protocols to resolve any situations which may arise due to difference in perception of the LAC,” Srivastava, the spokesperson of the MEA, said. “The two sides have established mechanisms to resolve such situations peacefully through dialogue. Both sides remain engaged with each other to address any immediate issues.” In accordance with the consensus reached between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping in Chennai, Indian side remains firmly committed to work for the common objective of maintenance of peace and tranquility in border areas, he said, adding: “This is an essential prerequisite to the further development of Indian-China bilateral relations.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-blames-china-for-flare-ups-along-boundary-vows-to-protect-sovereignty-840374.html
21-05-2020||National||Upset over violations of COVID-19 guidelines, MHA shoots off letter to states||Miffed at violations of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions from various parts of the country, the Centre on Thursday asked states to ensure strict implementation of guidelines, including delienation of containment zones, night curfew and wearing of masks in public places. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla shot off letters to states saying "media reports and other sources" have highlighted that there are "violations" of the guidelines issued for lockdown 4.0 that started from May 18. Several states have not earmarked containment zones properly besides delaying decisions of profiling localities into red, orange and green zones according to infection rate, relaxing night curfew and not enforcing social distancing and wearing of masks in public places in strict form. Bhalla said proper delineation of containment zones and effective implementation of containment measures within these zones is key to preventing the spread of COVID-19. On Wednesday, Delhi Health Secretary Padmini Singla wrote to district administrations highlighting that the number of containment zones have come down despite the capital reporting 300-400 cases every day. While states like Karnataka had said that it would not colour code localities in the state, Bhalla has emphasised that states and union territories should delineate various zones and decide on the activities to be prohibited within these zones.  "Once these guidelines have been issued by the states and UTs, they should be strictly implemented and action taken if any deviations are noticed," he said. Bhalla also emphasised the need to ensure night curfew or prohibition of all non-essential activities between 7 PM and 7 AM, which he said was an "important element of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines". "The night curfew has been mandated with a view to ensure that people observe social distancing, and to contain the risk of infection. Accordingly, local authorities should be asked to issue orders in the entirety of their jurisdiction, under provisions of law, for imposition of night curfew. Strict compliance of these orders should be ensured by the local authorities," he said. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier announced that there will be no night curfew in her state during lockdown 4.0 but said people will face police action if they step out of their homes during this period. Her argument was that they have decided not to impose curfew so that people can stay at home in a free mind, as the word 'curfew' is a serious matter that is invoked in an emergency situation. The MHA was also upset about the states not enforcing the National Directives for COVID-19 Management, which is part of the guidelines. "These stipulations, such as wearing face covers, ensuring social distance at work, transport and in public places, maintaining hygiene and sanitation etc, are important for containing the spread of COVID-19 and protecting individuals and the community. It is the duty of all district and local authorities to enforce the national directives," Bhalla added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upset-over-violations-of-covid-19-guidelines-mha-shoots-off-letter-to-states-840378.html
21-05-2020||National||Cyclone toll hits 88 as Bangladesh and India start mopping up||India and Bangladesh began a massive clean-up Thursday after the fiercest cyclone since 1999 killed at least 88 people, leaving a trail of destruction in its wake. Cyclone Amphan flattened houses, uprooted trees, blew off roofs and toppled electricity pylons, while a storm surge inundated coastal villages and wrecked shrimp farms vital to the local economy. The United Nations office in Bangladesh estimates 10 million people were affected, and some 500,000 people may have lost their homes. But the death toll was far lower than the many thousands killed in previous cyclones -- a result of improved weather forecasting and better response plans. The disaster has raised fears, however, that overcrowding in storm shelters will exacerbate the spread of coronavirus. India's West Bengal reported 72 deaths -- including 15 in the capital Kolkata -- with state premier Mamata Banerjee saying: "I haven't seen a disaster of this magnitude." "This is the worst cyclone to hit the state since the one in 1737 when thousands lost their lives," she told reporters. Sixteen people have died in Bangladesh, according to the official death toll. Improved weather forecasting meant Bangladesh was able to move some 2.4 million people into shelters or out of the storm's direct path, while India evacuated some 650,000. At least 10 million people were still without power on Thursday afternoon in the worst-hit districts of Bangladesh, said rural electricity board chief Moin Uddin. The storm levelled more than 55,000 homes -- most made of tin, mud and bamboo -- across Bangladesh, junior disaster management minister Enamur Rahman told AFP. Kolkata residents woke to flooded streets, with part of the city's yellow taxi fleet up to their bonnets in water in one neighbourhood and many areas without power. "Each second seemed like an hour," bank manager Susanta De said of the storm. "There were only howling winds and sounds of shattering window panes. All of it was very scary and we thought the end was nearing."     "The impact of Amphan is worse than coronavirus," premier Banerjee said. "Thousands of mud huts have been levelled, trees uprooted, roads washed away and crops destroyed." Other officials said they were waiting for damage reports from the Sundarbans, the vast mangrove area home to endangered Bengal tigers and which bore the brunt of the storm. The cyclone weakened as it moved north through Bangladesh but still unleashed heavy rain and fierce winds in Cox's Bazar, the district which houses about one million Rohingya refugees from Myanmar. The UN said the effect in the vast camps of flimsy shacks appeared to be "fairly minimal". The area most affected by Amphan, the first "super cyclone" to form over the Bay of Bengal since 1999, was the Satkhira district of southwest Bangladesh. There a storm surge -- a wall of ocean water often one of the main killers in major weather systems -- roared inland and destroyed embankments protecting villages and shrimp farms. In the village of Purba Durgabati, hundreds of locals worked through the night to mend a breach in a levee, but to no avail. "My home has gone under water. My shrimp farm is gone. I don't know how I am going to survive," Omar Faruq, 28, told AFP. "The coronavirus has already taken a toll on people. Now the cyclone has made them paupers," said local councillor Bhabotosh Kumar Mondal. The last super cyclone in 1999 left nearly 10,000 dead in India's Odisha state, eight years after a typhoon, tornadoes and flooding killed 139,000 in Bangladesh. This time, as during a cyclone in Odisha last year, the human cost was greatly lessened thanks to the evacuations, said Rahman. "Only several people died. The majority of them ventured out to collect fallen mangoes during the storm," he told AFP. Natural disaster expert Nayeem Wahra, at the Disaster Forum think-tank, said the storm also lost some of its potency over the Bay of Bengal before it made landfall. "The storm surge was not powerful or high enough to cause extensive damage to lives or properties," Wahra told AFP. "Bangladesh was largely spared." Packing people into shelters, however, raised the risk of coronavirus spreading, with cases still surging in India and Bangladesh. Authorities said they extended shelters to reduce crowding, while also insisting everyone wore face masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-toll-hits-88-as-bangladesh-and-india-start-mopping-up-840379.html
21-05-2020||National||Railway police arrests touts booking tickets illegally||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) has arrested 14 touts including 8 IRCTC authorised agents and seized Rs 6.36 lakh worth e-tickets of Special Rajdhani Express booked illegally. On specific information, the RPF conducted drive in many parts of the country mostly eastern parts, on May 20 and arrested these touts, the railways said in a statement. "The IRCTC agents were using personal Ids to corner tickets and then sell them unauthorisedly at a premium. Action has been initiated to get them blacklisted. One tout was found using auto fill software called Super Tatkal Pro," the statement said. Most of the seized ticket belong to different dates yet to commence journey of Special Rajdhani Expressed introduced on May 12. Since railway introduced 15 pairs of trains on select routes, there was huge demand for tickets. The national transporter received compalints that touts booking e-tickets using multiple personal Ids and cornering reserved berths in the Rajdhani Special trains. To prevent any illegality in ticket booking, earlier the railway banned agents booking in these trains. However some of the authorised agents were booking tickets using illegal software. The railways allowed only online tickrt booking of Special Rajdhani and banned counter ticketing booking except some caregories of pass holders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railway-police-arrests-touts-booking-tickets-illegally-840382.html
21-05-2020||National||Birth dose vaccinations at health facilities to continue in all zones: Govt||According to the "Guidance note for immunisation services during and post COVID outbreak" released by the Union Health Ministry, an area exiting a containment or a buffer zone category can start facility-based and outreach immunization activities only after a minimum gap of 14 days. The document said that in alignment with the area categorisation, immunization services will be classified under two heads -- immunization in containment and buffer zone and immunization in areas beyond the buffer and green zone. As a standard practice, immunization services are delivered through the modes of birth dose vaccinations at delivery points in health facilities, health facility-based sessions, and outreach sessions as part of urban/village health sanitation and nutrition days services, it said. The document specified that in the context of the COVID-19 outbreak, delivery of immunization services for different zones will follow three key principles irrespective of zone. Guidelines from the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Health ministry pertaining to COVID-19 and related updates will be the primary reference points and no state should violate any COVID-19 guidance, it said. Practices of social distancing, hand washing, and respiratory hygiene need to be maintained at all immunization sessions irrespective of zones or district categorisation by all (i.e. beneficiaries and service providers) in all sessions, the guidance document said. Birth dose vaccination at health facilities would continue irrespective of zones, it said. Immunization services in containment and buffer zone would involve no active mobilization to the health facility. Every opportunity is to be utilized for vaccinating beneficiaries if they have already reported at the facilities, the document said. Noting that the list of areas under 'containment zone' and 'buffer zone' in a district is updated on a weekly basis, it said any area exiting a 'containment or buffer zone' can start facility based and outreach immunization activities as in areas 'beyond buffer zone' after a minimum gap of 14 days following de-listing of that area as containment or buffer zone. However, the state and district administration should make a local assessment of COVID-19 risk before starting the outreach or health facility-based immunization with mobilization of beneficiaries, it added. Similarly, an area enlisted as a 'containment or buffer zone' should stop health facility-based sessions and outreach sessions, the government said. All areas beyond the buffer zone and in the green zone follow the same guidelines and birth dose, health facility-based session and outreach session immunization are allowed in them, the document said. One outreach session will be planned for less than 500 population to limit the total beneficiaries to 10 to 15 per session and a staggered approach will be followed for each session to avoid crowding, it said. At any given time during the session, not more than five persons should be present at the site with at least one-meter distance between each, the guidelines said. The organisation of such a session will be at the discretion of district administration with clear planning for social distancing and hand washing at the session site, it said. Birth dose vaccination should be continued at all health facilities with delivery points after ensuring due cold chain, the document said. A health facility should continue immunization services with arrangements such as pre-identification of a well-ventilated seating area with demarcated seating location one meter apart and an adequate number of pre-identified, fixed vaccination staff depending on the injection load and the required documentation. Staff conducting vaccination should wear a three-layered surgical mask and gloves and sanitize their hands after vaccinating every child, the guidelines said. Support staff to manage seating arrangement, queue management etc. for the pregnant women and caregivers, it said. It should be ensured that hand sanitizer or hand washing units with chlorinated water are available for public use at the entrance to the health facility, the document said. Disinfect the seating space after completion of the immunization session should be done, it said, adding that adequate availability of MCP card and due updating of records should be done. Adequate availability of vaccines and logistics for the uninterrupted immunisation session must be maintained, it said while calling for displaying of visual alerts in clinics, such as posters, with information about COVID-19 disease and reminders on individual prevention strategies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/birth-dose-vaccinations-at-health-facilities-to-continue-in-all-zones-govt-840387.html
21-05-2020||National||COVID-19: Percentage of sick patients needing hospital care doubled in the last one month||In the last one month, the percentage of COVID-19 patients requiring hospital care has nearly doubled, demonstrating how the coronavirus affects the vulnerable more. On May 20th, nearly 3% of active cases needed oxygen support while another 3% needed intensive care units. About 0.45% of the infected persons needed ventilation. Taken together, close to 6.5% of all COVID-19 infected individuals were seriously sick patients who required hospital care. This number was 5% on May 13; 4.67% on May 9 and 3.82% on April 26. So with more people being tested for the virus, the percentage of people requiring ICU, oxygen and ventilators has doubled, shows a back of the envelop calculation of the Union Health Ministry data. "This suggests that the disease is affecting the vulnerable such as elderly and high risk persons with co-morbidities, more. This is happening because the disease is spreading beyond what is amenable to containment,"  Giridhara R Babu, professor at the Public Health Foundation of India told DH. If compared on absolute numbers, the jump is nearly five fold - from less than 800 individuals on April 26 to nearly 4,000 on May 20. However, it's not an entirely accurate comparison as the number of persons tested for novel coronavirus grew manifold in those four weeks increasing the testing base. "It is like a funnel. As the base volume increases, the ones coming through the funnel are the more serious and sick ones. When we have more sick persons in the hospitals the number of people with hypoxia, needing ventilators is higher," said Oommen John, a senior public health researcher at the George Institute for Global Health, India. "Also there have been changes in criteria for hospitalisation. The mild cases are now being advised to be at home. The more sick ones are staying at hospital because they need oxygen or ventilators," he said. India currently has 63,624 active cases whereas 45,299 patients have been cured, according to a statement released by the health ministry. As many as 3435 persons have died due to COVID-19, of which more than 50% are above 60 years of age. Another 35% are in the age bracket of 45-60 years. Further, 73% of the death cases had underlying co-morbidities. Earlier this week, Union Health Minister Harsh Bardhan claimed that there were nearly 30,000 dedicated ICU beds in India for seriously ill COVID-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-percentage-of-sick-patients-needing-hospital-care-doubled-in-the-last-one-month-840388.html
21-05-2020||National||India becomes world's second largest manufacturer of PPE body coveralls: Govt||India has become the world's second-largest manufacturer of personal protective equipment (PPE) body coveralls within a short time span of two months, the government said on Thursday.  China is the world's leading producer of PPE body coveralls, crucial to safeguard against the COVID-19 pandemic.  In a statement, the Ministry of Textiles said it has been taking several steps to ensure that both quality and quantity of PPE coveralls going up to the desired levels within a very short span of time of two months, "thereby catapulting India into the world's second-largest manufacturer of body coveralls, next only to China".  The ministry has taken steps to ensure that only certified players across the entire supply chain are allowed to supply body coveralls to governments, an official statement said.  Besides, Textiles Committee, Mumbai too will now test and certify PPE body coveralls required for healthcare workers and other COVID-19 warriors.  Ajit Chavan, Secretary, Textiles Committee and Additional Textile Commissioner, Ministry of Textiles, explained how the committee rose up to the occasion to surmount the challenge of non-availability of reputed domestic manufacturers of PPE testing equipment.  "We faced the humongous challenges of non-availability of domestic manufacturers of repute and incessant delay/long gestation period to import machine from China as also challenges of ever-increasing prices by the opportunist companies in China due to demand for such equipment the world over. We, therefore, decided to do it indigenously," he said.   The secretary informed how the testing equipment will help the nation during the crisis: "With the acquisition of this equipment and with a concrete plan to add some more equipment as per need, we will be able to address not only the quantitative but also the qualitative requirements involved in the testing of body coveralls worn by the frontline health workers and other COVID-19 warriors". The Textiles Committee is a statutory body established in 1963 through an Act of Parliament and is under the administrative control of the Ministry of Textiles, Government of India.  It was formed to ensure the quality of textiles and textile machinery both for internal consumption and export purpose.     The committee is tasked with the functions of establishing laboratories for the testing of textiles and textile machinery and providing for their inspection and examination, besides other functions which flow from the main objective of ensuring quality of textiles products and textiles machinery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-becomes-worlds-second-largest-manufacturer-of-ppe-body-coveralls-govt-840393.html
21-05-2020||National||IIMA denies charges of not paying migrant workers who clashed with police||The Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIMA) on Thursday issued a statement denying all charges leveled in a legal notice it has been served by an advocate on behalf of some of the migrant workers engaged in construction work at the institute's premises. The institute stated that "issues raised in the notice do not stand the test of scrutiny and yet it is being circulated and being quoted by individuals and the press without regard for the veracity of the details." The legal notice was issued a day after violent clashed erupted between migrant workers and police on May 18. The notice, issued by advocate Anand Yagnik on behalf of the workers, alleges that IIMA did not pay wages to the workers for two months during the lockdown and made no efforts to "repatriate them to their native states" despite being principal employer. According to police report, the workers got angry after their repeated demand to allow them to travel back home were not heeded by their employer firm identified as PSP Limited. Police FIR mentions names of 35 workers as accused along with a mob of 250 to 300 who went berserk and vandalised property of construction firm's office and security cabin inside the IIMA's new campus where the construction is going on. On the issue of wages to the labourers, the institute states that "We invite anyone who is interested to check the records on this... We have verified that all due payments have been made to workers. We do not have a pending bill as of the date of the serving of the legal notice." The institute has also denied allegations that it never wanted the workers to leave. It says that construction was stopped by May 7 "in deference to the wishes of the workers. The contractor co-ordinated with the administration for the repatriation of the workers. Workers from U P and Bihar were provided trains but unfortunately the public authorities did not arrange for trains to Jharkhand and West Bengal." The legal notice also alleges workers were not medically examined as two of them tested positive after the clash. "The health authorities have visited the facility where the workers are staying and have taken samples during the last two months. These tests came out negative. People can be asymptomatic for a period of time with no preliminary symptoms such as fever, cough, etc," the statement reads. It further claims, 'The unrest of the workers from the construction site is not about wages and living conditions but about the delay in obtaining travel permits and the arranging of transportation by the public authorities to take them back to their home states." The issue of migrant workers demanding permission to go back to their native states has turned violent several times in various part of the state. Following these unrest, government started special Shramik trains for them. According to government, by Wednesday midnight, a total of 10,20,000 workers were sent home in as many as 693 trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iima-denies-charges-of-not-paying-migrant-workers-who-clashed-with-police-840394.html
21-05-2020||National||Refrain from mass gathering on Eid: Jama Masjid deputy Imam||In the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, the Deputy Shahi Imam Syed Shaban Bukhari on Thursday appealed to the people to refrain from any mass gathering, religious or celebratory, at any time during the holy month of Ramzaan, especially on Eid. The initiative is aimed to ensure the health and safety of the people in the light of the pandemic and is aligned with the social distancing guidelines as mandated by the government, the deputy Shahi Imam said. “As per the instructions issued by one of the largest mosques in India, each member of the community is advised to offer prayers for Jamat-ul-Vida and Eid al-Fitr from their homes as it will significantly help to alleviate the threat of viral transmission from spreading further, the deputy Imam said in a statement here. He also asked the community to help those in need during this time of crisis as an integral part of the Islamic culture. “We cannot allow any congregations in courtyards and parks as it will expose people to an increased risk of contracting the virus. Hence, we urge you to offer holy prayers of Jamat-ul-Vida, Namaz-e-Eid from your homes,” the deputy imam said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/refrain-from-mass-gathering-on-eid-jama-masjid-deputy-imam-840397.html
21-05-2020||National||Second phase of Vande Bharat Mission to continue till June 13||The government on Thursday said its mega mission to evacuate stranded Indians from abroad will continue till June 13 and the extended phase will cover 47 countries. The second phase of the 'Vande Bharat Mission' was to end on May 22. However, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the ongoing phase will last till June 13 and that India is looking at making Frankfurt a hub for the mission. As of Thursday afternoon, a total of 23,475 Indian nationals were brought back home under the mission which began on May 7. "We are looking to bring back our nationals from 47 countries on 162 flights. In this phase, we are including places like Istanbul, Ho Chi Minh city, Lagos etc and increasing flights to the USA and Europe," Srivastava said at an online media briefing. "We are also receiving our nationals stranded abroad onboard flights from other countries which are coming in to evacuate nationals of those countries. We are bringing back our nationals from far flung areas like Argentina, South Africa, Peru, Mongolia," he added. He said a flight from Buenos Aires arrived early Thursday morning with a total of 62 Indian nationals. The total Indians evacuated included 4,883 workers, 4,196 students, 3,087 professionals among others. A total of 2,59,001 people registered to return from 98 countries. "Operations under this very large and complex exercise are going on smoothly. The ministry and its missions are working very closely in this whole of government exercise with the Ministries of civil aviation, home affairs, health and family welfare, bureau of immigration as well as with concerned state governments," he said. Private airlines may be involved in third phase of the evacuation mission after June 13, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-phase-of-vande-bharat-mission-to-continue-till-june-13-840402.html
21-05-2020||National||Delhi violence: Police slap UAPA against Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha||The Special Cell of Delhi Police has booked Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for allegedly being part of a larger conspiracy behind the February riots in northeast Delhi, officials said on Thursday. This comes days after the Delhi Police's crime branch arrested the 24-year-old in connection with the violence in the Jamia area during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act in December last year, they said. The police said Tanha, a resident of Abul Fazal Enclave in Shaheen Bagh, is a member of the Students Islamic Organization and was part of the Jamia Coordination Committee which spearheaded protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. He was arrested on production warrant by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police on Tuesday and booked under the UAPA for being part of a larger conspiracy of the riots in Delhi, said a senior police official, who did not wish to be identified. "We had evidence and wanted him in a case that we were investigating. So we arrested him on production warrant on Tuesday and have been granted seven days of custody," he said. A court here on Wednesday had sent Tanha to seven days of police custody in the case related to communal violence in February in northeast Delhi during the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, after the police said his remand was required to unearth the entire conspiracy and to confront him with the electronic data collected during the investigation.  Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, President of Jamia Alumni Association Shifa-Ur-Rehman, suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain have also been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. “The Crime Branch of the Delhi Police had arrested Tanha recently in a case registered at Jamia police station on December 16, 2019, in connection with riots in the Jamia area in which he was named as an accused," a senior police officer had earlier said. Tanha is a third-year student of BA in the Persian language.     He is a key member of the Jamia Coordination Committee and played an active role in organising protests and riots in Jamia in December 2019, police had said. He is a close associate of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar who had been key organisers of anti-CAA protests and subsequent riots, the police said. On December 15 last year, protesters had torched four public buses and two police vehicles as they clashed with police in New Friends' Colony near Jamia Millia Islamia during a demonstration against the amended Citizenship Act, leaving at least 40 people including students, policemen and firefighters injured, officials had then said. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-violence-police-slap-uapa-against-jamia-student-asif-iqbal-tanha-840410.html
21-05-2020||National||New envoys of Australia, others present Letters of Credence to President Ram Nath Kovind virtually||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday accepted the Letters of Credence from the new envoys of Australia and six other foreign countries to India through a video-conference. This was the first time in the history of Rashtrapati Bhavan the President accepted the Letters of Credence from newly-appointed foreign envoys through video-conference, as a formal ceremony could not be held in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and the curbs enforced to contain it. The envoys, who presented the Letters of Credence through video-conference, included new High Commissioner of Australia to India, Barry Robert O’Farrell. “I am immensely honoured to be taking over as Australia’s new High Commissioner to India – a role that will allow me to expand the ties between our two countries and importantly to advance the interests, the opportunities and the futures of citizens of both our two countries,” O’Farrell said. O’Farrell, who has taken over as Canberra’s 21st envoy to New Delhi, served in the Parliament of New South Wales from 1995 to 2015, including as the State’s 43rd Premier between 2011 and 2014. As Premier, he initiated and led annual trade missions from New South Wales to India to promote economic, cultural and social links between the province in Australia and the states of India. He has also served as Special Envoy of New South Wales for India. The President also accepted the Letter of Credence from Choe Hui Chol, the new ambassador of North Korea to India. Besides, new envoys of Senegal, Mauritius, Cote d’Ivoire, Trinidad & Tobago and Rwanda to India also submitted the Letters of Credence to him through video-conference on Thursday. The President said that digital technology had enabled the world to overcome the challenges posed by the COVID-19 and continue routine works in an innovative manner. He called the digitally-enabled credentials ceremony as a special occasion in engagement of the Government of India with the diplomatic community in New Delhi. He further noted that India remained committed to harnessing the limitless possibilities of the digital pathway for the advancement of its people and the world at large. The COVID-19 pandemic posed an unprecedented challenge to the global community, and the crisis called for greater global co-operation, Kovind told the new foreign envoys to India, pointing out that India had been in the forefront of extending support to fellow nations in fighting the pandemic. When a diplomat takes over as an envoy of his country in a foreign capital, he formally presents a Letter of Credence signed by the Head of State of the country he represents to the Head of State of the country where he has been posted. A solemn ceremony is generally held at the office or official residence of the Head of the State of the receiving country to mark the presentation of the Letter of Credence. It also marks the formal beginning of the tenure of the envoy in his new office. The COVID-19 outbreak and the continued lockdown however prompted the Rashtrapati Bhavan to hold it through video-conference. India’s new High Commissioner to Sri Lanka, Gopal Baglay, too presented his Letters of Credence to the President of the island nation, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, through video-conference on May 4. So did India’s new Permanent Representative to United Nations in New York, T S Tirumurti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-envoys-of-australia-others-present-letters-of-credence-to-president-ram-nath-kovind-virtually-840414.html
21-05-2020||National||US deports to Indian engineer who helped his brother finance Al-Qaeda||The United States has of late deported to India an engineer, who was accused of and admitted to aiding in providing fund to Anwar Al-Awlaki, a key leader of the terrorist organisation Al-Qaeda, in 2009. Ibrahim Mohammad Zubair, who originally hailed from Hyderabad in Telangana, pleaded guilty in a US federal court in April 2018 to concealment of financing terrorism. The US deported him to India on May 19 last. He was quarantined in a high-security facility in Amritsar in Punjab soon after his arrival and would be questioned by the security agencies if and when he would be tested and found negative for COVID-19, sources told DH on Thursday. The 40-year-old had been sentenced to 60 months in prison by a federal court in Ohio in the US in April 2018 as agreed upon by him and the prosecutors in the plea agreement. He had however already spent 30 months in prison by then. The US court had ordered him to be deported after completing the remainder of his prison term. Sources in New Delhi said that he would be grilled by the officials of the security and intelligence agencies to find out if he had any links with terrorist organizations, which were based in Pakistan and carried out attacks in India. Ibrahim had studied engineering at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign from 2001 through 2005. He had moved to Toledo in Ohio in 2006 and had married a US citizen. He had become a lawful permanent resident of the US in or around 2007, according to the Justice Department of the federal government of America. His brother Farooq Mohammad had given $ 22000 to an associate of Al-Awlaki, a key leader of the Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, at Sana’a in Yemen in 2009. Ibrahim had facilitated the transfer of the money overseas for Farooq to take the fund to the associate of Awlaki in Yemen. After the Federal Investigation Bureau (FBI) had started investigation, Ibrahim and two others, who had contributed to the fund Farooq had provided to the associate of Al-Awlaki, had attempted to conceal the source of the money by lying to investigators and deleting emails related to the transactions. They all had been arrested in 2011, along with Farooq. Farooq had been sentenced to prison for 27 years and six months in 2017 after he had pleaded guilty pleaded guilty not only for conspiring to provide and conceal material support or resources to terrorists, but also for soliciting an undercover FBI agent posing as a hitman to kidnap and murder a US District Judge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-deports-to-indian-engineer-who-helped-his-brother-finance-al-qaeda-840418.html
21-05-2020||National||Critical to strengthen indigenous production of diagnostic supplies for COVID-19: ICMR||The ICMR has stressed that it is critical to strengthen indigenous production of diagnostic material to ensure uninterrupted availability as there is a global shortfall of these supplies with the COVID-19 pandemic expanding. During the initial few weeks of the pandemic, it was a huge challenge to access and stockpile diagnostic commodities to meet national demand and indigenous diagnostic assays were prioritised to reduce dependence on other countries, the apex health research body said. A total of 11 RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) based indigenous assays were validated and recommended for COVID-19 testing so far, it said. The ICMR on Wednesday issued revised guidelines stating diagnostic machines used for testing drug-resistant tuberculosis can now be used for screening and confirmation of COVID-19 cases. The ICMR had earlier validated the indigenous TrueNat assay for tuberculosis. The test is WHO pre-qualified and is included as a reliable and accurate method for quick screening of TB patients.  The TrueNat assay has also been validated by ICMR-NIV as a point of care test for Nipah virus disease. In April 2020, the indigenous manufacturer developed TrueNat assay for screening of SARS-CoV-2, causing COVID-19.  "The ICMR undertook successful validation of the E gene screening assay, following which TrueNat based testing has been initiated by the states for coronavirus infection detection.  "From April till date, more than 1.3 lakh screening tests have been conducted by states," the ICMR said in a statement.  However, the rate-limiting step has been the lack of TrueNat confirmatory assay and all the positive samples had to be confirmed by RT-PCR based tests either located in the same or different laboratory.  Recently, the indigenous manufacturer has also developed an RdRp gene-based confirmatory assay of TrueNat which has been successfully validated again by ICMR and has been found to have high sensitivity and specificity, the health research body said. According to the ICMR guidelines, all samples of suspect COVID-19 should be first tested by the E gene screening assay. All negatives are to be considered as true negatives.     All positive samples should be subjected to confirmation by another step. Step 2 is the RdRp gene confirmatory assay. All samples that test positive by this assay must be considered as true positive. "No further RT-PCR based confirmation is required for samples that are positive after step 2 of the assay," the revised guidelines stated. All positive and negative results must be reported to the ICMR portal in a real-time manner.   The single assay has a turnaround time of 35-50 minutes for 1-4 samples with a total of 12-48 samples being tested per day, depending upon the type of machine, the statement said. The biosafety and biosecurity requirements are minimal in view of the sample being collected in viral lysis medium (VLM), which inactivates the virus. The test can be used at the level of district hospital/ primary health centres also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/critical-to-strengthen-indigenous-production-of-diagnostic-supplies-for-covid-19-icmr-840425.html
21-05-2020||National||Govt doing commendable job in fighting COVID-19: Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Thursday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is doing a commendable job in dealing with the challenge of COVID-19 and has come up with thoughtful relief packages for vulnerable sections of the society. "We are going through a global crisis and are witnessing some unprecedented and difficult times. "In India, the government is doing a commendable job to deal with this challenge and has come up with thoughtful and urgent economic relief packages, especially for the poor and the vulnerable section of the society," Birla said at an event organised by FICCI Ladies Organisation (FLO). Birla said to make the Prime Minister’s vision of self-sustainable India, the country look forward to FLO’s continued efforts in empowering women in both rural and urban areas. "Women are multi-taskers, we need to create a model where every woman sitting at home can be economically independent," he said. As a part of the civil society and a business chamber, it is FLO's responsibility to stand in solidarity and come together to support the government fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-doing-commendable-job-in-fighting-covid-19-om-birla-840437.html
21-05-2020||National||India in touch with the UK over extradition of Vijay Mallya: MEA||India is in touch with the British government over extradition of fugitive liquor baron Vijay Mallya after he exhausted legal options against New Delhi's request to the UK to extradite him. "The government of India is in touch with the UK regarding the next steps in his extradition process," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday. He was replying to a question on Mallya's extradition to India during an online media briefing. Last week, Mallya lost his appeals in the UK Supreme Court against his extradition to India to face money laundering and fraud charges. The UK top court's decision marked a major setback to the 64-year-old businessman as it came weeks after he lost his High Court appeal in April against an extradition order to India. Mallya has been based in the UK since March 2016 and remains on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017. The High Court verdict in April upheld the 2018 ruling by Chief Magistrate Emma Arbuthnot at the end of a year-long extradition trial in December 2018 that the former Kingfisher Airlines boss had a "case to answer" in the Indian courts. Replying to another question on China's growing assertiveness in South China Sea, Srivastava said India has an abiding interest in peace and stability in the area. He said there must be freedom of navigation and overflight in South China Sea and differences, if any, should be resolved through dialogue without resorting to use of force. China's aggressive military posturing in South China Sea is seen by many security experts as an attempt to leverage the situation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic to push its agenda in the region. Following China's rising military presence, the US has sent additional deployment to the South China Sea, a strategically key trade route linking Southeast Asia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-in-touch-with-the-uk-over-extradition-of-vijay-mallya-mea-840438.html
21-05-2020||National||UP sees 340 fresh COVID-19 cases; death toll mounts to 138, total cases stand at 5,515||With 11 more COVID-19 deaths and 340 fresh cases reported in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, the death toll in the state reached 138, while the total number of coronavirus cases climbed to 5,515. "The total number of cases reported so far is 5,515, including 3,204 who have been treated and discharged. There are 2,173 active cases. The death toll in the state has reached 138," an official bulletin of the state health department said here. The 11 fresh deaths include two in Gorakhpur and one each in Agra, Kanpur, Lucknow, Firozabad, Aligarh, Etah, Pratapgarh, Ayodhya and Chitrakoot, it said. These 11 deaths are in addition to the 127 deaths reported on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-sees-340-fresh-covid-19-cases-death-toll-mounts-to-138-total-cases-stand-at-5515-840443.html
21-05-2020||National||Punjab's COVID-19 death toll rises to 39, tally 2,028||A two-month-old boy died of coronavirus in Punjab, taking the death toll to 39, while 23 fresh infections pushed the total number of cases in the state to 2,028, officials said on Thursday. The infant, who was suffering from pneumonia, died at a hospital in Amritsar on Wednesday, a health official said in Amritsar. His test report came back positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, the official said. Of the 23 fresh cases, seven were reported in Hoshiarpur; five in Amritsar; four in Gurdaspur; two each in Ludhiana and Pathankot; and one each in Barnala, Kapurthala and Patiala, a medical bulletin said. Batala senior medical officer Sanjiv Bhalla said two pregnant women are among the four who tested positive for COVID-19 in the city. The pregnant women have been admitted to an isolation ward, he said. The other two women gave birth on May 19, Bhalla said. Blood samples of the two newborns would also be taken for testing, he added.  According to the bulletin, 25 coronavirus patients -- 13 from Jalandhar; eight from Muktsar; two each from Fazilka and Mohali -- were discharged after recovering from the infection. With this, the total number of cured persons in the state has reached 1,819. There are 170 active COVID-19 cases in the state, the bulletin said. Amritsar has the maximum number of COVID-19 cases in the state at 313, followed by 210 in Jalandhar, 171 in Ludhiana, 155 in Tarn Taran, 129 in Gurdaspur, 105 in SBS Nagar, 104 in Patiala and 102 each in Mohali and Hoshiarpur.     Sangrur has reported 88 cases, Muktsar 65, Faridkot 61, Rupnagar 60, Moga 59, Fatehgarh Sahib 56, Fazilka and Ferozepur 44 each, Bathinda 41, Kapurthala 34, Mansa 32, Pathankot 31, and Barnala 22. A total of 59,618 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing so far in the state. Of these 53,871 samples are negative and reports of 3,719 are still awaited, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjabs-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-39-tally-2028-840450.html
21-05-2020||National||Idea of self-reliance aimed at ensuring India can be global nerve centre of supply chains: Shringla||The idea behind self-reliance is not to turn the country inwards or into an isolationist nation, but to ensure that India can emerge as the global nerve centre of the complex modern multinational supply chain, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said, hailing the government's ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat’ initiative for post-COVID economic revival. In his address on the ‘New World Order Post COVID-19’ at the FICCI, he said a "major scale black swan event" that is impacting most of our established practices, norms and regulations, and thus shaping to become the big disruptor. "The primary impact of the disruption is economic. Global economic institutions put the cumulative loss from the pandemic in the range of USD 5.8-8.8 trillion or approximately 6.5-9.7 per cent of the global GDP. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) predicts a 3 per cent contraction of the world economy in 2020," he said. This is the largest contraction of global output since the Great Depression of the 1930s and the Great Recession of 2008-09, and other lesser recessions did not reduce world output on this scale, Shringla said. He said this is also the first economic downturn of this magnitude due to a non-economic cause. "Quarantines, travel bans and lockdowns, important to control the spread of the coronavirus, have expanded the economic impact to multiple sectors of the economy. The initial supply shock has been followed by a demand shock as both production and incomes have been hit," the foreign secretary said. Whether the contraction will turn into a depression or not is unclear, he said, adding that the scale of disruption makes it a possibility. Shringla, however, said the primary cause of the disruption is the pandemic. The speed of resumption of economic activity will therefore be the key determinant in preventing the recession from growing into a depression, he said. "The slowdown will impact all kinds of economies. Hydrocarbon and commodity dependent economies will be hit as badly as manufacturing, services, agriculture, mining and tourism dependent economies. “Global poverty and unemployment levels will rise. Expatriate workforces will be negatively impacted. Remittances are already falling," he said. The pandemic is also expected to leave people with a thoroughly different world, with tightened global financial market conditions, behavioural changes and altered consumption patterns, such that the demand and supply chains no longer suffice to cater to the new demand emanating from a changed world, he said. The economic order that existed in the pre-pandemic times will have changed significantly in the post-pandemic times, Shringla said. "This pandemic has not just stressed our systems globally, but has also exposed the existing gaps in our systems, forcing all of us to identify the loopholes, regroup, reform and reinvent. This reinvention of the global economic order is something that we all must prepare ourselves for," he said. Strong multilateral cooperation will continue to be critical in the collective fight against the pandemic as also for a global economic recovery, he asserted. "Our global supply chains have been severely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The risks of increased dependence of our supply chains on a particular country or region of the world have been exposed by the pandemic, and the need to de-risk and build resilience by increased diversification and innovation has made itself starkly evident," he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, identified five key pillars of the country’s future economic roadmap, including economy, infrastructure, demography, democracy and supply chains, Shringla said. Successful integration and assimilation of all these factors will be crucial to achieve a quantum jump in our overall growth and development, he said. In India, there was already an ongoing thinking within ministries and agencies on formulating a strategy which would position India as an alternate manufacturing destination of choice for global investors, he said. The idea behind this initiative was to enable manufacturing and trading companies looking to diversify and de-risk their value chains to choose India as an alternate location for their operations, Shringla said. The government has announced a set of bold economic reforms under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan, Shringla said. This vision of economic revival aims to provide short term relief to the citizens impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, while also defining a long-term economic roadmap to achieve the government’s vision of a USD 5 trillion economy by 2024, he said. "The idea behind self-reliance or Aatmanirbharat is not to turn the country inwards, or into an isolationist country, but to the contrary, it is to ensure that India can emerge as the global nerve centre of the complex modern multinational supply chains," he said. The Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan takes into account the largely untapped domestic potential and the ever-growing domestic demand, which are the two key driving forces for the Indian economy, and builds on them to provide a new strategic roadmap for the growth of India’s agriculture, manufacturing and services sectors, Shringla said. "Foreign policy begins at home. A strong economy allows us to be heard in the world. A self-reliant India will have more to offer to the world," he quoted External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar as saying. PTI ASK ANB ANB||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/idea-of-self-reliance-aimed-at-ensuring-india-can-be-global-nerve-centre-of-supply-chains-shringla-840451.html
21-05-2020||National||Amidst coronavirus, trains of fortune: 21 babies born in Shramik Specials||Mamta Yadav boarded a Shramik Special train on May 8 at Gujarat’s Jamnagar. She was travelling single. But, by the time her destination station in Bihar arrived she had a companion in her arms. Since Shramik Special trains started operating, they have witnessed births of 21 babies onboard, officials say. But she made the tough choice, and on May 8 decided to take the Jamnagar-Muzaffarpur Shramik Special train to be with her mother at her village in Chhapra district of Bihar for the birth of the baby. Officials say the train left the Jamnagar stations at 8 pm. Mamta, 35, began to experience the labour pain around midnight. Though the Railways had said that Shramik Special would be non-stop, this train was stopped at the Agra Fort station so that she could get the medical attention she needed.  Officials said that doctors were alerted by the onboard staff as the train approached Agra Fort station around 4.30 am. Mamta’s compartment was turned into a labour room of sorts with other passengers moving out. A team of doctors along with railway staff supervised Mamta’s condition as she delivered a healthy baby girl, official said. "We have a well-oiled system to deal with medical emergencies,” said railway spokesperson RD Bajpai. “Whenever a passenger needs help, our onboard staff alerts the station where medical aid is available next and the doctors who live in railway colonies around the station are always there to deal with any emergency,” he said. “We are happy that we managed to provide help in time every time and in each case the baby and the mother have been healthy," Mamta and her little one were allowed to continue their journey, officials said.  On May 13, the 20-something Pinky Yadav gave birth to a baby boy on board the Ahmedbad-Faizabad Shramik Special train with the help of RPF personnel. She got the medical attention at the Kanpur station. But she had to be shifted to a district hospital for treatment. The 23-year old Ishwari Devi gave birth to a baby boy onboard the Habibganj-Bilaspur migrant special train on May 17 with the help of onboard staff and other women passengers. The Railways not only provided her the necessary medicines but also arranged for her admission to the Chhattisgarh Institute of Medical Sciences when she needed further care. "We try to provide as much help as we can,” said Bajpai. “At times these people are so keen to go home. We also advise them the dos and don’ts, give them medicines and allow them to continue their journeys. "We also provide them ambulance to ferry them to the nearest district hospital. However, one thing must be told. The mother nature takes care of most of it. We are just glad our staffers were there to help,". So far, the railways has run around 2,050 Shramik Special trains and these births, many officials said, provided a ray of hope to all in these difficult times. The West Central Railway has seen most of these births, welcoming seven newborns, followed by three each in the South East Central Railway and the North Central Railway, they said. The Central Railway has seen two such births, while the East Central Railway, the Northern Railway, the Northeast Frontier Railway, the South Central Railway, the North Eastern Railway and the Western Railway one each. The co-passengers, onboard staff and fellow travelers clapped, cheered and whistled to welcome the newborn into the world, officials recall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amidst-coronavirus-trains-of-fortune-21-babies-born-in-shramik-specials-840453.html
21-05-2020||National||Regulated farming would benefit farmers: K Chandrashekar Rao||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao on Thursday said the state government is proposing regulated farming in the state so that farmers can get a higher price for their produce by cultivating crops which have high demand in the market. The government is suggesting cultivation of crops in a regulated manner so as to prevent farmers from suffering losses by cultivating the same crop (in excess), he said. He held a meeting with ministers and officials on the proposed regulated farming, an official release said. Rao said he would like farmers in the state to benefit by getting good price for their produceby cultivating crops as per the regulated farming being proposed and throughthe Rythu Bandhu investment support scheme. The state agriculture department and the agriculture university would make appropriate suggestions to the farmers on the crops to be cultivated, he said. The government is making suggestions to the farmers as per the advice of agri scientists who decided on the crops to be cultivated as per season, among otheraspects. The agro-business wing has decided on the crops that have demand in the market. Recalling that paddy was cultivated in 40 lakh acres during rainy season last year, Rao said it should be cultivated in the same area this year also. Among a number of suggestions, he said farmers conventions should be held in the coming four-five days on a cluster basis to create awareness among farmers on regulated farming.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/regulated-farming-would-benefit-farmers-k-chandrashekar-rao-840455.html
21-05-2020||National||Power outage, fibre cuts take toll on mobile network in Amphan-hit areas||Power outage and frequent fibre cuts have disrupted telecom connectivity in Cyclone Amphan hit areas, particularly Kolkata, North and South 24 Pargana districts of West Bengal. Industry players told PTI that still around 70 per cent of the telecom network in the worst affected areas is working and around 85-90 per cent of the connectivity will be restored by Friday evening. "There has been very minimal impact on telecom towers. Major problems have been fibre cuts due to felling of trees that has led to some disruption and power outage has made the situation challenging," industry body COAI Director General Rajan S Mathews said. Mobile towers are connected to each other through optical fibre cables and any damage to them leads to the breakdown of the network.   Mathews said that there have been an average of around 100 fibre cuts every two hours due to felling of trees and operations to clear the way from the disruption roads. "It is very important to get the power restored because mobile towers are working on diesel generators only and they cannot continue to operate for more than eight hours. DG sets will have to be switched off. "Batteries also cannot run for a long time without power; they also need to be charged. If the power outage continues then there can be disruption in telecom networks," Mathews said. The cyclone-hit areas have around 8,500 mobile towers on which around 36,000 base stations of different operators run. At present around 866 mobile towers, accounting for 70 per cent coverage, are operating on DG sets in the Amphan-hit area. According to Tower & Infrastructure Providers Association(TAIPA), both Airtel and Vodafone Idea have been asked to get 1,000 sites working in the next 24 hours by the Department of Telecommunications Secretary Anshu Prakash. "Around 70 per cent of the sites are working on DG's and after every 8 hours, DG set has to take rest, so restoration of power is very critical for getting sites back to functional especially in Kolkata. "Also, in a few situations, we have come across the issue of manpower not being allowed because of the road blockages, we have requested state authorities to resolve this issue at the earliest," Taipa Director General TR Dua said. He said that due to advance preparations by the DoT, there has been a minimal direct impact on telecom infrastructure per se. "DoT secretary coordinated with all the authorities because of which the entire flow of machinery was very smooth. The connectivity can be up and running in a very short time if power issues are resolved," Dua said. The fiercest cyclone to hit West Bengal in 100 years destroyed mud houses and crops, and uprooted trees and electric poles. It also wreaked havoc in Odisha damaging power and telecom infrastructure in several coastal districts. Odisha government officials estimated that the cyclone has affected around 44.8 lakh people in the state. "Connectivity in Odisha has almost been restored," Dua said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-outage-fibre-cuts-take-toll-on-mobile-network-in-amphan-hit-areas-840462.html
21-05-2020||National||Use of plasma therapy successful, claims Pune hospital||The first experimental use of plasma therapy for treating a COVID-19 patient has been successful at Pune's state-run Sassoon general hospital, a senior doctor claimed on Thursday. A 47-year-old woman, who had co-morbid conditions such as hypertension, hyperthyroid and obesity and who was in critical condition, was given convalescent plasma therapy twice on May 10 and 11. "The condition of the patient improved and her repeat tests following the 14-day period came out negative. The woman has been shifted out of COVID ward and will be given discharge soon," said Dr Murlidhar Tambe, the dean of Sassoon Hospital. Convalescent Plasma Therapy is an experimental procedure where plasma from the blood of a recovered COVID-19 patient is transfused to a critically ill coronavirus patient. The blood of a person who has recovered from COVID-19 develops antibodies. When injected into the blood of another patient, these antibodies are supposed to help that person fight the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/use-of-plasma-therapy-successful-claims-pune-hospital-840467.html
21-05-2020||National||Odisha extends helping hand to cyclone-hit West Bengal||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik came forward on Thursday to provide all possible assistance to West Bengal, which has been ravaged by Cyclone Amphan that killed at least 72 people and left a trail of destruction in the state. A day after the extremely severe cyclonic storm rolled past the Odisha coast and made landfall in the Sunderbans, Patnaik expressed deep grief at the loss of lives and massive damage to property caused by the calamity in West Bengal. He directed the chief secretary to remain in touch with his West Bengal counterpart and ensure all possible assistance to the neighbouring state, an official statement issued by the chief minister's office said. "The people of Odisha stand with the people of West Bengal at this hour of crisis," Patnaik said. While the cyclone caused minimal damage to Odisha as it passed along the state coast on Wednesday, it inflicted extensive damage in vast areas of West Bengal. Amphan is considered to be the second major cyclone in the Bay of Bengal after the super cyclone of 1999, which had claimed around 10,000 lives in Odisha and devastated vast areas in the state. Earlier in 2018, Odisha had rushed men and resources to the southern state of Kerala, which was severely hit by floods. The rescue-and-relief teams from Odisha actively took part in the rehabilitation and resettlement of the flood-hit people in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-extends-helping-hand-to-cyclone-hit-west-bengal-840471.html
21-05-2020||National||73% persons with disabilities facing severe challenges due to lockdown: Report||The survey of 1,067 PwDs was conducted by Delhi-based NGO National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP). Based on the findings of the survey, a report -- "Locked Down and Left Behind - A Report on the Status of Persons with Disabilities in India during the COVID-19 Crisis" -- was drafted.  The data from the NCPEDP'S survey showed that of all PwDs interviewed, 73 per cent faced particular challenges on account of the lockdown. "Out of those facing particular challenges, 57 per cent said they were facing a financial crisis, 13 per cent spoke of challenges in accessing rations, while 9 per cent were facing obstacles in access to healthcare and medical aid," the report said. It stated that these and other similar issues could have been taken care of if the 'Comprehensive Disability Inclusive Guidelines' issued by the Centre's Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD) had been uniformly enforced across India. The DEPwD guidelines provide for such critical requirements as ensuring that "persons with disabilities are given access to essential food, water, medicine, and, to the extent possible, such items should be delivered at their residence or place where they have been quarantined".  They also state that caregivers should be allowed to reach PwDs by exempting them from restrictions during lockdown or providing passes in a simplified manner on priority. The report recommended that continuation of support services for PwDs with minimum human contact should also be ensured. The NCPEDP report lauded some states like Kerala, Nagaland, Assam and Tamil Nadu for doing a good job of caring for PwDs. "Kerala has ensured that local self-governments are involved in taking special care of persons with disabilities. It has established common kitchens where cooked food is served, while dry rations are provided to those who cannot reach these common kitchens. "It has not only released pension dues, but has also made advance payments to help disabled people cope with this challenge. Kerala has also ensured that students with disabilities receive Rs 5,000 ex gratia payment," the report said. It said Tamil Nadu has also launched a helpline for PwDs, catering to people from state to district level. "Indian sign language interpreters are also available to cater to deaf and hard of hearing persons (in Tamil Nadu). Doorstep medical service such as fixing/changing catheters has been enabled by the Tamil Nadu State Disability Commissioner. Doorstep personal physical therapy has also been enabled," it added. Nagaland has been bringing out a daily video briefing on COVID-19 situation in the state which includes Indian sign language interpretation. "A helpline for people with disabilities was set up on the initiative of the Disability Commissioner. A separate number for WhatsApp video calls was also set up for persons who are deaf/hard of hearing," the report said. In Assam, under the directive of the state disability commissioner, the State Disaster Management Authority has created videos with information on COVID-19 with Indian sign language interpretation and subtitles, it said. The nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25, is aimed at containing the spread of COVID-19, the disease caused by coronavirus. So far, the contagion has claimed 3,435 lives and infected 1,12,359 people across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/73-persons-with-disabilities-facing-severe-challenges-due-to-lockdown-report-840472.html
21-05-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown period utilised to ramp up country’s medical infrastructure: Health Ministry||The Union health ministry on Thursday said the period of lockdown has been gainfully utilised to “ramp up the health infrastructure", with around 3,027 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals and 7,013 care centers being readied across the country to fight the disease. The announcement came after some media reports questioned the country’s preparedness to deal with the highly infectious disease. "There are reports in a section of the media about some decisions of the government regarding the lockdown implementation and response to COVID-19 management. The period of the lockdown has been gainfully utilised to ramp up the health infrastructure in the country," the ministry said. As on date, 45,299 people have recovered from coronavirus, taking the country's recovery rate to 40.32 per cent, it said. More than 2.81 lakh isolation beds, 31,250 ICU beds and 1,09,888 oxygen supported beds have already been identified in dedicated COVID-19 hospitals and health centers. Also, 6,50,930 isolation beds have been readied in COVID-19 care centres, the ministry said. A total of 26,15,920 samples have been tested and 1,03,532 samples were tested in the last 24 hours through 555 testing labs (391 in the government sector and 164 private labs), the ministry said. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in collaboration with the Health Ministry and the National Centre for Disease Control with support from state health departments and key stakeholders, including WHO, India is conducting a community based sero-survey to estimate the prevalence of the coronavirus infection among the Indian population. The central government has supplied 65.0 lakh personal protective equipment (PPE) coveralls and 101.07 lakh N95 masks to the states. "Nearly 3 lakh PPE coveralls and N95 masks each are now being manufactured per day by domestic producers. These were not produced in the country earlier," the ministry said in a statement. In addition, the government is consulting and involving epidemiologists actively at all levels in order to combat COVID-19. The National Task Force (NTF) for COVID-19 constituted by the ICMR has held 20 meetings since mid March, and has systematically and effectively contributed towards the scientific and technical response to the pandemic, the statement said. "A team of researchers from the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR), an autonomous institute under the state-run Department of Science and Technology (DST), along with collaborators from IISc Bengaluru have developed a heuristic predictive model for COVID-19 that provides short-term predictions about the evolution of the disease and the medical needs that are generated as a consequence," the ministry said. The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and its PSU, Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) have announced a COVID-19 Research Consortium Call to support diagnostics, vaccines, novel therapeutics, repurposing of drugs or any other intervention for control of the disease. Various policy announcements, particularly the ‘Pradhan Manrtri Garib Kalyan Yojana' and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan’, have been made to ameliorate the hardships faced specifically by migrant labourers, street vendors, urban poor, small traders, self-employed people, small farmers among others. The central government has announced a scheme for migrant workers and urban poor to provide ease of living to them at affordable rent. “Affordable Rental Housing complexes will provide social security and quality life to migrant labourers, urban poor and students,” the statement added. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 3,435 and the number of cases to 1,12,359 in the country on Thursday, registering an increase of 132 deaths and 5,609 cases in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-period-utilised-to-ramp-up-country-s-medical-infrastructure-health-ministry-840478.html
21-05-2020||National Politics||Case filed against Sonia Gandhi for Congress tweet on PM-CARES Fund||A case has been registered against Congress President Sonia Gandhi in Karnataka in connection with a tweet posted on the party's official handle alleging misuse of PM-CARES Fund, police said. The Sagara town police in Karnataka's Shivamogga district registered the case on Wednesday based on a complaint by Praveen K V, who alleged that @INCIndia, the official Twitter handle of the Congress, tried to create distrust among masses with its tweet by spreading 'baseless charges.' The state Congress condemned the registration of the case. The case has been registered under Sections 153 and 505 (1)(B) of the IPC, which relate to wantonly provoking people and inciting them to commit offence against any other class or community. The complainant alleged that on May 11 at 6 pm, the INC India Twitter account posted messages against Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging 'misuse' of PM-CARES Fund set up to enable people contribute to help the government fight against coronavirus and "similar distressing situations." He sought legal action against Sonia Gandhi and Congress workers involved in handling the Twitter account. Karnataka Congress spokesperson Subhash Agarwal condemned registration of case and said, "it is the role and responsibility of the opposition to question the government. Democracy will die if the opposition's voice is muzzled." He also said the party had always maintained that there was no need for the PM-CARES Fund when the PM Relief Fund already existed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/case-filed-against-sonia-gandhi-for-congress-tweet-on-pm-cares-fund-840207.html
21-05-2020||National Politics||Amit Shah speaks to CMs of Odisha, West Bengal; assures help to deal with situation after cyclone||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday spoke to chief ministers of Odisha and West Bengal -- Naveen Patnaik and Mamata Banerjee respectively -- and assured them of all central help to deal with the situation arising due to cyclone Amphan. Shah also said he was constantly monitoring the situation in the two cyclone-hit states. "I have also spoken to CM Odisha, Shri Naveen Patnaik ji & CM West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee ji over situation arising due to the cyclone and assured all possible help from centre," he tweeted. The home minister said the teams of the National Disaster Response Force are already on the ground to help the people affected by the cyclone. "We are closely monitoring the cyclone Amphan and are in continuous touch with concerned authorities," he said. Shah said the Narendra Modi government is committed for the safety and security of every citizen.  "I urge people of West Bengal and Odisha to stay indoor and follow instructions. Praying for everyone's safety and well being," he said. The cyclone has left at least 12 people dead and damaged infrastructure in West Bengal. The rains and high-velocity winds too caused massive damage to standing crops, plantations and infrastructure in Odisha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-speaks-to-cms-of-odisha-west-bengal-assures-help-to-deal-with-situation-after-cyclone-840248.html
21-05-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi-Yogi Adityanath tussle on migrants moves to social media||After 'successfully' cornering Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath by her ''bus move'', Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday launched a protest against the state government on social media for what she alleged ''ignoring the plight of the migrant workers'' and the arrest of UP Congress president Ajai Kumar Lallu. On the direction of Priyanka, who was also the in-charge of the state, through Facebook live, Congress workers expressed their anguish over Lallu's arrest for protesting the UP government's rejection of the offer of one thousand buses to ferry the stranded migrant workers home from Rajasthan and Delhi borders.  Priyanka referred to her late father and former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on the latter's death anniversary on Thursday and said that he always cared for the poor. Around 50 thousand Congress workers went live on the Facebook at noon and raised the plight of the migrant workers and slammed the UP government for turning a blind eye to the same.  UP Congress legislature party leader Aradhna Mishra said that her party's protest on the issue of migrant workers would continue. ''We will continue to fight for the migrant workers....the BJP government stands exposed.....it did not allow hundreds of buses to enter its borders from Rajasthan,'' she said.  According to the political observers here, the difficulties faced by the migrant workers in reaching their native villages in the state has provided the grand old party a big issue to corner the BJP regime. ''Congress' bus move has certainly put the BJP in a difficult situation,'' said a Lucknow based political analyst. Priyanka has been striving hard to revive her party in the state, where assembly polls are due in two year's time. Congress could win only one seat in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-yogi-adityanath-tussle-on-migrants-moves-to-social-media-840321.html
21-05-2020||National Politics||Congress suspends Raebareli rebel MLA for attacking Priyanka Gandhi||Congress on Thursday suspended Aditi Singh, its lone legislator from party president Sonia Gandhi's Lok Sabha constituency of Raebareli, after the former attacked Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra over her offer of buses to ferry the stranded migrant workers home. Though the UP Congress office bearers remained tight-lipped on the issue, sources in the party said that Aditi, who had been spewing venom against the Congress high command for the past several months, was suspended. ''Why politics on migrant workers?....Arrange buses for the workers in Punjab and Maharashtra,'' Aditi had said while commenting on Priyanka's offer of bus. Congress had already moved a petition before the Uttar Pradesh assembly speaker Hriday Narain Dixit seeking disqualification of Aditi Singh, a one time Rahul loyalist, for violating the party whip. Aditi had, in violation of the party whip, attended the special session of the state assembly last year and had also not attended Priyanka's protest march in the state capital against the CAA. A show cause notice had been issued to Aditi, who recently entered into a wedlock with Angad Saini, a Congress MLA from Punjab, seeking her explanation but she did not reply, Congress sources said. Aditi not only attended the session but also heaped praise on chief minister Yogi Adityanath in her speech in the assembly. According to the sources in the BJP, Aditi was in touch with senior saffron party leaders and could join the party in the near future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-suspends-raebareli-rebel-mla-for-attacking-priyanka-gandhi-840328.html
21-05-2020||National Politics||As elections near, COVID-19, not caste could resonate poll discourse in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh||While the fight against COVID-19 continues during the fourth nationwide lockdown, slowly politics has made an entry in the discourse with a bang and two major elections falling within next six months could be testimony to how the pandemic has played politically for the rival players. While assembly elections for Bihar are slated by October this year where NDA led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar as of now is poised for a tough battle against the grand alliance of Lalu Prasad’s RJD, Congress and former Union Minister Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP, 25 assembly seats will go for bye-election in Madhya Pradesh, where the BJP has in March managed to upstage Congress government led by Kamal Nath with Jyotiraditya Scindia walking away from Congress fold to BJP with two dozen MLAs. Congress has been alleging that the government action plan against COVID-19 including clamping national lockdown was delayed due to political concerns in Madhya Pradesh and not only the state, but the entire nation had to pay for it.  Making a shrill pitch for “Go Shivraj”, Congress has now asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to remove Chouhan alleging he has brought a bad name to the state with the entire Madhya Pradesh barring five districts affected by COVID-19. Indore in Madhya Pradesh has been a major national hotspot of COVID-19. Congress has alleged that in the third week of March when COVID-19 was raising its head in the state, the BJP was busy toppling the Nath government which ultimately fell on March 20 paving the way for oathtaking of Shivraj Singh Chouhan as BJP Chief Minister. Since elections for all 25 seats (after resignation of 22 Congress MLAs close to Scindia and death of one MLA from Congress and BJP each and resignation of one BJP MLA) have to be completed within six months that is before September, Congress has ratcheted up the COVID mismanagement campaign against the BJP, telling people how the ruling party for the sake of power compromised with people’s security. In Bihar, where Nitish Kumar, who first defeated the BJP-led NDA in October 2015 state polls after aligning with Lalu Prasad’s RJD and Congress and then went back to NDA in 2017, faces attack of ‘ignoring” migrants from the state stranded in different states and voicing his disapproval for people coming back to Bihar from COVID-19 affected zones. In the caste ridden politics of Bihar, slowly the pandemic is becoming the focal point of politics. Former Deputy Chief Minister and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Thursday tweeted: “Bihar govt’s casual approach towards our repeated requests, regarding 𝗧𝗘𝗦𝗧𝗜𝗡𝗚 wil hv catastrophic results. From 1st-21st May, 𝗧𝗘𝗦𝗧𝗜𝗡𝗚 remains a meager 1510/day while daily rise in cases (last 10 days) is 95. 𝗧𝗘𝗦𝗧𝗜𝗡𝗚 can only flatten the curve.𝐖𝐚𝐤𝐞 𝐮𝐩!”  The main Opposition RJD has launched a massive campaign against Kumar, offering to send buses with its own resources to ferry the migrants. The majority of migrants in the country are from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Recently Railways tweaked rules and did away with the provision of consent from states to run the trains in order to speed up the movement of migrants through trains. BJP went to town after the move seeking to project how serious the party is towards mitigating the sufferings of the migrants. Knowing well the potential of the campaign, BJP chief J P Nadda, who on Wednesday held a video conference meeting with the Core Committee of Bihar BJP impressed upon the need to counter the Opposition campaign against the BJP on migrant issues. BJP has claimed that nearly 30 lakh migrant labourers have been reached to their homes through 2050 Shramik Special trains. Immediately after the meeting Bihar BJP chief Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal took to Twitter accusing Congress of doing “cheap politics” on the issue of migrants and alleged that many migrants from Bihar and UP are still stuck in Congress-ruled Punjab and Rajasthan and in Maharashtra where Congress is part of the government.   Nadda on Thursday tweeted “the central govt under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and all the BJP workers are working relentlessly in relief & evacuation efforts. In this difficult time BJP is standing firmly with all affected people.” Jaiswal tweeted the list of special non AC trains that include cities from Bihar and thanked the Railway Minister for this. The BJP has decided to highlight the 20 lakh crore package announced by the Modi government to ward off the criticism of Lockdown losses as alleged by the Opposition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/as-elections-near-covid-19-not-caste-could-resonate-poll-discourse-in-bihar-madhya-pradesh-840380.html
21-05-2020||National Politics||AAP, SP, BSP not to attend Opposition meet on COVID-19||Samajwadi Party, BSP and AAP will not join the top Opposition leaders' meet on Friday to discuss Narendra Modi government's response to the COVID-19 pandemic as well as "inadequate" financial package and "bulldozing" of states. Eighteen parties have confirmed their attendance at the meeting that will be chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi and will be attended by former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, DMK chief MK Stalin and CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury. SP, BSP and AAP have chosen to distance themselves from the meeting as they "do not find politically prudent" to attend a meeting convened by the Congress. However, National Conference has agreed to attend the meeting while JD(S) gave its green signal on Thursday.   It was not immediately clear whether Farooq Abdullah or Omar Abdullah would be attending the video conference. If they choose to do so, this would be their first high-profile political deliberation since their release from detention. The Abdullahs were in detention since August 4 last year as the Centre moved swiftly to abroagate special status to Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcate the state into two union territories. Trinamool Congress chief Mamata would join the meeting late as she would be touring the state hit by cyclone Amphan, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also scheduled to be in Bengal on Friday. Trinamool's Rajya Sabha leader Derek O'Brien will hold the party in the meeting till Mamata joins. During the meeting, the top leaders are expected to discuss the way ahead for the Opposition in presenting a united face while taking on the Modi government. Those attending the meeting include CPI General Secretary D Raja, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren, RJD chief Tejashwi Yadav, RLD's Ajit Singh, LJD's Sharad Yadav, Hindustan Awam Morcha's Jiten Manjhi, RLSP's Upendra Kushwaha and Swabhiman Paksha's Raju Shetti among others. Leaders of AIDUF, Muslim League, Kerala Congress and RSP will also attend. Sources said the meeting would discuss the government's COVID-19 response, states "being bulldozed" by the Centre on COVID-19 response, trampling upon the federal structure and the Rs 20,000 lakh crore financial package announced by the government, including raising the fiscal deficit limit to 5% but with conditions. The meeting will provide the leaders a chance to analyse the political situation in the country and draw a strategy to "expose" the Modi government's "inadequate" response to Covid-19. The leaders will also be discussing the migrant workers' problem and job-loss during their meeting. Sources said the leaders decided to meet on Friday after taking into consideration that the West Bengal administration would be busy in handling the super cyclone situation on Wednesday and the death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi falls on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-sp-bsp-not-to-attend-opposition-meet-on-covid-19-840440.html
21-05-2020||National Politics||BJP leader Subramanian Swamy says will sue UN official over alleged comments about Muslims||BJP leader Subramanian Swamy has said that he will sue a senior UN official, who described alleged comments about Muslims attributed to him as "extremely alarming", saying the diplomat's remarks are slander and a “blatant lie.” Earlier this week, Under-Secretary-General Adama Dieng, United Nations Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, in a note to the media expressed concern over reports of "increased hate speech and discrimination" against minority communities in India since the adoption of the Citizenship Amendment Act in December 2019. In the letter, Dieng made a reference to the BJP leader, saying “statements such as those expressed by Member of Parliament Subramanian Swamy, that all people are not equal, and that Muslims are not in an ‘equal category’ as others are extremely alarming." Swamy hit back at Dieng’s assertion, saying in a tweet on May 19 that the UN official "slandered me in a press release in New York saying I had said in an interview to a Pakistani owned TV channel that Muslims are not equal to Hindus in Indian Constitution. This is a blatant lie so I will take steps to sue him in court.” Swamy further said in a tweet on Thursday that in a letter to the Foreign Secretary (Harsh Vardhan Shringla), he has expressed his intention to “prosecute for defamation” Dieng “for relying on a Pakistani owned TV's cut and paste interview, to allege that I said Muslims don't have equal rights with Hindus in India.” He said a legal notice will “very soon” be served on Dien. Dien, a Senegalese international lawyer, is a former registrar of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leader-subramanian-swamy-says-will-sue-un-official-over-alleged-comments-about-muslims-840475.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Five more test positive for coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh||Five people, who had recently returned from West Bengal, have tested positive for coronavirus, taking the virus tally in the state to 116, officials said on Thursday. All the five cases have been reported from Solan district, which was declared coronavirus-free a few weeks ago, Special Secretary (Health), Nipun Jindal, said. The patients are from Solan's Ramshehar area and had returned from West Bengal on May 15, he said.   The five were already placed in quarantine. The total number of infected people in the state stands at 116, while 54 of them have been cured. Four people have died due to COVID-19. The active cases in the state now stand at 58, including 26 from Kangra, 10 from Hamirpur, five each from Solan and Bilaspur, four from Mandi, three from Chamba, two each from Sirmaur, Una and one from Kullu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-himachal-pradesh-840143.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Indore COVID-19 tally up by 59 to 2774; death toll reaches 107||As many as 59 more people tested positive for coronavirus in Indore in the last 24 hours, raising the number of such cases in the worst hit district of Madhya Pradesh to 2,774, an official said on Thursday. The COVID-19 death toll in the district also rose to 107, after two more patients, both men aged 57 and 62 years, died during treatment at a private hospital on Tuesday, Indore's Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia said. Both the victims were also suffering from diabetes, the official said. Till Wednesday, the district recorded 2,715 coronavirus cases. With 59 more people testing positive for the disease in last 24 hours, Indore's tally has now gone up to 2,774, he said. Out of the total 5,735 COVID-19 cases recorded in Madhya Pradesh till Wednesday, nearly 48 per cent have been from Indore alone. The disease outbreak was first reported in the district on March 24, when four people tested positive for the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-covid-19-tally-up-by-59-to-2774-death-toll-reaches-107-840172.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Returning migrants our brethren, will welcome them with open heart: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Asserting that returning migrant workers are "our brethren", Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday said he would welcome them with open heart in the state and that they cannot be blamed for the rise in coronavirus cases. "Migrants are humans too. They are our brethren. We do not have any objection in migrants coming back to the state and we will embrace them (unhe gale lagayenge)," Chouhan told PTI in an interview. He also rejected reports that have hinted possible increase in coronavirus cases due to migrants and asked, "Did corona not spread at places where migrants were not there?" "There has been an increase in COVID positive cases in Madhya Pradesh. Migrants and other stranded people too have come to the state. Why do we blame migrants for increase in coronavirus cases? It will not be appropriate to blame them for the rise in coronavirus cases. Any increase in cases is not only due to the movement of migrant workers," Chouhan said. He said the entire issue of migrants returning to their native places need to be seen with the prism of humanity. "There is humanity and sensitivity involved in this crisis. Who are these migrant workers? They are our brothers and sisters. They went out for earning livelihood. If they want to come back, Madhya Pradesh will welcome them with open heart," the chief minister of the BJP-ruled state said. He said arrangements have been made not only for the workers of the state but for those from other states as well. "We have brought back a large number of migrants of our state. As many as 1,000 buses of Madhya Pradesh have been pressed into service to drop migrant workers of other states to our state borders so that they don't have to set off their journey on foot. Whether they are from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand or those coming from south-western states, we are looking after each one of them," Chouhan said. The chief minister said around 4 lakh workers have been brought back to Madhya Pradesh from other states so far. "We have decided to provide an amount of Rs 1,000 to 7,000 workers of other states who are stuck in Madhya Pradesh. We have provided them medical facilities for check-up and we are also providing them food. We are also sending them through buses and trains and in addition to it we are ensuring that all the expenses are borne by the state. No labourer should be charged for this," he emphasised. Chouhan had recently written to the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Telangana, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh highlighting the practical difficulty in the movement of labourers -- that the state "does not get to know how many labourers from other states are coming to the border of Madhya Pradesh and at what time". He said the state government has initiated work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) for the benefit of such workers. "We are trying to provide employment to labourers under this keeping all the care under the corona precaution guidelines. We are trying this so that workers of the state get employment. Till now, we have provided employment to more than 19.48 lakh workers. We will certainly help workers in every possible way,” the chief minister said. Hinting at the possible rise in coronavirus cases, Chouhan said one need to learn to live with it. "There is no doubt that coronavirus cases will increase. We need to learn to live with it by taking all precautions. We are arranging all facilities for its treatment in medical facilities across the state," he said.  Chouhan also suggested the use of traditional ayurvedic system to increase immunity as a counter measure against coronavirus. "Allopathic treatment is available for all. But there is a need to increase people's immunity as well. We will emphasise on the usage of ayurveda also by the people. We have distributed over two crore packets of 'kadha' (decoction) to help people increase their immunity," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/returning-migrants-our-brethren-will-welcome-them-with-open-heart-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-840178.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Sonia launches Rajiv Gandhi Nyay scheme for farmers of Chhattisgarh||Congress president Sonia Gandhi launched the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay scheme in Chhattisgarh through video conferencing on Thursday and said this was a true tribute to the former prime minister. Addressing the launch event on the occasion of Rajiv Gandhi's death anniversary, she lauded the scheme, saying it will bring a change in the lives of farmers and help them become self-reliant. "Such schemes should be implemented at the ground level to help bring a change in the lives of people. This is a revolutionary scheme and is a true tribute to Rajiv Gandhi. This is a big step taken in lines with the values of Rajiv Gandhi," she said. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also lauded the Chhattisgarh government for launching the scheme at a time when the poor and farmers were facing hardships due to the coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown to contain the spread of the disease. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana will benefit 19 lakh farmers and help bring more area under cultivation. He said the aim of the scheme is to help farmers earn more and bring more area in the state under cultivation, which currently stands at 20 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sonia-launches-rajiv-gandhi-nyay-scheme-for-farmers-of-chhattisgarh-840201.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Three militants held in Kashmir: Police ||A day after a gun-wielding picture of three local youth went viral on social media in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, security forces on Thursday held the trio along with arms and ammunition after a brief exchange of fire in Sogam area of the frontier district. Reports said during a cordon-and-search-operation, the trio, who had recently joined militant ranks, were held.   Senior Superintendent Police (SSP) Kupwara, Shriram Ambarkar while confirming the arrests said they were the same militants, whose pictures recently went viral on social media. “A search operation was launched in Sogam area and after a brief exchange of fire the trio was caught alive,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-militants-held-in-kashmir-police-840204.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus toll in Jammu and Kashmir reaches 19 as a patient dies in Budgam||A 70-year-old woman from Budgam district who had tested positive for coronavirus died at a hospital here on Thursday, taking the COVID-19 related death toll in Jammu and Kashmir to 19, officials said. The woman, hailing from Parisabad area of the central Kashmir district, died in the afternoon at the Chest Diseases Hospital here, they said. She was initially admitted to the SMHS hospital on May 15, but after testing positive for coronavirus, she was shifted to the Chest Diseases hospital on May 18 as a case of COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) with restrictive lung disease and COVID pneumonia, the officials said. They said the woman died in the ICU of the hospital after sudden cardiac arrest. With her death, the coronavirus-related death toll in Jammu and Kashmir has risen to 19, while the cases in the UT have reached 1,390.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-toll-in-jammu-and-kashmir-reaches-19-as-a-patient-dies-in-budgam-840205.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||With 3 more deaths, COVID-19 fatalities rise to 150 in Rajasthan||Rajasthan on Thursday recorded three more deaths due to coronavirus and 83 new cases of the disease, officials said.    The number of cases in the state now stands at 6,098 and fatalities at 150. "Three more deaths were recorded, including one each in Sikar, Jaipur and Bharatpur. As many as 83 fresh cases were reported in the state," additional chief secretary (health), Rohit Kumar Singh said. Of the 83 fresh cases, Dungarpur recorded 28 cases followed by 10 in Udaipur, eight each in Nagaur and Jaipur, six each in Rajsamand and Bikaner, four in Alwar, two each in Kota, Ajmer, Jhunjhunu, Bhilwara and Barmer and one each in Jaisalmer and Jhalawar. One patient belongs to Uttar Pradesh, officials said. A total 3,421 patients have recovered and 3,031 have been discharged. There are 2,527 active cases in the state, they said. Massive screening and search is underway to trace the contagion, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-3-more-deaths-covid-19-fatalities-rise-to-150-in-rajasthan-840228.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Travelling by flight? Then be prepared to go without food||Keen on air travel? Then be prepared to go without food for the duration of the flight and fewer loo breaks. A day after announcing the resumption of domestic flights, the Civil Aviation Ministry on Thursday released guidelines for air travel, that include a cap of air fares and an advice to pregnant women, persons with ailments and the elderly to avoid travel if possible. “On the day of commencement, limited operations (about 1/3rd) would be permitted. Further augmentation of the flights would be done in a calibrated manner,” the guidelines issued by the ministry said.  Aarogya Setu app or a self declaration of good health will be mandatory for passengers right from the point of web or tele check-in to entry to the airport. “no physical check-in at airport counters would be done,” it said. Airlines will have to provide a safety kit, which will include a mask, hand sanitiser and a face shield to every passenger before boarding the aircraft. The guidelines also allow passengers to carry only one hand baggage and one checked-in baggage upto 20 kg. Any excess luggage will attract an additional charge, payment for which will be made digitally.  Passengers will have to reach the airport two hours before the departure of the flight and complete the check-in procedure and baggage drop at least an hour before the flight takes off. Inside the aircraft, passengers should minimise face-to-face interaction, use of toilets and avoid any non-essential movement in the aisles. “No meal services would be made available in the aircraft. Water bottle to be made available in the galley area or on the seats. Passengers would not be allowed to consume any eatables inside the aircraft during the flight,” read the guidelines. Cabin crew will wear personal protective gear including a full-body gown, shoe cover, mask, and a pair of gloves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/travelling-by-flight-then-be-prepared-to-go-without-food-840229.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Tricolour will soon unfurl in PoK: UP minister Anand Swaroop Shukla tells Pakistani cricketer Shahid Afridi||Uttar Pradesh minister Anand Swaroop Shukla on Thursday targeted Shahid Afridi for his remarks on Kashmir, telling the Pakistani cricketer that the tricolour would soon unfurl in PoK. “Pak-occupied Kashmir would very soon be a part of India, and the national tricolour would be unfurled there," he said. The former Pakistan captain recently alleged atrocities in Kashmir, drawing flak from some Indian cricketers. The minister said those speaking ill of India and pointing guns at the country “are being eliminated by our army”. "I want to tell people like Shahid Afridi who are trying to weaken India that this is Narendra Modi's government, which conducted the surgical strikes,” he said, referring to a cross-border attack against Pakistan-based militants. “The time is coming when the map of Pakistan would have to become a thing of the past to establish peace in the world," UP’s minister for state for parliamentary affairs said. The minister added that etiquette cannot be expected from someone like Afridi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tricolour-will-soon-unfurl-in-pok-up-minister-anand-swaroop-shukla-tells-pakistani-cricketer-shahid-afridi-840235.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Migrant worker, driver killed after bus collides with truck in Chhattisgarh||A migrant labourer and a bus driver were killed and eight others received injuries after their vehicle collided with a trailer truck in Chhattisgarh's Bemetara district on Thursday, police said. Two of the injured were reported to be in critical condition, they said. The accident took place near Temri village on Raipur- Bilaspur highway under Nandghat police station limits at around 8.30 am when the bus carrying migrant labourers was heading towards the Jharkhand-Chhattisgarh border, he said. The labourers, mostly from Bihar and Jharkhand who were stranded in Maharashtra due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, were being ferried to the Jharkhand border from Baghnadi check post in Chhattisgarhs Rajnandgaon district, the official said. The bus collided head-on with the truck coming from the opposite direction near Temri, located around 70 km from the state capital Raipur. A migrant labourer, identified as Devnath, hailing from Bihar, and bus driver Guharam Sonwani, a resident of Rajnandgaon, died on the spot, the official said. At least eight others were injured, two of them critically, he said. All the injured persons were admitted to a hospital in the neighbouring Bilaspur district, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-worker-driver-killed-after-bus-collides-with-truck-in-chhattisgarh-840236.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Delhi reports 500+ coronavirus cases for third consecutive day||Daily COVID-19 cases remained above 500 for the third consecutive day in the national capital with Thursday recording 571 new cases, the highest for a single day, even as 18 more deaths were added to the death toll. With the fresh cases, number of positive patients rose to 11,659 while the death toll neared 200 -- now at 194. On Wednesday, Delhi had recorded 534 cases and on Tuesday, 500 cases. In the past three days, Delhi has reported 1,605 cases while May alone accounted for 8,144 or 69.85 per cent of total cases. According to the latest medical bulletin, 5,567 people have recovered so far since Delhi reported its first COVID-19 case on March 2. At present, 5,898 people are still under treatment with 2,739 having mild symptoms in home isolation.  A total of 1.54 lakh samples have been tested so far, including 4,103 fresh samples. On May 14, Delhi had reported 472 cases, the previous highest for a single day, while on May 15, 425 cases were recorded. In May 16, it was 438 and 422 on May 17. On May 18, the cases were 299. On Wednesday, Delhi Health Secretary Padmini Singla raised the issue of decreasing number of containment zones despite increase in number of cases. She said that every day there has been 300-400 cases every day but equivalent number of containment zones were not being declared.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-500-coronavirus-cases-for-third-consecutive-day-840252.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||11 new COVID-19 cases in Chhattisgarh; state tally rises to 126||At least 11 more people, mostly migrant workers, tested positive for coronavirus in Chhattisgarh on Thursday, taking the state's tally to 126, a health official said. Of the new cases, four were reported from Rajnandgaon, three from Janjgir-Champa, and one each from Raipur, Surguja, Kanker and Balod districts, the official said. Most of these patients were migrant labourers who recently returned to their hometowns from different states of the country and were staying in quarantine centres, he said. The state's Bastar division recorded its first case of coronavirus after a migrant worker tested positive in Kanker district, he said. The Bastar division comprises seven districts- Kanker, Kondagoan, Narayanpur, Bastar, Bijapur, Dantewada and Sukma. With the new cases, the COVID-19 count in the state has gone up to 126. So far, 59 patients have recovered and 67 are undergoing treatment, the official said. The state has not recorded any COVID-19 death so far, he added. Chhattisgarh COVID-19 figures are as follows: positive cases-126, new cases-11, deaths-0, discharged-59, active cases-67, people tested so far-42,566.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/11-new-covid-19-cases-in-chhattisgarh-state-tally-rises-to-126-840254.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||42 people test positive for COVID-19 in Himachal Pradesh; total rises to 153||Forty-two people tested positive for COVID-19 in Himachal Pradesh on Thursday, taking the number of cases in the state to 153, officials said here. A majority of the fresh cases have recently returned to the state from either Maharashtra or West Bengal, they added. Of the new cases of COVID-19 infection, 31 are from Hamirpur, six from Kangra and five are from Solan district, the officials said. Four patients were also discharged in Kangra during the day, taking the number of those who have recovered from the disease so far to 59, they added. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 90. Forty-one of these are from Hamirpur, 28 from Kangra, five each from Solan and Bilaspur, four from Mandi, two each from Sirmaur, Una and Chamba, and one from Kullu, the officials said. Four people have so far died due to the disease in the state, they added. Hamirpur Deputy Commissioner Harikesh Meena said most of the fresh cases reported in the district had returned from Mumbai in a special train on May 18 and were kept under institutional quarantine at different places. They have been admitted to various COVID centres of the district for treatment and isolation, he added. Special Secretary (Health) Nipun Jindal said six Mumbai returnees, including a woman, in Kangra district and five West Bengal returnees in Solan district have tested positive for the infection. In Solan, all the five cases were from the Ramshehar area and they had returned from West Bengal on May 15, the special secretary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/42-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-pradesh-total-rises-to-153-840274.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||UP govt making COVID-19 outbreak look like criminal problem rather than medical one: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi party president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday claimed that the Uttar Pradesh government has filed "thousands of FIRs" in connection with the COVID-19 outbreak, making it look like a "criminal problem rather than a medical one". "Thousands of FIRs are being filed in Uttar Pradesh in connection with coronavirus which is making it look like a criminal problem rather than a medical one. "Because of the bad state of the quarantine centres and the BJP government's discriminatory policy, people are afraid of going there. BJP people need to change their narrow outlook," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. The state police has lodged FIRs for lockdown violation and also against those found indulging in hoarding and black marketing. Besides, FIR was also lodged recently against Congress leaders in connection with party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra 's offer to provide 1,000 buses to ferry migrant labourers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-making-covid-19-outbreak-look-like-criminal-problem-rather-than-medical-one-akhilesh-yadav-840275.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Eastern UP districts see spurt in coronavirus cases amid migrants return||Several eastern Uttar Pradesh districts have witnessed a spurt in cases of coronavirus infection amid the return of migrant workers with Barabanki emerging as a new COVID-19 hotspot after detection of 95 new cases there in a single day. Barabanki District Magistrate Aadarsh Kumar said on Wednesday that of the 245 samples sent for testing on May 15-16, 95 have been found corona positive. Among those who tested positive, 49 are migrants who had recently returned from other states, the DM said, adding all have been admitted to hospital as per the COVID-19 treatment protocol. The remaining 46 are those who had come in contact with six infected persons and had been kept in isolation, the DM said. With this, the total number of active cases in the district has gone up to 122, the DM added. Earlier on Tuesday, 50 migrants had tested positive in Basti district. According to Basti DM Ashutosh Niranjan, 50 new cases came to light on Tuesday with all of them being migrant workers who had returned recently from other states. Pratapgarh reported 10 new cases and Ghazipur 18 on Wednesday. On Thursday, 15 cases were reported in Azamgarh with DM N P Singh saying that the graph of coronavirus infection has gone up with the return of migrants from other states. In Siddhartnagar , 11 new cases were reported on Thursday with most them being migrants having returned from Mumbai, Chief Medical Officer, Dr Seema Rai said. Another 16 cases were reported from Jaunpur of which 15 had come back from Mumbai and one from Surat, District Magistrate Dinesh Kumar Singh said. Eight migrant workers who had returned from Maharashtra and Gujarat were tested positive in Maharajganj, DM Dr Ujjawl Kumar said. State's principal secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad had on Tuesday said that a high incidence of infections being observed among migrant workers returning to Uttar Pradesh and village and 'mohalla' monitoring committees have been asked to be on vigil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eastern-up-districts-see-spurt-in-coronavirus-cases-amid-migrants-return-840282.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Mandoli Jail deputy superintendent tests COVID-19 positive||The deputy superintendent of the Mandoli Jail in northeast Delhi has tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Thursday. "The officer was on leave since May 11 as he had fever. He got himself tested for COVID-19 at Ganga Ram Hospital and the report came positive on Wednesday," a senior jail official said. The deputy superintendent lives in Sarai Rohilla and is currently under home quarantine. Contact tracing is being done, he said. Authorities became extra cautious after reports of infection were reported from Rohini Jail. Earlier, the assistant superintendent of Rohini Jail had tested positive for COVID-19, days after 15 inmates and a jail staff from the prison contracted the disease. Delhi has three prisons, Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli, and a standard operating procedure (SOP) is being followed inside all the jails. A new inmate first goes through thermal checking which is then followed by a routine medical checkup. After keeping them in isolation of 14 days, they are then shifted to barracks, according to jail authorities. Wearing masks is compulsory for inmates, frequent medical screening is being done and ''mulaqat'' with family and court productions have also been suspended. The jail authorities said they are conducting medical screenings of all inmate more frequently and at a faster pace, and all inmates have been strictly advised not to hide if they are unwell and they should report to doctor immediately. The jail staff and doctors have been educating inmates about the novel coronavirus and the precautionary measures to be taken to contain its spread, said an official. In case someone falls sick, doctor after checking his or her health condition decides if the person needs to be kept in medical isolation which is made in each barrack or if be kept in a jail dispensary from where health condition is monitored regularly, they said. It is being ensured the inmates have limited interaction with members of other barracks and they come out of their respective barracks only for valid reasons, either to avail phone facility, canteen facility or to visit the jail office or dispensary which is within the jail premises. In all these areas, inmates wait in queue within marked circles to avail the facility as and when their turn comes, the jail authorities stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mandoli-jail-deputy-superintendent-tests-covid-19-positive-840285.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||HCL gives 1 lakh PPE kits to UP govt, commits 1 lakh more amid coronavirus pandemic||IT major HCL on Thursday said it has delivered one lakh personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and 1,000 viral transport media (VTM) kits to the Uttar Pradesh government. The work has been done as part of HCL's continuous efforts to strengthen the state's relief efforts against the COVID-19 pandemic,the Noida-based company said. "These PPE kits have been delivered to all 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh over past one month, aimed at providing protective gear to healthcare professionals. Given the high need, HCL has committed to providing additional one lakh PPE kits and 50,000 N-95 masks to the state, taking the overall PPE kit support by HCL to two lakh,” it said in a statement. HCL said it provided the VTM kits to the UP Medical Supply Corporation Limited, a nodal organisation which takes care of centralized procurement and distribution of drugs and equipment to government health facilities in the state. Uttar Pradesh, the country's most populous state, has recorded 127 deaths due to the coronavirus disease while the number of cases stood at 5,175 till Wednesday, according to the state health department. There are 1,981 active cases of COVID-19, the disease caused by coronavirus, in the state and as many as 3,066 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovery, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hcl-gives-1-lakh-ppe-kits-to-up-govt-commits-1-lakh-more-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-840288.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||4.10 lakh migrant workers in Delhi waiting for trains, buses to return home||Around 4.10 lakh stranded migrant workers are still waiting to leave Delhi in special trains and buses arranged by the government, displaying their eagerness to be in their villages as they stare at an uncertain future despite the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions being eased and economic activities slowly picking up. Around 80,000-90,000 people have left the capital in over 70 'Shramik' special trains and as many buses since May 7 but another 4.10 lakh, including 3.80 lakh from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have  registered with the Delhi government portal seeking a journey to their homes. This is besides the large number of migrant workers who left the capital in March-end as well as those who set on foot to their destinations. With 4.10 lakh migrant workers, who have registered with the government, remaining, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has written to Ministry of Railways seeking the plying of 262 more trains to send them back in next four days. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Tuesday urged the Centre to increase the number of trains from Delhi to send maximum number of migrant workers. Of the 4.10 lakh, UP account for the highest number of 1,95,746 migrant labourers who want to return home followed by Bihar with 1,84,997.    Registrations have been received from migrants belonging to different across the country, with around 14836 people registering for Darbhanga in Bihar, 14355 migrants registering for Madhubani, 11156 registering for Sitamarhi, 11707 migrants registering for Muzaffarpur and 10247 migrants registering for Katihar. Similarly, 14914 migrants have registered on the Delhi government portal to go back to Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, 13279 migrants have registered for Gorakhpur, 11554 migrants have registered for Jaunpur, 8103 migrants have registered for Ambedkarnagar and 7770 migrants have registered for Basti. "We are also seeking permission from other states to send migrants back to their home-towns. As soon as we get the permit, we are sanctioning trains for those states," Sisodia said. On Wednesday, around 25 trains left from Delhi for different states with 37,500 migrants back to their home-towns. Eleven each trains were sent to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The returning migrants have resulted in a spike in number of Covid-19 cases in these states. Bihar has reported that 8% of its cases were migrant workers who came from Delhi. (||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/410-lakh-migrant-workers-in-delhi-waiting-for-trains-buses-to-return-home-840289.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Cop killed, another injured in militant attack in Srinagar||A day after the killing of two paramilitary BSF men in a militant attack in Srinagar, a policeman was killed and another injured in a similar incident in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Thursday (May 21). Reports said militants fired at a checkpoint of the police and paramilitary CRPF at Prichoo, Pulwama, 28 km from Srinagar, in which two policemen were wounded. The injured cops were shifted to hospital, but one of them succumbed to his injuries, officials said. The slain cop was identified as Anoop Singh of Indian Reserve Police (IRP) 10th battalion while injured was identified as Mohammad Ibrahim. Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar while confirming the killing of the policeman said the area has been cordoned off and further investigations launched. The incident comes a day after two soldiers of the Border Security Force (BSF) were killed by motorcycle-borne militants at a picket in Pandach area, on the outskirts of the city on Wednesday (May 20) evening. The militants had also snatched weapons from the slain BSF personnel. Recently in the Handwara area of northern Kashmir, three CRPF personnel were killed and several others injured in a militant attack. The terrorists had also snatched weapons of the paramilitary men after the shootout.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cop-killed-another-injured-in-militant-attack-in-srinagar-840297.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Rs 1,500 cr paid to farmers under Kisan Nyay Scheme: Bhupesh Baghel||Rs 1,500 crore had been transferred to the bank accounts of around 19 lakh farmers in Chhattisgarh under the first installment of Rajiv Gandhi Kisaan Nyay Yojna, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Thursday. A total of Rs 5,750 crore will be disbursed to 19 lakh farmers of the state in four installments under the scheme. The first installment of Rs 1,500 crore was transferred into farmers' bank accounts, he said. The scheme, which aims to provide good returns to farmers for their produce and encourage crop production, was launched by Congress President Sonia Gandhi through video conference on Thursday afternoon. The inauguration, which coincided with former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi's death anniversary, was held here at Baghel's official residence and attended by Rahul Gandhi and other central Congress leaders thorough video conference. Under the scheme, sugarcane farmers will get a grant of Rs 13,000 per acre and paddy growers will get Rs 10,000 per acre, the chief minister said. 90 per cent of the beneficiaries are marginalized farmers, the poor and those belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Class (OBC), he said. "We have also decided to include landless agro-labourers in the second phase of the scheme and have constituted a committee headed by the chief secretary to prepare a detailed action plan for it," he said. During the 18 months of Congress rule, nearly Rs 40,700 crore were transferred into farmers' accounts in the form of payment against paddy procurement, loan waiver, crop insurance, irrigation tax waver and bonus, Baghel said. "We hope that in the next four years, we will be able to remove the blot of being the poorest state in the country," he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rs-1500-cr-paid-to-farmers-under-kisan-nyay-scheme-bhupesh-baghel-840329.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Over 15 lakh migrants have arrived in UP by ‘Shramik Special’ trains: Official||Over 15 lakh migrants hailing from Uttar Pradesh, who were stranded in different parts of the country due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, have returned to the state in 881 trains since the ‘Shramik Special’ service was launched, an official said. The railways had started the migrant special trains on May 1 after the central government gave its approval for transportation of stranded workers on the railway network during the lockdown. In the next two days, 313 more trains carrying migrant workers will arrive in various districts of Uttar Pradesh, Additional Chief Secretary, Home and Information, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, told reporters here. He said, "881 trains have arrived in the state with over 15 lakh migrants. In next two days, 313 trains are likely to arrive. Till now, over 20 lakh migrants have arrived in the state on trains, buses and by other means of transports.” Of the total special trains run in the country, 50 per cent were for Uttar Pradesh, Awasthi said. The additional chief secretary also said of the total trains that have reached Uttar Pradesh, the highest 142 arrived in Gorakhpur besides 64 in Jaunpur, 62 in Lucknow, 50 in Varanasi, 51 in Gonda, 41 in Basti, 38 in Pratapgarh, 34 each in Ballia and Prayagraj, 10 in Agra and 27 in Ayodhya and other stations. The highest 355 trains have arrived in the state from Gujarat, 144 from Punjab, 28 from Rajasthan, 181 from Maharashtra, 33 from Karnataka, 36 from Delhi, he said, adding that over two lakh people are coming to the state each day. "We are taking it as a challenge and our district magistrates are working day and night to receive migrants, who are being tested (for the novel coronavirus) and those with symptoms are being isolated. We have got 70,000 to 1 lakh migrants in many districts," he said. The official said after their home quarantine is completed, the state government “will be providing them jobs as per their skill, data of which is being collected”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-15-lakh-migrants-have-arrived-in-up-by-shramik-special-trains-official-840331.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||Fire breaks out in office complex in west Delhi, four men rescued||Four men were rescued from a fire that broke out at an office complex in west Delhi's Furniture Market area on Thursday, a Delhi Fire Service official said. The fire department said a call about the blaze was received at around 2 pm after which 12 fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Four people were in the office complex when the fire broke out. However, they were rescued on time by the fire personnel and the blaze was also brought under control, a senior fire officer said. Short-circuit is suspected to be the reason behind the fire, he said. One of the man who was saved by the fire personnel said he along with his colleagues were working in the office when they saw smoke coming out. Suspecting it to be a case of short-circuit, we immediately switched off the main switch board, he said. "By the time, we tried to leave the building, the smoke had engulfed the entire area so we rushed back to our office space. It was suffocating and we were finding it difficult to breathe," the man said. The four people took shelter near one of the windows and managed to escape after a team of Delhi Fire Service reached the spot, he said. "We were looking for ropes to escape. But fire personnel arrived within 15 minutes and with the help of a ladder, they managed to rescue us," he said. PTI AMP TDS TDS||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-in-office-complex-in-west-delhi-four-men-rescued-840333.html
21-05-2020||North and Central||‘Mumbai-returned bar dancers, colleagues create ruckus in quarantine facility, booked’||Two bar dancers and their three mail colleagues, kept in a quarantine facility here after their return from Mumbai, have been booked for creating ruckus on being denied liquor, police said on Thursday. SHO Jyoti Singh of an all-women police station in Moradabad said a total of 68 persons, returning here in a truck from Mumbai a few days ago, had been quarantined in a private medical college here. On Tuesday night, five of them demanded liquor from health workers in the hospital and created ruckus in its corridors after being denied it, said Singh. Following denial of liquor they began dancing in the corridors, some of them after removing some of their clothes, said the SHO, adding they also misbehaved with and assaulted some of the health workers, seeking to control them. On being informed about the incident, the police reached there and booked the five for various penal offences, including rioting (section 147 of IPC), committing negligent acts likely to spread infection (s 269), assaulting public servants (s 333) and breaching peace and provoking others (s 504). Assistant Superintendent of Police Deepak Bhookar said the police would seek their judicial custody after their quarantine period would be over. Moradabad Chief Medical Officer, Dr Millind Chandra Agarwal said the samples of all Mumbai returnees have been sent for testing and the result in expected soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mumbai-returned-bar-dancers-colleagues-create-ruckus-in-quarantine-facility-booked-840340.html
21-05-2020||Opinion||No, India doesn’t need a bigger stimulus, coronavirus relief package is the right size||India’s policymakers found the correct prescription because they began with the proper diagnosis. A bigger stimulus would have been the right way to address a crisis in aggregate demand. But that’s not India’s problem: Until we figure out the best way to reopen, the country needs less economic activity not more. The real issue is the lockdown imposed to slow the spread of the new coronavirus. Instead of wasting money it doesn’t have, the government has tried to address the problem we do have. Government spending works if no other event, policy or signal can address the coordination problems that underlie a collapse in aggregate demand. In this case, we know there is such a signal: an end to the current emergency. In the interim, what the government needs to do is figure out how to preserve those things that would allow the economy to respond to that signal — lives, businesses and contracts. Yes, that can cost money and governments are the spenders of last resort. But even more important than the government’s ability to pay is its ability to absorb risk and provide liquidity. India’s rescue package is structured around precisely these strengths. It includes the promise, for example, of roughly $40 billion in collateral-free loans to small businesses that would be completely guaranteed by the government. We can quibble over the details — it’s a mistake to limit such loans to existing borrowers, for instance, when lots of smaller businesses may want to borrow for the first time — but you can see the government’s rationale. People who believe their business will recover can take on a loan for payments that they have to make; banks will be happy to cover them, since they’re being underwritten by the government. Instead of the government figuring out who to pay to reopen the economy, banks and businesses will make the decision. While we’ll have to see how it works in practice – any delays in the rollout and the whole thing will fall apart — the idea is sound. If some economists are furious, that’s because economists, like generals, are always battling the last crisis. India’s government learned from it instead, according to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman: After the 2008 financial crisis, the government “just opened the floodgates and kept it open for a long time. At the end of the day, you had [the 2013] taper tantrum, double-digit inflation and food inflation hitting the roof.” Caution is wise. Unlike many of their global peers, India’s policymakers seem to recognize that, faced with an unprecedented emergency, their primary responsibility is to keep things stable until it is clear how best to intervene. It’s not to dissolve one institutional constraint after another on the pretext of fighting this crisis. Modi’s economic record has been far from exceptional, so how has his government proven so astute at this moment? Perhaps it’s because the prime minister himself is something of a fiscal hawk. Or perhaps fears that India might be downgraded concentrated minds in New Delhi. Had ratings agencies downgraded India, there would have been no chance of borrowing enough to provide stimulus when it might actually be needed — whether six, 12 or 18 months from now. And, yes, more spending will probably be required. If this emergency lasts long enough, India’s poor will need direct cash transfers, for example. Let’s hope that income support, when it comes, is as cautiously designed. For now, look to Modi’s India as a global example, not a disappointment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/no-india-doesn-t-need-a-bigger-stimulus-coronavirus-relief-package-is-the-right-size-840114.html
21-05-2020||Opinion||An economic package that misses the point||The hoteliers are upset, airline industry executives have been left wondering about their fate and the automobile sector is aghast at the absence of any direct measures to ease their woes. One of the most vocal supporters of the government – the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), a collection of small traders – is also stunned at no specific announcements for this sector in the stimulus package announced by the Central government.  As Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman gave a detailed breakup of the Rs 20 lakh crore package while summing up the measures, there were many proverbial shakes of the head. The package comes to about 10 per cent of India’s GDP and at first glance and appears a generous one. But the fine print shows that neither the math works out nor does it handhold  sectors most battered by the COVID-19 induced lockdown. Doubtful math Many of these sectors had been petitioning the government for direct relief measures for weeks. Industry associations too had been asking for measures to stimulate demand. Not just industry, economists were also perplexed by the fine print since the claim of the government about offering help worth10 per cent of GDP seemed doubtful.   A Mumbai-based brokerage said the actual fiscal cost of the package in FY21 could be less than a percent of GDP, a fraction of what the government has claimed.  A large part of the package is in the form of credit/guarantees, there is little by way of tax relief to stressed sectors and demand stimulation measures are absent. The government has also eschewed suggestions by Nobel laureates Amartya Sen and Abhijit Banerjee to put larger amounts of cash in the hands of the poor though in a welcome move, it has enhanced allocation under the rural jobs guarantee scheme, MGNREGA. Hospitality, auto & airline sectors go empty handed The hospitality industry has been battered by the lockdown.The hotel industry now says more than two in three hospitality establishments may shut down. But the important sector’s demands were not addressed by the government.  The auto sector too has been badly hit since the lockdown started in the last week of March 2020. Vehicle sales had completely ceased and have only now restarted in a limited fashion. Although industry representatives had discussed specific suggestions, including reduction in base GST rates to 18 per cent for a limited period and an incentive-based vehicle scrappage policy, no immediate stimulus to boost demand for this sector was forthcoming.  As for the airline industry, the only mention it found in the entire stimulus package was when the FM spoke about optimum use of airspace. Like automobiles, sale of airline tickets has also been in limbo for nearly two months now and the ratings agency Crisil has estimated a hit of Rs 25,000 crore for the aviation industry.  The sector was hoping for not just relief in taxes on jet fuel as well as other levies but a specific package geared to get the industry back in the air. To make matters worse, the government has capped ticket prices for domestic flights, which are set to restart soon. Not only would this be a reversal of the hands-off policy the government has adopted all along for air fares, but it would also bring some weak airlines to their knees since dynamic pricing allows airlines around the world to maintain yields (revenue per passenger). Dynamic pricing means ticket prices rise as the aircraft seats get filled up and the government already has an upper ceiling in place for each sector. No relief for small traders and big business CAIT has also expressed its severe disappointment at the package and has now asked the FM to include small business under MSMEs. Business chamber FICCI for its part says it is hopeful about the government considering further measures to support tourism, hospitality, aviation and healthcare. It requested that a minimum amount of Rs 20,000 crore be allotted for these sectors as they have seen a maximum dip in demand and will also take much longer to recover from the set-back seen. For large corporates, the body recommended a “COVID liquidity bridge” of Rs. 10,000 crore for providing guarantees to banks to give them comfort to restructure/extend loans to companies whose balance sheets have been impaired due to the lockdown. Whether the government comes up with more relief measures remains to be seen but one thing is clear: This stimulus package seems to have united disparate sectors in their disappointment. (Sindhu Bhattacharya is a senior journalist, writing on business and economy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/an-economic-package-that-misses-the-point-840279.html
21-05-2020||Panorama||Civil aviation industry needs urgent support to avoid crash-landing||That the Prime Minister should hold a comprehensive meeting (on May 1) to review civil aviation revival strategies when other COVID-19-related crises already seemed overwhelming is an indication of the portents the establishment sees over the Indian skies. The attendance of the home minister and the finance minister of state in addition to the Civil Aviation minister at the meeting underscores the criticality of the sector. Before the onslaught of COVID-19, India was the fastest growing aviation market in the world and had had a 54-month run of double-digit passenger growth, racing towards becoming the third largest aviation market in the world. Shockingly, last month, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) estimated that Indian aviation would see a 47% fall in passenger demand. That would translate into a loss of $11 billion (around Rs 77,000 crore) in passenger revenue for airlines. Two million jobs are in jeopardy in aviation and allied sectors in India, according to IATA, which has strongly recommended robust government support so that the sector can limp back to normal. Except for sporadic cargo transportation, all flights have been grounded since March 24 when a lockdown till April 14 was announced. Airlines assumed that they would be flying again from April 15 and kept selling tickets to customers eager to get back to their homes. The successive lockdown extensions to May 3, May 17 and now May 31 have meant that they still cannot get off the ground. There is a tussle on (the Supreme Court is now seized of the matter) between passengers who are miffed that airlines are resisting refunding air fares in respect of their cancelled flights and the cash-strapped airlines who are using all stratagems to hang on to the moneys received by them. The reasons are not hard to guess. According to informed estimates, the cashflow of most airlines in the scenario that existed before COVID-19 hit them was around two months at the most, except Indigo which may have had cash reserves to last around six months. Evidently, they do not have the cash to refund the amount collected for flights which did not take off because that money would have been spent on fixed costs of the airlines to survive and to evade bankruptcy. By offering to retain the fare money in credit shell accounts for use in the future, they are just deferring the inevitable. Airlines have been forced to take desperate steps in the face of dwindling revenues and no hope of a bail out. Salary cuts, layoffs, deferred payments for some of the fixed charges are the norm now, and it is a matter of time before the cracks begin to show. The exit of one or more airlines from the market altogether cannot be ruled out. Aviation has been one of the worst-hit sectors and if a total collapse of the sector is to be averted, government aid is inescapable. Support for fixed costs (salaries, lease rentals, etc), exemption, reduction or suspension of airport and infrastructure charges, lowered excise duty on aviation fuel and rationalised (reduced) GST regime for aviation fuel are crying needs of airlines at this juncture. The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) has approached the government for a waiver of interests and delayed charges and accruals to airport operators and to provide loan guarantees to airlines to meet their urgent cashflow needs. CAPA (Centre For Aviation) India has opined that, given the backdrop of an economy being pummelled by COVID-19-related impacts, the government is unlikely to be able to meet any of these expectations except some functional relief by way of waivers and moratoriums on liabilities toward government entities. Indeed, the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by the PM, and expounded by the FM, did not proffer even that. While solving immediate cashflow woes of the sector is the succour needed, what was revealed was an intent to ease flying restrictions in Indian Air Force space, a desire to make India into a global hub for MRO, and an award of three airports for operation in PPP mode. None of these steps, even if they are wholly realised, will provide any immediate relief to the haemorrhaging sector. Amidst all this gloom, there lie opportunities, as demonstrated by Austria which has proposed environmental conditions to be met by airlines that seek a bailout. For us, it would be a good idea to heed the advice of CAPA India that the National Civil Aviation Policy (NCAP) be revised to support the sector during the COVID-19 crisis to guide it through its struggle, stabilisation and recovery phases. India’s aviation ought to be introspecting on current opportunities: of learning from the impact of aviation sector slowdown; of using the idle time available with the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Director-General of Civil Aviation to review the existing regulatory dispensation, especially in areas that the aviation industry has been clamouring about; of marshalling a consensus amongst all states on including aviation fuel under GST regime; and of appraising and reassessing future infrastructure enhancement plans in view of the economic downturn that COVID-19 has inflicted on the nation. As far as general aviation, including business aviation, is concerned, the adversity imposed by COVID-19 dictates that, amongst other reforms, the government should look at allowing fractional ownership of aircraft and permit aircraft management companies to change the sector’s fortunes. Needless to say, the manner in which civil aviation is managed through this crisis phase will significantly dictate what state it emerges in from it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/civil-aviation-industry-needs-urgent-support-to-avoid-crash-landing-840430.html
21-05-2020||Panorama||Farmers, migrants, labourers: On the margins of COVID-19||COVID-19 has uncovered the ugly face of our social formations, it has exposed all the Machiavellian manoeuvrings we invent on a regular basis to exploit those who make our survival possible. Many people see it as a suitable moment to vent their deep-seated communal and racist prejudices. You may actually be able to fight COVID-19 better if you are well-fed rather than surviving on meagre or no meals for weeks. A small group of elites call the shots in connivance with politically powerful across the world. Those on the margins of society are the first target. Farmers, whom Faiz Ahmed Faiz called ‘baadshah-e-jahaan’ (the king of the world), must be named first. We are told that our granaries are full and that we should distribute the grain rather than let it rot. We are also told that it costs more to store it. Indeed, we should do so-- sooner the better. What we are not told is that so many farmers can’t have their harvests cropped even though they are ripe. Rains may ruin them. The governments would rather wait than do a favour to the farmer. In spite of a series of farmer suicides, starvation deaths and national level protests, the cry of the farmer has not been heard. The case of the Dalits and tribal communities is not very different. Consider for example the case of the Sahariyas of the Baran district of Rajasthan. Sahariyas are dependent upon forest (Sahara) for every need including livelihood, social life, family and everything else and have marginal agricultural incomes. Under new laws, they hardly have any control over their forests. The government schemes planned for the welfare of such people hardly reach them as planned. An important scheme like MGNREGA could be central to their lives. They are supposed to get employment for 200 days at Rs. 173 per day. In practice, they get employment for about 100 days only, in remote blocks such as Chhabra, Chhipabard and Anta and Mangrol, the work of MGNREGA has been discontinued for about two to three years.  Next, we must turn to the ‘migrant workers’ and factory labour who build the bungalows and flats we live in and produce all the other essential and non-essential things we buy but who are themselves forced to live in slums such as Dharavi. It is estimated that over 60% of our population lives in such urban and semi-urban slums. Imagine preaching ‘social distancing’ and ‘washing hands with soap several times a day’ to them. Often six or more people will live in a room that at best maybe 10 by 8 square feet. This room is their kitchen, dining hall, living room and bedroom. They have problems getting drinking water. How can they maintain social distance and wash hands frequently? The least the government can do is to ensure enough food reaches them and pay their rent during this period.  There are then those who ferry us around the city driving autos and taxis. We suddenly thought Ola and Uber had solved all our problems. And when the lockdown came, the middle class and the rich continue to get their supplies while staying safe. What about the people who normally used to supply our daily provisions like fruits, vegetables and grains? What about those who maintain our water and sewerage systems and those mais and bhais who sustained our households? Even for the doctors and medical staff who are risking their lives on frontlines, we have been not able to provide sufficient safety gear. What the authorities have succeeded in doing is to create a sense of fear. We are happy to be tracked and obey diktats. A new world, one that is worse, is in the making. (The author retired as Professor of Linguistics from the University of Delhi.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/farmers-migrants-labourers-on-the-margins-of-covid-19-840431.html
21-05-2020||Second Edit||Centre must assist West Bengal rebuild after Amphan||Cyclone Amphan has left behind a trail of staggering destruction across Odisha, West Bengal and Bangladesh. The extremely severe cyclonic storm, with winds gusting up to 185 km per hour, uprooted trees and flattened hundreds of villages across the northern Bay of Bengal coast. Bengal suffered the worst of Amphan’s fury. The 24 Parganas (North and South) have been badly hit while large parts of Kolkata are in ruins. Within 45 minutes of rain, Kolkata went under water. Buildings, telephone lines and electrical pylons were brought down. Kolkata airport has suffered severe damage. Cyclone Amphan is said to be the most severe cyclone to hit India’s east coast since the 1999 ‘super cyclone’ that devastated Odisha and claimed the lives of 10,000 people. Amphan has claimed the lives of 72 people in Bengal. The relatively low fatality figures can be attributed to the massive evacuation efforts preceding the cyclone’s arrival. Some 658,000 people living along the coast were evacuated in West Bengal and Odisha in the run-up to the cyclone and taken to safer areas. However, the low fatality figures should not lull authorities into underestimating Amphan’s destruction. These are early reports. Lines of communication are down and it will be weeks before we have a better idea of the death and destruction caused, especially in remote rural areas. Amphan has barrelled into India when the country is struggling with COVID-19. The pandemic will severely impact rescue, recovery and rehabilitation efforts. The pandemic’s impact was felt on evacuation efforts; apparently thousands of people refused to be evacuated as they feared crowding in government shelters. The need for social distancing will require rescue centres to house fewer people. How will Bengal cope? Can health infrastructure, which is already creaking under the strain of COVID-19, be able to fight other epidemics likely to break out in the wake of the flooding of Kolkata? The Narendra Modi government has been feuding with the West Bengal government for some years now. Their sparring has worsened in recent weeks over the severity of the coronavirus outbreak in West Bengal. It cannot be allowed to continue into the post-Amphan period. West Bengal needs massive financial and other support from the Centre. While Prime Minister Modi is set to take an aerial survey of Bengal on Friday, what will be watched is whether or not his government generously supports Bengal at this time. The state is set for Assembly elections next year and the BJP and TMC are set to have a nasty electoral battle. But their petty politics and electoral ambitions must not cast a shadow on post-Amphan rebuilding of West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/centre-must-assist-west-bengal-rebuild-after-amphan-840426.html
21-05-2020||South||Kerala records highest number of cybercrimes during lockdown||The COVID-19-induced lockdown saw a spurt in crybercrimes in India with Kerala recording the highest number during the period, according to an analysis of IT security solutions provider K7 Computing. The report analyses various cyberattacks within India during the pandemic and reveals that threat actors targeted the States with COVID-19-themed attacks aimed at exploiting user trust. The sudden surge in the frequency of attacks witnessed from February 2020 to mid-April 2020 indicates that scamsters across the world were exploiting the widespread panic around coronavirus at both the individual and corporate level, the company said in a statement. These attacks aimed to compromise computers and mobile devices to gain access to users confidential data, banking details and cryptocurrency accounts. The key threats seen during this period ranged from phishing attacks to rogue apps disguised as COVID-19 information apps that targeted users sensitive data. Phishing attacks were noticed more in Tier-II and Tier-III cities while the metros fared better. Smaller cities saw over 250 attacks being blocked per 10,000 users. Users from Ghaziabad and Lucknow seem to have faced almost six and four times the number of attacks, respectively, as Bengaluru users. In Kerala, regions like Kottayam, Kannur, Kollam, and Kochi saw the highest hits with 462, 374, 236, and 147 attacks respectively, while the state as a whole saw around 2,000 attacks during the period, the highest thus far in the country. This was followed by Punjab with 207 attacks and Tamil Nadu at 184 attacks, the statement said. A majority of the recorded attacks were phishing attacks with sophisticated campaigns that could easily snare even the most educated users, it said. These attacks were aimed at heightening users fears and creating a sense of urgency to take action. The report noted phishing attacks where scamsters posed as representatives of the United States Department of the Treasury, the World Health Organisation, and the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. Users were encouraged to visit links that would automatically download malware on the host computer such as the Agent Tesla keylogger or Lokibot information-stealing malware, infamous banking Trojans such as Trickbot or Zeus Sphinx, and even disastrous ransomware. Other attacks included infected COVID-19 Android apps like CoronaSafetyMask that scam users with promises of masks for an upfront payment; the spyware app Project Spy; and seemingly genuine apps that are infected with dangerous malware like banking Trojans such as Ginp, Anubis and Cerberus, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-records-highest-number-of-cybercrimes-during-lockdown-840242.html
21-05-2020||South||One dies of COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh, toll rises to 54; state reports 45 fresh cases||One person died of coronavirus in Andhra Predesh while 45 fresh cases were confirmed, taking the total number of infections in the state to 2,605, a bulletin from the government said on Thursday. The lone death was reported in Kurnool, taking the COVID-19 toll in the state to 54. Of the fresh cases in the past 24 hours ending 9 am on Thursday, four were linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai, the bulletin said. Samples of 8,092 people were tested and 41 have been discharged from various hospitals after treatment, taking the cumulative recoveries to 1,680. The number of active patients now stands at 718. Cumulative positive cases from other states stood at 153 with 128 active cases, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-dies-of-covid-19-in-andhra-pradesh-toll-rises-to-54-state-reports-45-fresh-cases-840260.html
21-05-2020||South||Many migrants prefer to stay back in Kerala, while many wish to return||Lekhak Besboruah hailing from Dibrugarh district in Assam was busy supplying fish at a supermarket in Kochi on Thursday, while Rajendra Naik from Kandhamal in Odisha, who works with a plywood factory at Perumbavoor on the rural parts of Ernakulam district, is now working with the helpline for migrant workers at Ernakulam district collectorate. With lockdown norms being relaxed and shops resuming operations, many migrant workers in Kerala have resumed their earlier jobs as they prefer to stay back. A recent study by Odisha-based community development organisaiton Gram Vikas and Kerala-based NGO, Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development (CMID), among the migrant workers from Odisha in different states found that even as around 75 per cent migrant workers want to return to their native places owing to lockdown, over 40 per cent plans to return in three to six months time. Over ten percent wished to stay back at workplace itself. About 45 percent of migrant workers from Odisha are in Kerala. Of the around four lakh migrant workers in over 20,000 labour camps in Kerala, so far 42,230 returned to their native places, the maximum being to Bihar, 11,157. Rosid Ahammed from Hojai in Assam, who is working at a vegetable shop in Ernakulam district, told DH over phone that at least 75 percent of the migrant workers, including Assamese, now want to go to native places. No trains were operated from Kerala to Assam so far and hence, they were unable to go. But most of them might return to Kerala after sometime owing to the lucrative job scenario, said Rosid, who prefers to stay back. CMID executive director Mr. Benoy Peter said that the present urge of migrants to return to native places was mainly an emotionally charged desire. The ensuing monsoon season could also be a cause for concern for migrants as Kerala suffered calamities during the last two monsoons. But owing to the financial distress of their families in native places as well as the attractive job scenario in Kerala, many would be possibly returning to Kerala in due course. Average monthly earning of a migrant worker in Kerala is around Rs. 15,000. About 50 percent migrants in Kerala are working in shops and other establishments, while the remaining were footloose labourers who used to involve in daily casual jobs. It was the footloose workers who were hardly hit by the lockdown as they were unable to get jobs even as the lockdown was being relaxed. Owing to the unavailability of enough trains, many were even pooling huge amounts to hire buses and return to native places frantically especially since Kerala was witnessing further spike in COVID cases now, said Rosid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/many-migrants-prefer-to-stay-back-in-kerala-while-many-wish-to-return-840296.html
21-05-2020||South||Relief for Kerala amidst COVID-19 spike||Even as COVID-19 cases are steeply increasing in Kerala with 24 more being tested positive on Thursday taking the total active cases to 177, the state could heave a sigh of relief as not many infection from local contacts are being reported. Of the 24 fresh cases, 14 were from abroad while 10 were from other states. While 163 people who came from abroad and other states from first week of May were so far tested positive, the number of those infected through local contact was around 30. Of this around 15 cases were contracted from a truck driver in Kerala. Health Minister K K Shailaja said that even as COVID-19 cases in those coming down from aboard and other states were increasing, preventing infection through local contact is the crucial aspect in curbing a community spread.     Health department sources said that there was a serious concern in maintaining the ongoing trend of minimum local spread of COVID-19 as more and more people were coming down from other states and abroad and domestic flight services were also commencing. Meanwhile, eight more people recovered on Thursday taking the total number of recoveries so far to 510. The total COVID-19 cases in Kerala so far is 690.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/relief-for-kerala-amidst-covid-19-spike-840313.html
21-05-2020||South||Door-to-door screening launched in Chennai as city battles over 8,700 coronavirus cases||With this metropolis registering over 8,700 coronavirus cases, authorities have launched a door-to-door screening for symptomatic patients in three densely-populated zones that account for over 3,000 COVID-19 patients in the city to “break the chain.” At last, count on Thursday evening, Chennai had 8,795 cases with 2,823 discharges and 59 deaths. Three zones – Royapuram, Tondiarpet, and Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar – alone accounted for 3,287 cases as of Thursday morning as zone-wise details were not available immediately till the evening, while Kodambakkam had 1,192 cases mostly due to the Koyambedu Market cluster. Since the aforementioned three zones are over-crowded and are home to several slums, authorities have decided to conduct door-to-door screening to screen all symptomatic patients within the containment zones. Over 500 health inspectors are carrying out the screening activities in the Royapuram area and will be extended to Tondiarpet and Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar very soon. The city has been exploding with COVID-19 cases for the past few weeks even as testing is being ramped up. As on May 19, the city was conducting 12, 673 tests for per million population, which authorities said is the highest in the country and 12 times more than the national average. Over 85,000 individuals have been tested in Chennai city alone, with 3,000 to 3,500 tests being conducted each day. Also, the city has gone into “focused testing” to identify positive people within the containment zones and tracing their contacts, which authorities say has worked to an extent. The spike in the number of cases in the three over-crowded zones, where houses are cramped, is a cause of concern for the city, whose population is over eight million. “Earlier, the door-to-door survey was just limited to collecting details from people, but now it includes active screening wherein symptomatic patients are put through an x-ray and sent for testing. We are doing this in all worst-affected areas,” J Radhakrishnan, Revenue Commissioner and Special Nodal Officer for COVID-19, told DH. Radhakrishnan explained that the situation in 167 out of 200 wards in the city is completely under the control, while the remaining 33 wards have the maximum number of COVID-19 patients. “The 33 wards are our focus areas. Two-third of the cases reported in the city come from these wards and we have intensified screening activities and contact tracing here. Identifying symptomatic people, testing them, and tracing their contact is inevitable to break the COVID-19 chain,” he said. Besides, masks and kabasura Kudineer (herbal health mix) are also distributed to people living in the slums and within containment zones to boost their immunity. Officials say they are finding it difficult to ensure social distancing in areas like Royapuram where a family lives in an area of just 100 sq ft and have shifted hundreds of people to community centres to ensure that they live in hygienic conditions. Responding to voices that Chennai should improve its testing numbers, Radhakrishnan said the city has been focusing on targeted testing besides identifying people who are vulnerable to the virus. “We are testing twelve times than the national average. More than the number, what is important is the people we test. We are into targeted and focused testing,” he said. Dr P Kuganantham, former Chennai city health officer and senior epidemiologist, also said he does not agree with calls for increasing the testing numbers. “I don’t agree with calls for increased testing because the state government has already increased testing. We have not reduced testing but are going for focused testing. We test symptomatic people, those with co-morbid conditions and their contacts, besides health care workers. This is enough,” Kuganantham, part of the expert panel advising the government, told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/door-to-door-screening-launched-in-chennai-as-city-battles-over-8700-coronavirus-cases-840324.html
21-05-2020||South||Returnees testing COVID-19 positive in huge numbers a major challenge: Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu reported another massive spike in COVID-19 numbers with 776 people testing positive on Thursday alone, even as the government termed as a “new challenge” the increase in the number of people returning from other states, particularly Maharashtra, testing positive for the virus. The state’s tally now stands at 13,967, including 6,282 discharges and 94 deaths – seven of which were reported on Thursday. Chennai continued to top the list with 8,795 cases with 567 people testing positive on Thursday alone. 87 people, who returned from abroad and other states, are among the 776 people whose swab samples rendered positive on Thursday. Data released by the Tamil Nadu government shows as many as 554 people who returned from abroad or other states have so far tested positive for Coronavirus with a major chunk of them returning from Maharashtra, the country’s COVID-19 hotspot. While 470 are returnees from Maharashtra, a majority of them from Mumbai, 61 had returned from various countries, including the US and UAE. Health Minister C Vijayabaskar admitted that handling people returning from abroad and other states are turning to be a “big challenge” for the government at a time majority of the districts have no positive cases. “Our people returning from Mumbai, particularly from Dharavi, are testing positive for COVID-19. These people had returned from Maharashtra through various modes of transport after obtaining e-passes. It is a challenge that we are facing,” Vijayabaskar said. While Mumbai has over 24,000 cases, Dharavi, where Tamils live in a sizeable number, alone has over 1,000 COVID-19 positive patients. These returnees are quarantined at facilities arranged by the Tamil Nadu government and each person is tested. Another challenge, according to the Minister, was people who returned from abroad testing positive during exit test after having tested negative for the virus immediately after their return. “This is another challenge for us as 23 people who tested negative on day one have tested positive during the exit test. Though these are challenges for the state, we are well prepared to handle them,” he said. The state has also tested 3,72,532 samples so far with 66 testing labs across Tamil Nadu. Vijayabaskar said of the 7 deaths reported on Thursday, six of them had co-morbid conditions, while maintaining that the death rate in Tamil Nadu was one of the lowest in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/returnees-testing-covid-19-positive-in-huge-numbers-a-major-challenge-tamil-nadu-840339.html
21-05-2020||South||The story behind Money Heist's Nairobi's Indian attire and Telugu lines||A video clip of Alba Flores aka Nairobi of Money Heist donning rural Indian attire and speaking Telugu has been charming the Netflix’s crime-drama aficionados, for the past few days on social media. What is truly remarkable is the person’s life based on which the movie – Vincente Ferrer (2013) – is made, in which Flores, a Spanish actress who played the much-loved robber character Nairobi, portrayed the role of Shamira, an Anantapuram woman. Born in 1920 in Barcelona, Ferrer, took part in the Spanish civil war. Later, as a Jesuit missionary he came to India in 1952 and worked in Maharashtra. In 1969, he distanced himself from the Christian order and moved to Anantapuram, the most backward AP district, close to Bangalore. Over the next four decades, Ferrer was dedicated to helping change the lives of lakhs of people from disadvantaged communities. The Rural Development Trust, he set up works in the fields of education, health, housing, environment, sustainable livelihoods etc., executing projects aimed at eliminating poverty. Ferrer’s statues dot Anantapuram villages and his portraits are found in many households. RDT activities, largely supported by overseas donations especially from Spain are at present centered in around 3700 villages of Anantapuram and Kurnool districts. Three hospitals RDT runs at Bathalapalli, Kalyanadurgam and Kanekal provide over nine lakh consultations a year at a nominal cost. While Ferrer expired in 2009, his wife Anne and son Moncho Ferrer are carrying his mantle settling in Anantapuram. Born here, Moncho married a local Telugu lady and has two daughters. “After experiencing India, my father realized that more than God what the world needs is proper food, house and a life with dignity. From a missionary he turned spiritual, deeply involved in human empowerment activities,” Moncho Ferrer tells DH. In this time of COVID-19, RDT has focused its efforts and resources in aiding people directly and indirectly affected by the virus. RDT Bathalapalli Hospital, designated as a COVID-19 hospital on 13 April, is serving as a reference centre in Anantapuram district and has treated about 150 mild, moderate cases. RDT laboratory is a COVID-19 testing centre, Moncho says. With local community support, 3,73,265 cooked meals were served to the needy, including in the red zones and for migrant workers walking home on the highways. 6,346 families were supported with dry ration. In a project providing livelihood in lockdown time, RDT has engaged 2260 tailors especially rural women to make non-surgical, fabric face masks. “We provide them raw material and pay about Rs five for each mask. Some make 50-60 and some up to 100 a day. So far, we procured over 30 lakh such masks from local tailors and artisans,” Moncho tells. “Recently over 1.5 lakh masks were handed to AP DGP Gautam Sawang for police personnel use.”    Reaching remote places with its mobile library and ambulance, RTD is also bringing awareness about the disease in the two Rayalaseema districts. Moncho says Flores aka Nairobi spent over two months in Anantapuram, for the movie shooting. “She was much younger but very talented even then. She spoke her Telugu lines. Flores enjoyed the local life, cuisine and still keeps in touch with some people here.” RDT's work in figures||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/the-story-behind-money-heists-nairobis-indian-attire-and-telugu-lines-840354.html
21-05-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports 776 COVID-19 cases, seven deaths;death toll now 94||Tamil Nadu witnessed over 700 COVID-19 cases for the second day on Thursday, taking the overall tally close to 14,000 and reported seven fatalities, the government said. Health Minister C Vijaya Baskar said the government was facing "new challenges" by way of many among those returning to Tamil Nadu from other countries and states testing positive for the deadly virus, some after the mandatory exit test conducted after seven days. However, the government was taking all measures in this area also and there was no second opinion that such stranded people should return home, he said. On Thursday, the state recorded 776 cases of coronavirus, and the infected included those who had returned from other countries including the US and states like Maharashtra and Kerala, according to a Health Department bulletin. As many as seven deaths took the death toll to 94, while the cumulative tally of positive cases touched 13,967. According to the bulletin, 400 people were discharged, taking the overall recoveries to 6,282. State capital Chennai continued to report the bulk of the cases today as well, registering 567, and a total of 5,681 infections. On Thursday, while the positive cases from within the state stood at 689, the rest included those who had arrived from the US and other states in the country--Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal and Kerala. Baskar said the influx of such people by various modes of transport including flight, was posing "new challenges" to the government. A total of 61 air passengers have tested positive so far. He said 25 passengers who had returned from other countries initially tested negative but turned positive during the exit screening after seven days. "They were asymptomatic," he said. Further, many coming from other states, especially Maharashtra, were reporting positive for the contagion and such people were being tested and isolated at the respective check-posts, even as some of those who had arrived by trains were also found infected with coronavirus, he said. All subsequent protocols have been initiated. The Minister indicated these factors contributed to the spike in numbers but sought to assure that the government was taking all necessary steps to handle these "new challenges." Such people returning to the state "are our brothers and sisters, and sons of soil," he said, adding, there was no second thought that they should return home. On the seven fatalities on Thursday, he said the victims were suffering from co-morbidities including diabetes mellitus and kidney problem and said such issues, besides age, are key factors leading to fatality. "However, the lowest mortality rate of 0.7 per cent is being consistently maintained and this is the best in the country and the credit for this goes to the medical professionals involved in the fight against Covid-19," Baskar added. Till now 3,72,532 samples have been taken and sent for testing and COVID-19 testing was being done in 41 public and 25 private labs all over Tamil Nadu, the government said. The state had reported 743 cases yesterday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-776-covid-19-cases-seven-deathsdeath-toll-now-94-840383.html
21-05-2020||South||Despite COVID-19, Telangana records 18% growth in IT exports||Despite the COVID-19 onset, during the last quarter of 2019-20, the IT export from Telangana has managed to record about 18 per cent growth in the financial year. According to Telangana’s IT and industries minister K T Rama Rao (KTR), “the phenomenal 17.93 growth” recorded in the last fiscal is more than double the national growth (8.09 percent). Telangana IT exports in 2019-20 is at Rs 1.29 lakh crore and the sector, mainly concentrated in Hyderabad, is employing 5.82 lakh people. The same was Rs 1.09 lakh crore and 5.43 lakh respectively for 2018-19. “Hyderabad IT ecosystem has the agility and resilience to overcome the COVID-19 effects,” said KTR pointing that several investors are in active discussions with his department and that “very soon, there will be some announcements in this regard.” Telangana’s IT employment grew at a 7.2 percent in 2019-20 compared to national average of 4.93 percent, officials said. “The figures clearly indicate that Telangana is poised to be the preferred destination for IT investments in the future”, Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said while congratulating the department which released the data on Thursday. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the CM directed the IT department to ensure all measures so that the IT industry functions smoothly. During the last financial year, several marquee investments took place in Hyderabad, including the inauguration of Amazon’s world’s largest facility in three million square feet and Micron’s largest R&D centre globally. Tech Mahindra and CYIENT chose to open their centers in the tier-2 location of Warangal. Telangana is also promoting IT dispersion on all sides of Hyderabad with several MNCs showing interest in the Eastern part. Commercial space absorption in Hyderabad during the first two quarters of 2019-20 topped all Indian metros, officials added. A progress report would be released on 1 June showing 2019-20 achievements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/despite-covid-19-telangana-records-18-growth-in-it-exports-840403.html
21-05-2020||South||DMK leader loses post after meeting with Tamil Nadu BJP president||A senior DMK leader was on Thursday removed from the post of deputy general secretary, days after he met Tamil Nadu BJP President L Murugan. V P Duraisamy, a prominent Dalit leader of the DMK, was removed from the post and replaced with ‘Anthiyur’ Selvaraj, also from the community. Selvaraj was recently elected to the Rajya Sabha on a DMK ticket. It is understood that Duraisamy was upset with him being overlooked for the Rajya Sabha nomination. He met Murugan, the newly-appointed BJP president, on Tuesday leading to speculation. Duraisamy also made critical remarks against the DMK which is understood to have worked against him. However, he justified meeting with the BJP leader saying there was nothing wrong in two leaders, from the same community, meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-leader-loses-post-after-meeting-with-tamil-nadu-bjp-president-840413.html
21-05-2020||South||One more coronavirus death in Kerala||A 73-year-old woman died of COVID-19 in Kerala on Thursday. Khadeeja Kutty, of Chavakkad in Thrissur district died. She returned from Mumbai earlier this week by road and was hospitalised owing to symptoms. She was tested COVID-19 positive on Thursday. Her son and four others who accompanied her were also kept in quarantine. It is the fifth COVID-19 death in Kerala. Kerala is having a very low coronavirus mortality rate of around 0.7 per cent.  One of the persons who died of COVID-19 in Kerala hailed from Mahe, which is part of Puducherry. Hence, Kerala government was not adding to the state's death toll citing that he got infected from Mahe. However, the centre included him in Kerala's death toll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-more-coronavirus-death-in-kerala-840457.html
21-05-2020||State||Karnataka reports 143 new coronavirus cases, 97 of them from Maharashtra||Karnataka added another 143 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, with patients from Maharashtra contributing 97 of the new infections. Apart from the western state, there are also cases with travel history to Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and the UAE. The highest number of cases came from Mandya, which saw 33 new cases, while Udupi followed close behind with 28. Hassan saw 13 cases, all from Maharashtra, while the source of Ballari’s 11 new cases is Mumbai. Bengaluru saw eight cases.  The source of infection is being traced for one patient in Bengaluru and one in Mandya.  Dr K Sudhakar, COVID-19 in-charge, said, “We are discussing whether institutional quarantine is required for people who come from other states and abroad. We are contemplating if they can be sent to home quarantine directly.” He suggested that people bathe after reaching home from work for the safety of senior citizens and children below ten. "Also, those between the age group of 20-33 should be careful as 95% cases in this age group are asymptomatic," he said.  With the new additions, the state’s tally has gone up to 1,605 cases with 992 active cases, 571 recoveries and 41 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-143-new-coronavirus-cases-97-of-them-from-maharashtra-840244.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa rebukes minister for calling lady farmer ‘rascal’||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday publicly chided Law Minister JC Madhuswamy for yelling at a woman farmer in Kolar, an incident that attracted widespread criticism.  The incident happened at Kolar on Wednesday when Madhuswamy, who is also the minor irrigation minister, was inspecting the Koramangala-Challaghatta (KC) Valley project, under which Bengaluru’s sewage is treated and pumped into lakes in Kolar.  During his visit, farmer Nalini Gowda questioned Madhuswamy on the encroachment of the 1,022-acre S Agrahara lake. At one point, Madhuswamy lost his cool and yelled, “Aye! Shut your mouth, rascal,” and asked the police to take her away. Before this, Madhuswamy told her, “Make a request. I’m a very bad man. You can only air your grievance. Don’t command us.”  A video of this exchange was aired by news channels.  “What (Madhuswamy) said is not right. I have warned him. None can forgive such an explicit manner of talking with a woman. That, too, behaving like that being a minister doesn’t bode well. I will talk to that woman also and I’ll ensure this doesn’t happen again,” Yediyurappa told reporters. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar said it was unbecoming of Madhuswamy to behave like that being a senior minister. “People will ask us questions and express their problems, naturally. What’s important is how we handle ourselves. Be it a woman or anyone, they come to us because we’re into public service. Calling them ‘rascal’ and things is not right. Maybe there was some irritation, but I agree with (Siddaramaiah) that he should be dropped from the Cabinet,” he said. On his part, Madhuswamy said he felt intimidated. “If I have hurt the feelings of any woman, I will certainly apologise,” he said. “But citizens should realise, we go to their villages to ask about their problems. If they start abusing us publicly, how can we work? My secretary and I heard her for five minutes and then told her that we know our responsibility. We asked her to close the issue. She didn’t stop and I got tempted (sic),” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-rebukes-minister-for-calling-lady-farmer-rascal-840213.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka allows Nanjangud pharma firm to resume operations||Pharmaceutical firm Jubilant Generics, which had turned Nanjangud in Mysuru district into a COVID-19 hotspot, will resume manufacturing of drugs after the state government accorded clearance for its operations to resume.  The company had sought permission to restart operations after its parent company Jubilant Life Sciences tied up with US drug firm Gilead to manufacture and sell Remedisvir - considered to be a frontline drug to treat COVID-19.  "For manufacturing ‘Remdesivir’ the work on modification of the plant to supply the product has to begin immediately. In view of this extreme urgency, it is critical to resume and normalise operations at the Jubilant Generics, Nanjangud plant immediately," a letter to the government by the company read.  The company noted that it also manufactured critical medicines like Azithromycin, Losartan, Valsartan, Irbesartan, Carbamazepine, Oxcarbazepine. "Jubilant also manufactures Azithromycin Dihydrate and Azithromycin Monohydrate that are used as the first line of treatment for COVID-19," it said. When contacted, Nanjangud MLA B Harshavardhan confirmed that the government has permitted manufacturing to resume at the plant, and operations were likely to commence in a week or two. The company also stressed that preventive measures in line with Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines and protocols will be followed, adding that detailed sanitising work was carried out by a professional agency. The manufacturing of Remdesivir, Azithromycin and other drugs’ supplies to people with the shortest possible lead time will save countless lives. In order to fight this global menace and in the interest of the people of the state of Karnataka and the country, the plant needs to start full operations immediately, the letter added.  It can be recalled that Patient 52, employed at Jubilant Generics, was identified as the source of infection of Nanjangud Cluster, spreading it to 76 people, of which 48 were the patient's primary contacts, 24 secondary and two tertiary contacts. The state government instituted a probe under IAS officer Harsh Gupta in April to unravel the source of infection of the Nanjangud cluster. However, on May 2, he had submitted an incomplete report to the government citing lack of cooperation from some departments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-allows-nanjangud-pharma-firm-to-resume-operations-840247.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Marriages already fixed on Sundays will be allowed, Karnataka govt clarifies||The BS Yediyurappa administration has clarified that marriages that were previously scheduled to be held on May 24 and May 31 - Sundays - will be exempted from the total lockdown under Lockdown 4.0.  The government issued this clarification on Thursday following petitions by citizens sought to know if they could go ahead with marriages that were scheduled on Sundays.  Under Lockdown 4.0, Karnataka has decided to enforce a total lockdown on May 24 and May 31 - Sundays - by suspending all relaxation, including public transport services and closure of shops. Only essential services will be allowed while a curfew will be in effect the whole day to restrict movement of people.  “Marriage events that were already scheduled will be considered as a special case,” Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority member-secretary TK Anil Kumar said in the clarification. “Deputy commissioners have been told that marriages can be permitted by ensuring social distancing, capping the number of guests at 50 and strict compliance with all other guidelines.” In an advisory that was issued previously, the Department of Health & Family Welfare said that marriages can be held in a “suitable public place with good natural ventilation (no air condition).”    No person from a containment zone will be allowed to attend the event, and persons aged above 65 years, pregnant women and children below 10 years are not permitted.  Besides prohibition on consumption of alcohol, the advisory said paan, gutka and tobacco will not be allowed.  Face masks are compulsory and all persons should maintain a physical distance of more than one metre. The venue shall be clean and hygienic, with a prohibition on spitting in public places. A nodal person should be identified to oversee the arrangements, the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/marriages-already-fixed-on-sundays-will-be-allowed-karnataka-govt-clarifies-840284.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||With temples in Karnataka closed due to COVID-19, live streaming of pujas and sevas to begin soon||Devotees might soon be able to pray at major temples in the state without stepping into one. The Muzrai department is planning to take puja online as some of the prominent temples across the state have lost more than Rs 100 crore in revenue due to the coronavirus lockdown. Normally, March and May are peak season for temples in the state as these three months form the holiday season. Unfortunately, no bells are ringing either in Kukke Subramanya or at Kolluru Mookambika — two of the most-visited temples in the state. The situation is similar at others due to the restrictions. The drop in revenue is a big loss for the state government. Data from the Muzrai Department shows that 200 temples in 'A' category (having revenue of more than Rs 25 lakh) raked in about Rs 113 crore between March and May of 2019. With temples falling silent, the department has decided to make arrangements in temples for online puja and delivery of prasadam through post. "This service will be operational by end of this month," said a senior official of the department.  "We are preparing a list of temples. Once it is finalised, the same will be uploaded on the department website. Devotees who wish to avail online puja can pay the prescribed amount online. Temple authorities will arrange for an e-darshan and pooja. Prasadam will be sent through postal service." The department has categorised temples into A, B and C based on the revenue they generate. Temples with revenue of more than Rs 25 lakh fall under the A category. These include Kukke Subramanya temple, Kolluru Mookambika temple, Chamundeshwari Temple in Mysuru, Kateelu Durgaparameshwari Temple and Banashankari Temple in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-temples-in-karnataka-closed-due-to-covid-19-live-streaming-of-pujas-and-sevas-to-begin-soon-840351.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC directs for Rs 7.64 crore compensation to Mangalore plane crash victim's family||The Supreme Court has awarded Rs 7.64 crore compensation to the family members of a 45-year old man who got killed in the crash of Air India Express Flight 812 from Dubai in Mangaluru on May 22, 2010. A total of 158 people of the 166 passengers on board perished in the accident. On a plea by Triveni Kodkany, wife of deceased Mahendra Kodkany, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Ajay Rastogi disagreed with the reasonings of the NCDRC in making a deduction from the salary of the victim while calculating the compensation. The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) had granted the wife, daughter, and son of the deceased Rs 7.35 crore as compensation.  The top court now directed Air India to pay them the enhanced amount along with 9% interest per annum. Kodkany was an expat and employed as the regional director for the Middle Eastern Region with GTL Overseas (Middle East) FZ-LLC a UAE-based company. In its judgement, the top court said bifurcation of the salary of the deceased into diverse heads may be made by the employer for a variety of reasons.  However, in a claim for compensation arising out of the death of the employee, the income has to be assessed on the basis of the entitlement of the employee, it said. The court noted that Kodkany was a confirmed employee entitled to adequate weightage in terms of determination of compensation in the event of untimely demise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-directs-for-rs-764-crore-compensation-to-mangalore-plane-crash-victims-family-840375.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Talk to all states on Kasturirangan report, BS Yediyurappa tells Javadekar||Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar has agreed to hold separate consultations with states on the contentious K Kasturirangan committee report on conserving the Western Ghats, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s office said Thursday. Karnataka has repeatedly rejected the recommendations of the committee, Yediyurappa told Javadekar during a video conference, adding that the Centre cannot issue a common notification on the matter.   “Gram panchayats, taluk panchayats, zilla panchayats, elected representatives and the Cabinet have rejected the draft notification on ecologically sensitive areas according to the Kasturirangan report in its present format,” Yediyurappa said in the video conference, according to statement from the Chief Minister’s Office. “Since every state has different problems and challenges, it is not for the Centre to issue an identical notification for all states. Javdekar expressed his consent on the matter and said that he would discuss the issue with the states individually,” the CMO said.  The Kasturirangan Committee has recommended that 20,668 sq km spread across 11 districts in the Western Ghats cradling 1,592 villages be declared as an Ecological Sensitive Area (ESA), which will come with restrictions that the government believes will hamper developmental works.  In all, the draft notification identified 56,825 sqkm spread across six states — Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu — as the Ecologically Sensitive Area (ESA). The Centre issued the first draft notification in March 2014. A second one came in September 2015, followed by the third in February 2017. The fourth draft notification was issued in October 2018.  Forest Minister Anand Singh, Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar, Additional Chief Secretary (Forest, Ecology & Environment) Sandeep Dave, ministers and officials from Maharashtra, Kerala, Goa, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat participated in the video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/talk-to-all-states-on-kasturirangan-report-bs-yediyurappa-tells-javadekar-840384.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene condemn Madhuswamy||Taking objection to Law Minister J C Madhuswamy abusing a farmer leader in Kolar, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene have condemned the incident.  Speaking to DH, Raitha Sangha’s senior leader K T Gangadhar said that the farmers’ association held a discussion on Thursday to decide the future course of action. “What Madhuswamy said was not a slip of tongue, for it to be overlooked with an apology. He knew what he was talking. This is not the first time that he has exhibited such behaviour. Coming from grassroot activism background himself, it is unfortunate that the minister spoke in such a manner towards a fellow activist,” Gangadhar said. At the outset, it appeared that the minister was acting at the behest of vested interests, he alleged. Speaking about how she handled the situation in a composed manner, Nalini Gowda told DH that she drew strength from the fact that she had a specific issue to convey despite feeling humiliated by the minister’s reaction. “I had my facts in place and I wanted to convey a specific problem affecting the region. I was not speaking about my personal issues. About 200 acres of the S Amanikere in Kolar has been encroached. The problem needs to be resolved as people in the region do not have other water sources,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rajya-raitha-sangha-hasiru-sene-condemn-madhuswamy-840391.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coastal districts see 40 COVID-19 cases; Udupi accounts for 27||The coastal districts witnessed a staggering 40 COVID-19 cases on Thursday with Udupi district alone accounting for 27 cases. Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadheesh told reporters that all 27 cases reported on Thursday have a travel history to Maharashtra, Telangana or Kerala. Maharashtra returnees accounted for 23 cases while four Telangana returnees and one from Kerala tested positive for the virus. What's more disturbing is 14 of the 27 cases reported from Udupi district are children below 10 years. The infected have been admitted to Dr TMA Pai Hospital in UdupiOf the 3,765 swab samples, as many as 2,,231 have returned negative in the district. Report of 1,487 samples are awaited. 6 Dubai returnees test +ve  Six men who returned to Mangaluru from Dubai on Vande Bharat mission flight on May 18, have tested positive for COVID-19. All six infected, aged between 29 and 60, were under institutional quarantine, along with other co-passengers of the flight. With six fresh cases, the district's tally shot up to 61. A 45-year-old man from Shaktinagar was discharged from the hospital, post-recovery, on Thursday. So far, 21 patients have been discharged from the hospital. Meanwhile, Uttara Kannada district saw seven new cases, including three children aged one, six and seven, on Thursday. All seven have a travel history to Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coastal-districts-see-40-covid-19-cases-udupi-accounts-for-27-840392.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mysuru Zoo ready to receive visitors, with guidelines||Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (Mysuru Zoo), one of the popular and most visited tourist destinations of the city, is all set to open for the public on June 1 after the longest gap ever of 67 days. The zoo is closed for visitors since March 25 in the wake of lockdown due to COVID-19. However, the zoo officials have brought out a 28-page ‘Standard Operating Guidelines on Reopening Post-COVID-19 Lockdown’, to be followed, whenever it is opened. The guidelines read: “Although the number of visitors is expected to be much lower than normal times, the zoo is taking measures to ensure the safety of visitors, employees and animals. Though it may cause inconvenience to visitors and staff, there is no option, but to accept the new norm. There is a 3.5-km long visitor path, with an average width of 6 m. It is assumed that visitors use 2 metres on both sides of the pathway and the remaining 2 m can be provisioned for movement of battery-operated vehicles, movement of feed vehicles and zoo staff.” “A visitor takes around 3 hours to cover the zoo, by walk and the safe distance between visitors required to ensure social distance is 2 m. Thus, the number of visitors, who can be safely accommodated at any given point of time is 3,100. Safely, 166 visitors per 10 minutes and 8,000 visitors per day can be allowed,” the guidelines say.  The visitors should not have cough, cold or fever symptoms. They should compulsorily wear face masks and undergo body temperature scanning. They can buy face masks from a dedicated counter at the entrance. e-ticket booking is preferred over manual ticket collection. All visitors should pass over the medicated foot mat at the entrance. They should maintain social distance on the zoo premises and avoid touching barricades and other surfaces. They should move along the designated visitor path only. Avoid carrying luggage, which needs a locker room facility. Visitors should neither spit nor chew pan masala, gutka or khaini. Those above 65 years of age can avoid visiting. All visitors will be under CCTV camera monitoring and any violation will attract a penalty of up to Rs 1,000. The zoo, a part of Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK), with 80 acres of land, includes Karanji Lake and is spread over 157 acres. It is home to 1,400 plus animals and bird of 152 species, from over 25 nations. Ever since its inception in 1892, by Tenth Chamaraja Wadiyar, the longest ever break for the menagerie was in 2017, 30 days, from January 4 to February 2, due to bird flu scare. Even though Nandankanan Zoological Park, a 437-hectare zoo and botanical garden in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, established in 1960, is the largest facility in India, it is not as popular as Mysuru Zoo. Besides, Mysuru Zoo figures in the list of top five zoos of Asia, by Listly, followed by Singapore Zoo and Khao Kheow Open Zoo, Pattaya Thailand. It also figures in the list of top 10 zoo in Asia, according to Trip Advisor poll, followed by Singapore Zoo; Khao Kheow Open Zoo; Chimelong, Xiangjiang Safari Park, Guangzhou, China; Adventure World, Shirahama-cho, Japan; Million Years Stone Park and Pattaya Crocodile Farm, Thailand; and Asahiyama Zoo, Asahikawa, Japan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mysuru-zoo-ready-to-receive-visitors-with-guidelines-840396.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PU lecturers struggle as evaluation begins||Several pre-university college teachers struggled to reach the evaluation centres on Thursday due to poor transport services. The evaluation resumed at eight districts Those who have own vehicles managed to reach the centres on time, but lecturers dependent on public transport found it hard to commute. “The evaluation of Economics answer scripts began on Thursday and the centre is located at Yelahanka. People like me who stay at Jayanagar and do not have own vehicle struggled to reach the centre on time as there few buses were operating,” said an evaluator. Meanwhile, there were no proper sanitisation facilities at some of the evaluation centres and teachers were forced to bring their own masks and sanitisers. The Karnatka State Pre- University College Teachers’ Association has decided to provide masks, sanitisers and hand wash for all the teachers taking part in evaluation. “The evaluation of answer scripts of all subjects is expected to begin by end of this month and we cannot depend on the department for safety measures. So we are providing masks and sanitisers,” said Prof Ninge Gowda, president of the association. In order to ensure social distancing, only 10 evaluators have been allotted per room.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pu-lecturers-struggle-as-evaluation-begins-840399.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Six new cases surface in Shivamogga||Shivamogga recorded six more Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday. With this, the number of cases in the district rose to 30. Speaking to mediapersons, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar said of the six, five persons returned to the district from Tamil Nadu and one was suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. Of them, three are female and three are male, including a three-year-old girl and a baby boy. They have been kept under quarantine. They were all shifted to McGann hospital after they tested positive. Eleven police personnel, whose samples had been sent to the lab, have tested negative for Covid-19. However, they continue to be in home quarantine. A 60-year old woman (p-1,498) from old Sorab, who had no travel history, has also tested positive for Covid-19. The authorities are leaving no stone unturned to trace the source of the woman’s infection. She complained of respiratory disorder a few days ago and was taken to the general hospital in Shikaripur for treatment.  She was sent home after treatment for four days as she had a heart related disorder also. The woman’s test results later showed that she had contracted Covid-19. This has caused concerns among the doctors and other staff at the hospital, as they had not taken precautionary measures. Now, the woman’s family members as also the hospital staff are under quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/six-new-cases-surface-in-shivamogga-840404.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Interstate travellers turn Mandya into coronavirus hotspot||Mandya district on Thursday witnessed an spike in COVID-19 cases with 33 testing positive for the coronavirus. Of the 33 cases, 29 are with travel history to Mumbai and other Maharashtra cities while four people are believed to have contracted virus from Patient 869. A flurry of new cases took Mandya past 200-mark. The district holds the dubious distinction of having the second highest COVID-19 cases in the state, after Bengaluru Urban. However, the district has more active cases (179) than Bengaluru Urban.  According to Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh, “All 29 people with Mumbai travel history are from KR Pet and Nagamangala taluks. They had returned to district recently. They were stopped at Anegol check-post and sent to institutional quarantine. The throat swab samples of all 29 have returned positive for COVID-19.” Patients 1467, 1486 and 1487 are the contacts of Patient 869 while Patient 1597 has contracted the virus from Patient 896, the DC said. Allaying the fear of local or community transmission, the DC said, “Most of the cases in the district, so far, are linked to Tablighi, Nanjangud cluster or Mumbai returnees. Not many local cases are reported. Hence, there is no need for the people to panic.” He urged the local residents to inform the district administration or police about any unauthorised entry of interstate travellers in their area. The district administration and the health department are braced for any COVID-19 eventualities. The MIMS hospital has been converted into a 35-bed COVID-19 hospital. This apart, Vokkaligara Bhavan has been transformed into a COVID care centre with 150-bed facility, the DC informed. Meanwhile, Hassan reported 13 new cases of COVID-19, all with a travel history to Mumbai and other Maharashtra cities. The district’s total case count has increased to 67. Among the infected are seven from Channarayapatna, including six of a family, and six people from Holenarasipura taluk. The infected include boys aged four and eight, and a seven-year-old girl. According to the district administration, a total of 1,664 people from other states, mostly Maharashtra, have returned to the district. Swab specimen of all the interstate travellers have been sent for testing and the reports of 600 people are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/interstate-travellers-turn-mandya-into-coronavirus-hotspot-840406.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Only 89,000 labourers registered under social security board; CM BSY asks labour dept to register labourers||In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has directed the Labour department to actively register labourers from the unorganised sector under the social security net.  During a review meeting, it was brought to the CM’s notice that even though officials had given financial assistance to 12.4 lakh construction workers registered with the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, only 89,000 labourers were registered under the Karnataka State Unorganised Workers Social SecurityBoard. Yediyurappa, who also reviewed works under the Industries and Commerce department, asked officials to weekly monitor the activities of the special task force formed to attract investments and industries that are looking to move out of China in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government intends to come up with special incentive schemes for investors and is holding discussions with experts in the industrial sector, an official release said. The government also hopes that the amendments made to Land Reforms Act, simplifying the process of land purchase, will attract investors. About 70% of the industries have resumed functioning, theCM was told.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-89000-labourers-registered-under-social-security-board-cm-bsy-asks-labour-dept-to-register-labourers-840407.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cop under fire for behaving rudely with Kerala student||The Hebbal police are under fire for behaving rudely with a student from Kerala when he visited the station to inquire about transport to his home state on Wednesday.  Amal Madhu, an MBA student at a private college, narrated the incident on social media, tagging city police commissioner Bhaskar Rao, which went viral.  Rao then tweeted back that he regretted Madhu’s experience and said he had instructed the DCP to verify the incident.  Rao instructed the DCP to initiate action against the errant officers and sensitise them to the need to help the people. In the social media post, Madhu wrote that he had gone to the Hebbal police station seeking information about inter-state-travel. As he does not know Kannada, he spoke in English. But the officer at the desk shouted at him in Kannada, which he could not understand.  However, the officer humiliated Madhu.  The officer asked him to run to his hometown as there were no buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cop-under-fire-for-behaving-rudely-with-kerala-student-840444.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coop minister asks officials to prioritise farm loans||Asking District Credit Cooperative (DCC) banks to prioritise farmers loans, cooperation minister ST Somashekar on Wednesday pulled up officials for sanctioning loans to sugar factories outside their district jurisdiction.  The minister, who held a meeting with officials from Bengaluru division on Wednesday, sought details of the amount of loans given to sugar factories and the repaid amount.  Speaking to reporters later, Somashekar said the government wanted to prioritise farm loans and loans given to Stree Shakti groups. “Any given day, there is hundred percent repayment of loans when it comes to Stree Shakti groups, for instance, compared to a sugar factory. If we encourage the self-help groups with loans, they can continue with their enterprises. For example, some of them are making masks, during this period. The Rs 5 lakh interest free loan given to them will be a boost,” the minister said.  The NABARD had given additional Rs 1,750 crore funds this year, of which the target was to give Rs 14,500 loan disbursal to farmers, he said. In the wake of the pre-monsoon season, the government had already given Rs 916 crore loans to about 1.35 lakh farmers. He urged the DCC banks to pay special attention to SC/ST applicants.  Further, defending the recent APMC Act ordinance passed by the government, the minister said it would benefit the farmers. “The farmer will now have the opportunity to sell it to either a private entity or the APMC, This will give more choice to the farmer. Opposition parties are protesting against this for their own selfish interests,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coop-minister-asks-officials-to-prioritise-farm-loans-840448.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||On study prog abroad, students stuck with OCI cards||When 19-year-old Prerana Munipalli flew to Ohio’s Baldwin Wallace University on a student exchange programme on January 6, she expected to return to Bengaluru on May 8. Little did Prerana expect that the coronavirus-induced lockdown would prompt the government to suspend her Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) card and leave her back in the United States. "I'm currently in Texas with a relative,” she said. “I contacted the Indian Embassy in Washington, and they asked me to wait.” Prerana, a third year BCom student at Christ University, must readjust her sleeping schedule to attend online classes, which happen in the afternoon local time. “I have to stay up all night (to attend class), when it is 4 am for me here,” she said. Prerana is one of many teenaged Bengaluru students stranded abroad since the OCI card they hold has been suspended. The Overseas Citizens of India have repeatedly petitioned to the government to allow the students back into the country, but the Minister of State for External Affairs reportedly said recently that a decision on the issue will be taken soon. But the wait is too unnerving for 20-year-old Shrikar Krishnamurthy, a BCom final year student in Bengaluru, who is stuck at Chesterfield in the United Kingdom. “I came to Barcelona for an exchange programme and later visited my relatives in England,” Shrikar, who has taken residence with his uncle and aunt in the UK, said. “I contacted the Indian consulate in Barcelona. They asked me to fill out a form and give my details.” Ravi Venkatesam, who runs several schools in the city, is anxious about his daughter Megha, who is doing a one-year diploma course in arts in the UK. “She was supposed to return home in May. She is an American passport holder, but cannot go to the US since we know no one there. She can’t come here either since she holds an OCI card,” Venkatesam said. Parent undertakes survey   A survey initiated by Venkatesam to find out the number of students stranded abroad received 506 responses. “They won’t even fill two full planes,” he said. “A vast majority are students. The size of the problem is small enough for the government to address. It is not million (of OCIs) who need help.” The students and their parents are now tweeting daily with the hashtag getourkidsback.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/on-study-prog-abroad-students-stuck-with-oci-cards-840449.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kolar APMCs to shut down on May 24, 31||The Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) in the district will remain closed on May 24 and May 31 to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. “A decision has been taken to shut down the APMCs on May 24 and May 31 based on the request of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. A meeting of heads of the APMCs chaired by deputy commissioner has also decided to close the operations on these two days,” Kolar APMC president D L Nagaraj told reporters. He requested the farmers not to bring their produces to the APMCs on those two days. The farmers should voluntarily subject themselves for tests considering the welfare of their families and the district. The markets would be disinfected on the two Sundays. “Owners of the outlets in the APMCs should keep sanitiser, soap and water. All workers at the outlets, farmers, drivers and cleaners should wear masks. An amount of Rs 100 will be imposed as fine for not wearing the masks. Those aged above 65 years and below 10 years have been requested not to visit the APMCs,” he said. Nagaraj said that the there would be arrivals of tomatoes from May 25. About 300 truckloads of tomatoes were expected to be received. The APMC was disinfecting 150 vehicles daily. “There should be additional measures as the tomatoes will be sent to West Bengal, Maharastra and other states, besides Bangladesh. There is more focus on drivers and cleaners visiting the APMCs from other states,” he said. Reverse Transcription polymerase chain reaction facility should be launched at the district for the speedy issuance of reports to determine Covid-19 as it was taking much time at present, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kolar-apmcs-to-shut-down-on-may-24-31-840452.html
21-05-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannadigas stranded overseas sore over less flights||As Phase 2 of the Vande Bharat repatriation flights get underway, the limited numbers of flights to Karnataka have left many state residents stranded overseas pessimistic. Karnataka residents in Japan and New Zealand who have been omitted from the direct flight lists to the state pointed out that the number of flights to Maharashtra and Delhi outnumbers those to other states.  According to data from Air India, 80 flights in Phase two are headed to Delhi from international locations, followed by 21 to Maharashtra and 16 flights to Karnataka. Kerala has 41 flights expected, while Andhra Pradesh has 10 and Telangana has 16. “Barring Kerala, the impression that one gets is that the south Indian community has been left out,” said Keerthan S, 28, a Bengaluru-based orthodontist who was on a one-month clinical training programme with the University of Tokyo in Japan. Since then, Keerthan and at least 60 Kannadigas plus over 1,300 Indians have been waiting for commercial or repatriation flights to India. While Keerthan has been shortlisted for a May 28 Air India flight to Mumbai, he has been told that the ticket will cost 77,700 yen (Rs 54,629) - more than twice the normal fare. “I have no choice but to pay for it. Tokyo is one of the most expensive cities in the world and I have already spent a lot,” he said. He said his hopes about the Vande Bharat mission were dashed when he discovered that neither of the Phase Two flights from the country was headed to Bengaluru. This sentiment was shared by Bengaluru-based techie Raghavendra Rao M, 41, stranded in Auckland, New Zealand, with 174 other Karnataka residents. A few days ago, Rao was informed that only one flight was authorized for the country. “To our surprise, we were informed that it is an airliner with only 255 seats, and it is bound for Delhi. “India is the only country in the world which appears not to be interested in getting its citizens back. There is no information from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA),” he added. The thought is sobering, said Anand (named changed), 23, an engineering student from Mysuru who withdrew from his college course in Wellington, New Zealand. “With no job, it is a torturous situation. My student visa has expired. My weekly rent is NZ $180 (Rs 8,300), which my parents have to fund,” Anand said.  When asked what he would do if he did not secure a seat aboard the flight, tentatively scheduled for June 7, he said that the thought is conceivable. “I visit the Indian High Commission frequently. So far, there is no clarity,”he said.   A look at the numbers According to the Minister S Suresh Kumar, 10,823 state residents were stranded abroad when Phase 1 of the flights began earlier this month.  With the conclusion of the phase on May 15, 881 people had been brought back to Bengaluru on five flights, starting from May 11, according to data from Air India. An additional 94 people were brought back from Kuala Lumpur on May 19 in the first flight to the city during Phase 2. On Wednesday, one flight coming from Muscat brought back 115 people to Bengaluru, while another flight from Dammam, brought back 85 people, including one infant, Air India added.  Sources say that the intention is to bring back 3,800 passengers to the state in 17 flights till the first week of June from Malaysia, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Oman, the United States, Qatar, Indonesia, Australia, Germany, Ireland, Canada, Philippines, France and Germany. According to data from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), 1,88,646 Indian nationals abroad have so far registered to come back to the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannadigas-stranded-overseas-sore-over-less-flights-840454.html
21-05-2020||West||Maharashtra govt warns of strict action against ones posting misogynistic, communal contents on social media||Rattled by misogynistic and communal content on social media platforms, the Maharashtra government has warned of strict action against people posting such content. It has asked social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and TicTok, operating in India, to act against such content as it destroys social fabric and communal harmony. "They should weed out all such offensive content and ban such offenders for life," Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said, adding that the government and police will reach out to these platforms' India representatives if needed on this issue. "This is a land that prides itself on the legacy of Savitribai Phule. It is unthinkable that any woman feels unsafe here," he said reacting to questions about the TikTok videos glorifying acid attacks and rape which have created huge outrage.  "The safety of women will always be the top priority for my ministry," he averred. The home minister also said that he had specifically ordered swift and sharp action against anti-social elements indulging in cybercrime. "We will henceforth send them notices under CrPC Section 149 too,  so that action can be initiated under that section too," he informed.  "The Maharashtra Cyber Cell is working in close coordination with all the police commissioners and district police administrations to charge and snare such cybercriminals. They are keeping a very minute lookout on social media platforms like TikTok, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc. to look for instances of criminal conduct," he said. Deshmukh further congratulated the Maharashtra Cyber Cell for its "exemplary work" during the lockdown and pointed out how 400 cybercrime offences have been registered, since the lockdown, across police stations in the state.  An analysis of all these crimes by the cyber cell has shown that 170 of these are related to forwarding offensive WhatsApp messages, 158 are related to sharing offensive Facebook content, 18 are related to offensive videos being shared on TikTok, seven are related to offensive posts on Twitter, four are related to offensive posts on Instagram and 43 are related to the abuse of other social media platforms like YouTube and audio clips. As many as 213 have been arrested and 102 such posts have been successfully taken down.  The lockdown has seen a spurt in cybercrime related to both the lockdown itself and the novel coronavirus pandemic, informed the home minister.  "This predominantly involves inciteful TikTok videos, attributing communal connections to the Corona contagion, revealing names of Corona patients, putting up wrong/false photos/posts about political leaders, using slanderous language to make attacks of a personal nature, swindling citizens financially, etc," Deshmukh informed and said,  adding that he has told the Cyber Cell to go after these criminals on a war footing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-warns-of-strict-action-against-ones-posting-misogynistic-communal-contents-on-social-media-840100.html
21-05-2020||West||Rift between Maharashtra Governor Koshyari, CM Uddhav Thackeray brews even as COVID-19 cases spike||At a personal level, Koshyari, who hails from Uttarakhand, and the Thackerays, do have good relations. To understand what is simmering, one has to look at the events of the last two days between Raj Bhavan and the MVA, which comprises Shiv Sena, Sharad Pawar-led NCP and the Congress.  On Tuesday, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis led a delegation of the BJP to Governor and complained about how the MVA government has bungled up in tackling the crisis involving the novel coronavirus pandemic and there is a total failure in handling the situation. Fadnavis and state BJP President Chandrakant Patil had also launched 'Maharashtra-bachao' campaign to embarrass Uddhav,  their old saffron ally. What seems to have aggravated the situation on Wednesday morning was a tweet from veteran BJP leader Subramanian Swamy,  who said: "The Corona Crisis: President’s Rule, the only way out in Maharashtra..... My view: “Time is now or never: Uddhav break the alliance now otherwise NCP and Congress will destroy you by staged events”." Around noon, there was an announcement that the Governor and Chief Minister together would review the situation. A couple of hours later, there was a confirmation that Thackeray and his close confidante Sanjay Raut would attend Friday's video-conference meeting convened by Congress President Sonia Gandhi. Thereafter, Thackeray did not land in Raj Bhavan but Milind Narvekar, his secretary and Man Friday was seen.  "CM saab spoke to Governor saab and informed that he is unable to attend the meet. We don't know anything more than this," a Raj Bhavan official told DH,  when contacted on Wednesday night.  The MVA has not liked the interference from the Governor's office into the day-to-day running of the government. It may be recalled that Pawar, the chief architect of MVA government, too had in the past have told Prime Minister Narendra Modi on this issue.  "The 'Maharashtra-bachao' protest is an insult of the people of the state and doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, policemen, and others, who are at the forefront of the fight against COVID-19," said Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. The Shiv Sena and the Governor have been at the loggerheads when Fadnavis and Pawar were sworn in as CM and his Deputy. The latter, however, resigned. On November 28, 2019, Thackeray was sworn in to lead the state. When in March, the lockdown started, all elections were postponed and Thackeray's continuance after six months became a question.  Koshyari had refused to nominate Thackeray to the two vacant seats form the Governor's quota. Thackeray himself dialled PM Modi and sought his intervention. Thereafter, Shiv Sena requested for Legislative Council biennial polls, which was allowed and Thackeray was elected, ending the Constitutional crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rift-between-maharashtra-governor-koshyari-cm-uddhav-thackeray-brews-even-as-covid-19-cases-spike-840124.html
21-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: Rs 2,000 fine for violating coronavirus lockdown rules in Washim||The Washim district administration in Maharashtra has decided to impose a penalty of Rs 2,000 on those not following the home quarantine norms upon their return from other places and Rs 500 for spitting and not wearing masks in public places. The decision has been taken in the wake of complaints that people who returned to Washim recently were not following the home quarantine rules,an official statement said. The fourth phase of lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19 will be in force till May 31. "Complaints have been received regarding people who returned to the district recently not observing the home quarantine norms instruction. Hence, district collector and disaster management authority head Hrishikesh Modak has ordered to recover Rs 2,000 from those violating the home quarantine rules, the statement issued on Wednesday said. Violation of rules repeatedly will lead to registration of offences under the Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and the Epidemic Diseases Act, the statement said. "Modak has also asked to recover Rs 500 from those spitting and not wearing masks in public places," the statement said. The rights of collecting fines have been given to officials/staffers of revenue, police and health departments, besides those from municipal councils and gram panchayats. Modak has instructed the village and ward-level committees, appointed to keep a tab on those returning to the district, to be more vigilant. As of Wednesday, Washim, which is located in the states Vidarbha region, reported eight COVID-19 cases, according to official figures. The district has not reported any death so far due to the disease. Maharashtra till Wednesday reported 39,297 coronavirus cases and 1,390 deaths due to the disease -- highest by any state in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-rs-2000-fine-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-rules-in-washim-840138.html
21-05-2020||West||BMC to acquire 100 beds of pvt hospitals in each Mumbai ward||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has directed civic officials to acquire at least 100 beds, including 10 in ICUs, of private nursing homes and small hospitals in all 24 wards of Mumbai in the wake of rising number of COVID-19 cases in the city. This will facilitate the availability of at least 2,400 more beds for patients in the city, the Brihanamumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a release on Wednesday. Mumbai recorded 1,372 new COVID-19 cases and 41 deaths on Wednesday, the BMC said. The tally of cases in the country's financial capital thus reached 23,935 and the death toll rose to 841. In the wake of the rising number of cases, BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal directed ward and health officers to complete the process of acquiring beds in private nursing homes and hospitals soon. He also directed ward officers to file police complaints against private nursing homes, polyclinics and hospitals which have not reopened. Chahal also directed ward officers to provide personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to private nursing homes and hospitals, the BMC release said. Nearly 1,000 health surveillance teams are daily surveying six to seven lakh people and suspected coronavirus patients are being referred to COVID Care Centres. The civic body also said that 58,14,340 houses were surveyed and 7,447 suspected cases were referred till date. On Monday, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) handed over a make-shift facility of 1,000 beds in the Bandra-Kurla Complex to the city civic body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-to-acquire-100-beds-of-pvt-hospitals-in-each-mumbai-ward-840151.html
21-05-2020||West||Activist alleges BJP MLC defied social distancing norms in Maharashtra||A social activist on Thursday alleged that newly-elected BJP MLC Gopichand Padalkar violated social distancing norms while attending some public events, including a felicitation programme and a wedding, in Sangli district of Maharashtra. Santosh Bichukale, a city-based activist, said he wrote to Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Sangli district collector on Wednesday, demanding that Padalkar and his associates be home quarantined for 14 days. He said the MLC came to Sangli on Tuesday night after travelling to Mumbai and Pune, which are severely affected by COVID-19. "On Wednesday, Padalkar attended public events, including a programme to felicitate him and a wedding, and also met his supporters at some villages in Atpadi tehsil of Sangli," he claimed. Bichukale said he has filed a complaint with the Sangli district administration and the Chief Minister's Office, and sought that the MLC and his supporters be home quarantined for 14 days. "I have all the videos and photos which I have forwarded to the district administration," he said. Padalkar, who hails from Padalkarwadi in Atpadi tehsil of Sangli, and eight others were last week elected unopposed as members of the state Legislative Council. The MLC could not be contacted for comments in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/activist-alleges-bjp-mlc-defied-social-distancing-norms-in-maharashtra-840169.html
21-05-2020||West||COVID-19: 58 lakh houses surveyed in Mumbai||Mumbai has so far reported around 25,000 cases and over 850 deaths. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in all its 24 wards, is conducting surveys with the help of community health workers (CHWs) and local volunteers.A population of nearly six to seven lakh is being covered through 1,000-plus strong teams.  The suspects are being referred to dispensaries and COVID Care Centres (CCC-1) and the survey is repeated once all the houses allotted are completed, BMC officials said.So far 58,14,340 houses have been surveyed, 7,477 influenza-like illnesses (ILI) have been referred. As many as 52,798 high-risk contacts of patients from slum areas are also identified, of which  36,167 were sent for institution quarantine. The officials added that a special survey is also carried out for senior citizens and SpO2 (oxygen saturation) levels are measured. Around 1,68,678 senior citizens were screened of which 1,279 senior citizens were found to have low SpO2 levels below 95 and were referred to nearby hospitals and dispensaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-58-lakh-houses-surveyed-in-mumbai-840170.html
21-05-2020||West||Coronavirus: Centre giving step-motherly treatment to Mumbai, Maharashtra, says minister ||Thakur,  the working president of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee, alleged that the Centre has been deliberately biased against Maharashtra in the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced last week.   She has also accused the Centre of trying to shift all important businesses from Mumbai to Gujarat using coronavirus as an excuse and has also stated that the party is determined to defeat this devious move. Mumbai is the financial capital of the country and a leading contributor to the country’s GDP. The headquarters of Reserve Bank of India, State Bank of India, BSE, NSE and other private-sector financial as well as corporate institutions are situated in Mumbai. It is one of the most crucial cities in the country as it is home to various industries and industrial colonies and also the residence of the owners of these industries. Mumbai is also the Bollywood hub, one of the top film industries in the country. The city has a turnover of millions every year and the revenue generated keeps adding great value to the Centres’ treasures. In spite of all this, Mumbai, the worst affected by coronavirus is being ignored by the Centre, according to Maharashtra Minister of Women and Child Development, Advocate Yashomati Thakur.   Thakur said, “Mumbai is not only the capital of Maharashtra but the financial capital of the country. Mumbai is currently bearing the brunt of coronavirus. The number of affected persons here is multiplying with each passing day. In this case, the centre was expected to pay special attention to the country’s financial capital. This expectation of ours, however, has been met only with disappointment from the Centre’s end. We had expected special provisions for Mumbai in the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced last week, which was met with disappointment too. Mumbai is the heart of Maharashtra and Maharashtra is the heart of India, but the Centre has deliberately ignored this fact. The centre has constantly been turning its back on Mumbai and Maharashtra and this approach is intolerable now.”  Recently, the Centre has shifted the International Financial Services Centre from Mumbai to Gujarat. Even now, the Centre is deviously planning to shift the industries in Mumbai to GIFT (Gujarat International Finance Tec-city), a new town near Ahmedabad.  We will never allow this devious move of the Center to succeed, emphasised  Thakur. She added that the state government is striving night and day to curb the number of coronavirus-affected patients in Mumbai and restart the stalled industries and businesses in the city. It is extremely important for the centre to support these efforts. The Centre needs to make special financial provisions to expand the medical services in Mumbai to control the spread of coronavirus. Advocate Yashomati Thakur has also demanded that the Centre should immediately announce a special financial package to compensate the injustice done to Mumbai and Maharashtra so that the country’s financial capital can recover quickly from the pandemic and the country can be run smoothly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-centre-giving-step-motherly-treatment-to-mumbai-maharashtra-says-minister-840183.html
21-05-2020||West||Ahmedabad hospital reports highest COVID-19 deaths in Gujarat||Nearly 50 per cent of the total coronavirus infection deaths in Gujarat so far have been reported from the Ahmedabad civil hospital, earning it the dubious distinction of being the 'COVID-19 graveyard'. Out of the total 749 COVID-19 deaths reported across Gujarat so far, as many as 351 patients succumbed to the disease in the Ahmedabad civil hospital located in Aswara area, as per the data shared by the city civic body. The other government facilities where coronavirus patients are being treated in Ahmedabad are the Sola civil hospital and the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel (SVP) Hospital. The main civil hospital, located in Asarwa area, is considered as one of the biggest civic-run medical facilities in Asia. It has allotted 1,200 beds to treat COVID-19 patients. Till Wednesday, 351 COVID-19 patients died at the civil hospital in Aswara while 338 have so far been discharged from there after recovery, according to data provided by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. Besides, 120 patients died in SVP Hospital while 935 have been given discharge from there. At Sola civil hospital, 29 COVID-19 patients have so far died and 53 have recovered from the disease. Congress MLA from Ahmedabad Gyasuddin Shaikh on Tuesday raised questions on the high mortality and low discharge rate at the civil hospital, and sought the intervention of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in the matter. In a letter to the NHRC, Shaikh alleged that negligence and improper treatment given to COVID-19 patients in the Ahmedabad civil hospital is leading to high number of deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahmedabad-hospital-reports-highest-covid-19-deaths-in-gujarat-840198.html
21-05-2020||West||Jayant Patil accuses BJP of playing politics over COVID-19 crisis||With the BJP set to protest Maharashtra governments failure in combating COVID-19, state Minister Jayant Patil on Thursday said even Prime Minister Narendra Modi must not be agreeing to such an agitation, and accused the saffron party of playing politics during the crisis situation. Terming BJPs Maharashtra unit as childish, Patil said the state is leading in conducting COVID-19 tests, identifying patients, treating them and making arrangements for migrant workers, as compared to other states. Claiming that the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government has "failed" to check the spread of coronavirus and the rising number of fatalities in the state unlike Kerala, the BJP on Wednesday appealed to people to register a protest on May 22. Patil, who is also the Maharashtra NCP chief, recalled that all the opposition parties had earlier supported Prime Minister Modis appeal of clanking utensils and lighting lamps (to express gratitude towards doctors, nurses and police) to send across a message that the country was united in the fight against COVID-19. The Maharashtra BJP, however, is playing politics during the crisis period, Patil alleged. We lit up lamps, when asked to. Why did we light up lamps? To send out a message that we are united in the fight against the crisis. Unfortunately, we cannot see such a situation in Maharashtra, the state water resources minister told reporters during an online press conference. Maharashtra has conducted the highest number of COVID-19 tests and hence, maximum cases are being reported from the state, he said. Patil claimed more positive cases will be found in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Gujarat, if tests are carried out in these states on the scale as in Maharashtra. "Hence, it was not right for the BJP to politicise the issue. I think Narendra Modiji too must not be in agreement with what the Maharashtra BJP is doing," the minister said. "BJP leaders in Maharashtra are being childish by planning protests when no other party has even thought about it in the country, he said. Patil also termed as quite unfortunate BJP leader Subramanian Swamys reported remark that Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray should snap ties with the allies Congress and NCP or else the parties will destroy the Shiv Sena president in the face of COVID-19 crisis. Swamy had made the reported comment sharing an article titled 'The Corona Crisis: Presidents Rule, the only way out in Maharashtra?' on Twitter. Hitting back at the BJP, Patil said the NCP has not questioned how come the novel coronavirus entered India when the saffron party is ruling the country. The NCP will not raise the question and it does not want to politicise the issue at this juncture, he said. Maharashtra is leading in treating patients and making all the required arrangements. If any state government has to be dissolved on this account, then it will be (BJP-led) Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. Then Maharashtra can be thought about, the minister said. Patil also announced NCP's 'Abhipray Abhiyan' (feedback campaign) ahead of completion of 22 years of the partys formation on June 10. The NCP leader said he will speak to five lakh party workers over phone during the campaign beginning Friday, to know their views on difficulties they are facing while working at the grass root level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jayant-patil-accuses-bjp-of-playing-politics-over-covid-19-crisis-840217.html
21-05-2020||West||Maharashtra govt released Rs 67 cr for migrants' train travel so far||The Maharashtra government has so far released Rs 67.19 crore through the Chief Minister's Relief Fund to bear the cost of train travel of the stranded migrant workers to their native places from the state, an official said on Thursday. The government, which had initially provided Rs 54.75 crore for the purpose, has now released additional Rs 12.44 crore from the CM Relief Fund, an official of the Chief Minister's Office (CM) said. "The state government had already spent Rs 54,75,47,070 to buy the train tickets for migrant workers. The funds had been transferred to the district collectors across the state, where migrant workers had registered themselves to return their home states," the official said. "In the second round, Rs 12,44,08,420 have been released from the CM Relief Fund for six districts. The state government has thus spent Rs 67,19,55,490 so far to bear the ticket fares of the stranded migrant labourers," he said. Special trains are being run by the central government to ferry the migrant workers to their home states from different parts of the country, where they are stuck due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-released-rs-67-cr-for-migrants-train-travel-so-far-840232.html
21-05-2020||West||Jitendra Ahwad bats for redevelopment of Dharavi, writes to CM Uddhav Thackeray||As cases in Dharavi increased, veteran NCP leader and state's Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad said it was the right time for redevelopment of the biggest slum cluster of Asia. Awhad wrote a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on this issue on Thursday. "Dharavi is being referred to as the Corona capital of Mumbai in the wake of large number of cases," he said, adding that the previous government had announced the project and formalities are completed.  He urged Thackeray to call a meeting and discuss the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jitendra-ahwad-bats-for-redevelopment-of-dharavi-writes-to-cm-uddhav-thackeray-840250.html
21-05-2020||West||Maharashtra: 43-year-old cop dies of COVID-19 in Pune||A 43-year-old police constable, who had tested positive for COVID-19, succumbed to the deadly infection at a hospital in Maharashtra's Pune city on Thursday, a senior police official said. The constable was attached to the traffic branch of Pune police and was undergoing treatment at Bharti Hospital since May 10, the official said. Mumbai Police regrets to inform about the unfortunate demise of ASI Bhivsen Haribhau Pingle. ASI Pingle was battling Coronavirus. Being in the high-risk age-group, he was on leave since April We pray for his soul to rest in peace. The infected policeman was on ventilator support and died on Thursday morning, he said. At least 26 personnel attached to Pune police have tested positive for COVID-19 so far, of which 14 have recovered from the infection and two have died. The constable is the second coronavirus casualty in Pune police, after a 57-year-old assistant sub-inspector died of the infection earlier this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-43-year-old-cop-dies-of-covid-19-in-pune-840251.html
21-05-2020||West||Bus owner, driver arrested for illegally trying to ferry migrants to Bihar||A bus driver and the owner of the vehicle were arrested for allegedly trying to ferry 49 migrant workers from the city to Bihar using a forged movement pass amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, police said on Thursday. The driver was identified as Manish Kumar Jha (31), a resident of Nangloi, while bus owner Shravan Kumar Shukla (42) is a resident of Govindpuri, they said. The tourist bus bearing a UP registration number was noticed by the police on Estate Entry Road during night patrolling on May 18, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast), RP Meena, said on checking the vehicle, 49 migrant labourers were found sitting in the bus which was going to Kishanganj in Bihar. All the workers were from Tughlakabad Extension here. "The bus driver also showed a pass issued from the DM Shahdara for the vehicle.When this pass was checked, it was found forged. However, he had applied for the pass," he said. Both the driver and the owner have been arrested in connection with the incident and all the 49 migrant labourers were sent back to Tughlakabad village, he added. A case has also been registered under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code and section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act, the DCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bus-owner-driver-arrested-for-illegally-trying-to-ferry-migrants-to-bihar-840265.html
21-05-2020||West||Lawyers need not wear coats, gowns during virtual hearings: HC||The Bombay High Court on Thursday exempted advocates from wearing black coats and gowns while attending the court hearings through video conferencing. It issued a circular saying Bombay High Court Chief Justice Dipankar Datta has exempted lawyers appearing before it and its benches at Nagpur, Aurangabad and Goa from wearing black coat and the advocate's gown. The circular not specify any reason behind the exemption. Advocates may wear a tie or white band ensuring proper decorum before the virtual courts, it said. The circular is in consonance with a similar order passed on May 13 by the Supreme Court, which exempting lawyers there from wearing coats and long gowns during the hearings through video conferencing in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The apex court and most of the high courts are conducting hearings in urgent matters via video conferencing since March 25, when the entire nation was put under lockdown due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The Bombay High Court had earlier issued a circular saying advocates and others appearing before it via video conferencing should be dressed appropriately and maintain decorum, as is done during normal court proceedings. On May 13, Chief Justice of India S A Bobade said lawyers need not wear coats and gowns as they make it easier to "catch virus".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lawyers-need-not-wear-coats-gowns-during-virtual-hearings-hc-840317.html
21-05-2020||West||Central forces deployed in Dharavi, other Mumbai areas||Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) personnel were deployed in Dharavi and some other areas of Mumbai on Thursday to help the city police enforce lockdown to contain coronavirus, an official said. A company of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was deployed at Dharavi along with local police, the police official said. Earlier, on Wednesday night, personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force conducted a flag march in Bhendi Bazaar in south Mumbai to enforce a strict lockdown. On Thursday, CRPF personnel met police officers in Dharavi, a COVID-19 hotspot, and discussed deployment plan for the area, the official said. Five companies of CAPF, including personnel of CISF, arrived in Mumbai on Monday, he said. Armed with weapons, batons and shields, CISF personnel conducted a flag march in Bhendi Bazaar on Wednesday night, he said. The Maharashtra government had said that it had sought Central forces so that the overstretched police force could get some rest. More than 700 Mumbai Police personnel have contracted coronavirus so far and ten of them have died. The central forces will assist the Mumbai Police in maintaining law and order and in prevention of any untoward incident during lockdown. Personnel of the Central forces have been deployed in zones 1,3,5,6 and 9 of the city covering some areas of south and central Mumbai and parts of eastern and western suburbs, the police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/central-forces-deployed-in-dharavi-other-mumbai-areas-840372.html
21-05-2020||West||Coronavirus cases in Maharashtra cross 40,000-mark||COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 40,000-mark on Thursday.  In Mumbai,  the cases continued to leap  and crossed the 25,000-mark.  On Thursday,  2,345 cases were reported pushing the total of the state to a whooping 41,642. In Mumbai,  the total cases now stand at 25,500. In the last 24 hours,  64 deaths were reported, of which 41 are in Mumbai.  Meanwhile, 1,408 patients were discharged taking the progressive total to 11,726. Along with Mumbai, the cases in the larger Mumbai metropolitan region is also showing a rise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-cases-in-maharashtra-cross-40000-mark-840386.html
21-05-2020||West||371 new coronavirus cases take Gujarat tally to 12,910; 24 more die||During the same period, 24 patients succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 773 in the state, said Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi. She added that as many as 269 persons recovered from the disease and discharged from different hospitals in the state in the same period, taking the number of such people to 5,488. Ravi said the patient recovery rate in some badly affected cities like Surat and Vadodara is better than the national average, which according her, is a good sign in the fight against the pandemic. "The recovery rate of Surat is 67.07 per cent, almost double than the national average. Vadodara's recovery rate is 62.66 per cent. "Though coronavirus cases are less in Bhavnagar, the recovery rate there is 73.68 per cent," said Ravi in a video message. Out of the 371 new cases, 233 were from Ahmedabad district alone. Other districts from where significant number of cases have reported are Surat (34), Vadodara (24) and Mehsana (13). Of the 24 patients who succumbed to the infection during the last 24 hours, as many as 17 died in different hospitals of Ahmedabad, three in Vadodara and one each in Surat, Anand, Kheda and Mehsana, she said. Till now, Gujarat has conducted 1,66,152 tests, out of which 12,910 came positive, while 1,53,242 turned up negative. Out of the total 12,910 cases registered in Gujarat so far, as many as 9,449 were reported in Ahmedabad district alone, followed by 1,227 in Surat and 750 in Vadodara. A majority of the deaths were also reported from these three districts. While 619 people have died so far in Ahmedabad, 57 succumbed in Surat and 32 in Vadodara. The state government has started homeopathy treatment of over 400 patients having mild symptoms of coronavirus after taking their consent, said Ravi. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 12,910, new cases 371, deaths 773, discharged 5488, active cases 6,649, people tested so far 1,66,152.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/371-new-coronavirus-cases-take-gujarat-tally-to-12910-24-more-die-840473.html
